ZIONSVILLE, INDIANA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
VOLUME I
Contains 2025 S-10 Supplement, current through:
Ordinance 2025-08, passed 3-17-2025; and
State law current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2024 Acts, Pamphlet No.
3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Construction of code
   
10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Reasonable time
   
10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
10.12   Limitation periods
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the town, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Zionsville Town
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COUNCIL. The Town Council.
      COUNTY. Boone County, Indiana.
      DEPUTY MAYOR. The Deputy Mayor of the Town of Zionsville.
      DIRECTOR OF FINANCE AND RECORDS. The Director of the Department of
Finance and Records.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the Town of Zionsville.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      TOWN. The Town of Zionsville, Indiana.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5) (Ord. 2019-06, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
   (D)   The repeal of a statute stating that the provisions of an act are
severable as provided in division (B) above does not affect the operation of
division (B) above with respect to that act.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of the town exercising the
powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Council
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; on the effective date of that ordinance or following the
effective date, the rights, powers, duties or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the town published in 1996 and subsequently amended, the previous
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(1996 Code, §
     )”.
(Ord. 2019-06, passed 3-18-2019)
§ 10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   TOWN COUNCIL DISTRICTS
      
31.   TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   TOWN COURT
      
33.   NEPOTISM AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST
      
34.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: TOWN COUNCIL DISTRICTS
Section
   
30.01   Division of town into districts
§ 30.01 DIVISION OF TOWN INTO DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Council shall be composed of seven members, five of whom are
elected from single-member districts and two of whom are elected-at-large.
   (B)   The Council divides the town into five single-member districts for the
purpose of conducting elections of Council members as follows (descriptions
include only those portions of the listed precincts which are within the town’s
corporate boundaries):
      (1)   District 1 includes the following precincts: Eagle 05; Eagle 14;
Union 01; that portion of Union 02 located north of County Road East 200 South
and west of Pleasant View Road; and Worth 02.
      (2)   District 2 includes the following precincts: that portion of Eagle
03 located south of Bloor Lane; Eagle 09; Eagle 10; Eagle 17; and that portion
of Eagle 20 located north of Whitestown Parkway.
      (3)   District 3 includes the following precincts: Eagle 07; Eagle 13;
Eagle 16; Eagle 19; that portion of Eagle 20 located south of Whitestown
Parkway; and Perry.
      (4)   District 4 includes the following precincts: Eagle 02; Eagle 04;
Eagle 08; Eagle 11; and Eagle 12.
      (5)   District 5 includes the following precincts: Eagle 01; that portion
of Eagle 03 located north of Bloor Lane; Eagle 06; Eagle 15; Eagle 18; and that
portion of Union 02 located south of County Road East 200 South and east of
Pleasant View Road.
   (C)   Attached to Ordinance 2022-32 as Exhibit A are maps showing the
boundaries of each Council district collectively and separately (the “maps”)
which maps are incorporated herein by reference. Two copies of the foregoing
maps are on file in the office of the Municipal Relations Coordinator for
public inspection as required by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
   (D)   If a conflict exists between the Maps and the descriptions set forth
in division (B) of this section (the “descriptions”), in accordance with I.C.
3-5-10-9, the descriptions shall determine the boundaries of the Council
district.
   (E)   If any territory in the town is not included in one of the Council
districts, in accordance with I.C. 3-5-10-10 and I.C. 36-5-2-4.1(d), the
excluded territory shall be included in the Council district that: (i) is
contiguous to that territory; and (ii) contains the least population of all
Council districts contiguous to that territory.
   (F)   If any territory in the town is included in more than one of the
Council districts, in accordance with I.C. 3-5-10-11, the territory shall be
included in the Council district that: (i) is one of the districts in which the
territory is described in this section; (ii) is contiguous to that territory;
and (iii) contains the least population of all Council districts contiguous to
that territory.
   (G)   In accordance with I.C. 36-5-2-4.1(k) this section must be construed,
if possible, to comply with the provisions of I.C. 36-5-2-4.1. The provisions
of this section are severable and if any provision is found to be invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect the other provisions of this section that can be
given effect without the invalid provision.
(1996 Code, § 1-1) (Ord. 79-10, passed - -; Ord. 2000-26, passed - -; Ord.
2002-19, passed - -; Ord. 2006-16, passed - -; Ord. 2011-07, passed 10-3-2011;
Ord. 2012-11, passed 9-4-2012; Ord. 2019-07, passed 3-18-2019; Ord. 2022-32,
passed 12-7-2022)
CHAPTER 31: TOWN OFFICIALS AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Officials and Officers
   
31.01   Building Commissioner and Town Engineer
   
31.02   Town Manager
   
31.03   Deputy Mayor
   
31.04   Director of Finance and Records
   
31.05   Deputy Director of Finance and Records
   
31.06   Municipal Relations Coordinator
Organizations
   
31.15   Department of Development and Zoning; Economic Development Commission
   
31.16   Department of Redevelopment
   
31.17   Redevelopment Authority
   
31.18   Police Reserves; number, powers and benefits
   
31.19   Park and Recreation Board
   
31.20   Plan Commission; Board of Zoning Appeals
   
31.21   Department of Storm Water Management
   
31.22   Department of Public Works
   
31.23   Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners
   
31.24   Safety Board
   
31.25   Zionsville Tree Board
   
31.26   Pathways Committee
   
31.27   Zionsville Mayor’s Youth Advisory Council
   
31.28   Fire Department merit system
   
31.29   Town of Zionsville Advisory Committee on Disability (ZACD)
   
31.30   Inactive boards, commissions, or committees
OFFICIALS AND OFFICERS
§ 31.01 BUILDING COMMISSIONER AND TOWN ENGINEER.
   The Town Clerk-Treasurer, in addition to his or her other duties, is hereby
designated as Building Commissioner of the town, with such duties, powers and
authority as provided in the Zoning Ordinance and in the subdivision
regulations.
(1996 Code, § 3-10) (Ord. 68-7, passed - -)
§ 31.02 TOWN MANAGER.
   (A)   Establishment. The Town Council hereby establishes the position of
Town Manager. The Town Manager position shall report directly to the Town
Council and shall work under its policies, budgets and directives. The Town
Manager shall be responsible for the administrative functions of town
government and carrying out the will of the Town Council on a day-to-day basis.
Exercising appropriate discretion and independent judgment, the Town Manager
shall coordinate and direct all town operations, except the operations of the
Clerk-Treasurer’s office and the Parks and Recreation Department. The Town
Manager shall administer and enforce ordinances, policies, directives and
annual budgets of the Town Council.
   (B)   Employment issues. Except for town employees of the Clerk-Treasurer’s
office and the Parks and Recreation Department, the Police Department and the
Fire Department, the Town Manager shall approve hiring, termination and other
personnel decisions for all town employees in accordance with the town’s salary
ordinance and any other policies established by the Town Council. However, the
Town Manager may hire or terminate town department managers only after
consulting with the Town Council Administrative Committee on such personnel
matters and without regard to I.C. 36-5-5-8(3).
   (C)   Compensation and performance bond. The Town Council shall set the
amount of compensation, including benefits, for the Town Manager. The Town
Manager’s duties are as set forth in I.C. 5-4-1 and I.C. 36-5-5-5.
(1996 Code, § 3-14) (Ord. 2003-16, passed - -; Ord. 2012-03, passed 3-5-2012)
§ 31.03 DEPUTY MAYOR.
   (A)   Creation of Deputy Mayor. Pursuant to I.C. 36-4-9-7, the Town Council
may establish by ordinance the position of Deputy Mayor. The position of Deputy
Mayor is hereby established and shall serve as the town's executive deputy. The
Deputy Mayor is appointed by and serves at the pleasure of the Mayor. The
Deputy Mayor is not a department head and does not have the protections of a
department head pursuant to Res. 2011-14, Section 2.0. The position of Deputy
Mayor shall be under the administration for purposes of budgeting and
reporting.
   (B)   General powers of the Deputy Mayor. The Deputy Mayor shall report
directly to the Mayor and shall work under the Mayor's policies, budgets and
directives. The Deputy Mayor shall be responsible for assigned administrative
functions of the town government and carrying out the will of the Mayor on a
day-to-day basis. Exercising appropriate discretion and independent judgment,
the Deputy Mayor shall assist with the coordination and direction of all town
operations. The Deputy Mayor shall assist in the administration and enforcement
of ordinances, policies, directives and annual budgets of the Town Council. The
Deputy Mayor shall advise the executive in performance of its duties. The
Deputy Mayor shall ensure that sufficient staff resources are provided to
support the Town Council. The Deputy Mayor shall supervise the economic
development activities of the town and any staff assigned to support such
functions.
   (C)   Absence of Mayor. Per the reorganization of the town, if the Mayor has
advance knowledge that he or she will be unavailable for more than two business
days, the Mayor shall inform the Town Council President in writing of the
precise period of unavailability, and the Mayor shall designate the Deputy
Mayor or a department head, if the Deputy Mayor is unavailable, to serve as
Acting Mayor during that time period.
   (D)   Performance of technical tasks. The Deputy Mayor shall perform
technical tasks, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Evaluating proposals, conducting studies, and gathering
information;
      (2)   Assisting in document preparation and recording;
      (3)   Soliciting bids and executing contracts on behalf of the town for
materials, supplies, and services;
      (4)   Attending staff, commissions, and committee meetings as
appropriate;
      (5)   Keeping the executive and Town Council informed of activities and
issues; and
      (6)   Investigating citizen complaints or problems and making
recommendations to the executive for changes in policies or ordinances.
   (E)   Performance of managerial tasks. The Deputy Mayor shall perform
managerial tasks, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Setting goals and developing strategies to carry out the policy
objectives set by the executive;
      (2)   Administering and enforcing all ordinances, orders, and resolutions
of the executive and Town Council, to ensure that laws and policies are
enforced equally throughout the town;
      (3)   Monitoring the performance of all operating departments;
      (4)   Coordinating inter-department communication and action;
      (5)   Assisting the executive in developing an annual budget with
department managers and monitoring expenses;
      (6)   Evaluating town needs and advising the executive on recommended
courses of action;
      (7)   Coordinating public service programs;
      (8)   Representing the town to other governmental entities and agencies;
      (9)   Representing the town to the public and managing public relations;
and
      (10)   Engaging citizen involvement in planning and problem solving,
serving as consensus building facilitator.
   (F)   Employment issues. The Deputy Mayor shall assist in approving hiring
and other personnel decisions for town employees below the level of department
manager in accordance with the town's salary ordinance and any other policies
established by the executive. In addition, the Deputy Mayor shall advise the
executive on personnel matters concerning department managers, including,
without limitation, making recommendations to the Town Council on disciplinary
and termination issues; provided, however, the Deputy Mayor shall not promote,
discipline, hire, suspend, discharge, remove or transfer a Deputy Manager
without the prior approval of the executive.
   (G)   Compensation and performance bond. The Town Council shall set the
amount of compensation, including benefits, for the Deputy Mayor. The Deputy
Mayor shall be required to execute a performance bond for the faithful
performance of the Deputy Mayor's duties, as set forth in I.C. 5-4-1 and I.C.
36-4-9-7.
(Ord. 2016-07, passed 5-2-2016; Ord. 2025-02, passed 3-3-2025)
§ 31.04 DIRECTOR OF FINANCE AND RECORDS.
   The position of Director of the Department of Finance and Records
("Director") shall be created and shall be subject to the following:
   (A)   The position of Director is a full-time exempt position and paid
compensation and benefits according to the current annual Zionsville Salary
Ordinance ("salary ordinance"); and
   (B)   The Director is an at-will employee subject to the provisions
contained in this section and the provisions of the Town of Zionsville
Reorganization 2.0 as passed by the Town Council in Resolution No. 2014-11
("Reorganization 2.0"); and
   (C)   The position shall be subject to a job description created by the
Director of Human Resources for the town and approved by the Town Council; and
   (D)   The position shall be required to meet the duties and obligations of
the town as outlined in state statue, town ordinance, the Town Employee
Handbook and other such policies for employment with the town; and
   (E)   The position is a department head and shall provide oversight and
supervision of all employees of the Department; and
   (F)   The Director shall inform the Director of Human Resources of any and
all concerns related to an employee that serves as a direct report of the
Director. The Director of Human Resources shall consult with the Director prior
to an employment action resulting to suspension or termination of an employee
of the Department unless the action(s) of the Department employee are such that
there is an immediate risk of death, injury or reckless endangerment of the
Department employee, to other town employees or the public at large.
Notwithstanding, the ultimate decision to suspend or terminate an employee
(other than the Director, as a department head) shall be a decision of the
Mayor upon recommendation of the Director of Human Resources; and
   (G)   Pursuant to Reorganization 2.0 section ZR2A3, the Mayor shall appoint
the Director; and
   (H)   The Director will be subject to Reorganization 2.0 section Z42A24
which states that the Mayor must have the approval of the majority of the Town
Council before the executive may discharge a department head; and
   (I)   Pursuant to Reorganization section ZR2A3, the Director shall be
responsible for all statutory duties of the Clerk Treasurer of a town found in
I.C. 36-5-6 et seq. Such duties may be delegated to other employees of the town
to complete the day-to-day tasks to fulfill such statutory duties; and
   (J)   The Director shall work under the policies, budgets, and directors
established by the Mayor and the Town Council; and
   (K)   The Director is the senior paid staff executive responsible for all
operations of the Department; and
   (L)   The Director shall coordinate and consult with the Mayor, Deputy
Mayor, other department heads and the Town Council President as needed and
necessary to carry out the duties of the Director and the Department; and
   (M)   The Director shall be responsible for preparing any and all required
financial statements and records required by the Town Council to fulfill the
Town Council's duty as the legislative body of the town; and
   (N)   The Director shall timely provide to the Town Council, at the request
of the Town Council President and any member of the Town Council, any and all
financial statements and records of the town to full the Town Council's duty as
the legislative body of the town; and
   (O)   The Director shall annually prepare a recommended budget for the
Department and the town and provide such recommended budget to the Mayor and to
the Town Council as part of the town's budget adoption process which shall be
completed on a schedule set by the President of the Town Council; and
   (P)   The Director shall be responsible for recommending new positions to
the Director of Human Resources, as needed and necessary to carry out the
duties of the Department. The Director shall submit a list of such positions as
needed and no less than annually for consideration by the Mayor and the Town
Council.
   (Q)   Any and all new job descriptions, salary and benefits for any such
position must be approved by the Town Council prior to advertising the position
or interviewing candidates for a position (including both internal and external
candidates). No employment offer shall be made for a new position of the
Department unless the position has been approved and funded by the Town
Council. This requirement does not apply to positions that have been previously
approved in the town's current salary ordinance and funded in the Department
budget that has been approved by the Town Council as part of the town's budget
as amended from time-to-time.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 31.05 DEPUTY DIRECTOR OF FINANCE AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The position of Deputy Director of Finance and Records ("Deputy
Director") is a full-time non-exempt position and paid compensation and
benefits according to the annual town salary ordinance; and
   (B)   The Deputy Director is an at-will employee; and
   (C)   The position shall be subject to a job description created by the
Director of Human Resources for the town and approved by the Town Council; and
   (D)   The position shall be required to meet the duties and obligations of
the town as outlined in state statute, town ordinance, the Town Employee
Handbook and other such policies for employment with the town; and
   (E)   The Deputy Director works under the direction and supervision of the
Director; and
   (F)   The position works with minimum supervision and shall perform
administrative functions in support of the Department.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 31.06 MUNICIPAL RELATIONS COORDINATOR.
   The position of Municipal Relations Coordinator is subject to the following:
   (A)   The position of Municipal Relations Coordinator is a full-time non-
exempt position and paid compensation and benefits according to the annual town
salary ordinance; and
   (B)   The Municipal Relations Coordinator is an at-will employee subject to
the provisions contained in this section; and
   (C)   The position shall be subject to a job description created by the
Director of Human Resources for the town and approved by the Town Council; and
   (D)   The position shall be required to meet the duties and obligations of
the town as outlined in state statue, town ordinance, the Town Employee
Handbook and other such policies for employment with the town; and
   (E)   The Municipal Relations Coordinator works under the direction of the
Mayor and the Town Council President; and
   (F)   The position works with minimum supervision and shall perform
administrative functions in support of the administration, as outlined in the
position job description, and the Town Council; and
   (G)   The Municipal Relations Coordinator shall serve as the Clerk of the
Town Council as required in I.C. 36-5-2-8 but shall not have the authority to
cast the deciding vote to break a tie of the Town Council as prohibited by
Reorganization Section ZR2A3; and
   (H)   The Municipal Relations Coordinator shall be responsible for all
relevant statutory duties of the Clerk-Treasurer as Clerk of the Town Council
and any ordinance, resolutions or policies of the Town Council applicable to
such position of Clerk; and
   (I)   No employment action resulting in change of duties, suspension or
termination of the individual holding the position of Municipal Relations
Coordinator shall occur without notification to and approval of the Town
Council President prior to such employment action unless the action(s) of the
Municipal Relations Coordinator are such that there is an immediate risk of
death, injury or reckless endangerment to the individual serving in such
position, to other town employees or the public at large; and
   (J)   The Town Council President shall inform the Director of Human
Resources of any and all concerns with the work performance of the individual
who holds such position and shall be allowed to sit in on any and all formal
discussions regarding the performance review of such individual holding the
position; and
   (K)   The Director of Human Resources and the Town Council President shall
meet routinely, including no less than annually, to discuss the performance of
the individual holding such position.
(Ord. 2023-05, passed 2-13-2023)
ORGANIZATIONS
§ 31.15 DEPARTMENT OF DEVELOPMENT AND ZONING; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION.
   The Town Council finds that a need exists for the financing of economic
development and pollution control facilities, as authorized by I.C. 36-7-12,
there is hereby created a Department of Development of the town, which shall be
under the control of a commission to be known as the “Zionsville Economic
Development Commission”, pursuant to and under the authority of I.C. 36-7-12.
The Economic Development Commission shall consist of three members to be
appointed as provided by law and shall have all the rights, powers and duties
set forth under I.C. 36-7-12.
(1996 Code, § 3-11)
§ 31.16 DEPARTMENT OF REDEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The Town Council now deems it to be in the best interest of the town
and its citizens to afford a maximum opportunity for rehabilitation,
redevelopment or economic development of areas by private enterprise and the
town by establishing a Department of Redevelopment.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Department of Redevelopment of
the town. The Department will be controlled by a board of five members known as
the “Zionsville Redevelopment Commission”.
   (C)   Pursuant to the Act, all of the territory within the corporate
boundaries of the town will be a taxing district to be known as the “Zionsville
Redevelopment District” for the purpose of levying and collecting special
benefit taxes for redevelopment and economic development purposes as provided
in the Act. The Town Council finds and determines that all of the taxable
property within this special taxing district will be considered to be
benefitted by the redevelopment projects and economic development projects
carried out under the Act to the extent of the special taxes levied under the
Act. Appointments to the Zionsville Redevelopment Commission shall be pursuant
to I.C. 36-7-14-6.1.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage.
(1996 Code, § 3-12) (Ord. 79-6, passed - -; Ord. 99-14, passed - -)
§ 31.17 REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Creation. The Town Council hereby creates a redevelopment authority
under the Act, to be known as the “Zionsville Redevelopment Authority”
(“Authority”) as a separate body corporate and politic and as an
instrumentality of the town.
   (B)   Purposes. The Authority is organized for the following purposes:
      (1)   Financing, constructing and leasing local public improvements to
the Commission;
      (2)   Financing and constructing additional improvements to local public
improvements owned by the Authority and leasing them to the Commission;
      (3)   Acquiring all or a portion of one or more local public improvements
from the Commission by purchase or lease and leasing these local public
improvements back to the Commission with any additional improvements that may
be made to them;
      (4)   Acquiring all or a portion of one or more local public improvements
from the Commission by purchase or lease to fund or refund indebtedness
incurred on account of those local public improvements to enable the Commission
to make a savings in debt service or lease rental obligations or to obtain
relief from covenants that the Commission considers to be unduly burdensome;
and
      (5)   Any other purposes permitted by the Act, including the issuance of
bonds to finance local public improvements.
(1996 Code, § 3-13) (Ord. 2003-01, passed - -)
§ 31.18 POLICE RESERVES; NUMBER, POWERS AND BENEFITS.
   (A)   The number of reserve police officers to serve the town is hereby
fixed at 20 members, and said members are hereby designated to have all of the
same police powers of the regular members of the Town Police Department,
excepting as limited by the rules and procedures of the Town Police Department.
   (B)   Said reserve police officers may not participate in any pension
programs provided for the regular members of the Department, nor shall any
police reserve member be, nor should this section be construed that they be, a
member of the regular town police force.
(1996 Code, § 3-40) (Ord. 80-11, passed - -)
§ 31.19 PARK AND RECREATION BOARD.
   (A)   Park and Recreation Board powers. The new Town Park and Recreation
Board (“Board”) shall oversee the development and maintenance of parks and
recreation in the new town. The Board shall have all powers, duties and
responsibilities prescribed in I.C. 36-10-3-1 et seq. However, the Board shall
obtain the prior approval of the Town Council before exercising the power of
eminent domain, as provided by I.C. 36-10-3-11(a)(5). In addition, the Board
shall oversee the maintenance of the cemeteries within the former Eagle and
Union Townships to the extent required by and provided for in I.C. 23-14-33
through 23-14-73.
   (B)   Park Board representation and action.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of four members to be appointed by the Town
Council. The members shall be appointed on the basis of their interest in and
knowledge of parks and recreation. Members of the Board must be residents of
the park district. At least one of the members must be a resident of the part
of former Union Township designated as the “Rural District” and at least one of
the members must be a resident of the part of former Eagle Township designated
as the “Rural District”. Notwithstanding the provisions of this division (B)
(1), no action of the Board may be challenged or invalidated on the basis of
the residency of the members of the Board.
      (2)   The Board members will serve staggered four-year terms. No Board
member may serve more than eight years in any 12-year period. Service prior to
1-2-2010 will be counted in this restriction. The Town Council shall appoint
the four members of the Board, effective 1-2-2010, with the members serving
initial terms of four, three, two and one years, respectively. The Town Council
may reappoint members of the current Park Board to the Board and may provide
for the terms of those current members to coincide with the remainder of their
current terms. However, the Town Council must make appointments that satisfy
the residency requirements of division (B)(1) above and that satisfy the term
limits of this division (B).
      (3)   In making appointments to the Board, the Town Council may be
required to find, pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-4.1, that due to the political make
up of the persons active in the parks community, it is necessary to waive the
following requirements for members of the Board:
         (a)   The requirement that a member of the Board be affiliated with a
political party; and
         (b)   The requirement that not more than two of the four members of
the Board be affiliated with the same political party.
      (4)   (a)   In addition, the Board may have up to two ex-officio members,
those being:
            1.   A member:
               a.   Of the governing body of the school corporation selected by
that body; or
               b.   Designated by the governing body of the school corporation.
            2.   A member of the governing body of the library district
selected by that body; or
            3.   Both divisions (B)(4)(a)1. and (B)(4)(a)2. above.
         (b)   The ex-officio members shall be appointed and shall serve at the
will of their respective appointing authority. No individual may serve as an
ex-officio member of the Board for more than four years (four one-year terms).
      (5)   The Town Council may appoint advisor members as it deems
appropriate, from local area agencies and organizations, such as Public Safety,
Central Indiana Land Trust and the Boone County Foundation.
      (6)   Upon authorization under state statute, the Town Council will
expand the membership of the Board to seven members, to include four regular
members and three ex-officio members from various community organizations.
      (7)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-8, the Board shall elect its officers
annually. No Board member may serve in the same office for more than two
consecutive years.
      (8)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-8(d), an action of the Board is not
official unless it is authorized by at least three members present and acting.
      (9)   Any appointed member who moves from the jurisdiction from which the
member was appointed shall be treated as if the member had resigned and the
Town Council shall appoint a replacement consistent with these requirements. If
the jurisdiction of the residence of an appointed member changes due to
reclassification of the District in which the appointed member resides, then
the member shall not be deemed to have resigned and the appointed member may
serve the remainder of his or her term.
   (C)   Park Board Superintendent. The Board shall appoint a Superintendent
pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-13. The Superintendent shall have the powers and
duties provided in I.C. 36-10-3-14, together with such other powers and duties
properly conveyed to him or her by the Board. The Superintendent shall provide
regular informational reports to the Town Manager on the same basis as the
chief officers of the various town departments. The Superintendent shall attend
all joint meetings of the collective chief officers of the various town
departments.
   (D)   Transition Committee. The Transition Committee has reviewed this
section and discussed it at meetings of the Transition Committee on 9-30-2009
and 12-16-2009 and recommends adoption of this section in furtherance of the
reorganization and to foster and promote geographic representation on the
boards and commissions as described in the reorganization plan and
reorganization ordinances.
(1996 Code, § 9-30) (Ord. 2009-15, passed 12-17-2009; Ord. 2013-16, passed 11-
4-2013)
§ 31.20 PLAN COMMISSION; BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Plan Commission representation.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall consist of seven members, each of whom
shall reside in the town.
      (2)   Effective 1-2-2010, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably
practicable, the Town Council shall appoint three members to the Plan
Commission.
      (3)   Effective 1-2-2010, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably
practicable, the Town Council President shall appoint four citizen members to
the Plan Commission.
      (4)   Based upon the Transition Committee’s recommendation and
determination that the geographic composition on the Plan Commission of four
members from the Rural District and three members from the Town District is the
greatest extent feasible and practicable for geographic representation, the
Plan Commission membership shall consist of four members from the Rural
District and three members from the Town District. Notwithstanding the
provisions of this division (A)(4), no action of the Plan Commission may be
challenged or invalidated on the basis of the residency of the members.
      (5)   (a)   Any appointed member who moves from the jurisdiction from
which the member was appointed shall be treated as if the member had resigned
and his or her term shall thereupon terminate, and the Town Council or the Town
Council President shall appoint a replacement consistent with these
requirements.
         (b)   If the jurisdiction of the residence of an appointed member
changes due to reclassification of the District in which the appointed member
resides, then the member shall not be deemed to have resigned and the appointed
member may serve the remainder of his or her term.
      (6)   Effective 1-2-2010, or as soon thereafter as is practicable, and
upon the Town Council satisfying itself that it has the authority to expand the
membership of the Plan Commission, the Town Council President may appoint an
additional two citizen members to the Plan Commission. At such time as the Town
Council President appoints the two additional members, the residence of those
members shall be based, to the greatest extent feasible, so that the total
number of the nine appointed members of the Plan Commission residing in each of
the two districts is proportionate to the land area of the two districts.
   (B)   Board of Zoning Appeals representation.
      (1)   The BZA shall consist of one division comprised of five members.
      (2)   Effective 1-2-2010, or as soon thereafter as is practicable, the
members of the BZA shall be appointed as follows.
         (a)   Three citizen members shall be appointed by the Town Council
President, of whom one must be a member of the Plan Commission and two must not
be members of the Plan Commission.
         (b)   One citizen member shall be appointed by the Town Council, who
must not be a member of the Plan Commission.
         (c)   One member shall be appointed by the Plan Commission from the
Plan Commission’s membership, who must be a citizen member of the Plan
Commission other than the member appointed under division (B)(2)(a) above.
      (3)   Based upon the Transition Committee’s recommendation and
determination that the geographic composition on the BZA of three members from
the Rural District and two members from the town district is the greatest
extent feasible and practicable for geographic representation, the BZA
membership shall consist of three members from the Rural District and two
members from the town district. Notwithstanding the provisions of this division
(B)(3), no action of the BZA may be challenged or invalidated on the basis of
the residency of the members of the BZA.
      (4)   Any appointed member of the BZA who moves from the jurisdiction
from which the member was originally appointed shall be treated as if the
member had resigned and their term shall thereupon terminate, and the
appointing authority that appointed that member shall appoint a replacement
consistent with these requirements. If the jurisdiction of the residence of an
appointed member changes due to reclassification of the district in which the
appointed member resides, then the member shall not be deemed to have resigned
and the appointed member may serve the remainder of his or her term.
   (C)   Transition Committee. The Transition Committee has reviewed this
section and discussed it at meetings of the Transition Committee on 9-30-2009
and 12-16-2009, and recommends adoption of this section in furtherance of the
reorganization and to foster and promote geographic representation on the
boards and commissions as described in the reorganization plan and the
reorganization ordinances.
(Ord. 2009-16, passed 12-17-2009)
§ 31.21 DEPARTMENT OF STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   State law. I.C. 8-1.5-5 (“Act”) concerning storm water management
systems is hereby adopted by the Town Council so as to make the Act and any and
all amendments thereto effective and operative in the town.
   (B)   Department established. Pursuant to the Act, a Department of Storm
Water Management of the town shall be and hereby is created for the purpose of
implementing capital improvements and conducting operation and maintenance
activities for the Department in fulfilling the storm water requirements of the
town and to comply with Rule 13, 327 I.A.C. 15-13 and all applicable federal
and state laws and regulations regarding storm water. The Department shall have
full power and authority to take any and all actions authorized and provided in
the Act.
   (C)   Board of Directors.
      (1)   Number. Pursuant to the Act, the Department of Storm Water
Management shall be controlled by a Board of Directors, which shall consist of
three Directors appointed by the President of the Town Council. Not more than
two of the Directors may be members of the same political party and one of the
Directors shall be a member of the Town Council.
      (2)   Term. The initial terms of the first Board of Directors appointed
pursuant to this section shall be staggered in the following manner: one
Director shall serve a term consisting of the remainder of 2010 and all of
2011, which term will end as of 12-31-2011; one Director shall serve a term
consisting of the remainder of 2010 and all of 2011 and 2012, which term will
end as of 12-31-2012; and one Director shall serve a term consisting of the
remainder of 2010 and all of 2011, 2012 and 2013, which term will end as of 12-
31-2013. After these initial terms, the terms of all of the Directors shall be
for a period of three years.
      (3)   Citizens’ Advisory Committee. The Council hereby establishes as an
adjunct part of the Department’s Board of Directors a Citizens’ Advisory
Committee. Such Committee shall consist of not less than three, nor more than
seven, members, which members shall be appointed by the Town Council. The
Committee shall have at least one member representative of or primarily from
each of an agricultural area, a residential area and a commercial area. As the
Committee is advisory in nature to the Board, the members shall not have set
terms and it shall be constituted for a period of time as and when needed when
the Board is determining or considering the charges, fees, rates and rate
appeals to be charged or considered by the Department. The Committee’s function
shall be to advise the Board on the charges, fees, rates and rate appeals to be
established or considered by the Board, and any other matters deemed necessary,
for the Department to carry out the storm water utility’s functions as
proscribed in the Act and this section.
   (D)   Policies and procedures. Prior to the imposition of any user fee, the
Board will adopt policies and procedures for the Department to include, without
limitation, powers, officers, definitions, charges, fees, rates, appeals,
assessment, billing and collections, enforcement and penalties.
   (E)   Special taxing district. Pursuant to the Act, there is hereby created
a special taxing district, which shall include all of the territory within the
corporate boundaries of the town for the purposes set forth in the Act.
   (F)   Account. All revenues earned and fees collected for storm water
service shall be deposited in an account entitled “Town of Zionsville Storm
Water Revenue Fund”. Funds from this account shall not revert to any other town
utility or the General Fund of the town.
   (G)   Budget. The Board of Directors shall prepare a budget for the
operation of the Department on an annual basis, which budget shall be subject
to approval by the Town Council. Any issuance of bonds or other funding methods
for making capital improvements by the Department shall be approved by the Town
Council as provided by the Act.
   (H)   Appeals. The Board of Directors shall establish an appeal process for
property owners that question the accuracy of the ERU multiple assigned to the
property of such owner in light of the amount of impervious area contained on
the property. The Board of Directors shall develop and promulgate policies and
procedures to resolve any such contests, including, as determined necessary,
conducting hearings and making determinations with respect to the measurement
of impervious area contained on any property.
(Ord. 2010-08, passed 9-7-2010)
Editor's Note:
   Ordinance 2020-09 established the Department of Public Works and combined
the existing Street Department, Stormwater Department and Wastewater Department
into the new Department of Public Works. See Department of Public Works, §
31.22.
§ 31.22 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   Creation of Department of Public Works. There is hereby created in the
town a Department of Public Works.
   (B)   Director of Public Works. The Department of Public Works shall be
managed by a Director of Public Works and such position of Director of Public
Works is hereby created.
   (C)   Divisions of the Department of Public Works. The Department of Public
Works shall encompass the following Divisions which are hereby created:
      (1)   Wastewater Division;
      (2)   Facilities Management Division;
      (3)   Environmental Stewardship Division;
      (4)   Street Division;
      (5)   Stormwater Management Division; and
      (6)   Engineering Division.
   (D)   Division Supervisors. Each Division within the Department of Public
Works shall be managed by a Division Supervisor and such Division Supervisor
positions are hereby created. The Director of Public Works may serve as
Division Supervisor of any Division within the Department of Public Works where
deemed by the Mayor and Director to be appropriate. Each Division Supervisor
serves under the jurisdiction of the Mayor, although the day-to-day operations
of each Division Supervisor will be supervised and managed by the Director of
Public Works. The Division Supervisor of the Wastewater Division shall be a
Department Head as that term is used in Resolution 2014-11 and specifically
Section ZR2A22, ZR2A23 and ZR2A24.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 10-5-2020)
§ 31.23 BOARD OF METROPOLITAN POLICE COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   Town Marshal abolished. The office of Zionsville Town Marshal,
authorized, empowered and established pursuant to I.C. 36-5-7, is hereby
abolished effective as of January 1, 2009.
   (B)   Establishment of Board of Metropolitan Police Commissioners. There is
hereby established, effective as of January 1, 2009, a Board of Metropolitan
Police Commissioners for the Town of Zionsville ("Board"), pursuant to I.C. 36-
8-9, with the powers and duties provided under state law.
      (1)   Number of members. The Board shall consist of five members. Not
more than three Board members may be members of the same political party. The
members must be residents of the town and shall be appointed by the Zionsville
Town Council.
      (2)   Term. The term of each Board member shall be three years, expiring
on January 1 of the third year after the member's appointment. The initial
Board shall have staggered terms, with not more than two Board members' terms
expiring in any one year, and thereafter each term shall be three full years.
      (3)   Composition of Board. Not more than three members of the Town
Council shall be appointed as members of the Board. A member of the Town
Council appointed as a member of the Board vacates their position on the Board
when the member is no longer a member of the Zionsville Town Council.
      (4)   Salary of Board members. Members of the Board who are also members
of the Zionsville Town Council may not receive separate or additional
compensation as a Board member. Members of the Board who are not members of the
Zionsville Town Council shall be paid a salary of $25 per meeting attended.
      (5)   Oath and Bond of Members. A Board member who is also a member of
the Zionsville Town Council is not required to post a bond. All Board members
shall take and subscribe an oath before the Boone County Circuit Court Clerk.
   (C)   Powers and duties of Board.
      (1)   The Board may adopt qualifications for employment in the Zionsville
Police Department, which must be approved by the Zionsville Town Council, and
may appoint as many persons as are necessary to serve in the Zionsville Police
Department.
      (2)   The Board shall appoint one person to serve as the Police Chief of
the Zionsville Police Department, and may appoint other employees as are
necessary to carry out the work of the Zionsville Police Department.
      (3)   The Board may recommend to the Zionsville Town Council the
compensation to be paid members of the Zionsville Police Department.
      (4)   The Board shall constitute the Safety Board of the Town of
Zionsville for purposes of exercising disciplinary powers for suspension,
demotion or dismissal of any member of the Zionsville Police Department,
pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-4. All proceedings for suspension, demotion or
dismissal of any member of the Zionsville Police Department shall be conducted
as prescribed in I.C. 36-8-3-4, and the disciplinary provisions of I.C. 36-8-3-
4.1 shall apply to the Safety Board and the Police Chief. As the Board
hereafter constitutes the Safety Board of the town, the current Safety Board
shall be dissolved and cease operating as of and after the effective date,
solely with respect to the Zionsville Police Department.
      (5)   The Board may make general and special rules for the governing and
discipline of the Zionsville Police Department and may make special and general
orders to the Zionsville Police Department through the Zionsville Police Chief,
who shall be the executive head of the Zionsville Police Department.
(Ord. 2008-21, passed 9-2-2008)
§ 31.24 SAFETY BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment of Safety Board. The Town Council hereby establishes the
Safety Board (the Board), pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3 et seq.
      (1)   Number of members. The Board shall consist of five members.
      (2)   Term. The term of each Board member shall be one calendar year,
expiring on December 31 of the year of the member's appointment. Board members
shall holdover until a successor is appointed.
      (3)   Appointment to the Board. The Town Council shall appoint all five
members to the Board.
      (4)   Composition of Board. The Board shall be comprised of not more than
three members of the Town Council. Any Town Council member that serves on the
Board shall vacate the member's position on the Board when the member is no
longer a member of the Town Council. The Board shall also include two citizen
members.
      (5)   Meetings. The Board shall meet on a monthly basis.
   (B)   Powers and duties of the Board. The Board shall administer the town
Fire Department, except as provided by any statute or ordinance. The Board may
adopt general and special orders to the town Fire Department through the Chief
of the Department. The Board shall have all responsibilities, duties and powers
as set forth in I.C. 36-8-3-2, and as may be amended from time to time. The
Board shall also administer the appeals process for the town Fire Department
Fire Prevention Ordinance pursuant to §
51.123.
(Ord. 2021-02, passed 2-1-2021; Ord. 2024-30, passed 11-4-2024)
§ 31.25 ZIONSVILLE TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Establishment of the Zionsville Tree Board. The Town Council hereby
establishes the Zionsville Tree Board (Tree Board) to be governed by a
Committee.
      (1)   Number of members. The Committee shall consist of seven members and
one non-voting advisory member.
      (2)   Term. The term of each member of the Committee shall be one year
expiring on December 31 of the year of the member's appointment.
      (3)   Appointment to the Committee. The Town Council of the town shall
appoint all seven members of the Committee and the Town Council shall also
appoint the one non-voting advisory member of the Committee.
      (4)   Composition of the Committee. The Committee shall consist of six
residents of the town and one member of the Town Council; the Town Council
shall also appoint one resident of the town who is a secondary school student
as a non-voting advisory member of the Committee.
      (5)   Leadership of the Committee. The Committee shall elect from its own
membership a President of the Committee, and the member of the Town Council who
serves on the Committee shall act as liaison from the Committee to the Town
Council.
   (B)   Duties of the Committee. The Committee shall constitute the Tree Board
of the town and shall:
      (1)   Advise the Town Council and the Mayor on matters related to the
promotion of urban forestry and streetscape beautification;
      (2)   Act as liaison from the town to subdivisions of the town on matters
of street tree planting;
      (3)   Identify areas for additional urban forestry and suggest projects
for the management and maintenance of planting beds and bio swales in the town;
      (4)   Make efforts to preserve the ongoing designation of the town as a
Tree City by the Arbor Day Foundation;
      (5)   Promote community service by hosting events including but not
limited to a "Community Service Day;” and
      (6)   Provide education to the residents of the town on planting,
maintenance, and the value of trees in the town.
   (C)   Powers of the Committee.
      (1)   The Committee shall have authority to receive donations for the
completion of certain projects related to the promotion of forestry and
streetscape beautification in the town and to place the same in the Town
Donation Fund 217.
      (2)   The Committee shall have authority to apply for and receive grant
funding for the completion of certain projects related to the promotion of
forestry and streetscape beautification in the town.
      (3)   The Committee shall have authority to seek out training and
development opportunities for members of the Committee related to forestry and
streetscape beautification.
      (4)   The Committee shall have authority to undertake projects related to
forestry and streetscape beautification in the town with the approval of the
Town Council and Mayor of the town.
(Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-7-2022; Ord. 2024-41, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 31.26 PATHWAYS COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Members. The Committee shall be comprised of five voting members and
one non-voting member. The members shall be appointed as follows:
      (1)   One voting member shall be an elected member of the Town Council,
as appointed by the Town Council. This member shall act as the Committee Chair.
      (2)   Two voting members shall be appointed by the Town Council.
      (3)   Two voting members shall be appointed by the Mayor.
      (4)   One non-voting member shall be a staff member from the Zionsville
Department of Public Works, as appointed by the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Term. Term of service for each Committee member is one year. Each term
begins on January 1 of the year of appointment and ends on December 31.
   (C)   Meetings. The Committee shall either meet quarterly or bi-monthly, as
decided at the first meeting of the year in January by the Committee Chair.
   (D)   Responsibilities. The Committee shall have the following
responsibilities/objectives:
      (1)   Make recommendations of pathway routes and locations and policies.
      (2)   Advise on how to make the town walkways accessible for all,
regardless of physical limitations or mode of transportation.
      (3)   Consider budgeting and finance feasibility to make recommendations
to the Town Council upon request, or when the Committee feels it is warranted.
      (4)   Provide guidance on how to prioritize pending pathway projects,
concentrating on no more than five projects a year.
      (5)   Seek accreditation as a "bike friendly" and "walk friendly" town.
      (6)   Monitor (with Department of Public Works staff guidance) program
and project progress.
      (7)   Appear before the Town Council in the second quarter of each year
to speak on the progress of yearly objectives and projects.
(Ord. 2024-02, passed 2-5-2024; Ord. 2024-48, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 31.27 ZIONSVILLE MAYOR’S YOUTH ADVISORY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Establishment. It is hereby established a Zionsville Mayor’s Youth
Advisory Council ("ZMYAC").
   (B)   Mission statement. The mission of the ZMYAC is to empower the student
leader of the town with engaging service opportunities that aspire to benefit
the entirety of the Zionsville community.
   (C)   Members. All members of the ZMYAC must be a resident of the town and a
student receiving a high school education in Indiana.
   (D)   Constitution. The constitution for the ZMYAC is attached to Ord. No.
2024-03 as "Exhibit 1". This constitution serves to outline and establishes the
duties within the ZMYAC.
   (E)   Bylaws. Bylaws shall be proposed by the ZMYAC. Any proposed bylaws or
changes to the bylaws must be accepted by the Zionsville Mayor.
(Ord. 2024-03, passed 2-5-2024)
§ 31.28 FIRE DEPARTMENT MERIT SYSTEM.
   (A)   Establishment of Zionsville Fire Department merit system. Effective
January 1, 2025, a merit system is hereby established for the Zionsville Fire
Department (Department) to govern the selection and appointment of persons to
be employed as members of the Department, and to govern the promotion,
demotion, discipline and dismissal of members of the Department, all in
accordance with the terms and provisions of I.C. 36-8-3.5-1 et seq., which are
hereby adopted in their entirety and constitute the basis for the merit system
established by this section.
   (B)   Fire Department Merit Commission. The Zionsville Fire Department Merit
Commission (Commission) is hereby established to administer the Department
merit system. The Commission shall consist of five Commissioners, including two
persons, who must be of different political parties, appointed by the Mayor,
two persons, who must be of different political parties, elected by the active
Department members, and one person appointed by the Town Council.
   (C)   Commissioner requirements.
      (1)   Each Commissioner must be:
         (a)   At least 21 years of age;
         (b)   Of good moral character; and
         (c)   A legal resident of the town for at least three consecutive
years before his or her term.
      (2)   A Commissioner may not be an active member of the Department and
not more than two Commissioners may be past members of a police or fire
department or agency.
      (3)   A Commissioner may not receive any remuneration as salary from the
town.
      (4)   Each Commissioner shall take an oath of office to conscientiously
discharge his or her duties, a signed copy of which shall be filed with the
Safety Board.
      (5)   The Town Council may, upon the recommendation of the Safety Board,
determine a per diem to be paid to each Commissioner for each day of actual
service for the Commission.
   (D)   Commissioner terms.
      (1)   The term of a Commissioner is four years. However, one of the
Mayor's initial appointees and one of the Department's initial appointees shall
serve for two years. Thereafter, terms for said initial appointees shall be
four years. Commissioners shall holdover until their successor is qualified and
appointed.
      (2)   A vacancy on the Commission shall be filled within 30 days by the
appointing or electing authority, and such selection is for the remainder of
the unexpired term.
      (3)   A Commissioner serves at the pleasure of the appointing or electing
authority and may be removed at any time pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3.5-7.
   (E)   Merit ranks. The merit ranks will be: firefighter, engineer,
lieutenant and captain. Members of the Department who hold the rank of
firefighter, engineer, lieutenant or captain as of December 31, 2024 (see
Exhibit A of Ord. 2024-29) shall retain that rank and be considered merit
firefighters or fire officers. Years of service in the rank of firefighter
shall accrue from date the firefighter's probationary period was completed. The
years of service for officers will accrue from the officer's original date of
promotion.
   (F)   Hiring and promotion lists. Hiring and promotion lists in effect on
December 31, 2024 shall remain in effect for two years from the date on which
they were first accepted.
   (G)   Upper-level policymaking positions. An upper-level policymaking
position refers to the position held by the Fire Chief and to each position
held by members of the Department in the next rank and pay grade immediately
below the Fire Chief.
      (1)   The Fire Chief is appointed by the Mayor. As a department head of
the town, the Fire Chief may only be removed pursuant to the procedures set
forth in reorganization section ZR2A24.
      (2)   The Fire Chief shall appoint and may remove the other upper-level
policymaking positions within the Department.
      (3)   The removal of a member from an upper-level policymaking position
is removal from that rank only, not removal from the Department. When a member
is removed from an upper-level policymaking position, the member shall be
appointed by the Commission to the merit rank in the Department that the member
held at the time of the member's upper-level policymaking position appointment
or to any rank to which the member had been promoted during the member's tenure
in the upper-level policymaking position. If such a rank is not open, the
member is entitled to the pay of that rank and shall be promoted to that rank
as soon as an opening is available.
   (H)   Administrative appointment positions. Administrative appointment
positions refer to positions held by members of the Department in specialty
assignments in the Fire Department administration or as an Operations Battalion
Chief as approved in the salary ordinance.
      (1)   The Fire Chief shall appoint and may remove administrative
appointment positions within the Department.
      (2)   The removal of a member from an administrative appointment position
is removal from that rank only, not removal from the Department. When a member
is removed from an administrative appointment position, the member shall be
appointed by the Commission to the merit rank in the Department that the member
held at the time of the member's administrative appointment or to any rank to
which the member had been promoted during the member's tenure in the
administrative appointment position. If such a rank is not open, the member is
entitled to the pay of that rank and shall be promoted to that rank as soon as
an opening is available.
   (I)   Ratification of merit system. The establishment of a merit system by
this section is subject to the approval of the merit system by a majority of
the active members of the Department. A meeting of the active members of the
Department for the purpose of their voting by secret ballot to accept or reject
the merit system shall be convened within 60 days after the adoption of this
section pursuant to I.C. 36-8- 3.5-4.
(Ord. 2024-29, passed 11-18-2024)
§ 31.29 TOWN OF ZIONSVILLE ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON DISABILITY (ZACD).
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby established the Town of Zionsville
Advisory Committee on Disability (ZACD).
   (B)   Purpose. The ZACD shall assist the town's efforts toward ensuring that
the town is inclusive of individuals of all abilities. The ZACD shall also
recommend priorities and strategies to the town to address the various
challenges and needs facing the disability community and promote inclusion and
accessibility.
   (C)   Composition and term. The ZACD shall be comprised of five voting
members, three of which are to be appointed by the Mayor and two of which are
to be appointed by the Town Council. The Mayor shall designate one of his or
her appointees as Chair of the ZACD. Additionally, the Mayor may appoint up to
four non-voting advisory members who are employed by the town and shall
represent their respective town departments. The Town Council may appoint one
non-voting advisory member that may be a member of the Town Council. The terms
of every voting and non-voting member of the ZACD shall be for one year and
shall holdover until their successor is appointed. ZACD members may be re-
appointed. Voting members and non-voting advisory members of the ZACD are
volunteers and shall not be compensated for their service. ZACD membership
should include Zionsville residents with lived experience such as, but not
limited to, those who are:
      (1)   Individuals with experience in advocacy, inclusion, and service to
individuals with disabilities within the town;
      (2)   Individuals experienced with facing unique challenges by living
with a disability as defined by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA),
including, but not limited to, hearing impairment, intellectual or
developmental disability, psychiatric disability, mobility disability, or
vision impairment;
      (3)   A family member or in-home caregiver (with five or more years of
experience) of an individual with a disability; or
      (4)   An owner or representative of a local for-profit business who
actively employs one or more individuals with disabilities.
   (D)   Duties. Duties of the ZACD may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Provide strategic input/direction/guidance to the Mayor regarding:
         (a)   The town's Disability Awareness Month campaign and events;
         (b)   The town's ADA Transition Plan; and
         (c)   Any programming created by the town pertaining to disabilities.
      (2)   Represent the diverse needs and interests of individuals with
disabilities in the town.
      (3)   At the request of the Mayor or Town Council, review and provide
input and advice regarding the town's current services, policies and practices.
      (4)   At the request of the Mayor or Town Council, review and provide
input and advice regarding proposed town projects, services, policies and
practices that may impact individuals with disabilities.
      (5)   Work in partnership with local area employers, businesses and
economic development organizations, schools, and service providers for
individuals with disabilities to increase employment and meaningful work
opportunities for individuals with disabilities.
      (6)   Collaborate with disability stakeholders, community partners
(including schools, non-profit organizations, faith-based organizations and
businesses) and town leaders to foster a culture of inclusivity, develop and
recommend proposals to address the needs of individuals with disabilities
(including, but not limited to transportation and housing options), and enhance
the lives of individuals with disabilities and their families.
   (E)   Meetings. The ZACD shall hold regular meetings on a quarterly basis at
the Zionsville Town Hall and pursuant to Indiana Open Door Law as applicable.
   (F)   Reporting. The ZACD shall prepare a written report of its actions
during each calendar year and submit its report to the Mayor on or before
December 31 of that year.
(Ord. 2024-44, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 31.30 INACTIVE BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, OR COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Department in charge. The town shall have the authority to regulate
the policies in this chapter through the Mayor and/or the Mayor's designee.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD, COMMISSION, OR COMMITTEE. A board, commission, or committee that
is organized by the town via ordinance to provide a benefit for the town.
Includes advisory boards, advisory commissions and advisory committees.
      INACTIVE. When a board, commission, or committee has not conducted an
official meeting within the last two calendar years.
   (C)   Exemption. The Board of Police Commissioners and Safety Board shall be
exempted from this section.
   (D)   Dissolved. All boards, commissions, and committees, unless exempted
under this section, may be dissolved by the Mayor if such boards, commissions
and committees are or become inactive. All responsibilities and rights of the
members, regarding their position on the board, commission, or committee, shall
cease to exist. No later than January 3 annually, the Mayor or the Mayor's
designee shall create a list of all boards, commissions or committee that are
set to be administratively dissolved (dissolution list). The dissolution list
shall be filed with the Municipal Relations Officer who serves as the Clerk of
the Town Council 30 days prior to any dissolution and shall be distributed to
the members of the Town Council for review. The Town Council may object to the
dissolution of any board, commission or committee on the dissolution list by a
majority vote of the Town Council in a public meeting of the Town Council prior
to the expiration of the 30-day notice period.
(Ord. 2024-47, passed 12-2-2024)
CHAPTER 32: TOWN COURT
Section
   
32.01   Town Court creation
§ 32.01 TOWN COURT CREATION.
   Pursuant to the authority contained in I.C. 33-35-1-1, there is hereby
created the Town Court, with such powers, jurisdiction and venue as provided
for by said Acts. The Town Court shall be located in the Town Hall meeting room
with sessions to be held as the business of the Court demands in the discretion
of the Judge of said Court.
(1996 Code, § 3-1) (Ord. 66-5, passed - -)
CHAPTER 33: NEPOTISM
Section
   
33.01   Findings
   
33.02   Nepotism policy compliance with state law
   
33.03   Nepotism policies established
   
33.04   Conflict of interest policies established
   
33.05   Cooperation required
   
33.06   Implementation
   
33.07   Adoption of state law
    
33.08   Duration and effective date
§ 33.01 FINDINGS.
   The town finds that it is necessary and desirous to adopt a policy of
conduct regarding nepotism and conflicts of interest in the employment with and
appointments to boards, commissions and committees of the town, and in
contracting with the town in order to continue to be able to provide local
government services to its residents and to comply with the requirements of
I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21.
(Ord. 2023-30, passed 12-4-2023; Ord. 2024-46, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 33.02 NEPOTISM POLICY COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   (A)   The town shall have a nepotism and a contracting with the town policy
that complies with the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2 (hereinafter,
"nepotism policy") and I.C. 36-1-21 (hereinafter, "contracting with the town by
a relative policy").
   (B)   The town finds that both I.C. 36-1-20.2 and I.C. 36-1-21 specifically
allow a unit to adopt requirements that are more stringent or detailed as are
necessary.
   (C)   The town further finds that a single member of the Town Council cannot
act for the Council to make work assignments, compensation, grievances,
advancement or performance evaluation decisions without prior authority of a
majority of the Town Council and, therefore, without such authority, he or she
will not be in the direct line of supervision (see I.C. 36-5-2-9.4).
   (D)   The town finds that a single member of certain town affiliated
governing bodies with authority over employees in the town cannot act for the
governing body to make work assignments, compensation, grievances, advancement
or performance evaluation decisions without prior authority of a majority of
the governing body, when a statute provides that a majority is needed to act
and, therefore, without such authority, the single member will not be in the
direct line of supervision (see I.C. 36-7-4-400 and I.C. 36-10-3).
(Ord. 2023-30, passed 12-4-2023; Ord. 2024-46, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 33.03 NEPOTISM POLICIES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The town's nepotism policy is hereby established by adopting the
minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-20.2 and including all future supplements and
amendments thereto which become law from time to time and making them a part
hereof as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   The town's contracting with the town by a relative policy is hereby
established by adopting the minimum requirements of I.C. 36-1-21 and including
all future supplements and amendments thereto which become law from time to
time and making them a part hereof as if fully set forth herein.
   (C)   No relative, as defined by I.C. 36-1-20.2-8, of a current town
employee or elected official may be appointed to any town board, commission or
committee.
(Ord. 2023-30, passed 12-4-2023; Ord. 2024-46, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 33.04 CONFLICT OF INTEREST POLICIES ESTABLISHED.
   The town's conflict of interest policy is hereby established by adopting the
minimum requirements of I.C. 35-44.1-1-4 and including all future supplements
and amendments thereto which become law from time to time and making them a
part hereof as if fully set forth herein. Further, no relative (as defined by
I.C. 36-1-20.2-8) of any current town employee or elected official shall be
appointed to any town board, commission or committee.
(Ord. 2024-46, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 33.05 COOPERATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   All elected and appointed officials and employees of the town are
hereby directed to cooperate fully in the implementation of the policies
created by this chapter and demonstrating compliance with these policies.
   (B)   Failure to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance
and certifications connected with the nepotism policy and the contracting with
the town by a relative policy is a violation and may result in the discipline,
including termination, of an employee or a transfer from the direct line of
supervision or other curative action. An elected or appointed official of the
town who fails to abide by or cooperate with the implementation, compliance and
mandated certifications of either the nepotism policy or the contracting with
the town by a relative policy may be subject to action allowed by law.
(Ord. 2023-30, passed 12-4-2023; Ord. 2024-46, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 33.06 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   The policies created by this chapter are hereby directed to be
implemented by any of the following actions:
      (1)   Posting a copy of this chapter, in its entirety, in at least one of
the locations in the town where it posts employer posters or other notices to
its employees;
      (2)   Providing a copy of this chapter to its employees, and elected and
appointed officials;
      (3)   Providing or posting a notice of the adoption of this chapter; or
      (4)   Any such other action or actions that would communicate the
policies established by this chapter to its employees and elected and appointed
officials.
   (B)   Upon any of taking these actions, these policies are deemed
implemented by the town.
(Ord. 2023-30, passed 12-4-2023; Ord. 2024-46, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 33.07 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   A copy of the provisions of I.C. 36-1-20.2, I.C. 36-1-21, and I.C. 35-44.1-
1-4, effective July 1, 2024, are attached to Ord. 2024-46 as Exhibits A, B, and
C in their entirety. Two copies of I.C. 36-1-20.2, I.C. 36-1-21, and I.C. 35-
44.1-1-4, and as supplemented or amended, are on file in the office of the
Mayor of the town for public inspection as provided by I.C. 36-1-5-4.
(Ord. 2023-30, passed 12-4-2023; Ord. 2024-46, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 33.08 DURATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter and the policies adopted are effective and in
full force and effect until repeal by ordinance.
(Ord. 2023-30, passed 12-4-2023; Ord. 2024-46, passed 12-16-2024)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
General Provisions
   
34.01   Purchasing cards
   
34.02   Vehicle inspection, accident report, handgun permits and copy fees
   
34.03   Internal control standards
   
34.04   Town fee schedule incorporated by reference
   
34.05   Credit card payments; collection of convenience fee
Purchasing Policies
   
34.15   Purchasing of supplies manufactured in the United States
   
34.16   Small purchases
   
34.17   Small business set-aside purchases
   
34.18   Publication of notices
   
34.19   Receiving offers, bids and proposals
   
34.20   Purchasing agency
Funds
   
34.35   Promotional Fund
   
34.36   Non-reverting capital fund for park purposes
   
34.37   Special non-reverting operating fund for park and recreation purposes
   
34.38   Cumulative Firefighting Building Equipment Fund
   
34.39   Cumulative Capital Development Fund
   
34.40   Fire Loan Debt Fund
   
34.41   Cash Change Fund
   
34.42   LOIT special distributions
   
34.43   Town Hall Project Fund
   
34.44   Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund
   
34.45   Public Safety Local Income Tax Fund
Food and Beverage Excise Tax
   
34.50   Imposition of tax
   
34.51   Exempt transactions
   
34.52   Food and Beverage Tax Fund
   
34.53   Use of tax revenue
   
34.54   Duration and effective date
Investment and Deposit Policy
   
34.65   Purpose
   
34.66   Investing Officer
   
34.67   Prudence
   
34.68   Authorized depositories
   
34.69   Minimum rating
   
34.70   State statutes
   
34.71   Suitable and authorized investments
   
34.72   Interlocal cooperation
   
34.73   Maximum maturities
   
34.74   Competitive quotes
   
34.75   Approval of Investing Officer
   
34.76   Internal control/external review
   
34.77   Investment advisor
   
34.78   Diversification of investments
   
34.79   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
34.80   Reporting
   
34.81   Effective date and duration
Cross-reference:
   Business Regulations, see Title XI
   Park and recreation impact fee, see §§
98.15 through
98.29
   Sewer availability fee, see §§
52.045 through
52.051
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 34.01 PURCHASING CARDS.
   (A)   That the Council hereby authorizes the town to develop a purchasing
card program ("program") and requires the town to adopt a purchasing card
policy and procedure manual ("manual").
   (B)   The program may include the use of purchasing cards, town-owned credit
cards, and fuel fleet cards.
   (C)   The town shall prepare a form and require all program card holders to
receive and acknowledge in writing the terms of the manual. The town shall
require all program card holders to execute a new form when and if any
substantive revisions are made to the manual.
   (D)   The Director of the Department of Finance and Records of the town
("Director") shall serve as the program coordinator. The Director shall provide
oversight of the program. The Director may withdraw authorization for any town
employee to use a program card and require the return of a town program card at
any time for any reason.
   (E)   The Director shall maintain an accounting system which includes the
names of the individuals authorized to use a program card, their positions,
fund and account numbers to be charged and the date was issued and returned.
   (F)   The use of program cards shall not bypass the town's accounting
system. All such charges shall be itemized and presented to the Town Council
for approval as part of the monthly approval of claims.
   (G)   The Director is authorized by the Town Council to pay an annual fee,
if applicable, for program cards.
(Ord. 2020-07, passed 8-17-2020; Ord. 2023-05, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 34.02 VEHICLE INSPECTION, ACCIDENT REPORT, HANDGUN PERMITS AND COPY FEES.
   (A)   There is hereby imposed a fee for any vehicle inspection made by the
Town Police Department. The fee imposed by this section shall be payable by
non-residents of the town. It shall be paid at the time the inspection is
performed at the Town Police Department. Upon the payment of such fee, the
person making such inspection on behalf of the Town Police Department shall
issue a receipt therefore. The amount of the fee established in this division
(A) is set forth in the town fee schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04.
   (B)   There is hereby imposed a fee for any copies of case or incident
reports made by the Town Police Department. The amount of the fee established
in this division (B) is set forth in the town fee schedule incorporated by
reference in §
34.04, excluding photographs or charts, which shall be charged at reproduction
costs rates.
   (C)   There is hereby imposed a fee for any copies of accident reports made
by the Town Police Department. The amount of the fee established in this
division (C) for copying and providing accident reports, as described in I.C.
9-29-11, is set forth in the town fee schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04.
   (D)   There is hereby imposed a fee for handgun permits processed by the
Town Police Department. The fees payable to the Town Police Department for a
four-year permit and for a lifetime permit are set forth in the town fee
schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04.
   (E)   There is hereby imposed a fee for fingerprint cards processed by the
Town Police Department. The amount of the fee for a fingerprint card is set
forth in the town fee schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04.
   (F)   The fees established in divisions (A) and (E) above shall not be
applicable to residents of the town who can prove their residency by producing
a valid state driver’s license, voter registration card or other proof of
residency to the satisfaction of the Town Police Department.
   (G)   Fees collected pursuant to divisions (A), (B), (C), (D) and (E) above
shall be deposited by the Clerk-Treasurer in the Local Law Enforcement
Continuing Education Fund.
   (H)   This section shall become effective on 5-4-2009 and thereafter.
(1996 Code, § 3-50) (Ord. 2009-05, passed 5-4-2009)
§ 34.03 INTERNAL CONTROL STANDARDS.
   The town adopts as policy of the internal control standards as set forth by
the Indiana State Board of Accounts Uniform Internal Control Standards for
Indiana Political Subdivisions Manual as expressly written and published by the
Indiana State Board of Accounts in September, 2015, and as amended from time to
time. In order to implement these standards, the Director of Finance and
Records shall certify in writing that personnel as defined in statute have
received the required training. All officers, elected officials and employees
are required to comply with the policy. Employees who fail to comply with this
policy are subject to discipline, including but not limited to termination of
their employment.
(Ord. 2016-20, passed 11-28-2016)
§ 34.04 TOWN FEE SCHEDULE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE.
   The town fee schedule is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth
fully herein. Copies of the town's fee schedule, as it may be amended from time
to time, are available to the public in the Department of Finance and Records
during regular business hours or on the town's website.
(Ord. 2020-21, passed 1-19-2021; Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-15-2021; Ord. 2021-14,
passed 12-20-2021; Ord. 2022-31, passed 12-19-2022; Ord. 2023-16, passed 9-5-
2023; Ord. 2024-14, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.05 CREDIT CARD PAYMENTS; COLLECTION OF CONVENIENCE FEE.
   (A)   Definitions.
      CONVENIENCE FEE. A convenience fee that is charged to a customer for the
convenience of making a credit card payment. A CONVENIENCE FEE charged to a
customer typically covers all or a portion of a payment vendor's transaction
costs (see TRANSACTION FEES below), as well as any other additional fees that
are charged by the town to recover direct costs associated with receiving a
debit card or credit card payment. Such CONVENIENCE FEE shall not exceed $3 per
transaction and shall be uniform regardless of the bank card or credit card
used.
      CREDIT CARD. A credit card means a (1) credit card; (2) debit card; (3)
charge card; or (4) stored value card as defined in I.C. 36-1-8-11(b).
      CUSTOMER. A person who is purchasing town goods/services/paying fees/
fines or taxes with a credit card.
      ELECTRONIC PAYMENT PROCESSING PROTOCOL. The standard, town-wide processes
used by the town when accepting credit or debit card payments from customers,
including, but not limited to, contracts with financial services providers and
business procedures.
      PERSONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION. The information provided by the customer
in the course of completing a payment transaction with the town through an
electronic transfer of funds, including, but not limited to credit card number.
      TRANSACTION FEE. The same as TRANSACTION CHARGE and refers to the cost
incurred by the town for executing an electronic payment. If the town passes
all or a portion of this transaction charge on to the customer, then the
resulting fee to the customer is typically called a CONVENIENCE FEE (see
definition above).
   (B)   Responsible department. The Department of Finance and Records shall be
the department in charge. The Director of the Department of Finance and Records
("Director") shall responsible for all credit card payments and for ensuring
appropriate internal controls are in place prior to the acceptance of credit
card payments by the town. The Director shall be responsible for regularly
monitoring such internal controls, including but not limited to testing
internal controls for all departments no less than quarterly.
   (C)   Credit card payments. The town, its departments and municipally owned
utility may accept payment by credit card for any business service, purchase of
town goods or payment of fines, fees or taxes pursuant to this section and I.C.
36-1-8-11 et seq.
   (D)   Accounts. The Director shall authorize and open all credit card
accounts. The applicable town department will provide required information to
the Director to establish such accounts, monitor compliance of internal
controls, and report to the Director on the usage rates of such accounts.
   (E)   Convenience fee. Credit card transactions for the purchase of town
goods and services, payment of fines, fees or taxes may be subject to a
convenience fee.
   (F)   Policies. The Director, with technical assistance and equipment if
necessary from the town's Information Technology ("IT") Department, shall
establish and maintain the electronic payment processing protocol for
electronic payment processing, including, but not limited to, contracts for
electronic payments, convenience fees, and standard business processes and
procedures.
   (G)   Privacy. No town department shall store a customer's financial
information in a database accessible to the public. If the town department has
a legal and justifiable business need to store personal financial information
obtained from customers during an electronic payment transaction, the agency is
required to provide written procedures and policies for the safekeeping of such
personal financial information. Such written procedures and policies shall
include the names of town employees who will have access to such personal
financial information. Such procedures and policies shall be forwarded to the
Director for written approval before storing personal financial information in
a database accessible to town employees.
(Ord. 2023-50, passed 12-18-2023)
PURCHASING POLICIES
§ 34.15 PURCHASING OF SUPPLIES MANUFACTURED IN THE UNITED STATES.
   Supplies manufactured in the United States shall be specified for all town
purchases and shall be purchased unless the Town Council determines that:
   (A)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in reasonably
available quantities;
   (B)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States exceeds
by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable supplies
manufactured elsewhere;
   (C)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States is
substantially less than the quality of comparable priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
   (D)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is not in
the public interest.
(1996 Code, § 3-24) (Ord. 98-12, passed - -)
§ 34.16 SMALL PURCHASES.
   (A)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of
less than $5,000 on the open market without inviting or receiving quotes.
   (B)   The purchasing agent may purchase supplies with an estimated cost of
more than $5,000, but less than $25,000, on the basis of telephone or written
price quotes from at least two competing suppliers.
(1996 Code, § 3-24) (Ord. 98-12, passed - -)
§ 34.17 SMALL BUSINESS SET-ASIDE PURCHASES.
   (A)   General. The Town Council hereby determines to establish criteria for
determining qualifications as a small business in anticipation that from time
to time certain supplies will be identified and designated for purchase from
small businesses pursuant to I.C. 5-22-14 dealing with small business set-aside
purchases.
   (B)   Qualifications.
      (1)   A business qualifies as a small business if it qualifies as a small
business under standards established by the State Department of Commerce.
      (2)   The following businesses are not eligible for the town’s small
business set-aside:
         (a)   A wholesale business, if its average annual sales for its most
recently completed fiscal year exceeds $4,000,000;
         (b)   A construction business, if its average annual receipts for the
preceding three fiscal year exceeds $4,000,000;
         (c)   A retail business or business selling services, if its annual
sales and receipts exceed $500,000; and
         (d)   A manufacturing business, if it employees more than 100 persons.
(1996 Code, § 3-24) (Ord. 98-12, passed - -)
§ 34.18 PUBLICATION OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Invitation for bids. All notices of invitation for bids shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Zionsville Times Sentinel and
posted at the Town Hall. The Town Clerk-Treasurer, as purchasing agent, shall
schedule the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for
preparation and submission of bids. The notice will be published two times, at
least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least ten days prior
to the date the bids will be opened.
   (B)   Request for proposals. All notices of request for proposals shall be
published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Zionsville Times Sentinel and
posted at Town Hall. The Town Clerk-Treasurer, as purchasing agent, shall
schedule the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount of time for
preparation and submission of proposals. The notice will be published two
times, at least one week apart. The second publication must occur at least ten
days prior to the date the bids will be opened.
   (C)   Request for specifications. All notices of request for specifications
shall be published in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 in the Zionsville Times
Sentinel and posted at Town Hall. The Town Clerk- Treasurer, as purchasing
agent, shall schedule the publication of notice to provide a reasonable amount
of time for preparation and submission of proposals. The notice will be
published two times, at least one week apart. The second publication must occur
at least ten days prior to the date the bids will be opened.
   (D)   Electronic notices. Whenever a notice or other material, including
specifications, an invitation for bids, request for proposals or request for
specifications, is sent by mail, the purchasing agent may also send the notice
or other material by electronic means; provided that, the transmission of the
information is at least as efficient as mailing the information.
(1996 Code, § 3-24) (Ord. 98-12, passed - -)
§ 34.19 RECEIVING OFFERS, BIDS AND PROPOSALS.
   (A)   Opening of offers. Bids received in response to an invitation for bids
must be opened publicly in the presence of at least one or more witnesses at
the time and place designated in the invitation for bids. Proposals received in
response to a request for proposals must be opened so as to avoid disclosure of
the contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation. Proposals
received in response to a request for specifications may be opened as specified
in the request for specifications.
   (B)   Correction and withdrawal of bids. An offeror may correct inadvertent
errors in a bid up to the time at which bids will be opened by supplementing
the erroneous bid and submitting a revised bid. A bidder may not supplement an
inadvertently erroneous bid after the time at which the bids were opened. A
bidder may withdraw a bid containing inadvertent errors up to the time at which
bids will be opened and for a period of not more than 24 hours after the time
at which the bids were opened.
   (C)   Cancellation of solicitation. When the purchasing agent makes a
written determination that is in the town’s best interests, the purchasing
agent may cancel a solicitation or reject all offers; provided that, the
solicitation included information concerning the procedure for cancellation.
(1996 Code, § 3-24) (Ord. 98-12, passed - -)
§ 34.20 PURCHASING AGENCY.
   A town purchasing agency is established as follows.
   (A)   The Town Council is designated as the purchasing agency for the town.
   (B)   The purchasing agency shall have all the powers and duties authorized
under I.C. 5-22, as may be amended from time to time by law, or supplemented
from time to time by ordinances adopted by the Town Council.
   (C)   The purchasing agency shall act as purchasing agency for every board,
office, branch, commission, council and department of the town. The Clerk-
Treasurer shall be the purchasing agent of the town purchasing agency and may
designate in writing any employee of the town as a deputy purchasing agent.
(1996 Code, § 3-24) (Ord. 98-13, passed - -)
FUNDS
§ 34.35 PROMOTIONAL FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. A Zionsville Promotion of Business Fund ("Fund") is
hereby established. The Zionsville Town Council is hereby authorized to budget
and appropriate funds from the general fund or from other funds to pay the
expenses incurred in promoting, marketing and for the economic development
efforts of the town.
   (B)   Fund expenditures. Expenditures from this fund may be made by the
appropriate department of the town with approval by the Mayor to include, but
are not necessarily limited to the following:
      (1)   Expenses incurred in the promotion of economic or industrial
development for the town.
      (2)   Commemorative plaques, certificates, ribbon cutting supplies or
objects such as commemorative bricks.
      (3)   Promotional items bearing the town logo to be sold or given away in
order to promote the Town of Zionsville.
      (4)   Other purposes which are deemed to directly relate to the
promotion, marketing or economic development efforts of the Town of Zionsville.
   (C)   Individual expenses from fund. No individual expenses shall be allowed
from this fund without following the standard claims approval process.
   (D)   Remitting taxes on promotional items. The town shall establish a
process by which to remit sales tax to the State of Indiana for all promotional
items sold for a profit.
(1996 Code, § 3-20) (Ord. 82-17, passed - -; Ord. 2017-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 34.36 NON-REVERTING CAPITAL FUND FOR PARK PURPOSES.
   (A)   Under provisions of I.C. 36-10-3-20, there is hereby created a special
non-reverting capital fund for the Park and Recreation Board of the town to be
utilized for the purposes of acquiring land or making specific capital
improvements.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage.
(1996 Code, § 3-21) (Ord. 10-1976, passed - -; Ord. 1987-16, passed - -)
§ 34.37 SPECIAL NON-REVERTING OPERATING FUND FOR PARK AND RECREATION PURPOSES.
   (A)   Establishment. Pursuant to I.C. 36-10-3-22, the town hereby creates a
special non-reverting operating fund for the Town Parks and Recreation
Department, to be utilized for any parks and recreation purpose other than
acquiring land or making specific capital improvements.
   (B)   Collection of fees. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall be responsible for
the collection of fees and donations received by the Town Parks and Recreation
Department in its operations from the Lincoln Park Gazebo, garden plot rentals,
entry fees from park fund-raising events and any other fees collected from
either the use of major facilities or the sale of surplus property. Money
procured from fees or received from the sale of surplus property of the Town
Parks and Recreation Department shall be deposited at least once each month
with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Special fund. The Town Clerk-Treasurer shall have administrative power
regarding the special non-reverting operating fund and shall deposit all fees,
donations and money collected from the operation of park and recreation
facilities, rentals and the sale of surplus property in the special non-
reverting operating fund.
   (D)   Disbursement of money received from fees. The Town Clerk-Treasurer is
directed to only disburse funds from the special non-reverting operating fund
created hereunder upon receipt of a claim allowed and signed by the President
and Secretary of the Board of Parks and Recreation.
   (E)   Limitations on disbursements. Any funds placed in the special non-
reverting operating fund may not be withdrawn, except for the purposes for
which the fund was created.
(1996 Code, § 3-25) (Ord. 2001-03, passed - -)
§ 34.38 CUMULATIVE FIREFIGHTING BUILDING EQUIPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Purposes of the Fund. The Town Council hereby reestablishes the
Cumulative Firefighting Building Equipment Fund (the "Fire Fund") pursuant to
I.C. 6.1.1-41, to be used for te purposes allowed and set forth in I.C. 36-8-
14.
   (B)   Certified rate. The Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C. 36-
8-14. The proposed fund will not exceed: $0.0333 per $100 of assessed
valuation. Said tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2019 payable
2020.
   (C)   Proof of publication. The Town Council shall provide proof of
publication of the public hearing held on March 18, 2019 and a certified copy
of this section shall be submitted to the Department of Local Government
Finance of the State of Indiana as provided by law. The Fire Fund is subject to
the approval of the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 2013-07, passed 6-18-2013; Ord. 2016-11, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 2019-05,
passed 3-18-2019)
§ 34.39 CUMULATIVE CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   (A)   Re-establishment. The Town Council hereby re-establishes the
Cumulative Capital Development (CCD) Fund pursuant to I.C. 6-1.1-41, to be used
for the purposes allowed and set forth in I.C. 36-9-15.5.
   (B)   Certified rate. The Town Council will adhere to the provisions of I.C.
36-6-15.5. The proposed fund will not exceed $0.0500 on each $100 of assessed
valuation. Said tax rate will be levied beginning with taxes for 2019 payable
2020.
   (C)   Department of Local Government Fund approval. The Town Council shall
provide proof of publication of the public hearing held on March 18, 2019, and
a certified copy of this section, be submitted to the Department of Local
Government Finance of the State of Indiana as provided by law. This CCD Fund is
subject to the approval of the Department of Local Government Finance.
(Ord. 2011-03, passed 6-6-2011; Ord. 2016-10, passed 6-6-2016; Ord. 2019-04,
passed 3-18-2019)
§ 34.40 FIRE LOAN DEBT FUND.
   (A)   Establishment of the Fire Loan Debt Fund. The Town Council hereby
establishes a new fund to be called the “Fire Loan Debt Fund” for the purpose
of consolidating funds related to the Perry Township Reorganization to be
allocated towards payments on the outstanding fire loan.
   (B)   Receipts and expenditures. The Fund will be funded with the following
types of revenues: property taxes, financial institutions taxes, vehicle/
aircraft excise tax, and commercial vehicle excise tax, and will permit
expenditures associated with the outstanding fire loan.
   (C)   Excess funds. In the event that the Town Council determines that the
balance of the Fund is no longer needed for the purpose set forth in division
(A) of this section, any excess money in the Fund shall be transferred to the
General Fund and the Fund shall be closed.
   (D)   Effectiveness. This section shall be in full force and effect from and
after its adoption by the Town Council and upon compliance with the procedures
required by law.
(Ord. 2015-20, passed 11-2-2015)
§ 34.41 CASH CHANGE FUND.
   (A)   Fund established.
      (1)   A Cash Change Fund is hereby established for any town officer or
employee having a duty to collect cash revenues. Such a fund must be
established by a warrant drawn on the appropriate fund in an amount determined
by the Town Council.
      (2)   The officer or employee who is charged with the duty of collecting
the cash revenues for the amount deemed necessary shall file an accounts
payable voucher for approval by the Town Council. Upon approval of the accounts
payable voucher, the Director of Finance and Records shall draw a warrant on
the town general fund without appropriation, if for civil use, or the operating
fund of the proper utility, if for utility purposes. The warrant is to be
converted to cash and used to make change when collecting cash revenues, and
retained by the officer or employee in whose favor the warrant is drawn, who
shall be held individually responsible for the custody and safekeeping of such
cash.
      (3)   The entire Cash Change Fund is to be returned to the fund from
which it was advanced when the fund is no longer needed or must be returned at
the same conclusion of each term served by the officer or employee drawing the
same.
   (B)   Cash Change Fund amounts.
 
Name of account          Amount Fund type   Custodian                Usage
Department of Finance                       Deputy Director,
and Records              $100   Cash change Department of Finance    Year round
                                            and Record
Wastewater billing       $100   Cash change Deputy Director          Year round
                                            Wastewater Billing
Zionsville golf course   $100   Cash change Shift closer             Year round
Zionsville nature center $100   Cash change Naturalist/Nature Center Year round
                                            Manager
Zionsville Police        $0     Cash change Administrative assistant Year round
Department
Zionsville town court    $100   Cash change Deputy Director town     Year round
                                            court
 
(Ord. 2016-06, passed 5-2-2016; Ord. 2017-12, passed 10-23-2017)
§ 34.42 LOIT SPECIAL DISTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   Fund 257. The following Fund 257 is now established to receive the
LOIT special distribution.
   (B)   Allocation of LOIT special distribution. The entire LOIT special
distribution shall be initially receipted into the town’s Rainy Day Fund. Upon
the creation and approval of the Fund 257, the Director of the Department of
Finance and Records shall transfer 100% of the LOIT Special Distribution Fund
257. Following the transfer of 100% of the LOIT special distribution to Fund
257, the Director of the Department of Finance and Records shall transfer 25%
of the balance in Fund 257 to the town’s general fund.
(Ord. 2016-13, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 34.43 TOWN HALL PROJECT FUND.
   (A)   Fund established. A Town Hall Project Fund (“Fund”) is hereby
established. The town shall deposit in the Fund any revenue from other town
sources.
   (B)   The town shall use such revenues collected in the Fund (if available)
to pay expenses related to the Town Hall Project loan.
(Ord. 2016-14, passed 7-25-2016)
§ 34.44 LOCAL ROAD AND BRIDGE MATCHING GRANT FUND.
   Creation of the Community Crossings Matching Grant Fund. A new non-reverting
fund to be known as the Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund (“Fund”), and
which is to be given number 258, is now established. The Fund shall receive
monies from the Local Road and Bridge Matching Grant Fund through INDOT as well
as local match funds transferred from the State of Indiana’s LOIT Special
Distribution Fund earmarked for local road improvements.
(Ord. 2016-22, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 34.45 PUBLIC SAFETY LOCAL INCOME TAX FUND.
   Fund established.
   (A)   A Public Safety LIT Fund (“Fund”) is hereby established. The town
shall deposit in the fund revenue received from the public safety local income
tax.
   (B)   The town shall use such revenues collected in the fund (if available)
to pay expenses related public safety purposes.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 4-10-2017)
FOOD AND BEVERAGE EXCISE TAX
§ 34.50 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby enacts and adopts the food and beverage tax
established by I.C. 6-9-35 of 1% on all food or beverage transactions within
the corporate limits of the town (except as provided in § 34.51 of this
chapter) in which food or beverage is furnished, prepared or served:
      (1)   For consumption at a location, or on equipment, provided by a
retail merchant;
      (2)   Within the corporate limits of the town; and
      (3)   By a retail merchant for consideration (“tax”).
   (B)   Transactions described in this section shall include transactions in
which food or beverage is:
      (1)   Served by a retail merchant off the merchant’s premises;
      (2)   Sold in a heated state or heated by a retail merchant;
      (3)   Mixed or combined as two or more food ingredients by a retail
merchant for sale as a single item (other than food that is only cut,
repackaged or pasteurized by the seller, and eggs, fish, meat, poultry and
foods containing these raw animal foods and requiring cooking by the consumer
as recommended by the Federal Food and Drug Administration in Ch. 3, subpart 3-
401.11, of its Food Code so as to prevent food borne illnesses); or
      (4)   Food sold with eating utensils provided by a retail merchant,
including plates, knives, forks, spoons, glasses, cups, napkins or straws. For
purposes of this division (B)(4), a plate does not include a container or
packaging used to transport the food.
(1996 Code, Art. VIII, § 1) (Ord. 2005-14, passed - -; Ord. 2005-19, passed -
-; Ord. 2007-11, passed - -)
§ 34.51 EXEMPT TRANSACTIONS.
   The tax imposed by this subchapter does not apply to the furnishing,
preparing or serving of any food or beverage in a transaction that is exempt,
or to the extent such transaction is exempt, from the state gross retail tax
set forth in I.C. 6-2-2.5, as amended.
(1996 Code, Art. VIII, § 2) (Ord. 2005-14, passed - -; Ord. 2005-19, passed -
-; Ord. 2007-11, passed - -)
§ 34.52 FOOD AND BEVERAGE TAX FUND.
   The Director of the Department of Finance and Records shall establish and
maintain a Food and Beverage Tax Fund where the Director of the Department of
Finance and Records shall deposit all amounts received by the town from the
Food and Beverage Tax established by this subchapter, including, without
limitation, any money earned from the investment of tax revenue in the Fund.
(Ord. 2023-26, passed 11-20-2023)
§ 34.53 USE OF TAX REVENUE.
   (A)   As authorized by I.C. 6-9-35-14, money in the Food and Beverage Tax
Fund shall be used by the town:
      (1)   To reduce the town's property tax levy for a particular year at the
discretion of the Town Council which shall not reduce the maximum permissible
levy under I.C. 6-1.1-18.5 for the town; or
      (2)   For any legal or corporate purpose of the town, including the
pledge of money to bond, leases, or other obligations under I.C. 5-1-14-4.
   (B)   Revenue derived from the imposition of the Food and Beverage Tax may
be treated by the town as additional revenue for the purpose of fixing its
budget for the budget year during which the revenues are to be distributed to
the town.
(Ord. 2023-26, passed 11-20-2023)
§ 34.54 DURATION AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall become and remain in full force and
effect until repeal by ordinance or as set forth under state law, and the tax
herein shall become effective on 11-1-2005.
(1996 Code, Art. VIII, § 8) (Ord. 2005-14, passed - -; Ord. 2005-19, passed -
-; Ord. 2007-11, passed - -)
INVESTMENT AND DEPOSIT POLICY
§ 34.65 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish an investment and deposit
policy ("policy") for the town. The policy is to provide investment objectives
and guidelines for the management of public funds, to safeguard public funds on
behalf of the town, to assure the availability of funds when needed, to
encourage investments that earn a competitive rate of return, and at all times,
invest according to and consistent with state law, I.C. 5-13-9 et seq. as
amended and I.C. 5-13-6-1 et seq. as amended.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.66 INVESTING OFFICER.
   The Director of the Department of Finance and Records is hereby designated
as the town's Investing Officer ("Investing Officer") and is hereby authorized
to invest town funds in authorized funds or any fund that state statutes, as
amended, may deem or consider an authorized fund prior to the expiration of
this policy.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.67 PRUDENCE.
   The standard of prudence to be used by the Investing Officer shall be the
"prudent person" standard and shall be applied in the context of managing all
funds of the town. The "prudent person" standard states that, "Investments
shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances then prevailing,
which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in the
management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for investment,
considering the probable safety of their capital as well as the probable income
to be derived."
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.68 AUTHORIZED DEPOSITORIES.
   The Investing Officer is hereby authorized to deposit public funds into any
and all financial institutions which are reflected on the list of approved
depositories maintained by the State Board of Finance, and all such
depositories shall be considered selected depositories for purposes of I.C. 5-
13-6-1(d).
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.69 MINIMUM RATING.
   (A)   Authorized funds in which the Investing Officer invests town funds
shall have attained as least the minimum rating required by state statutes, as
amended.
   (B)   In addition, the town will only use broker/dealers that meet the
following requirements:
      (1)   Primary dealers or regional dealers that qualify under Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 15C3-1 (uniform net capital rule);
      (2)   Capital of no less than $10,000,000;
      (3)   Registered as a dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
      (4)   A member of the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASO);
      (5)   Proof of state registration.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.70 STATE STATUTES.
   All investments made by the Investing Officer shall be made in accordance
with I.C. 5-13 et seq.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.71 SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   Consistent with I.C. 5-13-9, the following investments will be permitted by
this policy:
   (A)   Securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United States
Treasury or fully guaranteed by the United States and issued by any of the
following:
      (1)   The United States Treasury.
      (2)   A federal agency.
      (3)   A federal instrumentality.
      (4)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
   (B)   Securities fully guaranteed and issued by any of the following:
      (1)   A federal agency.
      (2)   A federal instrumentality.
      (3)   A federal government sponsored enterprise.
   (C)   Municipal securities issued by an Indiana local governmental entity, a
quasi-governmental entity related to the state, or a unit of government,
municipal corporation, or special taxing district in Indiana, if the issuer has
not defaulted on any of the issuer's obligations within the 20 years preceding
the date of the purchase in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-2.
   (D)   Money market mutual funds rated AAAm, or its equivalent, by Standard
and Poor's Corporation or Aaa, or its equivalent, by Moody's Investors Service,
Inc., or its successor, in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-2.5.
   (E)   Repurchase agreements in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-3.
   (F)   Transaction accounts, certificates of deposit and deposit accounts
issued or offered by a designated depository of the town's. The Investing
Officer making a deposit in a certificate of deposit shall obtain quotes from
each designated depository in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-4.
   (G)   Certificates of deposit authorized by ordinance of the town in
accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-5 and I.C. 5-13-9-5.3.
   (H)   Local government investment pools in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-11.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.72 INTERLOCAL COOPERATION.
   Consistent with I.C. 36-1-7, the town may pass a resolution to enter into
interlocal cooperation agreements for the joint exercise of powers, including
the investment of public funds.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.73 MAXIMUM MATURITIES.
   (A)   The town's investments must have a slated final maturity of not more
than two years pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.6. Because of inherent difficulties in
accurately forecasting cash flow requirements, a portion of the portfolio
should be continuously invested in readily available funds such as local
government investment pools, money market funds, or overnight repurchase
agreements to ensure that appropriate liquidity is maintained to meet ongoing
obligations.
   (B)   The town, pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5.7, authorizes its Investing
Officer to make investments having a stated final maturity that is more than
two years but not more than five years after the date of purchase. The total
investments of the town with maturities of two to five years outstanding at the
time of purchase may not exceed 25% of the total portfolio of public funds
invested, including balances in transaction accounts.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.74 COMPETITIVE QUOTES.
   The Investing Officer or its designee shall obtain competitive quotes for
investment with financial institutions in accordance with I.C. 5-13-9-4. The
Investing Officer or its designee shall obtain quotes from at least two brokers
or financial institutions on all purchases of investment instruments on the
secondary market. Overnight sweep investment instruments shall not be subject
to this section.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.75 APPROVAL OF INVESTING OFFICER.
   The Investing Officer must approve all investments made pursuant to this
policy. The Investing Officer may invest in certificates of deposits as
follows:
   (A)   The funds are initially invested through a depository that is selected
by the Investing Officer.
   (B)   The selected depository arranges for the deposit of the funds in
interest bearing deposit accounts in one or more federally insured banks or
savings and loan associations, wherever located for the account of the town.
   (C)   The full amount of the principal and any accrued interest of each
certificate of deposit are covered by insurance of any federal deposit
insurance agency.
   (D)   The selected depository acts as a custodian for the town with respect
to the certificates of deposit issued for its account.
   (E)   On the same date that the town's funds are deposited and the
certificates of deposit are issued, the selected depository receives an amount
of deposits covered by insurance of any federal deposit insurance agency from
customers of other institutions, wherever located, at least equal to the amount
of the funds invested by the town through the selected depository.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.76 INTERNAL CONTROL/EXTERNAL REVIEW.
   (A)   The Investing Officer is responsible for establishing and maintaining
policies and procedures to ensure that town assets are protected from loss,
theft, or misuse. Such policies and procedures shall be discussed with the
Mayor. The Investing Officer shall review all proposed investments authorized
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Every four years, the Investing Officer shall conduct an independent
review by an external auditor to ensure compliance with policies and
procedures.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.77 INVESTMENT ADVISOR.
   The Investing Officer is hereby authorized to contract with a federally
regulated investment advisor or other institutional money manager to make
investments under this policy.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.78 DIVERSIFICATION OF INVESTMENTS.
   The town's investment portfolio shall be diversified by institution,
investment instruments and maturity schedule to the extent practical and
prudent. Maturities shall be time diversified over a schedule determined by
known liability to achieve target duration or weighted average maturity for the
portfolio based on the judgment of the Investing Officer.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.79 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   The Investing Officer and employees involved in the investment process shall
refrain from personal business activity that could conflict with the proper
execution and management of the investment program, or which could impair their
ability to make impartial decisions. The Investing Officer and employees
involved in the investment process shall complete a conflict of interest form
provided by the Town Attorney affirming that the Investing Officer or employee
does not have a pecuniary interest in the town's investments.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.80 REPORTING.
   (A)   The Investing Officer shall maintain an inventory of all obligations
and securities and shall provide quarterly investment reports to the Mayor
detailing the following types of information: types of investments, depository
institutions, principal balances, maturity dates, rates of return, purchases
and sales.
   (B)   The Investing Officer shall make an annual written report to the Town
Council summarizing the town's investments during the previous calendar year.
The report must contain the name of each financial institution, government
agency or instrumentality, or other person with whom the town invested money
during the previous calendar year. The Town Council shall review the report and
review the town's overall investment policy.
   (C)   The Investing Officer shall review this policy at least annually and
propose such changes to safeguard funds on behalf of the town, to assure the
availability of funds when needed, and to provide a competitive investment
return.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
§ 34.81 EFFECTIVE DATE AND DURATION OF POLICY.
   This subchapter shall be in effect upon adoption and publication as required
by I.C. 5-13-9-5.7. The policy established under this subchapter shall be in
effect for one year after the date this subchapter is adopted and shall expire
one year after the adoption date (“expiration date”). This subchapter shall be
reviewed and re-adopted annually, pursuant to I.C. 5-13-9-5. Investments made
in accordance with this policy that are outstanding on or after the expiration
date remain valid investments and nothing herein shall be construed to render
such investments improper or unlawful.
(Ord. 2023-49, passed 12-18-2023; Ord. 2024-13, passed 5-20-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   STORMWATER
      
51.   FIRE PROTECTION
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
54.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: STORMWATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Authority and title
   
50.002   Applicability and exemptions
   
50.003   Background
   
50.004   Findings
   
50.005   Purpose
   
50.006   Abbreviations and definitions
   
50.007   Responsibility for administration
   
50.008   Conflicting ordinances
   
50.009   Interpretation
   
50.010   Disclaimer of liability
Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
50.020   Applicability and exemptions
   
50.021   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
50.022   Exempted discharges and connections
   
50.023   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
50.024   Private property maintenance duties
   
50.025   Spill reporting
   
50.026   Inspections and monitoring
Stormwater Quantity Management
   
50.040   Applicability and exemptions
   
50.041   Policy on stormwater quantity management
   
50.042   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
50.043   Drainage easement requirements
   
50.044   Placement of utilities
   
50.045   Structures near county regulated drains
   
50.046   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping and reporting
Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites
   
50.060   Applicability and exemptions
   
50.061   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
50.062   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
50.063   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping and reporting
Stormwater Quality Management for Post-Construction
   
50.075   Applicability and exemptions
   
50.076   Policy on stormwater quality management
   
50.077   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
50.078   Easement requirements
   
50.079   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping and reporting
Development in Wetlands
   
50.090   Applicability and exemptions
   
50.091   Policy on wetland disturbance prevention
   
50.092   Wetlands identification
Permit Requirements and Procedures
   
50.110   Conceptual drainage plan review
   
50.111   Permit procedures
   
50.112   SWPPP review time limits
   
50.113   Information requirements
   
50.114   Review of individual lots
   
50.115   Changes to plan
   
50.116   Fee structure
   
50.117   Required assurances
   
50.118   Terms and conditions of permits
   
50.119   Project close-out
   
50.120   Permit approval process flow chart
Enforcement
   
50.130   Compliance with chapter
   
50.131   Enforcement of chapter
   
50.132   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
50.133   Appeals
 
   
50.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Sewers, see
Ch. 52
   Solid Waste, see
Ch. 54
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 53
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is required by Phase II of the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System program (64 FR 68722) authorized by the 1972
amendments to the Clean Water Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management's (IDEM) municipal separate storm sewer
system (MS4) general permit (MS4 GP) and construction stormwater general permit
(CSGP). Based on this authority and these requirements, this chapter regulates:
      (1)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the storm drain
system;
      (2)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development of lands
located within the corporate boundaries of the Town of Zionsville (town);
      (3)   Drainage control systems installed during new construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land;
      (4)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during new
construction and grading of lots and other parcels of land;
      (5)   The design, construction and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems; and
      (6)   The design, construction and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Town of
Zionsville Stormwater Management Ordinance." Once adopted, this chapter will
supersede any conflicting ordinances previously adopted by the town.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.002 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall regulate all development and re-development
occurring within the town. No building permit shall be issued and no land
disturbance started for any construction in a development, as defined in §
50.006 of this chapter, until the plans required by this chapter for such
construction have been accepted in writing by the town.
      (1)   With the exception of the requirements of §§
50.020 through
50.026 (prohibited discharges and connections) and §
50.114 (individual lot permits) of this chapter, single-family dwelling houses
and duplexes in accepted subdivisions, and land-disturbing activities affecting
less than 10,000 square feet of area shall be exempt from the requirements of
this chapter.
      (2)   Also exempt from this chapter shall be agricultural land-disturbing
activities associated with normal farming operations.
      (3)   The town may, on a case-by-case basis, consider additional
exemptions when off-site impacts are not expected. Such an exemption shall be
in writing and list the reasons such an exemption was determined to be
appropriate for that particular site.
   (B)   In addition to the requirements of this chapter and its companion
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, compliance with all applicable
ordinances of town as well as with applicable federal, state and other local
statues and regulations shall also be required.
      (1)   Unless otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in
this chapter shall be the most recent edition available.
      (2)   Town projects shall be exempt from obtaining a permit, but are
expected to meet all applicable technical requirements of this chapter and the
town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
      (3)   If the project site is located within a county-regulated drain
watershed, the applicant will need to check with the County Surveyor's office
to learn if additional surveyor's office requirements specific to that
regulated drain will apply to the site.
      (4)   In case there are conflicts between the requirements contained in
this chapter and applicable requirements contained in other regulatory
documents referenced above, the most restrictive shall prevail.
   (C)   Any construction project which has had its final drainage plan
accepted by the town within a two-year period prior to the effective date of
this chapter shall be exempt from all requirements of this chapter that are in
excess of the requirements of ordinances in effect at the time of acceptance.
Such an exemption is not applicable to the requirements detailed in §§
50.020 through
50.026 of this chapter.
   (D)   The town has the authority to modify, grant exemptions and/or waive
any and all the requirements of this chapter and its associated technical
standards document. A pre-submittal meeting with the town may be requested by
the applicant to discuss the applicability of various provisions of this
chapter and its associated technical standards document with regards to unique
or unusual circumstances relating to a project. However, any initial
determination of such applicability shall not be binding on future
determinations of the town that may be based on the review of more detailed
information and plans.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.003 BACKGROUND.
   (A)   The Town Council, on November 6, 2000, adopted Ord. 2000-21, which
established "The Town of Zionsville Subdivision Control Ordinance," commonly
known as the "Subdivision Control Ordinance," in order to control runoff of
stormwater and to protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of the
land in the town and its water resources. This code was primarily targeted at
the overall administration of policies regarding the development and re-
development of land within the town. On October 4, 2004, the Town Council
adopted amendments to the design and construction standards of the town to
govern specific technical issues in regard to new developments and re-
developments. The town relied upon the County Soil and Water Conservation
District, engineering review and developer submittals to determine compliance
with applicable laws of the state in regard to erosion control and pre- and
post-development drainage plans.
   (B)   On December 8, 1999, Phase II of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit program was published in the Federal
Register. The NPDES program, as authorized by the 1972 amendments to the Clean
Water Act, controls water pollution by regulating point sources that discharge
pollutants into waters of the United States. Phase II of NPDES requires permit
coverage for stormwater discharges from regulated small municipal separate
storm sewer systems (MS4s) and for small construction activity that results in
the disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre. This federal regulation
went into effect March 10, 2003. In response to Phase II of NPDES, the State
Department of Environmental Management enacted Rule 13 (327 I.A.C. 15-13) and
revised Rule 5 (327 I.A.C. 15-5).
   (C)   Under these new state and federal regulations, the town was required
to establish a regulatory mechanism for regulating stormwater quality
management. Therefore, this document was created to supplement the town's
subdivision control ordinance and the design and construction standards to
address stormwater quality and quantity. The 2013 version of the stormwater
ordinance reflected those changes.
   (D)   In December 2021, IDEM finalized two new permits, municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) general permit (MS4 GP) and construction stormwater
general permit (CSGP), which replaced the previous IDEM Rule 13 and Rule 5
permits. These new permits require the town to update its Stormwater Management
Ordinance to reflect the new requirements and standards of the 2021 permits.
The 2024 Town of Zionsville Stormwater Management Ordinance and its companion
document, the 2024 town’s Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, incorporate
the changes mandated by IDEM, along with other necessary updates.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.004 FINDINGS.
   The town hereby finds that:
   (A)   Waterbodies, roadways, structures and other property within, and
downstream of, the town are at times subjected to flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, increased flooding,
increased stream channel erosion and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
   (D)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes and reservoirs;
   (E)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development projects
within the town will, absent reasonable regulation and control, adversely
affect the town's waterbodies and water resources;
   (F)   Pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within the town will,
absent reasonable regulation, monitoring and enforcement, adversely affect the
town's waterbodies and water resources;
   (G)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by the regulation
of stormwater management;
   (H)   Adopting the standards, criteria and procedures contained and
referenced in this chapter and implementing the same will address many of the
deleterious effects of stormwater runoff and illicit discharges; and
   (I)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety and welfare, for the conservation of natural resources and for
compliance with state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.005 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety and
general welfare of the citizens of the town through the regulation of
stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system and to
protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources within the town. This chapter establishes methods for managing the
quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the storm drain system in
order to comply with state and federal requirements.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by
excessive stormwater runoff;
      (2)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain
system from construction site runoff;
      (3)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain
system from runoff from new development and re-development;
      (4)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the storm drain system; and
      (5)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
monitoring and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.006 ABBREVIATIONS AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Abbreviations. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
abbreviations shall apply.
      BMP. Best management practice.
      CSGP. Construction stormwater general permit.
      CWA. Clean Water Act.
      EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
      GIS. Geographical information system.
      IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
      MS4. Municipal separate storm sewer system.
      MS4 GP. Municipal separate storm sewer system general permit.
      NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
      NRCS. USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service.
      POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
      SWCD. Soil and Water Conservation District.
      SWPPP. Stormwater pollution prevention plan.
      USACE. United States Army Corps of Engineers.
      USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
      USFWS. United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage pipe. For purposes of this chapter, the
term does not include land-disturbing activities for the construction of
agricultural related facilities, such as barns, buildings to house livestock,
roads associated with infrastructure, agricultural waste lagoons and
facilities, lakes and ponds, wetlands and other infrastructure.
      BASE FLOW. Stream discharge derived from ground water sources as
differentiated from surface runoff. Sometimes considered to include flows from
regulated lakes or reservoirs.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Design, construction and maintenance
practices and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of
stormwater runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion and capture pollutants.
      BUFFER STRIP. An existing, variable width strip of vegetated land
intended to protect water quality and habitat.
      CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY). The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
      CATCH BASIN. A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the
admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base a
sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of overflow.
      CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which
periodically or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting
link between two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to
confine the water.
      COMPREHENSIVE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. A comprehensive stormwater program
for effective management of stormwater quantity and quality throughout the
community.
      CONSTRUCTED WETLAND. A human-made shallow pool that creates growing
conditions suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize
pollutant removal.
      CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land-disturbing activities and land-disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
      CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
      CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
      CONTOUR. An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting points
of the same elevation.
      CONTOUR LINE. Line on a map which represents a contour or points of equal
elevation.
      CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the
project site or individual lot owner, his, her or their agent or the individual
lot operator to perform services on the project site.
      CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains and roadways.
      CROSS-SECTION. A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream valley
or a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream or
direction of flow.
      CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage
water under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
      DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has either
sat idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than five-hundredths milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
      DESIGN STORM. A selected storm event, described in terms of the
probability of occurring once within a given number of years, for which
drainage or flood control improvements are designed and built.
      DETENTION. Managing stormwater runoff by temporary holding and controlled
release.
      DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow
of stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the
excess waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
      DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining of storage of stormwater in
storage facilities, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks,
open spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with
the rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices.
      DETENTION TIME. The theoretical time required to displace the contents of
a tank or unit at a given rate of discharge (volume divided by rate of
discharge).
      DETRITUS. Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed to
stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
      DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity,
or an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any
lots in a subdivision.
      DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
            1.   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
            2.   Construction of flood control structures such as levees,
dikes, dams or channel improvements;
            3.   Construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
            4.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more
than 180 days;
            5.   Installing utilities, erection of walls, construction of roads
or similar projects;
            6.   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
            7.   Storage of materials; or
            8.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
         (b)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance
of existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing, resurfacing
roads or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
buildings.
      DISCHARGE. In the context of water quantity provisions, usually the rate
of water flow, i.e., a volume of fluid passing a point per unit time commonly
expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters per second, gallons per minute
or millions of gallons per day. In the context of water quality provisions, the
discharge means any addition of liquids or solids to a water body or a flow
conveyance facility.
      DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking or placing
of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land or water so that the
solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may enter the
environment, be emitted into the air or be discharged into any waters,
including ground water.
      DITCH. A human-made, open watercourse in or into which excess surface
water or ground water drained from land, stormwater runoff or flood waters flow
either continuously or intermittently.
      DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus ground water or surface
water.
      DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or ground water from land
by means of ditches or subsurface drains. See also NATURAL DRAINAGE.
      DRAINAGE AREA. The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may
be of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface runoff area is considered as the DRAINAGE AREA.
      DRY WELL. A type of infiltration practice that allows stormwater runoff
to flow directly into the ground, via a bored or otherwise excavated opening in
the ground surface.
      DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
      ENVIRONMENT. The sum total of all the external conditions that may act
upon a living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
      ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI). Provides a numerical expression of the potential
for a soil to erode considering the physical and chemical properties of the
soil and the climatic conditions where it is located. The higher the index, the
greater the investment needed to maintain the sustainability of the soil
resource base if intensively cropped. It is defined to be the maximum of
(RxKxLS)/T (from the Universal Soil Loss Equation) and (CxI)/T (from the Wind
Erosion Equation), where R is a measure of rainfall and runoff, K is a factor
of the susceptibility of the soil to water erosion, LS is a measure of the
combined effects of slope length and steepness, C is a climatic
characterization of windspeed and surface soil moisture and I is a measure of
the susceptibility of the soil to wind erosion. ERODIBILITY INDEX scores equal
to or greater than eight are considered highly erodible land.
      EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice,
gravity or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe
different types of WATER EROSION.
         (a)   ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal or
geologic erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of humans.
         (b)   CHANNEL EROSION. An erosion process whereby the volume and
velocity of flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
         (c)   GULLY EROSION. An erosion process whereby runoff water
accumulates in narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the
soil to considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 to
100 feet.
         (d)   RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small
channels only several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently
disturbed and exposed soils. See RILL.
         (e)   SHEET EROSION. The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of
soil from the land surface by runoff water.
         (f)   SPLASH EROSION. The spattering of small soil particles caused by
the impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may
or may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
      EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A practice, or a combination of practices,
to minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion at the
source and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being
discharged from or within a project site.
      FILTER STRIP. Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually 20 to 75
feet wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or
impervious surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants for the protection of
watercourses, reservoirs or adjacent properties.
      FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
      FLOOD OR FLOOD WATERS. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
      FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel which
have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year flood. Any
normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by water from any
natural source. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain lying outside the
floodway, which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
      FOOTING DRAIN. A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement
wall foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high ground water
elevation.
      GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid and semisolid
wastes resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving
or consumption of food or food materials.
      GASOLINE OUTLET. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
primary function is the resale of fuels. The term applies to facilities that
create 5,000 or more square feet of impervious surfaces, or generate an average
daily traffic count of 100 vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
      GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM. A computer system capable of assembling,
storing, manipulation and displaying geographically referenced information.
This technology can be used for resource management and development planning.
      GRADE.
         (a)   The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit and the
like, or natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage
the vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance;
         (b)   The finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment
or bottom of excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the
support of construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit; and
         (c)   To finish the surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment
or bottom of excavation or other land area to a smooth, even condition.
      GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope
or elevation.
      GRASS. A member of the botanical family Graminae, characterized by blade-
like leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
      GROUND WATER. Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial.
The term does not include human-made underground storage or conveyance
structures.
      HABITAT. The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal are
supplied.
      HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND (HEL). Land that has an erodibility index of eight
or more.
      HOT SPOT DEVELOPMENT. Projects involving land uses considered to be high
pollutant producers such as vehicle service and maintenance facilities, vehicle
salvage yards and recycling facilities, vehicle and equipment cleaning
facilities, fleet storage areas for buses, trucks and the like, industrial/
commercial or any hazardous waste storage areas or areas that generate such
wastes, industrial sites, restaurants and convenience stores, any activity
involving chemical mixing or loading/unloading, outdoor liquid container
storage, public works storage areas, commercial container nurseries and some
high traffic retail uses characterized by frequent vehicle turnover.
      HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE. A numeric United States Geologic Survey code that
corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric code.
      HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
surface of the earth and underground. A typical hydrologic study is undertaken
to compute flow rates associated with specified flood events.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater, except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves
or tree limbs. Illicit discharges include polluted flows from direct and
indirect connections to the MS4 conveyance, illegal dumping, and contaminated
runoff.
      IMPAIRED WATERS. Waters that do not or are not expected to meet
applicable water quality standards, as included on IDEM's CWA § 303(d), List of
Impaired Waters.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which
prevent the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
      INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual lot.
      INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial control of construction
activities for an individual lot.
      INFILTRATION. Passage or movement of water into the soil. INFILTRATION
practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
runoff through the soil to ground water. Examples include INFILTRATION basins
or trenches, dry wells and porous pavement.
      INLET. An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of surface
stormwater runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
      LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any human-made change of the land surface,
including removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil,
excavating, filling, transporting and grading.
      LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed under the laws of the state to practice
land surveying.
      LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
      LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a
structure, where the soil meets the foundation around the outside of the
structure (including structural members, such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well).
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
         (a)   The top of the basement floor;
         (b)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level
of the building;
         (c)   The top of the first floor of buildings constructed on a slab or
of buildings elevated on pilings or constructed on a crawl space with permanent
openings; or
         (d)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
            1.   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
flood waters, by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways
and windows) having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet
of enclosed area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be
no higher than one foot above grade; or
            2.   Such enclosed space shall be usable only for the parking of
vehicles or building access.
      MANHOLE. Storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
      MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, one-half inch of
rainfall.
      MULCH. A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
      MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). Meets all the following
criteria:
         (a)   Is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the state,
county, city, town or other public entity;
         (b)   Discharges to waters of the United States;
         (c)   Is designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
         (d)   Is not a combined sewer; and
         (e)   Is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW).
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A permit developed by
the United States EPA through the Clean Water Act. In the state, the permitting
process has been delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal
stormwater quality.
      NATURAL DRAINAGE. The flow patterns of stormwater runoff over the land in
its pre-development state.
      NUTRIENT(S).
         (a)   A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction of
organisms; and
         (b)   In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates)
that promote growth of algae and bacteria.
      OPEN DRAIN. A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that
conveys drainage water.
      OPEN SPACE. Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious surfaces
created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural or other human-
made activities.
      OUTFALL. The point, location or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
      OUTLET. The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake, tidewater
or artificial drain.
      PEAK DISCHARGE OR PEAK FLOW. The maximum instantaneous flow from a given
storm condition at a specific location.
      PERCOLATION. The movement of water through soil.
      PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform density of 70%
across the disturbed area, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding or
other movement.
      PERVIOUS. Allowing movement of water.
      POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance including
but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure or container from which pollutants are or may be discharged (Pub. Law
No. 92-500, § 502(14)).
      POROUS PAVEMENT. A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality
and reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff via the use of human-made,
pervious pavement which allows runoff to percolate through the pavement and
into underlying soils.
      PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the state to
practice professional engineering.
      PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
      PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit a stormwater permit
application, and required to comply with the terms of this chapter, including a
developer or a person who has financial and operational control of construction
activities, and project plans and specifications, including the ability to make
modifications to those plans and specifications.
      RAIN GARDEN. A vegetative practice used to alter impervious surfaces,
such as roofs, into pervious surfaces for absorption and treatment of rainfall.
      RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL OR RECEIVING WATER. The body of water
into which runoff or effluent is discharged. The term does not include private
drains, unnamed conveyances, retention and detention basins or constructed
wetlands used as treatment.
      RECHARGE. Replenishment of ground water reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
      RE-DEVELOPMENT. Development occurring on a previously developed site.
      REFUELING AREA. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose
primary function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
      REGIONAL POND. A detention/retention basin sized to detain/retain the
runoff from the entire watershed, on-site and off-site, tributary to the pond's
outlet.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-year
flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
approved by the State Department of Natural Resources and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known as the BASE FLOOD.
      REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
      RELEASE RATE. The amount of stormwater release from a stormwater control
facility per unit of time.
      RESERVOIR. A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space
used for storage, regulation or control of water. May be either permanent or
temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
      RETENTION. The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
      RETENTION BASIN. A type of storage practice, that has no positive outlet,
used to retain stormwater runoff for an indefinite amount of time. Runoff from
this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous bottom or
by evaporation.
      RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a RETURN PERIOD of 100
years has a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one year.
      RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a waterbody that supports
animal and plant life associated with that waterbody.
      RIPARIAN ZONE. Of, on or pertaining to the banks of a stream, river or
pond.
      RUNOFF. The portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on
the land surface, in open channels or in stormwater conveyance systems.
      RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm drain system to the total amount of
rain falling. A coefficient of 0.5 implies that 50% of the rain falling on a
given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
      SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and organic) that is in
suspension, is being transported or has been moved from its site of origin by
air, water, gravity or ice and has come to rest on the earth's surface.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
      SENSITIVE WATER. A waterbody in need of priority protection or
remediation base on its:
         (a)   Providing habitat for threatened or endangered species;
         (b)   Usage as a public water supply intake;
         (c)   Relevant community value;
         (d)   Usage for full body contact recreation;
         (e)   Exceptional use classification as found in 327 I.A.C. 2-1-ll(b);
and
         (f)   Outstanding state resource water classification as found in 327
I.A.C. 2-1.5- 19(b).
      SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on
which land-disturbing activity is to be performed.
      SLOPE. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as
a numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is
commonly the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance
(rise) (e.g., 2:1). However, the preferred method for designation of SLOPES is
to clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length (L)
and width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also, note that according to
international standards (metric), the SLOPES are presented as the vertical or
width component shown on the numerator (e.g., 1V:2H). SLOPE expressions in this
chapter follow the common presentation of SLOPES (e.g., 2:1) with the metric
presentation shown in parentheses (e.g., (1V:2H)). SLOPES can also be expressed
in percents. SLOPES given in percents are always expressed as (100*V/H) (e.g.,
a 2:1 (1V:2H) slope is a 50% slope).
      SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
      SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A public organization created under
state law as a special-purpose district to develop and carry out a program of
soil, water and related resource conservation, use and development within its
boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a local governing body,
established under I.C. 14-32.
      SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, debris or other discarded material.
      SPILL. The unexpected, unintended, abnormal or unapproved dumping,
leakage, drainage, seepage, discharge or other loss of petroleum, hazardous
substances, extremely hazardous substances or objectionable substances. The
term does not include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does
not migrate off the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
      STORM DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any
stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to be
stored.
      STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration STORM
EVENT is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
      STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a STORM DRAIN.
      STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail or
sleet.
      STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or human-made, used for
conducting stormwater to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
      STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. A collection of structural and non-
structural practices and infrastructure designed to manage stormwater on a
site. This system may include, but is not limited to, erosion control measures,
storm drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities and stormwater
quality BMPs.
      STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan developed to minimize the
impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction activities.
      STORMWATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a
tributary basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in
channels or conduits.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality.
      STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
      STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided
into four or more lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements,
for the purpose of sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development
or sale.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided
into less than four lots, whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements,
for the purpose of sale or lease as part of a larger common plan of development
or sale.
      SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A pervious backfield trench, usually containing stone
and perforated pipe, for intercepting ground water or seepage.
      SURFACE RUNOFF. Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground and the like and is not absorbed or retained by that
surface, but collects and runs off.
      SWALE. An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least
seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated and is normally without flowing
water. Swales conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide
some ground water recharge.
      TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch or other non-erosive material applied at a uniform density of
70% across the disturbed area.
      TILE DRAIN. Pipe made of perforated plastic, burned clay, concrete or
similar material, laid to a designed grade and depth, to collect and carry
excess water from the soil.
      TOPOGRAPHIC MAP. Graphical portrayal of the topographic features of a
land area, showing both the horizontal distances between the features and their
elevations above a given datum.
      TOPOGRAPHY. The representation of a portion of the earth's surface
showing natural and human-made features of a given locality such as rivers,
streams, ditches, lakes, roads, buildings and most importantly, variations in
ground elevations for the terrain of the area.
      TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of stormwater quality, including erosion and sediment control as may
be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification (such as
CESSWI and/or CPESC certification), or other documented and applicable
experience or coursework as deemed sufficient by the town that enable the
individual to make judgments regarding stormwater control or treatment and
monitoring.
      URBAN DRAIN. A drain defined as "urban drain" in the State Drainage Code.
      URBANIZATION. The development, change or improvement of any parcel of
land consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational or public utility purposes.
      VEGETATED SWALE. A type of vegetative practice used to filter stormwater
runoff via a vegetated, shallow-channel conveyance.
      WATERBODY. Any accumulation of water, surface or underground, natural or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
       WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or human-
made drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
      WATER RESOURCES. The supply of ground water and surface water in a given
area.
      WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a specific
point that could be along a stream, lake or other stormwater facilities.
WATERSHEDS are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic
modeling.
      WATERSHED AREA. All land and water within the confines of a drainage
divide. See also WATERSHED.
      WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.007 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The town's Department of Public Works (DPW) shall administer, implement and
enforce the provisions of this chapter. The DPW is authorized to adopt and
update the Stormwater Technical Standards and other technical specifications
related to stormwater management, a copy of which shall be kept on file in town
offices for public inspection. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
DPW may be delegated in writing by the town to qualified persons or entities
acting in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the town.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.008 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional requirements to
minimum standards required by other town ordinances, and as supplemental
requirements to Indiana's municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) general
permit (MS4 GP) and Indiana's construction stormwater general permit (CSGP). In
case of conflicting requirements, the most restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.009 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in §
50.006 of this chapter shall be construed according to the respective
definitions given in that section. Technical words and technical phrases that
are not defined in this chapter, but which have acquired particular meanings in
law or in technical usage shall be construed according to such meanings.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.010 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records, engineering and
scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or stormwater runoff
amounts may be increased by human-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater-related damage.
This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the town or any officer,
representative or employee thereof, for any damage that may result from
reliance on this chapter or on any administrative decision lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
§ 50.020 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all discharges, including illegal dumping,
entering the storm drain system under the control of the town, regardless of
whether the discharge originates from developed or undeveloped lands, and
regardless of whether the discharge is generated from an active construction
site or a stabilized site. These discharges include flows from direct
connections to the storm drain system, illegal dumping and contaminated runoff.
   (B)   (1)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting and
mining activities is exempted from the requirements of this section unless
determined to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in
excess of standard practices.
      (2)   Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver
(unless the waiver is solely based on point source considerations, still
allowing non-point source discharge of a pollutant), or waste discharge order
issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal
Environmental Protection Agency; provided that, the discharger is in full
compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver or order and other
applicable laws and regulations; and, provided that, written approval has been
granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain system, is also exempted
from this section.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.021 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to a MS4 conveyance, watercourse or
waterbody, directly or indirectly, any substance other than stormwater or an
exempted discharge. Any person discharging stormwater shall effectively
minimize pollutants from also being discharged with the stormwater, through the
use of best management practices (BMPs).
   (B)   Concrete washout material must be properly contained within an
appropriate practice and any waste material properly disposed of.
   (C)   The town is authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution
prevention measures, utilizing BMPs necessary to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants into the town's stormwater drainage system.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.022 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements in this chapter, stormwater comingled
with other discharges either regulated by other NPDES permits or determined by
the town to not be a significant source of pollutants, including the following
categories of non-stormwater discharges or flows are exempted from the
requirements of this section:
   (A)   Water line and hydrant flushing for maintenance;
   (B)   Irrigation water;
   (C)   Footing, foundation, and crawl space drains (uncontaminated);
   (D)   Storm sewer cleaning water not collected by a vacuum truck
(uncontaminated);
   (E)   Fire suppression activities;
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;
   (G)   Springs;
   (H)   Residential car washing;
   (I)   Non-commercial car washing by community organizations;
   (J)   External building wash down, without detergents;
   (K)   Dechlorinated/debrominated residential swimming pool discharges;
   (L)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration (as defined at 40 CFR 35.2005
(20));
   (M)   Pavement wash waters provided spills or leaks of toxic or hazardous
materials have not occurred (unless all spill material has been removed) and
where detergents are not used; and
   (N)   Uncontaminated condensate from air conditioning units, coolers, and
other compressors, and from outside storage of refrigerated gases or liquids.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.023 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
watercourse, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly
prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic materials in any other
areas must include adequate protection and/or containment so as to prevent any
such materials from entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance
or watercourse.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.024 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   (A)   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or
such person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse
located within his or her property boundaries, free of trash, debris, excessive
vegetation and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate or significantly
retard the flow of water through the watercourse.
   (B)   In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain existing privately
owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so that such structures
will not become a hazard to the use, function or physical integrity of the
watercourse.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.025 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a waterbody any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the town concerning the discharge.
   (B)   A written report concerning the discharge shall be filed with the town
and IDEM, by the dischargers, within five days. The written report shall
specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The date, time and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence; and
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter.
   (C)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section. This requirement does not relieve discharger
from notifying other entities as required by state or federal regulations.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.026 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system. The town has the authority to periodically
inspect the portion of the storm drainage system under the town's control, in
an effort to detect and eliminate illicit connections and discharges into the
system. This inspection will include a screening of discharges from outfalls
connected to the system in order to determine if prohibited flows are being
conveyed into the storm drainage system. It could also include spot testing of
waters contained in the storm drainage system itself to detect the introduction
of pollutants into the system by means other than a defined outfall, such as
dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Potential polluters. If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the town may
inspect and/or obtain stormwater samples from stormwater runoff facilities of
the subject discharger, to determine compliance with the requirements of this
chapter. Upon request, the discharger shall allow the town's properly
identified representative to enter upon the premises of the discharger at all
hours necessary for the purposes of such inspection or sampling. The town or
its properly identified representative may place on the discharger's property
the equipment or devices used for such sampling or inspection. Identified
illicit connections or discharges shall be subject to enforcement action as
described in §§
50.130 through
50.133 of this chapter.
   (C)   New development and re-development. The town has the authority to
inspect new development and re-development sites both during and after
construction to verify that all on-site stormwater conveyances and connections
to the storm drainage system are in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT
§ 50.040 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   Unless exempted from stormwater permitting by §
50.002, the storage and controlled release rate of stormwater runoff shall be
required for all new businesses, institutional developments, commercial and
industrial developments, residential subdivisions, planned development, rural
estate subdivisions and any re-development or other new construction located
within the town. The town, after thorough investigation and evaluation, may
waive the requirement of controlled runoff for minor subdivisions and
parcelization.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.041 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT.
   It is recognized that most streams and drainage channels serving the town do
not have sufficient capacity to receive and convey stormwater runoff resulting
from continued urbanization. Accordingly, the storage and controlled release of
stormwater runoff as well as compensation for loss of floodplain storage shall
be required for all developments and re-developments (as defined in§ 50.006 of
this chapter) located within the town. Release rate requirements, downstream
restriction considerations, acceptable outlet, adjoining property impact
considerations and compensatory floodplain storage rates are detailed in the
town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.042 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing and placement of all
stormwater facilities shall meet the design criteria, standards and
specifications outlined in the town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
The methods and procedures in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual are
consistent with the policy stated above.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.043 DRAINAGE EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be no trees or shrubs planted, regrading or mounding, nor
any structures, fences, or other obstructions erected in any drainage easement.
   (B)   The following are specific areas where drainage easements shall be
required for new developments:
      (1)   New drain infrastructure, pipes 12-inches or greater in diameter
and or minor conveyance swales, which convey flow from an upstream property or
right-of-way, common rear yard swales, and sump pump collection drains shall be
placed in dedicated right-of-way or a drainage easement (DE).
         (a)   The default drainage easement width is 30 feet, centered on the
pipe or swale. Reduced widths will be considered by the town on a case-by-case
basis.
         (b)   If storm pipes are to be located outside of the right-of-way in
an easement that also serves as a utility easement, a ten feet exclusive
drainage easement shall be provided centered on the storm pipe to prevent other
utilities from being installed on top of the storm pipe.
      (2)   A minimum of 25 feet from top of the bank on each side of a new or
existing primary drainage channel, creek, stream or other watercourse, which
conveys flow from an upstream property or right-of-way shall be designated as a
drainage easement.
      (3)   Hundred-year and emergency overflow paths from upstream adjacent
properties and emergency overflow routes associated with detention ponds shall
be placed in a minimum 30-foot (15 feet from centerline on each side) drainage
easement (DE).
      (4)   A minimum of 15 feet beyond the actual footprint of best management
practices (BMPs) (top of the bank for detention facilities) shall be designated
as drainage easement.
      (5)   A minimum 25-foot width easement shall also be required as access
easement, unless the facility is immediately next to a public right-of-way.
Adequate access to pond safety ramps shall be provided by locating it adjacent
to public right-of-way or by providing a clear route recorded within an access
easement.
      (6)   The statutory 75-foot (each side) drainage easement for regulated
drains already within the county's system may be reduced within the town if the
drain is re-classified by the Boone County Surveyor as an urban drain.
      (7)   The following statement shall become part of the restrictive
covenants of every platted subdivision and shown on recorded plat: “Channels,
stormwater infrastructure 12 inches or larger, six inch or larger subsurface
drains in rear yard swales, inlets and outlets of detention and retention
ponds, and appurtenances thereto within designated drain easements are
extensions of the town's stormwater drainage system and are the responsibility
of the town. Side yard and back yard drainage swales that are not part of an
emergency overflow route shall be the responsibility of owner or homeowner
association.”
      (8)   No driveways shall be allowed in drainage easements except for the
purpose of crossing a front yard drainage easement to provide access to the
property.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.044 PLACEMENT OF UTILITIES.
   No utility company may disturb existing storm drainage facilities without
the consent of the town. All existing drainage facilities shall have senior
rights and damage to said facilities shall result in penalties as prescribed in
§§
50.130 through
50.133 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.045 STRUCTURES NEAR COUNTY REGULATED DRAINS.
   (A)   For regulated drains not located in platted subdivisions, unless
otherwise accepted by the County Drainage Board, no permanent structure
(including fences) shall be erected within 75 feet measured at right angles
from:
      (1)   The existing top edge of each bank of a regulated open drain, as
determined by the County Drainage Board; or
      (2)   The centerline of a piped regulated drain.
   (B)   The State Drainage Code may be consulted for further details.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.046 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the town and
the commencement of construction activities, the town has the authority to
conduct inspections of the work being done to ensure full compliance with the
provisions of this section, the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, Design
and Construction Standards and the terms and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   The town also has the authority to perform long-term, post-
construction inspection of all public or privately owned stormwater quantity
facilities.
      (1)   The inspection will cover physical conditions, available storage
capacity and the operational condition of key facility elements.
      (2)   Stormwater quantity facilities shall be maintained in good
condition, in accordance with the designed and approved performance
specifications for the facilities, in addition to any prescribed operation and
maintenance procedures, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised or
replaced except as approved by the town.
      (3)   If deficiencies are found during the inspection, the owner of the
facility will be notified by the town and will be required to take all
necessary measures to correct such deficiencies.
      (4)   If the owner fails to correct the deficiencies within the allowed
time period, as specified in the notification letter, the town may undertake
the work and collect from the owner using lien rights, if necessary.
   (C)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds, unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body,
and determined before the final stormwater permit is approved. Stormwater
detention/retention basins may be donated to the town or other unit of
government designated by the town, for ownership and permanent maintenance
providing the town or other governmental unit is willing to accept
responsibility.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 50.060 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The town will require a stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP),
which includes erosion and sediment control measures and materials handling
procedures, to be submitted as part of a project's construction plans and
specifications.
      (1)   Any project located within the corporate boundaries of the town
that includes clearing, grading, excavation or other land-disturbing activities
resulting in the disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total land area
is subject to the requirements of this section.
      (2)   This includes both new development and re-development.
      (3)   This subchapter also applies to disturbances of land that are part
of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will
ultimately disturb 10,000 square feet or more of total land area.
      (4)   Section 50.062 provides guidelines for calculating land
disturbance.
   (B)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land-disturbing activities; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities.
   (C)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities; provided, other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10;
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34; and
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the State Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   Land disturbance permit thresholds.
      (1)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner must complete his, her or their own
notice of intent letter, apply for a stormwater permit from the town, and
ensure that a sufficient construction and stormwater pollution prevention plan
is completed and submitted in accordance with §§
50.110 through
50.120  of this chapter; regardless of whether the individual lot is part of a
larger permitted project site.
      (2)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is 10,000 square feet
or more, but less than one acre, an individual lot plot plan permit application
is required prior to receiving a building permit. Details of the permitting
process are contained in §§
50.110 through
50.120  of this chapter.
      (3)   An individual lot with land disturbance less than 10,000 square
feet, located within a larger permitted project site, is considered part of the
larger permitted project site and the individual lot operator must comply with
the terms and conditions of the stormwater permit approved for the larger
project site.
         (a)   The stormwater permit application for the larger project site
must include detailed erosion and sediment control measures for individual
lots.
         (b)   The builders of these individual lots are required to submit an
individual lot plot plan permit application along with a SWPPP for the
individual lot prior to receiving a building permit. Details of the permitting
process for individual lots and parcels are contained in §§
50.110 through
50.120  of this chapter.
   (E)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to ensure
compliance with this chapter during the construction activity and
implementation of the construction plan, and to notify the town with a
sufficient notice of termination letter upon completion of the project and
stabilization of the site. However, all persons engaging in construction and
land-disturbing activities on a permitted project site meeting the
applicability requirements must comply with the requirements of this section
and this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.061 POLICY ON STORM-WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   (A)   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is
dependent on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original
position (erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a
waterbody (sediment control) and proper on-site materials handling.
      (1)   For land disturbance of one acre or more, the developer must submit
to the town, a SWPPP with:
         (a)   Detailed erosion and sediment control plans;
         (b)   A narrative describing materials handling and storage;
         (c)   Construction sequencing; and
         (d)   The SWPPP and the project management log must be retained for at
least three years from the date the project permit is terminated.
      (2)   For land disturbances totaling 10,000 square feet or more, but less
than one acre, appropriate erosion and sediment control measures that are
consistent with the town's Technical Standards must be designed and shown on
the plans.
   (B)   Detailed requirements for stormwater pollution prevention on
construction sites within the town MS4 area, which are consistent with IDEM
minimum requirements and apply to all land-disturbing activities, are contained
in the town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.062 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this section to a project, the following
guidelines should be used:
      (1)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water, off-site stockpiles and other
utilities) to a land-disturbing project site, must be considered as a part of
the total land disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity
is under the control of the project site owner.
      (2)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this
section, the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total
area of land disturbance for improvements, such as roads, utilities or common
areas, and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined
by the following:
         (a)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
one-half acre or more, one-half acre of land disturbance must be used as the
expected lot disturbance.
         (b)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
less than one-half acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed.
         (c)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of projects
sites, such as industrial and commercial projects project sites, a minimum of
one acre of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance,
unless the lots are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot
must be calculated as being disturbed.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing and placement of
all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet
the design criteria, standards and specifications outlined in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual and the town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
The methods and procedures included in these two references are in keeping with
the above stated policy and meet the requirements of the IDEM's CSGP. A copy of
the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual may be obtained online through IDEM.
   (C)   The design requirements that will apply to all land-disturbing
activities and shall be considered in the selection, design, and implementation
of all stormwater quality and management measures contained in the SWPPP are
contained in the town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.063 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Following approval of the stormwater management permit or individual
lot plot plan permit by the town and commencement of construction activities,
the town has the authority to conduct inspections of the site to ensure full
compliance with the provisions of this section, the approved stormwater
pollution prevention plan, the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual and the terms
and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   A self-monitoring program must be implemented by the project site
owner to ensure the stormwater pollution prevention plan is working
effectively.
      (1)   A trained individual, acceptable to the town, shall perform a
written evaluation of the project site by the end of the next business day
following each measurable storm event.
      (2)   If there are no measurable storm events within a given week, the
site should be monitored at least once in that week; weekly inspections by the
trained individual shall continue until the entire site has been stabilized and
a notice of termination has been issued.
      (3)   The trained individual should look at the maintenance of existing
stormwater pollution prevention measures, including erosion and sediment
control measures, drainage structures and construction materials storage/
containment facilities, to ensure they are functioning properly.
      (4)   The trained individual should also identify additional measures,
beyond those originally identified in the stormwater pollution prevention plan,
necessary to remain in compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations.
   (C)   The resulting evaluation reports must include:
      (1)   The name of the individual performing the evaluation;
      (2)   The date of the evaluation;
      (3)   Problems identified at the project site; and
      (4)   Details of maintenance, additional measures and corrective actions
recommended and completed.
   (D)   The stormwater pollution prevention plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality, but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this section,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
Recommendations by the trained individual for modified stormwater quality
measures should be implemented.
   (E)   Although self-monitoring reports do not need to be submitted to the
town, the town has the right to request complete records of maintenance and
monitoring activities involving stormwater pollution prevention measures. All
evaluation reports for the project site must be made available to the town, in
an organized fashion, within 48 hours upon request.
   (F)   A project management log must be maintained at the project site or in
the possession of on- site individuals associated with the management and
operations of the construction activities. Details regarding requirements
related to the project management log are contained in the town's Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 50.075 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of §§
50.060 through
50.063 of this chapter, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, submitted as
part of a stormwater management permit application, must also include post-
construction stormwater quality measures.
      (1)   These measures are incorporated as a permanent feature into the
site plan and are left in place following completion of construction activities
to continuously treat stormwater runoff from the stabilized site.
      (2)   Any project located within the corporate boundaries of the town
that includes clearing, grading, excavation and other land-disturbing
activities, resulting in the disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total
land area is subject to the requirements of this section.
      (3)   This includes both new development and re-development, and
disturbances of land less than 10,000 square feet of total land area that are
part of a larger common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan
will ultimately disturb 10,000 square feet or more of total land area.
      (4)   In addition, regardless of the amount of disturbance, the town
reserves the right to require pre-treatment BMPs for proposed hot spot
developments in accordance to provisions contained in the town's Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
   (B)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land-disturbing activities;
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities;
      (3)   Construction activities associated with a single-family residential
dwelling disturbing less than one acre, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale; or
      (4)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
   (C)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following
activities; provided, other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10;
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34; and
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the State Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the town in accordance with §§
50.130 through
50.133 of this chapter.
   (E)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to:
      (1)   Ensure proper construction and installation of all stormwater BMPs
(especially, the protection of post-stormwater BMPs during construction phase)
in compliance with this chapter and with the approved stormwater management
permit; and
      (2)   To notify the town with a sufficient notice of termination letter
upon completion of the project and stabilization of the site.
   (F)   All eventual property owners of stormwater quality facilities meeting
the applicability requirements must comply with the requirements of this
section and this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.076 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Water quality volume and flow. It is recognized that developed areas,
as compared to undeveloped areas, generally have increased imperviousness,
decreased infiltration rates, increased runoff rates and increased
concentrations of pollutants such as fertilizers, herbicides, greases, oil,
salts and other pollutants. As new development and redevelopment continues
within the corporate boundaries of the town, measures must be taken to
intercept and filter pollutants from stormwater runoff prior to reaching
regional creeks, streams and rivers. Through the use of appropriate best
management practices (BMPs) to treat the water quality volume (WQv) or the
water quality flow (Qwq), stormwater runoff will be filtered and harmful
amounts of sediment, nutrients and contaminants will be removed.
   (B)   Channel protection volume. It is also recognized that another major
source of pollution in many state streams, including those within the corporate
boundaries of the town, is the stream bank erosion associated with urbanizing
watersheds. Stream channels develop their shape in response to the volume and
rate of runoff that they receive from their contributing watersheds. Research
has shown that in hydrologically stable watersheds, the stream flow responsible
for most of the shaping of the channel (called the bankfull flow) occurs
between every one to two years. When land is developed, the volume and rate of
runoff from that land increases for these comparatively small flooding events
that are not normally addressed by the detention practices and the stream
channel will adapt by changing its shape. As the stream channel works to reach
a new stable shape, excess erosion occurs. As new development and re-
development continues within the corporate boundaries of the town, measures
must be taken to minimize the impact of such development or re-development on
stream bank erosion. Through the use of appropriate best management practices
(BMPs) to retain and/or detain and slowly release the channel protection volume
(CPv), the volume and rate of runoff for channel forming flows will be reduced
in an attempt to minimize increased stream bank erosion in the receiving
streams and channels.
   (C)   The project site owner must submit to the town a stormwater pollution
prevention plan (SWPPP) that shows placement of appropriate BMP(s) from a pre-
approved list of BMPs specified in the town's Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The SWPPP submittal shall include:
      (1)   An operation and maintenance manual for all post-construction BMP
(s) included in the project; and
      (2)   A notarized maintenance agreement, consistent with the sample
agreement provided in Appendix D of the town's Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual, providing for the long-term maintenance of those BMPs.
      (3)   Divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) shall be recorded for the property on
which the project is located.
      (4)   The noted BMPs must be designed, constructed and maintained
according to guidelines provided or referenced in the town's Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
      (5)   Practices other than those specified in the pre-approved list may
be utilized. However, the burden of proof, as to whether the performance and
ease of maintenance of such practices will be according to guidelines provided
in the town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, will be placed with the
applicant.
   (D)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate
practices (as noted under "Hot Spots" provision in the town's Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual) to reduce lead, copper, zinc and hydrocarbons in
stormwater runoff. These requirements will apply to all new facilities and
existing facilities that replace their tanks, regardless of the size of the
facility.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.077 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
50.042 of this chapter.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures or BMPs shall meet the design
criteria, standards and specifications outlined in the town's Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual. The methods and procedures included in the
referenced standards is in keeping with the above stated policy and meet the
requirements of IDEM's MS4 GP.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.078 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All stormwater quality management systems, including, but not limited to,
detention or retention basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters,
infiltration systems, conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances located
outside of the right-of-way shall be incorporated into permanent easements. For
the purposes of monitoring, inspection and general maintenance activities, an
easement 15 feet in width, beyond the actual footprint of the stormwater
quality management facility as well as a 25-foot wide access easement from a
public right-of-way to each BMP shall be provided.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.079 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the town and
the commencement of construction activities, the town has the authority to
conduct inspections of the work being done to ensure full compliance with the
provisions of this section, the approved stormwater pollution prevention plan,
the town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual and the terms and conditions
of the approved permit.
   (B)   Stormwater quality facilities shall be maintained in good condition,
in accordance with the operation and maintenance procedures and schedules
listed in the town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, in addition to the
designed and approved performance specifications for the facilities and shall
not be subsequently altered, revised or replaced, except as approved by the
town.
   (C)   The town also has the authority to perform long-term, post-
construction inspection of all publicly or privately owned stormwater quality
facilities. The inspection will cover physical conditions, available water
quality storage capacity and the operational condition of key facility
elements. Noted deficiencies and recommended corrective action will be included
in an inspection report.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
DEVELOPMENT IN WETLANDS
§ 50.090 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to all land-disturbing activities
regulated by this chapter.
      (1)   No building permit shall be issued and no land disturbance started
for any construction in a development, as defined in §
50.006, identified as containing wetlands until the owner thereof has obtained
all required state and federal permits or releases related to the dredging or
filling of wetlands.
      (2)   As a pre-condition to receiving a building or land disturbance
permit for a development identified as containing wetlands where the applicant
for the permit does not intend to fill a wetland, such unaffected wetland must
be:
         (a)   Identified in one of the methods enumerated in §
50.092 below;
         (b)   Shown on the proposed development plans; and
         (c)   Submitted to the town along with plans to protect and avoid any
disturbance to such unaffected wetland.
   (B)   The requirements under this section do not apply to the following:
      (1)   Artificially-constructed ponds, drainage ditches, stormwater
retention/detention basins, gravel pits, stone quarries, and treatment lagoons
that exist at the site and that may appear to display wetland-like properties;
      (2)   Wetlands or portions thereof for which federal or state permits for
fill were issued prior to the enactment of this chapter; or
      (3)   Any area or use excluded from local planning and zoning
jurisdiction by federal or state law.
   (C)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
SWPPP and ensure that all wetlands identified to be present at the project site
are sufficiently protected and preserved as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.091 POLICY ON WETLAND DISTURBANCE PREVENTION.
   It is the public policy of town to preserve, protect, and conserve
freshwater wetlands, and the benefits derived wherefrom, to prevent the
despoliation and destruction of freshwater wetlands, and to regulate use and
development of such wetlands to secure the natural benefits of freshwater
wetlands, consistent with the general welfare and beneficial to economic,
social, and agricultural development of town.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.092 WETLANDS IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   In implementing the terms of this chapter, any of the following
materials shall be the prima fascia evidence which may be relied upon for the
identification, delineation, and existence of a wetland:
      (1)   National Wetlands Inventory (NWI) maps produced or maintained by
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS).
      (2)   Maps produced, or maintained and utilized, by the United States
Corps of Engineers for identification and/or delineation of wetlands.
      (3)   Maps produced, or maintained and utilized, by the United States
Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) for the identification and/or
delineation of wetlands.
      (4)   USDA - NRCS Soil Survey of Boone County hydric soils list.
      (5)   Field investigations performed by the United States Army Corps of
Engineers or private consultants recognized by the Corps as authorities in
wetland identification and delineation.
   (B)   Note that NWI maps are intended to identify potential wetlands. Due to
the lack of field verification, NWI classified wetlands are sometimes
erroneously identified, missed, or misidentified. Additionally, the criteria
used in identifying these wetlands, as established by USFWS, are different from
those currently used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. NWI maps best serve
as an indicator of potential jurisdictional wetlands.
   (C)   Also note that soil survey maps were developed from actual field
investigations by soil scientists from the NRCS but they address only one of
the three required wetland criteria and may reflect historical conditions
rather than current site conditions.
   (D)   It is recommended that all sites be field reviewed by a qualified
person with experience in wetland identification in order to determine the
presence or absence of wetlands. This is subject to Army Corps of Engineers
acceptance/approval.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
§ 50.110 CONCEPTUAL DRAINAGE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   In order to gain an understanding of the drainage requirements for a
specific project, a developer may submit conceptual drainage plans and
calculations for review by the town. The direction provided by the town during
such a review is based on preliminary data and shall not be construed as an
acceptance or binding on either party.
   (B)   The following is a general listing of minimum data requirements for
the review of conceptual drainage plans:
      (1)   Two complete sets of conceptual plans showing general project
layout, including existing and proposed drainage systems (plan sheets must be
larger than 11 inches by 17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches);
      (2)   General description of the existing and proposed drainage systems
in narrative form;
      (3)   Watershed boundaries with USGS Contours or best information
possible; and
      (4)   Existing watercourse or regulated drains.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
 § 50.111 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   This section applies to all development, or re-development of land,
that results in land disturbance of one acre or more.
      (1)   Individual lots with land disturbance less than one acre shall
refer to §
50.114 of this chapter for plan review requirements and procedures.
      (2)   Section
50.120  of this chapter contains a flowchart summarizing the plan review/permit
approval process.
   (B)   The project site owner shall submit an application for a stormwater
management permit to the town. The application will include the information
described in §
50.113 of this chapter.
      (1)   One electronic and one hard copy of each application must be
submitted to the town.
      (2)   The town may, at its discretion, require one or more copies be
submitted to the County Surveyor, or other entity deemed appropriate by the
town.
   (C)   After the town's receipt and initial review of the application, the
applicant will be notified as to whether his or her application was complete or
insufficient. The applicant will be asked for additional information if the
application is insufficient. If the application is complete, it will be
reviewed in detail by the town and/or its plan review consultant(s). Once all
comments have been received and review completed, the town will either:
      (1)   Approve the project;
      (2)   Request modifications; or
      (3)   Deny the project.
      (4)   If the applicant does not agree with or accept the staff review
findings and wishes to seek an appeal, they can petition the Town Council
regarding the project.
   (D)   The project site owner must notify the town and IDEM 48 hours before
beginning construction. Notification to the town shall be in the form of an
email while the notification to IDEM shall be in the form of an online IDEM NOI
submittal.
   (E)   Once construction starts, the project owner shall monitor construction
activities and inspect all stormwater pollution prevention measures in
compliance with this chapter and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit.
   (F)   Refer to §
50.119 for project close-out requirements.
   (G)   Permits issued under this scenario will expire five years from the
date of issuance. If construction is not completed within five years, an
updated permit application must be submitted to the town and an updated NOI
must be resubmitted to IDEM at least 90 days prior to expiration.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.112 SWPPP REVIEW TIME LIMITS.
   Pursuant to I.C. 13-18-27, the town must make a preliminary determination as
to whether the construction plan associated with SWPPP is substantially
complete before the end of the tenth working day (for sites with less than five
acres of land disturbance) after the day on which the SWPPP is submitted to the
town or the fourteenth working day (for sites with five acres or larger of land
disturbance) after the day on which the SWPPP is submitted to the town. Note
that the noted time limits only apply to the SWPPP portion of the overall
stormwater permit submittal and do not affect any official or non-official
permit review timelines set by the town for other aspects of the stormwater
permit application.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.113 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of the
informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in §§
50.020 and
50.075 of this chapter.
      (1)   If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements of
this chapter, an application should be filed listing the exemption criteria
met, in lieu of the information requirements listed below.
      (2)   This level of detailed information is not required from individual
lots, disturbing less than one acre of land, developed within a larger
permitted project site. Review and acceptance of such lots is covered under §
50.114 of this chapter.
   (B)   All plans, reports, calculations and narratives shall be signed and
sealed by a professional engineer or a licensed surveyor, registered in the
state, who also meets the definition of a trained individual found in §
50.006.
   (C)   The following items shall be included with a stormwater management
permit submittal:
      (1)   Permit application checklist. The application checklist provided in
the Appendix B of town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual must be
completed by the applicant and provided along with other required supporting
material.
      (2)   Construction plans. Construction plan sheets (larger than 11 inches
by 17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size) that depict
existing and proposed conditions. Construction plans need to include items
listed in the application checklist provided in the town's Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual. They must also include the following items:
         (a)   Stormwater pollution prevention plan for construction sites. For
sites with total disturbance of one acre or more, a stormwater pollution
prevention plan associated with construction activities must be designed to, at
least, meet the requirements of this chapter. The SWPPP and construction plans
must include the items listed in the application checklist provided in the
town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. For land disturbances totaling
10,000 square feet or more of land area, but less than one acre, see §
50.114 for applicable requirements.
         (b)   Post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan. For
sites with total land disturbance of 10,000 square feet or more of total land
area, a post-construction stormwater pollution prevention plan must be designed
to, at least, meet the requirements of this chapter and must include the
information provided in the town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. See
the application checklist in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual for more
information.
      (3)   Stormwater drainage technical report. A written stormwater drainage
technical report must contain a discussion of the steps taken in the design of
the stormwater drainage system. The technical report needs to include items
listed in the application checklist provided in the town's Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual. Note that in order to gain an understanding of and to
evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a specific
project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall multi-
section (phased) project, the detailed information for the first section/phase
being permitted must be accompanied by an overall project plan that includes
the location, dimensions and supporting analyses of all detention/retention
facilities, primary conveyance facilities and outlet conditions.
      (4)   An operations and maintenance (O and M) manual for all private
infrastructure, including but not limited to pipes, ponds, ditches, and BMPs
(when required), shall be submitted for the final plan approval and permit
process. The detailed requirements for O and M manual are provided in the
town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
         (a)   The O and M Manual must include a formal BMP maintenance
agreement, to be prepared and notarized consistent with the sample agreement
provided in Appendix B of the town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual,
providing for the long-term maintenance of those BMPs.
         (b)   The O and M manual and maintenance agreement shall be recorded
with reference to the deed or plat for the property on which the project is
located.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.114 REVIEW OF INDIVIDUAL LOTS.
   (A)   For all individual lots disturbing 10,000 square feet or more, but
less than one acre, of total land area, a formal review and issuance of an
individual lot plot plan permit will be required before a building permit can
be issued. Similarly, for individual lots disturbing less than 10,000 square
feet of total land area, developed within a larger permitted project, a formal
review and issuance of an individual lot plot plan permit will be required
before a building permit can be issued. All stormwater management measures
necessary to comply with this chapter must be implemented in accordance with
permitted plan for the larger project.
   (B)   The following information must be submitted to the town, for review
and acceptance, by the individual lot operator, whether owning the property or
acting as the agent of the property owner, as part of a request for review and
issuance of an individual lot plot plan permit that must be obtained prior to
the issuance of a building permit:
      (1)   A site layout for the subject lot and all adjacent lots showing
building pad location, dimensions and elevations, and the drainage patterns and
swales; in both existing and proposed grading plan sheets;
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access;
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance;
         (c)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot;
         (d)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules;
         (e)   Implementation of concrete washout practices that securely
contain and allow for the proper disposal of washout waste;
         (f)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization;
         (g)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures; and
      (3)   Certification of compliance stating that the individual lot plan is
consistent with the stormwater management permit, as approved by the town, for
the larger project (if the individual lot is part of a larger permitted
project); and
      (4)   Designation of trained individual. Name, address, telephone number
and list of qualifications of the trained individual in charge of the mandatory
stormwater pollution prevention self-monitoring program for the project site.
The individual lot operator is responsible for installation and maintenance of
all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is stabilized.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.115 CHANGES TO PLAN.
   Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications after
approval of the applicable stormwater management permit shall be filed with,
and accepted by, the town prior to the land development involving the change.
Copies of the changes, if accepted, shall be attached to the original plans and
specifications.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.116 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Fee amount. As a condition of the submittal of a permit application to
the town, the applicant shall agree to pay the town the applicable fee, as set
by the town for the review of all drainage submittals, preliminary plans, final
plans, construction plans and accompanying information and data, as well as
prepaid inspection fees.
   (B)   Time of payment.
      (1)   After the approval of the applicant's final stormwater management
plan, and receipt of the applicable project assurance, the town will furnish a
written statement to the applicant specifying the total amount due.
      (2)   As a condition of permit issuance by the town, the applicant shall
pay to the town the sum set forth in said statement. The town may issue such a
billing statement before the project advances to the final acceptance stage,
and such payment is due by applicant upon receipt of said billing statement
regardless of whether the project is advanced to the final acceptance stage.
      (3)   The town shall have the right to not accept the drainage
improvements or to not approve the advancement of any project for which the
applicable fees have not been paid.
   (C)   Method of payment.
      (1)   Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
         (a)   Check;
         (b)   Certified check;
         (c)   Cashier's check; or
         (d)   Money order.
      (2)   All checks shall be made payable to the:
         Town of Zionsville
         1100 W. Oak St.
         Zionsville, IN 46077
   (D)   Refund of payment. Fees are refundable only if the town determines
that compliance by the development or project to this chapter is not necessary.
   (E)   Fee schedule. Stormwater permit application and inspection fees:
      (1)   Subdivision.
         (a)   Minor subdivision secondary plat: $250; and
         (b)   Major subdivision secondary plat: $1,000 + $15 per lot.
      (2)   Commercial (includes commercial, industrial, institutional, PUD and
the like): $1,000 + $10/acre;
      (3)   Engineering review fees: all development plan projects will require
a review fee above and beyond the application fees that shall be passed on to
the developer. The review fee shall equate to the contract rate of the
reviewing engineer. This fee shall be paid to the town and shall be paid in
full before any project approval is given;
      (4)   Residential (located outside of a larger permitted project):
         (a)   Single-family dwelling: $200; and
         (b)   Two-family dwelling: $250.
      (5)   Stop work orders:
         (a)   Permit re-instatement fee: $500 or two times the filing fee,
whichever is greater; and
         (b)   Continued construction after stop work order: $1,000 first day
and up to $500 for each additional day.
   (F)   Refunds. All fees are non-refundable.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.117 REQUIRED ASSURANCES.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all projects regardless of whether the
stormwater management system or portions thereof will be dedicated to the own
or retained privately.
   (B)   As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit and before
construction begins, the town shall require the applicant to provide assurance
in form of either:
      (1)   An irrevocable letter of credit; or
      (2)   A performance bond.
   (C)   Said assurance will guarantee a good faith execution of the stormwater
drainage plan, the stormwater pollution prevention plan, the stormwater quality
management plan and any permit conditions.
   (D)   The assurance shall be for an amount equal to 110% of the total costs
of all stormwater management measures for the entire project. The above-
mentioned costs shall be based on an estimate as prepared by a registered
engineer or land surveyor. Said costs shall be for:
      (1)   The installation and on-going monitoring and maintenance of erosion
control measures;
      (2)   The construction and on-going monitoring and maintenance of storm
drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities; and
      (3)   Stormwater quality BMPs, as regulated under this chapter, until the
construction is completed, the site is stabilized, and as-built plans are
accepted by the town.
   (E)   Assurances shall be for a minimum of $5,000.
   (F)   All other performance bonds, maintenance bonds or other assurances
required by the town in accordance with any and all other ordinances shall also
apply and so be required. If adequate assurances are set aside by the project
site owner for the overall project, proof of total assurance can be submitted
in place of an individual stormwater assurance.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.118 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   In granting a stormwater management permit, the town may impose such
terms and conditions as are reasonably necessary to meet the purposes of this
chapter. The project site owner shall ensure compliance with such terms and
conditions. Non-compliance with the terms and conditions of permits will be
subject to enforcement as described in §§
50.130 through
50.133 of this chapter.
   (B)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractors,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit
and the schedule for proposed implementation.
   (C)   In the event that a project site is determined to impact or discharge
to a sensitive area or is located in an impact drainage area, the town may
require more stringent stormwater quantity and quality measures than detailed
in this chapter or in the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual.
   (D)   (1)   Determination of sensitive areas. Sensitive areas include highly
erodible soils, wetlands, threatened or endangered species habitat, outstanding
waters, impaired waters, recreational waters and surface drinking water
sources. A listing of highly erodible soils, outstanding water, impaired water,
recreation water and surface drinking water sources can be found in the
Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Any discharge from a stormwater practice
that is a Class V injection well shall meet the state's ground water quality
standards. If wetlands are suspected on a site, a wetland delineation should be
completed in accordance with the methodology established by the U.S. Army Corps
of Engineers (COE). The presence of threatened or endangered species habitat
will be determined by the town during the permit review process. Special terms
and conditions for development determined to impact or discharge to any
sensitive area shall be included in the stormwater management permit.
      (2)   Determination of impact drainage areas. The following areas shall
be designated as impact drainage areas, unless good reason for not including
them is presented to the town:
         (a)   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the most updated FEMA
Code dealing with floodplain regulation and/or by the best available data
through IDNR;
         (b)   Land within 25 feet of each bank of any ditch, stream or creek
within the town's drainage system; and
         (c)   Land within 15 feet of the centerline of any stormwater
infrastructure or enclosed conduit within the town's system.
   (E)   The town or Town Engineer is authorized, but is not required, to
classify certain geographical areas as impact drainage areas. In determining
impact drainage areas, the town may consider such factors as topography, soil
type, capacity of existing drains and distance from adequate drainage facility.
   (F)   Land that does not have an adequate outlet, taking into consideration
the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an impact drainage
area by the town. Special terms and conditions for development within any
impact drainage area shall be included in the stormwater management permit.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.119 PROJECT CLOSE-OUT.
   (A)   After completion of construction of the project and before the release
of required performance assurances referenced in §
50.117 of this chapter, the permittee shall submit/complete the following seven
steps:
      (1)   Notification to the town that construction work is completed. Upon
receipt of the said notice, the town will inspect the project for substantial
compliance with the permit requirements. As a result of this, a punchlist will
be generated that lists any items outstanding.
      (2)   Any identified punchlist items shall be satisfactorily resolved.
      (3)   CCTV inspections performed, and repair by the applicant of any
defects discovered.
      (4)   Digital data submittal provided and accepted for incorporation into
town's GIS in prescribed format.
      (5)   As-built plans along with a completed certificate of completion and
compliance.
      (6)   Overall site has met stabilization requirements.
      (7)   All site BMPs have been cleaned. Once these steps are completed a
maintenance bond will need to be provided prior to the release of the required
performance assurances.
   (B)   As-built requirements.
      (1)   These as-built plans/record drawings must be prepared and certified
by the engineer of record (i.e., the company/engineer who originally prepared
the construction plans).
      (2)   The as-built plans shall include all pertinent data relevant to the
completed storm drainage system and stormwater management facilities, and shall
include:
         (a)   Pipe size and pipe material;
         (b)   Invert elevations;
         (c)   Top rim elevations;
         (d)   Elevation of the emergency overflow (spillway) for ponds;
         (e)   Grades along the emergency flood routing path(s);
         (f)   Pipe structure lengths;
         (g)   BMP types, dimensions and boundaries/easements;
         (h)   "As-planted" plans for BMPs, as applicable;
         (i)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume;
and
         (j)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity.
   (C)   Certificate of completion and compliance. The engineer of record shall
supply a certified statement stating the completed storm drainage system and
stormwater management facilities substantially comply with construction plans
and the stormwater management permit as approved by the town. See certificate
in Appendix B in the town's Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. If any
elements of the project as installed, substantively differ from the approved
and permitting plans, such changes shall be reflected in the as-built plans and
sufficient documentation and an explanation provided by the engineer of record
indicating that the installed project is in compliance with the town's drainage
requirements.
   (D)   Maintenance bond. The property owner, developer or contractor shall be
required to file a maintenance bond or other acceptable guarantee with the town
in an amount equal to 25% of the cost of the stormwater management system, and
in a form satisfactory to the town in order to assure that such stormwater
system installation was done according to standards of good workmanship, that
the materials used in the construction and installation were of good quality
and construction, and that such project was done in accordance with the
accepted plans, and this chapter. The bond or other acceptable guarantee shall
be in effect for a period of three years after the date of the release of
required performance assurances referenced in §
50.116 of this chapter. The beneficiary of all maintenance bonds shall be the
town.
   (E)   CCTV inspections. To verify that all stormwater infrastructure is
functioning properly, visual recordings (via closed circuit television) of such
infrastructure, including all subsurface drains, shall be required as follows:
      (1)   Following the completion of installation of the stormwater
management system and before the release of the performance bond.
      (2)   If, as determined by the town, a second time before release of
maintenance bond. These visual recordings will be scheduled and paid for by the
developer. Notices shall be provided to the town 72 hours prior to the
televising completion so that the town may witness the process. Reports
summarizing the results of the noted visual recordings shall be reviewed and
accepted by the town before the performance bond is released and again, if
applicable, before the maintenance bond shall be recommended to be released.
   (F)   Stormwater project closeout steps. Additional detail including a
summary of steps required for the transition from a performance bond to a
maintenance bond, close out of the stormwater permit prior to release of the
three year maintenance bond, and town stormwater technician's sign off on the
IDEM notice of termination are provided in Appendix B of the town's Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
(Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.120 PERMIT APPROVAL PROCESS FLOWCHART.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/193fb1f5c2977a45cab4a8302a82f0205a06d833/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1989.png]
 
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 50.130 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with the
requirements set forth in the local zoning ordinances is also necessary.
Compliance with all applicable ordinances of the town as well as with
applicable state statutes and regulations shall also be required. Unless
otherwise stated, all other specifications referred to in this chapter shall be
the most recent edition available.
   (B)   Violations of the requirements of this chapter are subject to the
penalties listed below.
      (1)   Violations. Any action or inaction which violates the provisions of
this chapter, the requirements of an approved stormwater management design plan
or permit, and/or the requirements of a recorded stormwater maintenance
agreement may be subject to the enforcement actions outlined in this
subchapter. Any such action or inaction is deemed to be a public nuisance and
may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of any of
the penalties described below shall not prevent such equitable relief.
      (2)   Warning notice. When the town finds that any person has violated,
or continues to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued
hereunder, the town may serve upon that person a written warning notice,
specifying the particular violation believed to have occurred and requesting
the discharger to immediately investigate the matter and to seek a resolution
whereby any offending discharge will cease. Investigation and/or resolution of
the matter in response to the warning notice in no way relieves the alleged
violator of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of
the warning notice. Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the
town to take any action, including emergency action or any other enforcement
action, without first issuing a warning notice.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.131 ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   Notice of violation/citation.
      (1)   If the town determines that an applicant or other responsible
person has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of a permit, an
approved stormwater management design plan, a recorded stormwater management
maintenance agreement or the provisions of this chapter, it shall issue a
written notice of violation to such applicant or other responsible person and
the owner of the property. Where a person is engaged in activity covered by
this chapter without having first secured a permit therefor, the notice of
violation shall be served on the owner or the responsible person in charge of
the activity being conducted on the site.
      (2)   The notice of violation can be in the form of a citation ticket
and/or a written letter that would contain detailed inspection findings,
conclusions of law, disposition of warning or fines assessed, stipulated
remedial actions as discussed with the responsible party representative,
reasonable deadlines for those remedial actions and the date of reinspection.
   (B)   Compensatory action. In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties,
and remedies authorized by this chapter, the town may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, public education and the like.
   (C)   Stop work order. In addition to the penalties listed above, if land
disturbance activities are conducted contrary to the provisions of this chapter
or accepted final stormwater management plans, the town may order the work
stopped by notice in writing served on any person engaged in the doing or
causing of such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such
work until authorized by the town to proceed with the work. A stop work order
will be posted on the site by the town and it is unlawful for any person to
remove the notice or continue any work on the site without permission from the
town. The town may also undertake or cause to be undertaken, any necessary or
advisable protective measures to prevent violations of this chapter or to avoid
or reduce the effects of non-compliance herewith. The cost of any such
protective measures shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property
upon which the work is being done and the responsibility of any person carrying
out or participating in the work.
   (D)   Withhold certificate of occupancy. The town may refuse to issue a
certificate of occupancy for the building or other improvements constructed or
being constructed on the site until the applicant or other responsible person
has taken the remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has
otherwise satisfied the requirements of this chapter as determined by the town.
   (E)   Suspension, revocation or modification of permits. The town may
suspend, revoke or modify any existing permit that the violator may also have
been previously granted. A suspended, revoked or modified permit may be
reinstated after the applicant or other responsible person has taken the
remedial measures set forth in the notice of violation or has otherwise cured
the violations described therein; provided, such permit may be reinstated upon
such conditions as the town may deem necessary to enable the applicant or other
responsible person to take the necessary remedial measures to cure such
violations.
   (F)   Suspension of access to the stormwater drainage system.
      (1)   Emergency cease and desist orders.
         (a)   When the town finds that any person has violated, or continues
to violate, any provision of this chapter, or any order issued hereunder, or
that the person's past violations are likely to recur, and that the person's
violation(s) has (have) caused or contributed to an actual or threatened
discharge to the MS4 or waters of the United States which reasonably appears to
present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons or to the environment, the town may issue an order to the violator
directing it immediately to cease and desist all such violations and directing
the violator to immediately comply with all ordinance requirements and take
such appropriate preventive action as may be needed to properly address a
continuing or threatened violation, including immediately halting operations
and/or terminating the discharge.
         (b)   Any person notified of an emergency order directed to it under
this division (F)(1) shall immediately comply and stop or eliminate its
endangering discharge. In the event of a discharger's failure to immediately
comply voluntarily with the emergency order, the town may take such steps as
deemed necessary to prevent or minimize harm to the stormwater drainage system
or waters of the United States, and/or endangerment to persons or to the
environment, including immediate termination of a facility's water supply,
sewer connection or other municipal utility services.
         (c)   The town may allow the person to recommence its discharge when
it has demonstrated to the satisfaction of the town that the period of
endangerment has passed, unless further termination proceedings are initiated
against the discharger under this chapter. A person that is responsible, in
whole or in part, for any discharge presenting imminent endangerment shall
submit a detailed written statement, describing the causes of the harmful
discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence, to the town
within five days of receipt of the emergency order. Issuance of an emergency
cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for,
taking any other action against the violator.
      (2)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
town may, without prior notice, suspend stormwater drainage system discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
stormwater drainage system or waters of the state if the violator fails to
comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the town may take such
steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the stormwater
drainage system or waters of the state, or to minimize danger to persons.
      (3)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the stormwater drainage system in violation of this chapter may
have their stormwater drainage system access terminated if such termination
would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The town will notify a violator of
the proposed termination of its stormwater drainage system access. The violator
may petition the town for a reconsideration and hearing. A person commits an
offense if the person reinstates stormwater drainage system access to premises
terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the town.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.132 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply
with the provisions of this chapter, the town may, after giving notice and
opportunity for compliance, have the necessary work done, and the owner shall
be required to promptly reimburse the town for all costs of such work.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the town from taking such other
lawful action as may be necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All costs
connected therewith shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. Costs
include, but are not limited to, repairs to the stormwater drainage system made
necessary by the violation, as well as those penalties levied by the EPA or
IDEM for violation of the town's NPDES permit, administrative costs, attorney
fees, court costs and other costs and expenses associated with the enforcement
of this chapter, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (C)   If the amount due for abatement of the violation is not paid within a
timely manner as determined by the decision of the town or by the expiration of
the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special
assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for
the amount of the assessment.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
§ 50.133 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal of notice of violation. Any person to whom any provision of
this chapter has been applied may appeal in writing, not later than 30 days
after the action or decision being appealed from, to the Town Council the
action or decision whereby any such provision was so applied. Such appeal shall
identify the matter being appealed, and the basis for the appeal. The Town
Council shall consider the appeal and make a decision whereby it affirms,
rejects or modifies the action being appealed. In considering any such appeal,
the Town Council may consider the recommendations of the town staff and the
comments of other persons having knowledge of the matter. In considering any
such appeal, the Town Council may grant a variance from the terms of this
chapter to provide relief, in whole or in part, from the action being appealed,
but only upon finding that the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the chapter; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff.
   (B)   Enforcement measures after appeal. If the violation has not been
corrected pursuant to the requirements set forth in the notice of violation,
or, in the event of an appeal, within five days of the decision of the Town
Council upholding the decision of the Town Stormwater Division, then
representatives of the Town Stormwater Division shall enter upon the subject
private property and are authorized to take any and all measures necessary to
abate the violation and/or restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow
the town or its designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the
purposes set forth above.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a maximum fine of
$2,500 for each offense, plus costs, damages and expenses. Each day such
violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall make
the violator liable for the imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and
remedies provided for in this section are cumulative and in addition to any
other remedies provided by law. An admission or determination of responsibility
shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this
chapter shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
      (3)   For purposes of this division (A), SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a
violation of the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within
12 months of a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for
which said person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
      (4)   The issuance of fines shall be guided by division (C) below. The
town reserves the right to issue a maximum fine for any violation deemed
sufficiently egregious or otherwise determined by the town to warrant a maximum
penalty.
   (B)   For intentional and flagrant violations of this chapter, the town may
issue a notice to the applicant or other responsible person and the owner of
the property, requiring such person to appear in the Circuit or Superior Court
of the county to answer charges for such violation. Upon conviction, such
person shall be punished by a fine as set by the Town Council, plus costs,
damages and expenses or imprisonment for 60 days or both. Each act of violation
and each day upon which any violation shall occur shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (C)   (1)   Fine schedule for §§
50.020 through
50.026 of this chapter.
Fine Category Type and Nature 1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
Fine Category Type and Nature   1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
Commercial    Minor Accidental  $100        $500        $1,000
Industrial          Intentional $250        $750        $1,500
Institutional Major Accidental  $250        $1,000      $2,000
                    Intentional $500        $1,500      $2,500
              Minor Accidental  Warning     $100        $250
Residential         Intentional Warning     $150        $300
              Major Accidental  $100        $250        $500
                    Intentional $250        $500        $1,000
 
      (2)   Fine schedule for §§
50.060 through
50.063 of this chapter.
 
Fine Category                               1st Offense 2nd Offense 3rd Offense
Commercial lot or multi-parcel development
(i.e., subdivision, commercial, industrial, $500        $1,000      $2,500
institutional)
Individual lot (residential)                $150        $350        $750
 
      (3)   Stop work orders. Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a
stop work order, per §
50.131 of this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not less than $1,000, and such person shall also pay
such costs as may be imposed in the discretion of the court. A permit
reinstatement fee may also be assessed by the town.
(Ord. 2013-17, passed 12-2-2013; Ord. 2024-15, passed 7-15-2024)
 CHAPTER 51: FIRE PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose
   
51.002   Applicability
   
51.003   Authority
   
51.004   Organization
   
51.005   Legal assistance
   
51.006   Law enforcement assistance
   
51.007   Minimum standards
   
51.008   Definitions
   
51.009   Fire Department connection requirements
   
51.010   Fire alarm requirement; faulty or false alarms
   
51.011   Water supply for fire protection
   
51.012   Fire protection in recreational vehicles, mobile home and manufactured
housing parks, sale and storage lots
   
51.013   Required fire protection systems; out-of-service
   
51.014   Traffic signals
   
51.015   Emergency communications
   
51.016   Raised pavement marker
   
51.017   Premises identification
   
51.018   Unlawful to hinder District
   
51.019   Disclaimers
Plan Review
   
51.030   General
   
51.031   Existing building modifications
Fire Protection Permit
   
51.045   General
   
51.046   Fees
   
51.047   Permit process
   
51.048   Acceptance testing
   
51.049   Appeals process
   
51.050   Validity
   
51.051   Installer information
Fire Hydrants
   
51.065   General
   
51.066   Private hydrants
   
51.067   Installation standards
   
51.068   Out-of-service hydrants
   
51.069   Dry hydrants
Fire Department Access Roads
   
51.080   General
   
51.081   Gates
   
51.082   Dimensions
   
51.083   Increase clearance and width
   
51.084   Surface
   
51.085   Turning radius
   
51.086   Dead-ends
   
51.087   Grade
   
51.088   Marking
   
51.089   Access roads and fire lane signs
   
51.090   Dimension and rating requirements
   
51.091   Fire Department access for bridges to residential structures
Emergencies
   
51.105   Fire Department emergency access
   
51.106   Emergency entry
Enforcement
   
51.120   Permitting
   
51.121   Stop work order
   
51.122   Certificate of occupancy requirements
   
51.123   Appeals process
   
51.124   Inspection process
   
51.125   Investigation of fires
   
51.126   Fees and fines
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to be a local amendment to the Indiana Fire Code
and Indiana Building Code, which strengthens the requirements of the Minimum
Fire Safety Code.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.002 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be supplemental to the Indiana
Fire Code and the Indiana Building Code, as adopted by the State Fire
Prevention and Building Safety Commission, which are hereby adopted by the
town, including all appendices.
   (B)   (1)   This chapter shall apply to all Class 1 structures. Subchapters
and sections shall only apply to residential structures when specifically
noted. When any provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict with any
rule of the Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission, the rule of the
Commission shall prevail unless such chapter provision is specifically approved
by the Commission in writing.
      (2)   This chapter shall apply to, and be in force and effect within all
areas of the town that is served by the Town Fire Department, as well as all
areas served under contract by the Town Fire Department.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.003 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   As authorized by I.C. 36-8-17, a local Fire Prevention Division is
hereby established within the Town Fire Department.
   (B)   This chapter shall be enforced throughout the boundaries of the town
and all areas served under contract by the Town Fire Department by the Fire
Chief or the Fire Marshal and/or his or her designee(s).
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.004 ORGANIZATION.
   The Fire Prevention Division of the Fire Department shall be operated under
the executive control of the Fire Chief and the administrative supervision of
the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.005 LEGAL ASSISTANCE.
   The Town Fire Department may obtain the services of the Town Attorney,
County Prosecutor, State Department of Homeland Security including the office
of the State Fire Marshal, for legal or enforcement assistance in connection
with this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.006 LAW ENFORCEMENT ASSISTANCE.
   Whenever requested to do so by the Fire Chief or Fire Marshal, the Chief of
Police shall assign such available police officers as, in his or her
discretion, may be necessary, to assist the Fire Department in enforcing the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.007 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   All adopted codes and laws of the Indiana Fire Prevention and Building
Safety Commission and Title 675 of the Indiana Administrative Code are hereby
incorporated in this chapter and shall include later amendments to that article
as the same are published in the Indiana Register or the Indiana Administrative
Code with effective dates as fixed therein. Any special processes or procedures
not addressed in this chapter shall be subject to applications found in the
current editions of the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Standards
or other recognized fire safety standards, subject to the rules of the State
Fire Prevention and Building Safety Commission.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. A Class 1 structure as defined in I.C. 22-12-1-4 used for shelter,
protection or enclosure of persons, animals or property and which is
permanently affixed to the land.
   BUILDING CODE. Indiana Building Code (675 I.A.C. 13).
   BUILDING PERMIT. A certificate issued permitting a person, firm or
corporation to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove,
convert or demolish any building or structure.
   BUILDING PLANS. The maps and drawings showing the specific location and
design of building and released by the State Fire Marshal’s office.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate issued permitting a person, firm or
corporation to occupy a building or space.
   CLASS 1 STRUCTURE. Refer to I.C. 22-12-1-4.
   CLASS 2 STRUCTURE. Refer to I.C. 22-12-1-5.
   CODE. Either Indiana Fire Code or Indiana Building Code.
   DWELLING. A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
   DISTRICT. All properties located within the town and those protected under
contract by the Town Fire Department.
   EMERGENCY. Sudden unforeseen crisis (usually involving danger) that requires
immediate action.
   EMS. Emergency medical services.
   FALSE ALARM. An alarm caused by mechanical failure, malfunction, improper
installation or lack of proper maintenance, or an alarm activated by a cause
that cannot be determined.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. A system or portion of a combination system consisting of
components and circuits arranged to monitor and annunciate the status of fire
alarm or supervisory signal-initiating devices and to initiate the appropriate
response to those signals.
   FIRE APPARATUS. Any vehicle utilized by the Fire Department in response to
an emergency.
   FIRE APPLIANCE. Any device which may be utilized to extinguish a fire.
   FIRE CODE. Indiana Fire Code (675 I.A.C. 22).
   FIRE DETECTION DEVICE. A device designed to detect the presence of a fire
signature and to initiate action.
   FIRE DOOR. A combination of a fire door, frame and other accessories that
together provide a specific degree of fire protection to an opening.
   FIRE LANE. A fire lane is a designated emergency access lane that is for
fire and EMS vehicle use only. It is marked with the words “No Parking Fire
Lane” in white or yellow letters and a stripe of at least four inches in width,
in conformance with the Indiana Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices.
   FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEM. Approved devices, equipment and systems or
combinations of systems used to detect a fire, activate an alarm, extinguish or
control a fire, control or manage smoke and products of a fire or any
combination thereof.
   FIRE WALL. A separation which provides a specific degree of fire protection
between areas as per rules of the FPBSC.
   FIRE WATCH. A fire watch is a person or persons who are assigned to monitor
an area for watching for fires and other life safety concerns that may endanger
the occupants or building. FIRE WATCH personnel shall be provided with at least
one approved means for notification of the Fire Department and their only duty
shall be to perform constant patrols of the protected premises and keep watch
for fires. This person must be familiar with the building, the evacuation
procedure, the use of fire extinguishers and trained in fire safety and
prevention. Personnel used for FIRE WATCH shall be certified as a State
Firefighter I/II and shall be approved by the Fire Marshal. All costs,
including wages paid directly to the FIRE WATCH personnel, shall be the
responsibility of the building owner.
   IBC. Indiana Building Code (675 I.A.C. 13).
   IFC. Indiana Fire Code (675 I.A.C. 22).
   INDIANA BUILDING CODE (675 I.A.C. 13). Standards for the construction of
buildings, utilities, mechanical equipment and all forms of structures and
permanent installations as adopted by the FPBSC (675 I.A.C. 13).
   INDIANA FIRE CODE (675 I.A.C. 22). Regulations affecting or relating to
structures, processes and premises and safeguards from the hazard of fire and
explosion arising from the storage handling or use of structures, materials or
devices; from conditions hazardous to life, property or public welfare in the
occupancy of structures or premises from fire hazards in the structure or on
the premises from occupancy or operation; and, matters related to the
construction, extension, repair, alteration or removal of fire suppression and
alarm systems as adopted by the FPBSC (675 I.A.C. 22).
   KEY BOX. A key box is a key box provided by the Knox Company that the
building owner utilizes to provide easy access to the Fire Department in the
event of an emergency. This KEY BOX will have a master key to the building or
keys to all areas needing to be accessed by the Fire Department.
   MEANS OF EGRESS. A continuous and unobstructed path of vertical and
horizontal egress travel from any point in a building or structure to a public
way. A MEANS OF EGRESS consists of three separate and distinct parts: the exit
access, the exit and the exit discharge.
   NFPA. National Fire Protection Association.
   OCCUPANCY PERMIT. A certificate issued permitting a person, firm or
corporation to occupy a building or space.
   OPTICOM. This is referring to the brand name of the equipment that the Fire
Department uses to control traffic-control devices throughout the District.
   ORDER. A written document that requires the person being served, to
immediately take action to correct the violation. The person being served must
follow the requirements of the ORDER and comply within the stated deadline.
   PERMIT. A certificate issued by governing authority
   PLANS. Building plans.
   OCCUPANT. Person who inhabits or engages in commerce within a building.
   OWNER. Any person with legal interest with property without limitation, the
holder of title in fee.
   RESIDENCE. A dwelling whose occupants may not be permanent.
   SERVING FIRE CHIEF. The Fire Chief for the Fire Department that provides the
primary fire and emergency services to the property.
   SERVING FIRE DEPARTMENT. The fire department that provides the primary fire
and emergency services to the property.
   SERVING FIRE MARSHAL. The Fire Marshal from the Department that provides the
primary fire and emergency services to the property.
   SMOKE DETECTOR. A listed device that senses visible or invisible particles
of combustion.
   STANDARD/RULE. Requirement established by governing body.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, erected or established that requires
location on or in the ground or is attached to something having a location on
or in the ground.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.009 FIRE DEPARTMENT CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   There are special requirements in the town with regards to Fire
Department connections that are specific to the response area. These
requirements are designed to standardize the location of all Fire Department
connections in an effect to make it safer for firefighting crews when
confronted with a structure fire.
      (2)   As permitted by the Indiana Fire Code, 675 I.A.C. 22, the Fire
Department shall be consulted prior to placing the Fire Department connection
at a specific location. This should also be noted on the site and sprinkler
plans submitted to the Fire Marshal.
      (3)   Fire Department connections shall be installed where required by
and in accordance with the rules of the FPBSC at the time of installation. In
addition, Fire Department connection specifications shall comply with this
chapter.
      (4)   The Fire Department shall be notified prior to installing any Fire
Department connection. Plans indicating proposed Fire Department connection
locations shall be submitted to the Fire Prevention Division for review and
approval during the fire protection permit process.
   (B)   Location and installation. The servicing Fire Department shall be
consulted before placing the Fire Department hose connections at any location.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.010 FIRE ALARM REQUIREMENTS; FAULTY OR FALSE ALARMS.
   (A)   (1)   General. This division (A) shall cover installation and
maintenance of all manual and automatic fire alarm systems in new and existing
structures.
      (2)   Monitoring.
         (a)   Fire alarm systems required by 675 I.A.C. 13, 675 I.A.C. 22 or
this division (A) installed after the effective date of this chapter shall be
monitored as set forth in accordance with the rules of the FPBSC.
         (b)   The Fire Department’s emergency communications center shall
immediately be notified upon activation of any fire alarm by telephone, except
in the case of a supervised fire drill or periodic testing of the system,
installed after the effective date of this chapter.
      (3)   Faulty/false alarms. Whenever the Fire Department responds to an
automatic fire alarm at a premises or building more than three times in a
calendar year due to improper alarm installation, lack of maintenance,
servicing, improper construction or maintenance work, or failure to notify the
Fire Department of a drill or test, a fee/fine as approved by the Town Council
shall be imposed.
      (4)   Remote fire alarm annunciator panels. When a fire alarm is required
by the Indiana Fire Code to be installed, a zoning panel and associated
controls shall be provided at the entrance the Fire Department will use as its
main entrance point to the building.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly give, or cause
be given, any false alarm or fire, or to tamper with or set off any fire alarm
or signal box with like intent; or tamper, meddle or interfere with any such
box, wiring or supports thereof connected with the fire alarm or sprinkler
system.
      (2)   (a)   The premises owner or the occupant of the premises shall not
conduct a fire drill or test a monitored fire alarm system without first
notifying the Fire Department and the Fire Department Dispatch Center.
         (b)   A false alarm fee shall be imposed after the third false alarm
is received in a calendar year. That fee is set forth in this chapter and has
been approved by the Town Council. However, additional fees may be assessed to
the suspect and the owner if the activation is determined to be a malicious
act.
      (3)   A person who gives a false alarm of fire to the Fire Department of
a governmental entity, knowing the alarm to be false commits false informing, a
Class B misdemeanor. However, the offense is a Class A misdemeanor if it
substantially hinders any law enforcement or Fire Department process, or if it
results in harm to an innocent person.
      (4)   All sections of this division (B) shall apply to Class 1 and Class
2 structures.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.011 WATER SUPPLY FOR FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   All Class 1 structures or portions of Class 1 structures hereafter
constructed shall be provided with a water supply capable of providing the
required fire flow for fire-fighting purposes for a minimum of two hours. The
water supply shall be from a source accepted by the rules of the FPBSC.
      (2)   In setting the requirements for fire flow, the Fire Chief, the Fire
Marshal and/or his or her designee(s) shall use App. B, Fire-Flow Requirements
for Buildings, of the current FPBSC adopted Fire Code.
   (B)   Water main sizes. Water main sizes shall be large enough to maintain
the required fire-flow as set forth in this chapter and as required by the
rules of the FPBSC.
      (1)   Six inch dead-end water mains that supply one fire hydrant shall
not exceed 150 feet.
      (2)   An eight inch dead-end water main that supplies one fire hydrant
shall not exceed 500 feet.
      (3)   A dead-end water main that supplies a fire sprinkler system (and/or
a standpipe system) and two or three fire hydrants shall have a minimum inner
diameter of eight inches.
      (4)   A fire service water main that supplies three or more fire hydrants
shall be tapped off a distribution supply main in two separate areas (looped).
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.012 FIRE PROTECTION IN RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, MOBILE HOME AND MANUFACTURED
HOUSING PARKS, SALE AND STORAGE LOTS.
   Recreational vehicle, mobile home and manufactured housing parks, sales lots
and storage lots, hereafter constructed or added to, shall provide and maintain
fire hydrants and Fire Department access roads in accordance to the FPBSC
adopted codes and this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.013 REQUIRED FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS; OUT-OF-SERVICE.
   (A)   General. Where a required fire protection system is out of service,
the Fire Department shall be notified immediately and the building shall either
be evacuated or an approved fire watch shall be provided for all occupants left
unprotected, until the fire protection system has been returned to service.
   (B)   Fire watches.
      (1)   Where utilized, fire watches shall be provided with at least one
approved means for notification of the Fire Department and their only duty
shall be to perform constant patrols or the unprotected premises and keep watch
for fires.
      (2)   The person who is on fire watch shall be a State Certified
Firefighter I/II and be able to present current certification documentation
(copies) when requested, and approved by the Fire Chief and/or his or her
designee. The fire watch shall have direct ability to communicate with the Fire
Department dispatch center.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.014 TRAFFIC SIGNALS.
   (A)   Any time a new development is required to install a traffic-control
signal device, or upgrade an existing signal, the developer shall be
responsible for installing the current emergency vehicle preemption signaling
equipment on that new signal.
   (B)   Product identification and signaling information is available through
the Fire Marshal’s office.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.015 EMERGENCY COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Any time a commercial building is being built in the District, the
owner of the building shall contact the serving Fire Marshal for information on
emergency communications equipment that may be required to be installed into
the building.
   (B)   This equipment is a radio repeater system that is used to assist
police and fire agencies inside the building.
   (C)   It will allow the County Emergency Communications radio system to
function properly inside its new building.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.016 RAISED PAVEMENT MARKER.
   After hydrants have been installed, there shall be a raised pavement marker
installed along the centerline of the street, offset to the side of the hydrant
and perpendicular to each hydrant. The raised pavement marker shall be a blue
reflector and as specified in the current INDOTSS. Specifications are also
available upon request from the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.017 PREMISES IDENTIFICATION.
   New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers, building
numbers or approved building identification placed in an approved position that
is plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property as
well as the rear access or exit doors. These numbers or letters shall contrast
with their background. Address numbers shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet
letters. Numbers and letters shall be a minimum of four inches high with a
minimum stroke width of one-half inch.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.018 UNLAWFUL TO HINDER DISTRICT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, interfere with or in any
manner hinder the District or any of its agents while engaged in the discharge
of duties. A person who knowingly or intentionally obstructs or interferes with
a firefighter performing or attempting to perform the firefighter’s emergency
functions or duties as a firefighter commits obstructing a firefighter, a Class
A misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.019 DISCLAIMERS.
   (A)   Severability. If any section, division, sentence, clause, phrase or
portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portion hereto.
   (B)   Codification. It is the intention of the town and the Town Fire
Department, that the provisions of this chapter shall be made a part of the
town’s urban and rural ordinances; and that sections of this chapter may be
renumbered or re-lettered and the word “ordinance” may be changed to “chapter”,
“section”, “subchapter” or such other appropriate word or phrase in order to
accomplish such intentions; and regardless of whether such inclusion in the
Code is accomplished, sections of this chapter may be renumbered or re-lettered
and the correction of typographical errors which do not affect the intent may
be authorized by the Town Council, without the need of a public hearing, by
filing a corrected or re-codified copy of same with the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
   (C)   Local ordinances. Nothing contained in these regulations shall be
considered as abrogating the provisions of any ordinance, rule or regulation of
any state or local jurisdiction providing such ordinance, rule, regulation,
code or general plan element is equal to or more stringent than these minimum
standards.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
PLAN REVIEW
§ 51.030 GENERAL.
   (A)   The Town Fire Department Fire Prevention Division shall perform a
review of all pertinent site plans, building plans (construction), fire
protection system plans and specifications including sprinkler, fire alarm
systems and hood suppression systems of any project within the boundaries of
the Town Fire Department, in order to determine whether such plans and
specifications comply with the applicable rules of the Fire Prevention and
Building Safety Commission (FPBSC), this chapter and any other codes, standards
or rules that may apply. Separate review and permits shall be required for fire
protection systems based on the fire protection permit standards in this
chapter.
   (B)   Plans shall be submitted in traditional 24-inch by 36-inch paper form.
   (C)   If available, in addition to paper form, plans shall be submitted in
digital format compatible with current Fire Department software in order to
assist the Department in the pre-fire planning of that structure. These shall
include site and construction plans submitted in Auto CAD format.
   (D)   Fire Department plan review shall occur at the following phases: site
plan, construction plan and fire protection systems plan. This review shall run
concurrent to the town plan review and any issues or corrections that need to
be made to the plans shall be completed by the developer prior to the approval
of the Town Planning and Building Department and the Town Fire Department. No
town or Town Fire Department approvals or permits shall be given or issued
until review as provided herein and compliance has occurred.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.031 EXISTING BUILDING MODIFICATIONS.
   Plans shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal prior to any alteration,
remodel, addition or demolition of any part of a building that is equipped with
an automatic fire suppression system and/or automatic fire detection and/or
fire alarm system.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
FIRE PROTECTION PERMIT
§ 51.045 GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   Plans and specifications for Class 1 structures containing fire
protection systems shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal prior to the system
installation for review in accordance with the rules of the FPBSC and this
chapter. No person shall install a fire protection system without first
obtaining a fire protection permit from the Fire Marshal.
      (2)   A fire protection permit shall also be required anytime a town
building permit is issued, and the structure listed is equipped with a fire
protection system; including a fire sprinkler system, fire alarm system or a
kitchen hood suppression system.
   (B)   An application for a fire protection permit shall be submitted on the
Fire Department’s prescribed forms and include all documentation required by
the applicable NFPA standard adopted by the FPBSC, but shall not be less than
the following:
      (1)   Requirements for fire sprinkler system submissions:
         (a)   Accurate shop drawings of the system;
         (b)   Hydraulic calculations;
         (c)   Product specification sheets; and
         (d)   State construction design release (where required by the FPBSC).
      (2)   Requirements for fire alarm system submissions:
         (a)   Accurate shop drawings of the system;
         (b)   Battery calculations;
         (c)   Product specifications; and
         (d)   State construction design release (where required by the FPBSC).
      (3)   Requirements for kitchen hood fire suppression system submissions:
         (a)   Hood listing and installation documentation;
         (b)   Schematic of the fire suppression system installation and
protected equipment;
         (c)   Product specification sheets of the nozzles, tanks, piping,
agent and other related items; and
         (d)   State construction design release (where required by the FPBSC).
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.046 FEES.
   The fee for each fire protection permit issued pursuant to this subchapter
shall be as approved by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.047 PERMIT PROCESS.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal or his or her designee shall review the system plans
and process the application within 15 through 20 days of receiving a completed
permit application and all applicable fees.
   (B)   A fire protection permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall not
be transferable, and any change in use or occupancy prior to the acceptance
test shall require a new permit.
   (C)   A fire protection permit may be issued for individual portions of a
structure based on need and items submitted to the Fire Marshal. Examples:
      (1)   New construction on a structure requiring a sprinkler system, fire
alarm system and a kitchen hood suppression system;
      (2)   Items for construction may not be submitted at the same time. Fire
protection permits may be granted for the sprinkler systems without the
attachment of the fire alarm system and a kitchen hood suppression system; and
      (3)   Applicable fees would apply, but work may only be done on the area
with the issued permit.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.048 ACCEPTANCE TESTING.
   (A)   An acceptance test according to NFPA standards of the system shall be
conducted prior to occupancy of the building or use of the protected area by
the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal and/or his or her designee(s). All systems
must completely pass to obtain occupancy of the building or protected area.
   (B)   If during the initial acceptance test, deficiencies are discovered
that require the system be tested at a later date to ensure code compliance, a
re-inspection fee as determined by the Town Council shall be paid prior to each
re-inspection.
   (C)   The installer shall contact the Fire Prevention Division at least 48
hours prior to schedule an acceptance test.
   (D)   Once acceptance tests are satisfactorily completed, a certificate of
completion shall be given to the Town Fire Department.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.049 APPEALS PROCESS.
   When the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal and/or his or her designee(s) denies
to grant a permit required by this subchapter, or when it is claimed that
provisions of this subchapter or sections of this chapter do not apply, the
person may appeal from the decision according to §
51.123 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.050 VALIDITY.
   (A)   Each permit granted under the provisions of this subchapter shall be
valid for one year as long as the installed system remains as designed. If the
system is modified, the new design must be re-approved by the Fire Marshal or
his or her designee, and new items submitted as required by this subchapter.
   (B)   A permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall at all times be
posted in a conspicuous place on the premises as designated in the permit and
shall at all times be subject to inspection by the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal
and/or his or her designee(s).
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.051 INSTALLER INFORMATION.
   (A)   All installers must be qualified individuals.
   (B)   Installers must notify the Fire Prevention Division at least 48 hours
in advance of the system being completed for system testing.
   (C)   Any items and/or personnel needed for acceptance testing shall be
provided by the installing company.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
FIRE HYDRANTS
§ 51.065 GENERAL.
   (A)   When determining the number and location of fire hydrants necessary to
provide the required fire flow, Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal and/or his or her
designee(s) shall use App. C, Fire Hydrant Locations and Distribution, of the
current FPBSC adopted Fire Code.
   (B)   Fire hydrants shall only be used for fire protection, or as so
directed by the water utility having jurisdiction.
   (C)   Fire hydrants shall be kept clear and accessible at all times.
   (D)   Where the codes adopted by the FPBSC or this chapter requires three or
more hydrants for proper fire-flow, those hydrants shall be placed in a loop
series in regards to the servicing water mains.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.066 PRIVATE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   All private fire hydrants and water mains shall be installed and
maintained as set forth in the current NFPA standards and the adopted FPBSC
Fire Code.
   (B)   The proposed location of private fire hydrants to supply the required
fire flow shall be approved by the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal and/or his or
her designee(s) prior to construction of any Class 1 structure.
   (C)   All private fire hydrants shall be painted red in color.
   (D)   All pubic fire hydrants shall remain the standard (consistent) color
as provided by the servicing water company.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.067 INSTALLATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Whenever the provisions of this subchapter require the installation of
a fire hydrant, whether on public or private property, such hydrant shall meet
the following specifications.
      (1)   It shall be equipped with a five and one-quarter inch main valve
opening.
      (2)   It shall be constructed with two two and one-half inch hose
nozzles, with seven and one-half national standard threads per inch.
      (3)   It shall be equipped with one four and one-half inch steamer nozzle
equipped with a five- inch Storz connection.
      (4)   It shall be constructed to be opened by turning clockwise a
national standard pentagon operating nut.
      (5)   The source of the water supply shall be buried a minimum of five
feet below the ground level at the hydrant.
      (6)   The hydrant shall be constructed with a break-off feature to
prevent the hydrant from leaking when damaged by collision.
   (B)   All fire hydrants, public or private shall be located not more than
eight feet from the edge of a paved area accessible by a Fire Department
pumping apparatus, unless in a construction area.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.068 OUT-OF-SERVICE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Fire hydrants that are out of service should be covered with a bag
indicating “out-of-service”.
   (B)   Non-functional hydrants shall be made functional or removed.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.069 DRY HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Dry hydrants may be required to be installed when an available static
water supply is available in the development. This should be used as an
additional water supply for fire protection. Dry hydrants shall not be
substituted when standard fire hydrants are required by the FPBSC adopted code
and this chapter.
   (B)   Dry hydrants shall be placed within eight feet of the roadway and 30
to 36 inches above finished grade.
   (C)   All dry hydrants shall be painted red in color.
   (D)   The connection is to be a six-inch female connection national standard
thread with cap. All installations shall be in accordance with NFPA and the
FPBSC adopted codes.
   (E)   All dry hydrants shall be identified with a sign stating “Fire
Department Dry Hydrant - Do Not Block”, which shall be affixed to the
connection.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS ROADS
§ 51.080 GENERAL.
   Except for buildings protected throughout with an approved automatic
sprinkler system installed in accordance with the rules of the Fire Prevention
and Building Safety Commission, Fire Department access roads shall be provided
and maintained for every facility, building or portion of a building hereafter
constructed or moved into/within the jurisdiction. The Fire Department access
roads shall comply with the requirements of this section and shall extend to
within 150 feet of all portions of the structure or any portion of the exterior
wall of the first story of the building as measured by an approved route around
the exterior of the structure.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.081 GATES.
   (A)   The Fire Marshal and/or his or her designee is authorized to require
the installation and maintenance of gates or other approved barricades across
Fire Department access roads, trails or other access-ways, not including public
streets, alleys or highways.
   (B)   When a gated entrance is proposed on any project, commercial or
residential, the access drive and radiuses shall be reviewed and shall meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   When a traffic-control device such as, but not limited to, gates,
islands or curbing, is proposed to be installed in a new or existing
development, the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal and/or his or her designee(s)
shall review the plans to assure that fire apparatus access will not be
obstructed.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.082 DIMENSIONS.
   Fire Department access roads shall have an unobstructed width of not less
than 20 feet, except for approved security gates in accordance with this
subchapter, which shall not have less than an unobstructed width of ten feet;
and an unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than 13 feet, six inches.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.083 INCREASE CLEARANCE AND WIDTH.
   Vertical clearances or widths required by this section shall be increased
when vertical clearances or widths do not provide Fire Department access for
the largest vehicle available to the servicing Fire Department.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.084 SURFACE.
   Facilities, structures or portions of structures hereafter constructed shall
be accessible to Fire Department apparatus by way of an approved Fire
Department access road with an all-weather driving surface capable of
supporting the imposed load of the heaviest piece of fire apparatus available
to the servicing Fire Department.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.085 TURNING RADIUS.
   (A)   The turning radius of a Fire Department access road shall be
determined after consultation of the Town Fire Department and shall be at least
equal to the minimum required radius for fire apparatus.
   (B)   Such roads shall be designed and constructed to permit turning of the
longest piece of fire apparatus available to the servicing Fire Department.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.086 DEAD-ENDS.
   (A)   (1)   Dead-end Fire Department access roads in excess of 150 feet in
length shall be provided with an approved area for turning around fire
apparatus.
      (2)   This shall be approved by the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal and/or
his or her designee(s).
   (B)   The turn-around shall be based on those adopted by the FPBSC and this
chapter.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.087 GRADE.
   The gradient for all Fire Department access roads shall not exceed the
maximum that the apparatus available to the servicing Fire Department can
accommodate.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.088 MARKING.
   Fire Department access roads, not including public streets, alleys or
highways, shall be identified by signs or notices which shall be maintained in
a clean and legible condition at all times, and be replaced or repaired when
necessary to provide adequate visibility.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.089 ACCESS ROADS AND FIRE LANE SIGNS.
   Fire Department access roads and fire lanes shall be marked with permanent
“No Parking - Fire Lane” signs complying with the adopted FPBSC code and this
chapter.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.090 DIMENSION AND RATING REQUIREMENTS.
   Current dimension and rating requirements may be obtained through the Fire
Marshal.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.091 FIRE DEPARTMENT ACCESS FOR BRIDGES TO RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES.
   All bridges to residential structures that are on the primary Fire
Department access road/drive shall be capable of supporting the largest Fire
Department apparatus.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
EMERGENCIES
§ 51.105 FIRE DEPARTMENT EMERGENCY ACCESS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   In accordance with the rules of the State FPBSC, buildings
protected with an automatic sprinkler system equipped with a local or
transmitted water-flow alarm, or buildings provided with any fire alarm system
equipped with an outside audible/visual signaling device, or a building
provided with a fire alarm system where the alarm is transmitted to an off-site
location shall participate in the Fire Department’s emergency key box (Knox
Company) program.
      (2)   The building owner/occupant shall provide at least one key capable
of opening all protected areas of the building. The owner shall be responsible
for ensuring that updated keys are provided to the Fire Department as
necessary.
      (3)   All automatic gates or similar barriers across a Fire Department
access road or trail shall be provided with an approved Knox key box with the
proper codes and/or keys, a Knox key override system for access, and shall be
equipped with a siren activation device for access. This division (A)(2) shall
apply to Class 2 structures as well using automatic gates. All manual gates
shall be provided with an approved Knox padlock keyed to the Town Fire
Department. This division (A)(2) shall apply to Class 2 structures as well.
      (4)   All emergency key boxes, padlocks and emergency key vaults shall be
from the Knox Company, and shall be keyed to the Town Fire Department.
      (5)   It shall be unlawful for a person to make, cause or permit to be
made or have in his or her possession any key for any emergency key box, except
upon written order of the Fire Chief or his or her designee, or to fail or
refuse to surrender possession of any such key upon demand of the Fire Chief or
his or her designee.
   (B)   Installation. The emergency key box shall be installed on the building
no more than four feet to the right of the main building entrance and
approximately four feet above grade. Alternate locations shall be approved by
the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal and/or his or her designee. The red/reflective,
Knox Company sticker shall be affixed in the upper corner of the main entrance
door on the side leading to the key box.
   (C)   Compliance. This section is intended to apply prospectively to any new
commercial construction within the Town Fire Department District and those
areas protected under contract. All existing buildings at the time of this
chapter are requested to voluntarily comply with this section. Notwithstanding
this provision, any existing building which is remodeled, structurally altered
or alters the fire protection systems in any way hereafter, shall comply with
the terms and provisions of this section.
   (D)   Limitation. This section, other than division (A)(3) above, shall not
apply to Class 2 structures. However, if a Class 2 structure chooses to
participate in this section, all divisions shall apply.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.106 EMERGENCY ENTRY.
   (A)   General. The Town Fire Department shall have the right to enter any
building or premises without permission or warrant in the event of any
emergency situation constituting a threat to human life, property or the public
safety for the purpose of eliminating, controlling or abating the dangerous
condition or situation.
   (B)   Liability. At no time will the town, the Town Fire Department or any
of its agents be responsible for any damages as a result of an emergency entry.
The Town Fire Department or the Fire Department dispatch center will notify the
owner/occupant of the event and it will be the responsibility of the owner/
occupant to assure that the building is re-secured.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.120 PERMITTING.
   (A)   Building permit.
      (1)   No permit for a Class 1 structure shall be issued for construction,
addition, alteration, demolition of any structure or work being done on a fire
alarm or sprinkler system located within the jurisdiction limits of the Town
Fire Department without prior plan review and approval of the Fire Chief, the
Fire Marshal and/or his or her designee(s).
      (2)   No permit for Class 1 or Class 2 combustible construction shall be
issued prior to the required and/or approved water source and the required Fire
Department access roads being in-service and verified by the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and/or his or her designee.
   (B)   Occupancy permit.
      (1)   Prior to the occupancy of any newly constructed structure and/or
tenant area, an inspection and approval must be given by the Town Building
Inspector and the Fire Chief, or the Fire Marshal and/or his or her designee.
      (2)   After the final inspection occurs, a certificate of occupancy shall
be signed by the Town Building Official and the Fire Marshal.
      (3)   This will then allow the occupant to start moving into that
building.
      (4)   Occupancy prior to the final inspection of the Fire Chief, the Fire
Marshal and/or his or her designee(s)and the issuance of certificate of
occupancy shall result in a fee as set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.121 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   Whenever the Fire Chief, the Fire Marshal and/or his or her designee
(s) finds any violation of this chapter, the rules of the Fire Protection and
Building Safety Commission (FPBSC), or work that is being performed in a manner
contrary to the provisions of the rules of the FPBSC, this chapter or in a
dangerous or unsafe manner, those listed in this section are authorized to
issue a stop work order.
   (B)   The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property involved, or the owner’s agent, or to the person doing
the work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately
cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order, and the
conditions under which the cited work will be permitted to resume. That order
shall require persons to leave the area that is affected by a violation and
prohibit persons from entering the area, or working on the cited violation
(unless to correct), until the violation is corrected.
   (C)   Each person who continues any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to a violation of
order fine and other penalties as prescribed by law. An order issued under
sections of this section may be appealed to the FPBSC.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.122 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Acceptance test. Prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy
for a newly-constructed, renovated, or remodeled Class 1 structure, the Town
Fire Department is required to witness a successful acceptance or performance
test in accordance with the appropriate installation standard or manufacturer’s
specifications for the following systems (if applicable):
      (1)   Fire alarm system;
      (2)   Sprinkler system;
      (3)   Special hazard fire suppression system; and
      (4)   Type I hood exhaust system.
   (B)   Written verification. Prior to the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy for a newly- constructed, renovated or remodeled Class 1 structure,
the Town Fire Department requires written verification that each fire
protection and life-safety system has been installed in complete agreement with
the terms of the listing, manufacturer’s instructions, and the applicable
installation standard.
   (C)   Installation documentation. Prior to the issuance of the certificate
of occupancy for a newly- constructed, renovated or remodeled Class 1
structure, the Town Fire Department requires the following documentation (if
applicable):
      (1)   Record of completion for fire alarm systems, as required by NFPA
72;
      (2)   Contractor’s material and test certificate for aboveground piping
for sprinkler and standpipe systems, as required by NFPA;
      (3)   Contractor’s material and test certificate for underground piping
for private fire service mains, fire hydrants and piping, as required by NFPA
13 and 24;
      (4)   Certificate of completion/installation for all special hazard fire
suppression systems; and
      (5)   Air balance test report (Type I and II exhaust hoods).
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.123 APPEALS PROCESS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by an order issued under this chapter shall have
the right to petition for review of any order of the Fire Chief, the Fire
Marshal and/or his or her designee(s). Such a person may file a petition using
either, or all, of the following procedures:
   (B)   A property owner or lessee with consent of the owner requesting a
variance from the rules of the FPBSC shall apply for such to the FPBSC.
   (C)   A property owner or lessee with consent of the owner requesting a
variance from the provisions of this chapter that are not part of rules of the
FPBSC shall apply in writing to the Town Safety Board. The granting of a
variance shall be considered only upon the written application of the owner of
the property, stating that:
      (1)   Practical difficulties have been encountered in the implementation
of specific requirements of this chapter;
      (2)   Compliance with specific requirements of this chapter will cause
unnecessary hardship to the owner; and
      (3)   The owner desires to take advantage of new methods or equipment,
which are recognized as adequate for the purpose for which they are to be
substituted; but shall be approved by the Fire Chief and Fire Marshal.
   (D)   A variance may be granted only if the Town Safety Board determines in
writing that:
      (1)   The requested use or modification will conform to fundamental
requirements for safety; and
      (2)   The granting of the variance does not increase the risk of fire or
danger to the public, firefighters or intended occupants. A copy of any
variance granted shall be retained by the Division.
   (E)   Until a formal variance is granted by the Town Safety Board, the
original violation cited, that is under appeal, shall remain in effect.
   (F)   Whenever the town learns that a property owner or lessee is in
violation of the terms of a variance issued pursuant to this chapter, the town
may employ legal action as set forth in this chapter.
   (G)   The Town Safety Board shall retain the ability to table the variance
request for one 30-day period to research the request if needed.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.124 INSPECTION PROCESS.
   (A)   General. The Fire Marshal or his or her designee shall conduct the
following inspections on all new and existing Class 1 structures located within
the town and areas protected under contract by the Town Fire Department.
   (B)   New construction.
      (1)   Required inspections completed by the Fire Marshal and/or his or
her designee shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Site;
         (b)   Pre-drywall (rough-in);
         (c)   Above ceiling;
         (d)   Pre-final;
         (e)   Final certificate of occupancy;
         (f)   Sprinkler system rough-in;
         (g)   Sprinkler system final;
         (h)   Fire alarm rough-in; and
         (i)   Fire alarm final.
      (2)   These required inspections may run concurrent.
   (C)   Existing Class 1 structures. The inspection is completed by a state-
certified Fire Inspector. At the time the inspection occurs, the Inspector will
evaluate the premises for violations of the applicable rules of FPBSC, this
chapter and other documents as adopted by the FPBSC. At the completion of the
inspection, the Inspector will review the results with the occupant and leave a
copy of the inspection report with the occupant. At the end of the correction
period, a re-inspection will occur in approximately 30 to 45 days to determine
if the violations have been corrected. If the previously cited violations are
found to be corrected, no other action shall be needed. If violations are found
to still exist after this first re-inspection, then a copy of the inspection
form will be left with the occupant and the results reviewed with the occupant,
the occupant shall then forward to the owner. A second re-inspection will occur
in approximately 15 days and a fee as per this chapter, shall be assessed. If
the previous cited violations are corrected at this re-inspection, then no
further action shall be required. If previously cited violations are found, a
fee shall be assessed and a third re-inspection will occur in approximately
five days. If those violations are not corrected, a fee shall be assessed for
each re-inspection and those re-inspections will occur every five days until
the violations are corrected. If at anytime an Inspector completes an
inspection and finds an immediate fire or life safety hazard, the violation
shall be corrected immediately. In the event the violation can not be corrected
immediately, a fire/life safety order will be issued and the violation must be
corrected by the date on the order. Failure to correct the violation by the
date on the order will result in a fee and may cause further legal action to be
taken against the violator. Please note that the fees/fines of this chapter are
in addition to those fines/fees that may be levied by the state or town.
   (D)   Limits. The inspection or permitting of any building, system or plan
by the Fire Department, under the requirements of this chapter and the
applicable rules of the FPBSC, shall not be construed as a warranty of the
physical condition of such building, system or plan or the adequacy thereof,
nor as an approval thereof. Neither the Town Fire Department nor any of its
agents, shall be liable in tort for damages for any defect or hazardous or
illegal condition or inadequacy in such building, system or plan, nor for any
failure of any component of such, which may occur subsequent to such inspection
or permitting.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.125 INVESTIGATION OF FIRES.
   (A)   The serving Fire Department shall investigate the origin, cause, and
circumstances of all fires as pursuant to I.C. 36-8-17-7, under the supervision
of the Fire Chief and/or his or her designee(s) all fires occurring in its
District that meet any of the following criteria shall be investigated:
      (1)   Any fire of a suspicious nature;
      (2)   Any fire involving loss of life or injury to persons;
      (3)   When notified by any Fire Department;
      (4)   When circumstances warrant; and
      (5)   When otherwise deemed necessary.
   (B)   Such investigation will commence immediately upon the occurrence of
such a fire and, if it appears that such fire is of suspicious origin, the Fire
Chief and/or his or her designee(s) shall immediately be notified and
coordinate investigation activities with the Fire Department having
jurisdiction. Any information obtained pursuant to any such investigation shall
be confidential as authorized and required by law. The local law enforcement
agency, upon request of the Fire Chief and/or his or her designee(s), may
render such assistance as necessary in the investigation of any fire. If a fire
involves the loss of life to any person(s), the State Fire Marshal’s office
shall be immediately notified. The Fire Chief and/or his or her designee(s) may
utilize all available resources including, but not limited to:
      (1)   State Fire Marshal’s office;
      (2)   Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms (ATF);
      (3)   County Sheriff’s Department;
      (4)   Town Police Department; and
      (5)   Other fire investigators as deemed necessary.
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010)
§ 51.126 FEES AND FINES.
   (A)   Inspection fees - existing structures. Exceptions may be given by the
Fire Chief or Fire Marshal depending on the violation cited.
 
Annual inspection                               $0
First re-inspection (approximately 30 days)     $0
Second re-inspection (approximately 15 days)    $100
Third and all subsequent (approximately 5 days) $250
 
   (B)   Inspection/permit fees - new construction.
 
Initial site and construction inspections             $0
All subsequent acceptance tests (all types)           $75
Fire alarm/sprinkler system - initial acceptance test $0
Fire Department occupancy permit                      $25
Hood suppression system - initial acceptance test     $0
 
   (C)   Plan review fees.
 
Construction/building plan review $0.10 per sq. ft./$75 minimum
 
   (D)   Fire protection permit fees.
 
Automatic sprinkler system per NFPA 13 Number of risers or systems x $100
Fire alarm system per NFPA 72          Number of fire alarm annunciation zones
                                       per NFPA 72 x $100
Modification to an existing system     Item being modified (i.e., riser) x $75
Special hazard system (i.e., hood      Number of systems x $100
suppression system)
 
   (E)   General fees/fines.
 
Construction or installation without a  Stop work order, plus 5x normal permit
fire protection permit                  fee
Failure to implement a required fire    $350 per day/per person - IDHS notified
watch
False/faulty alarms (alarms 4 - 6 in a  $75 each occurrence
calendar year)
False/faulty alarms (alarms 7 - 10 in a $150 each occurrence
calendar year)
False/faulty alarms (alarms 11 and      $250 each occurrence
beyond in a calendar year)
Occupancy without occupancy permit      $250 per day
Tampering with a life safety system     $500 each occurrence - IDHS and ZPD
                                        notified
 
(Ord. 2010-16, passed 12-6-2010; amended 6-29-2015)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Sewage Works Replacement Fund
   
52.002   Septic systems and geothermal open-loop systems prohibited
Public and Private Sewers
   
52.015   Definitions
   
52.016   Waste and water discharge regulations
   
52.017   Private sewage disposal systems
   
52.018   Connection to public sewer
   
52.019   Discharge of certain waters or wastes prohibited
   
52.020   Pretreatment of industrial wastes
   
52.021   Plans for pretreatment or control facilities
   
52.022   Discharge of certain unpolluted water to storm sewer
   
52.023   Discharge of industrial cooling water
   
52.024   Reports on wastewater flow characteristics required
   
52.025   Periodic determinations of wastewater strength
   
52.026   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps
   
52.027   Report by users of unusual flows or wastes
   
52.028   Compliance with state and federal requirements
   
52.029   Damaging and tampering prohibited
   
52.030   Authority to inspect
Availability Fee; Ownership of System; Inspections
   
52.045   Definitions
   
52.046   Ownership of system
   
52.047   Connection permits
   
52.048   Availability fee
   
52.049   Sewer Availability Fund
   
52.050   Required connections
   
52.051   Amendment
Sewer Charges and Rates
   
52.065   Definitions
   
52.066   User classes
   
52.067   Collection of charges and rates
   
52.068   Basis and determination of charges and rates
   
52.069   Preparation, billing and collection
   
52.070   By-laws and regulations
   
52.071   Special rate contracts
   
52.072   Appeal procedure
   
52.073   Platted lots and developed properties
   
52.074   Irishman’s Run users
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001 SEWAGE WORKS REPLACEMENT FUND.
   (A)   The town shall establish a replacement fund to be used solely for the
purpose of funding replacements and improvements to the sewage works and that
are reasonable and necessary for the continued operations of said sewage works
in a manner that will allow the town to comply with the Clean Water Act, being
42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.
   (B)   The town shall initially deposit $200,000 from the net proceeds of the
sale of the water utility into said Replacement Fund.
   (C)   The town shall, as a part of its biennial review of the adequacy of
the user charge system, compare the cash balance in the Replacement Fund with
anticipated future Replacement Fund requirements to ensure that said funds in
said Replacement Fund are adequate and sufficient.
   (D)   The town shall revise its user charge system, as necessary, in order
to ensure that the user charge system is fair and proportional among the
various classes of users and that said user charges are adequate and sufficient
to operate and maintain the sewage works facilities, to provide for the
replacement of equipment and to make other improvements as may be reasonable
and necessary.
(1996 Code, § 5-31) (Ord. 86-16, passed - -)
§ 52.002 SEPTIC SYSTEMS AND GEOTHERMAL OPEN-LOOP SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to preserve, protect and enhance the
quality of the environment so that, to the extent possible, future generations
will be ensured of clean water and a healthful environment. To accomplish this
objective, it has been found necessary to encourage the use of the town sewer
system, which is now available to all developed properties within the municipal
boundaries of the town, and discourage the use of wasteful heating and cooling
systems, by prohibiting the construction of new septic systems and new
geothermal open-loop systems.
   (B)   The construction of new septic systems within the municipal boundaries
is prohibited.
   (C)   The construction of new geothermal open-loop heating and/or cooling
systems within the municipal boundaries is prohibited.
(1996 Code, § 5-50) (Ord. 88-15, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS
§ 52.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMMONIA NITROGEN or NH-N. All of the nitrogen in water, sewage or other
liquid waste present in the form of ammonia, ammonia ion or in the equilibrium
NH + NH + H +.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD. The quantity of oxygen expressed in mg/
l utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedures in five days at 20°C.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of a building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
three feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING DRAIN, SANITARY. A building drain which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING DRAIN, STORM. A building drain which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no wastewater.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal. (Also called HOUSE CONNECTION.)
   BUILDING SEWER, SANITARY. A building sewer which conveys sanitary or
industrial sewage only.
   BUILDING SEWER, STORM. A building sewer which conveys storm water or other
clear water drainage, but no sanitary or industrial sewage.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater or storm or
surface water.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in
fact does remove such pollutants to a substantial degree. The term “substantial
degree” is not subject to precise definition, but generally contemplates
removals in the order of 80% or greater. Minor incidental removals in the order
of 10% to 30% are not considered substantial. Examples of the additional
pollutants which may be considered COMPATIBLE include:
      (1)   Chemical oxygen demand;
      (2)   Total organic carbon;
      (3)   Phosphorus and phosphorus compounds;
      (4)   Nitrogen and nitrogen compounds; and
      (5)   Fats, oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin (except as
prohibited where these materials would interfere with the operation of the
treatment works).
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any of a number of organisms common to the intestinal tract
of humans and animals, whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in a pretreatment facility
approved by the town.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from the ground, through such means as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. (INFILTRATION does
not include and is distinguished from inflow.)
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow without distinguishing the source.
   INFLOW. The water discharge into a sewer system, including building drains
and sewers, from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellars,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, unpolluted cooling water discharges,
drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross- connections from
storm sewers and combined sewers, catch basins, storm waters, surface run-off,
street wash waters or drainage. (INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished
from, infiltration.)
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the town, through its
Town Council, to inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and
their connection to the public sewer system.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. An industry that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
system receiving the waste;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500; or
      (4)   Has a significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on a treatment works or on the quality of
effluent from the treatment works.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in §§
52.065 through
52.074 of this chapter.
   NPDES PERMIT. A permit issued under the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System for discharge of wastewaters to the navigable waters of the
United States pursuant to § 402 of Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams per liter of solution.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group discharging any wastewater to the treatment works.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of industrial sewage from privately owned
industrial sources prior to introduction into a public treatment works.
   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned by a public authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that has been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer which is owned and controlled by the public authority
and will consist of the following increments:
      (1)   COLLECTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges;
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure;
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collector sewers to a treatment facility; and
      (4)   PUMPING STATION. A station positioned in the public sewer system at
which wastewater is pumped to a higher level.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sanitary and industrial wastes, and to
which storm, surface and ground water are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. The combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions,
(including polluted cooling water). The three most common types of SEWAGE are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE. Wastes including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, storm water, infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer;
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE. A combination of liquid and water-carried
wastes, discharged from any industrial establishment, and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment (this shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water); and
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE. The combination of liquid and water-carried wastes
discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE WORKS. The structures, equipment and processes to collect, transport
and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the effluent and
accumulated residual solids.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than ten minutes more than three times the average 24 hours’
concentration of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the
collection system.
   STANDARD METHODS. The laboratory procedures set forth in the latest edition,
at the time of analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, prepared and published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution
Control Federation.
   STORM SEWER. A sewer for conveying water, ground water or unpolluted water
from any source and to which sanitary and/or industrial wastes are not
intentionally admitted.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the municipal sewage works of the town
or his or her authorized deputy, agent or representative.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering under standard laboratory procedure.
   TOTAL SOLIDS. The sum of suspended and dissolved solids.
   TOXIC AMOUNT. Concentrations of any pollutant or combination of pollutants,
which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause adverse
effects, such as cancer, genetic mutations and physiological, manifestations,
as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of Pub. Law No. 92-500.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VIOLATILE ORGANIC MATTER. The material in the sewage solids transformed to
gases or vapors when heated at 55°C for 15 to 20 minutes.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(1996 Code, § 5-6) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
§ 52.016 WASTE AND WATER DISCHARGE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property with the town
or in any area under the jurisdiction of said town any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any sanitary
sewer, either directly or indirectly, storm waters, surface water, ground
water, roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or
unpolluted industrial process water. The town shall require the removal of
unpolluted waters from any wastewater collection or treatment facility if such
removal is cost-effective and is in the best interest of all users of those
facilities.
   (C)   Storm water, surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface
drainage, cooling water, unpolluted water or unpolluted industrial process
water may be admitted to storm sewers which have adequate capacity for their
accommodation. No person shall use such sewers, however, without the specific
permission of the town. No new connection shall be made to any sanitary
combined or storm sewer unless there is capacity available in all downstream
sewers, lift stations, force mains and the sewage treatment plant including
capacity for BOD and suspended solids.
   (D)   No person shall place, deposit or permit to be deposited in any
unsanitary manner on public or private property within the jurisdiction of the
town any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provision of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (E)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any natural
outlet any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with provisions of this chapter and the NPDES
permit.
   (F)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (G)   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the town
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
a public sanitary or combined sewer of the town is hereby required at his
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect with
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within 60 days after date of official notice to do
so; provided that, said public sewer is within 300 feet of the property line.
(1996 Code, § 5-7) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
52.999
§ 52.017 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.016(G) of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
Superintendent. A permit and inspection fee of $25 shall be paid to the town at
the time the application is filed.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
Superintendent. He or she shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of
construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice by the Superintendent.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Board of Health. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
20,000 square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge
to any natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in division (D) above, this
chapter and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the town.
   (G)   When a public sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within 60 days and the private sewage disposal system
shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or dirt.
   (H)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Health
Officer.
(1996 Code, § 5-8) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
§ 52.018 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the said town. The permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector. A permit and
inspection fees of $25 for a residential or commercial building sewer permit
and $50 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer at the time the application is filed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
town from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as one building sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the said Inspector, to meet all
requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
town. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
A.S.T.M. and W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which the
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, exterior
foundation drains, areaway drains or other source of surface run-off or ground
water to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly
or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the town or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the A.S.T.M. and the W.P.C.F. Manual of Practice
No. 9. All such connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent before installations.
   (J)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the said
Inspector when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the
public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the said
Inspector or his or her representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said town.
(1996 Code, § 5-9) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
52.999
§ 52.019 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN WATERS OR WASTES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works or interfere with any treatment
process;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable
of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails, paper, dishes, cups, mild containers and the like, either
whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (5)   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Superintendent as necessary, after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the state, federal or other
public agencies of jurisdiction of such discharge to the receiving waters;
      (6)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes having pH in excess of 9.5;
      (8)   Material which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works; and
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
“slugs”, as defined herein.
      (9)   Waters or wastes containing substances where are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharge to the receiving waters.
   (B)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged, to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or
possess the characteristics enumerated in division (A) above, and which in the
judgment of the Superintendent may have the deleterious effect upon the sewage
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the Superintendent may:
         (a)   Require new industries or industries with significant increase
in discharges to submit information on wastewater characteristics and obtain
prior approval for discharges;
         (b)   Reject the wastes in whole or in part for any reason deemed
appropriate by the town;
         (c)   Require pretreatment of such wastes to within the limits of
normal sewage as defined;
         (d)   Require control or flow equalization of such wastes so as to
avoid any “slug” loads or excessive loads that may be harmful to the treatment
works; and
         (e)   Require payment of a surcharge on any excessive flows or
loadings discharged to the treatment works to cover the additional cost of
having capacity for and treating such wastes.
      (2)   If the Superintendent permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be
subject to the review and approval of the Superintendent and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (C)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (D)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the Superintendent. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible
at all times. Agents of the town, the State Water Pollution Control Agencies
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing.
   (E)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standards Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole, except for applications for NPDES permits and
report thereof which shall be conducted in accordance with rules and regulation
adopted by the USEPA published in the Federal Register on 10-12-1973 (38 C.F.R.
part 20758) and any subsequent revisions subject to approval by the town. In
the event that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall
be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb and
property. (The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD suspended solids
analyses are obtained from 24-hour composites of all outfalls where pHs are
determined from periodic grab samples.)
   (F)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the town and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the town for treatment, subject to payment therefore, by the
industrial concern, at such rates as are compatible with the rate ordinance.
(1996 Code, § 5-10) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
52.999
§ 52.020 PRETREATMENT OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   Pretreatment of industrial wastes from major contributing industries prior
to discharge to the treatment works is required and is subject to the rules and
regulations adopted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA) and published in the Federal Register on 8-25-1978 (40 C.F.R. part
403), and Federal Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants published in the Federal Register on 10-12-1973 (40 C.F.R. part
136), in addition to any more stringent requirements established by the town
and any subsequent state or federal guidelines and rules and regulations.
(1996 Code, § 5-11) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
§ 52.021 PLANS FOR PRETREATMENT OR CONTROL FACILITIES.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
pretreatment or control facilities shall be submitted for approval of the town
and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until approval in
writing, is granted. Where such facilities are provided, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operating order by the
owner at his or her expense and shall be subject to periodic inspection by the
town to determine that such facilities are being operated in conformance with
applicable federal, state and local laws and permits. The owner shall maintain
operating records and shall submit to the town a monthly summary report of the
character and the influent and effluent to show the performance of the
treatment facilities and for comparison against town monitoring records.
(1996 Code, § 5-12) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
§ 52.022 DISCHARGE OF CERTAIN UNPOLLUTED WATER TO STORM SEWER.
   Unpolluted water from air conditioners, cooling, condensing systems or
swimming pools shall be discharged to a storm sewer, where it is available, or
to a combined sewer approved by the town. Where a storm sewer is not available,
discharge may be to a natural outlet approved by the town and by the state.
Where a storm sewer, combined sewer or natural sewer is not available, such
unpolluted water may be discharged to a sanitary sewer pending written approval
by the town.
(1996 Code, § 5-13) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
§ 52.023 DISCHARGE OF INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER.
   Industrial cooling water, which may be polluted with insoluble oils or
grease or suspended solids, shall be pretreated for removal of pollutants and
the resultant clear water shall be discharged in accordance with §
52.022 of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 5-14) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
§ 52.024 REPORTS ON WASTEWATER FLOW CHARACTERISTICS REQUIRED.
   The town may require users of the treatment works, other than residential
users, to supply pertinent information on wastewater flows characteristics.
Such measurements, tests and analysis shall be made at the users’ expense. If
made by the town, an appropriate charge may be assessed to the user at the
option of the town.
(1996 Code, § 5-15) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
§ 52.025 PERIODIC DETERMINATIONS OF WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   The strength of wastewaters shall be determined, for periodic establishment
of charges provided for in §§
52.065 through
52.074 of this chapter, from samples taken at the aforementioned structure at
any period of time and of such duration and in such manner as the town may
elect or at any place mutually agreed upon between the user and the town.
Appropriate charges from sampling and analysis may be assessed to the user at
the option of the town. The results of routine sampling and analysis by the
user may also be used, for determination of charges after verification by the
town.
(1996 Code, § 5-16) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
§ 52.026 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS OR TRAPS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the town they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand and other
harmful ingredients; except that, such interceptors or traps will not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors or
traps shall be of a type and capacity approved by the town and shall be located
so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. They
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperatures and shall be of substantial construction, be
gas-tight, water-tight and equipped with easily removable covers. Where
installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or traps shall be maintained
by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient operation at all
times.
(1996 Code, § 5-17) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
§ 52.027 REPORT BY USERS OF UNUSUAL FLOWS OR WASTES.
   Users of the treatment works shall immediately notify the town of any
unusual flows or wastes that are discharged accidentally or otherwise to the
sewer system.
(1996 Code, § 5-18) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
§ 52.028 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All provisions of this chapter and limits set herein shall comply with any
applicable state and/or federal requirements now, or projected to be in effect.
(1996 Code, § 5-19) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
§ 52.029 DAMAGING AND TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly
conduct.
(1996 Code, § 5-20) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -) Penalty,
see §
52.999
§ 52.030 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   (A)   The Superintendent, Inspector and other duly authorized employees of
the town bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The
Superintendent or his or her representative shall have no authority to inquire
into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining, ceramic,
paper or other industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind
of source of discharge to the sewers or waterways or facilities for waste
treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the
town shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by
the company and the company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
town employees and the town shall indemnify the company against loss or damage
to its property by town employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in
§
52.019(D) of this chapter.
   (C)   The Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the town
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the town holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1996 Code, § 5-21) (Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -)
AVAILABILITY FEE; OWNERSHIP OF SYSTEM; INSPECTIONS
§ 52.045 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABILITY FEE. The fee charged to a lot owner, builder or developer for a
single connection to the town’s sewer system.
   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS. The construction standards adopted by the Town
Council as Ord. 2001-09 on 5-7-2001, as amended.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms designed and equipped exclusively
for use as living quarters for only one family and its household employees,
including eating, lawful cooking, sleeping space and sanitary facilities
reserved solely for the occupants thereof. The term shall include MOBILE
DWELLINGS, MODULAR DWELLINGS and MANUFACTURED DWELLING (as those terms are
defined in the town’s Zoning Ordinance), but shall not include recreational
vehicles.
   EQUIVALENT DWELLING UNIT or EDU. The average amount of wastewater generated
by a single-family dwelling unit. For purposes of this subchapter, the amount
of wastewater generated by any single-family dwelling unit shall be deemed to
equal exactly one EDU. For buildings or structures not considered a single-
family dwelling unit, or for real estate that has a building or structure other
than a single-family dwelling unit, the Town Engineer or Superintendent of the
municipal sewage works shall determine the number of EDUs utilized by said
building, structure or real estate for purposes of determining the applicable
availability fee.
   FACILITIES. All structures and equipment used to collect, transport and
treat wastes, including sanitary sewage, industrial sewage, storm water,
infiltration and inflow carried to a wastewater treatment facility.
   OWNER LATERAL. Any lateral sewer lines and facilities from a building or
structure, including, without limitation, a single-family dwelling unit, on a
lot or similar piece of real estate built by or for the owner of the real
estate and transported to an interceptor which is part of the town’s sewer
system.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, filtration field and
subsurface drainage, if required, which are located on an individual lot.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING UNIT. An individual, detached building containing one
dwelling unit which is either:
      (1)   Built in compliance with the CABO One- and Two-Family Code and the
town’s Building Code;
      (2)   A modular dwelling; or
      (3)   A manufactured dwelling.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the town’s municipal sewage works.
   ZIONSVILLE SEWER AVAILABILITY FUND. The fund to be established by the Clerk-
Treasurer for the deposit of availability fees received by the town and the
town’s municipal sewage works pursuant to this subchapter.
   ZIONSVILLE SEWER SYSTEM. The sewer system that is owned and controlled by
the town, including, without limitation, all collector sewers, interceptor
sewers and the wastewater treatment facilities owned and utilized by the town
and the town’s municipal sewage works.
(1996 Code, § 5-30) (Ord. 72-5, passed - -; Ord. 80-5, passed - -; Ord. 90-26,
passed - -; Ord. 2001-21, passed - -; Ord. 2003-05, passed - -)
§ 52.046 OWNERSHIP OF SYSTEM.
   All extensions of facilities to the town’s sewer system must be approved and
accepted by the Superintendent prior to connection to the town’s sewer system,
and once connected, shall become and remain thereafter the sole property of the
town without any further dedication thereof. All owner laterals shall remain
the property of the owner of the real estate upon which said owner lateral
runs. Upon the dedication of any collector or interceptor system to the town,
any owner laterals running to said interceptor or collector shall remain the
property of the real estate owner. Neither the Town Council, nor the town’s
municipal sewage works, is responsible or liable for damages to, or caused by,
an owner lateral. All owner lateral maintenance is to be performed by, and is
the responsibility of, the owner of the real estate upon or to which said owner
lateral runs.
(1996 Code, § 5-30) (Ord. 72-5, passed - -; Ord. 80-5, passed - -; Ord. 90-26,
passed - -; Ord. 2001-21, passed - -; Ord. 2003-05, passed - -)
§ 52.047 CONNECTION PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit and availability fee required. From and after the effective
date of this subchapter, no connection to the town’s sewer system shall be
allowed until a permit is obtained and payment has been made, as hereinafter
provided, into the Town Sewer Availability Fund.
   (B)   Special agreements. Special agreements and arrangements between the
Town Sewage Department and any person may be established for refunding the
costs necessary for oversizing to meet the construction standards, but any such
agreement shall only apply for the portion of the oversizing which lies with a
real estate owner’s development. The decision to enter into special agreements
and arrangements shall be made by the Town Council and the Superintendent in
their sole discretion.
(1996 Code, § 5-30) (Ord. 72-5, passed - -; Ord. 80-5, passed - -; Ord. 90-26,
passed - -; Ord. 2001-21, passed - -; Ord. 2003-05, passed - -) Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.048 AVAILABILITY FEE.
   (A)   The town shall assess an availability fee of:
      (1)   Single-family dwelling unit: $4,000 for each single connection to
the town’s sewer system; and
      (2)   All other uses (multi-family, commercial, industrial or public/
semi-public): $4,000 for the first EDU and $2,000 for each additional EDU, as
determined pursuant to §
52.045 of this chapter.
   (B)   If the structure or building to be connected has not yet been
constructed, the availability fee shall be paid when a building permit for the
structure or building is issued. The availability fee may be paid by any person
having an interest in the real estate upon which the structure or building does
or shall rest.
   (C)   The availability fee is non-refundable, unless by specific agreement
between the town and the owner of the building or structure requesting to
connect to the town’s sewer system. In addition, the availability fee shall
apply to any connection to the town’s sewer system pursuant to §
52.050 of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 5-30) (Ord. 72-5, passed - -; Ord. 80-5, passed - -; Ord. 90-26,
passed - -; Ord. 2001-21, passed - -; Ord. 2003-05, passed - -; Ord. 2013-02,
passed 3-4-2013)
§ 52.049 SEWER AVAILABILITY FUND.
   Upon the effective date of this chapter, the Town Clerk-Treasurer shall
establish the Town Sewer Availability Fund for bookkeeping purposes related to
the depositing of availability fees received by the town pursuant to this
chapter. Any and all availability fees received by the municipal sewage works
shall be deposited in and recorded as a part of the Town Sewer Availability
Fund by the Clerk-Treasurer.
(1996 Code, § 5-30) (Ord. 72-5, passed - -; Ord. 80-5, passed - -; Ord. 90-26,
passed - -; Ord. 2001-21, passed - -; Ord. 2003-05, passed - -)
§ 52.050 REQUIRED CONNECTIONS.
   The town, by its municipal sewage works, may provide that a user of a
private septic system whose property line is within 300 feet of any available
sewer in the town’s sewer system connect to the town’s sewer system pursuant to
I.C. 8-1-2-125 and §
52.016 of this chapter. Upon the occurrence of a mandatory connection pursuant
to this section and I.C. 8-1-2-125, the user of a private sewage disposal
system shall tender the availability fee to the municipal sewage works.
(1996 Code, § 5-30) (Ord. 72-5, passed - -; Ord. 80-5, passed - -; Ord. 90-26,
passed - -; Ord. 2001-21, passed - -; Ord. 2003-05, passed - -)
§ 52.051 AMENDMENT.
   The town reserves the right, pursuant to I.C. 8-1.5-3-8.1, to amend its
availability fee from time to time in compliance with the town’s code of
ordinances and state law, as amended, governing the rates, fees and charges of
municipal utilities.
(1996 Code, § 5-30) (Ord. 72-5, passed - -; Ord. 80-5, passed - -; Ord. 90-26,
passed - -; Ord. 2001-21, passed - -; Ord. 2003-05, passed - -)
SEWER CHARGES AND RATES
§ 52.065 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The same meaning as defined in §
52.015 of this chapter.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Zionsville, Indiana, or any duly
authorized officials acting in its behalf.
   DEBT SERVICE COSTS. The average annual principal and interest payments on
all outstanding revenue bond or other long-term capital debt.
   DWELLING UNIT.
      (1)   A room or group of rooms designed and equipped exclusively for use
as living quarters for only one family and its household employees, including
eating, lawful cooking, sleeping space and sanitary facilities reserved solely
for the occupants thereof.
      (2)   The term shall include MOBILE DWELLINGS, MODULAR DWELLINGS and
MANUFACTURED DWELLING (as those terms are defined in the town’s zoning
ordinance), but shall not include recreational vehicles.
   EXCESSIVE STRENGTH SURCHARGE. An additional charge which is billed to users
for treating sewage wastes with an average strength in excess of normal
domestic sewage.
   MUNICIPAL SEWAGE WORKS. The sewage works owned and operated by the town.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL USER. All other users of sewage services provided by the
sewage works.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining surcharges, wastewater or sewage
having an average concentration as follows:
         (a)   BOD not more than 220 mg/l;
         (b)   S.S. not more than 220 mg/l;
         (c)   Nitrogen ammonia (“NH-N”) not more than 15 mg/l; and
         (d)   Total phosphorous (“P”) not more than two mg/l.
      (2)   As defined by origin, wastewaters from segregated domestic and/or
sanitary conveniences as distinct from wastes from industrial processes.
   NPDES (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM) PERMIT. The same
meaning as defined in §
52.015 of this chapter.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Includes all costs, direct and indirect,
necessary to provide adequate wastewater collection, transport and treatment on
a continuing basis and produce discharges to receiving waters that conform with
all related federal, state and local requirements. (These costs include
replacement.)
   OTHER SERVICE CHARGES. Tap charges, connection charges, area charges and
other identifiable charges other than user charges, debt service charges and
excessive strength surcharges.
   PERSON. Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any
individual, firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association,
society, institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. The expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories or appurtenances which are necessary during the useful life of the
treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works
were designed and constructed.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of sewage services provided by the sewage works,
which service is only utilized by one dwelling unit.
   S.S. or SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The same meaning as defined in §
52.015 of this chapter.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SEWAGE. The same meaning as defined in §
52.015 of this chapter.
   SEWER USE ORDINANCE. A separate and companion enactment to this chapter,
which regulates the connection to and use of public and private sewers. This
ordinance is codified as §§
52.015 through
52.030 of this chapter.
   TOWN. The Town of Zionsville, Indiana, acting by and through the Town
Council.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the municipal sewage works for the
cost of operation and maintenance of the same, pursuant to § 204(b) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, Pub. Law No. 92-500, 86 Stat. 835.
   USER CLASS. The division of municipal sewage works customers by source,
function, waste characteristics and process or discharge similarities (i.e.,
residential and non-residential in the user charge system).
(1996 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 86-15, passed - -; Ord. 96-02, passed - -; Ord. 98-04,
passed - -; Ord. 99-3, passed - -; Ord. 99-7, passed - -; Ord. 99-20, passed -
-; Ord. 2001-16, passed - -; Ord. 2002-09, passed - -; Ord. 2003-11, passed -
-; Ord. 2004-02, passed - -; Ord. 2010-06, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2010-12,
passed 10-4-2010)
§ 52.066 USER CLASSES.
   (A)   Every person whose premises are served by the municipal sewage works
shall be charged for the services provided. These charges are established for
each user class, as defined, in order that the municipal sewage works shall
recover, from each user and user class, revenue sufficient to maintain the
municipal sewage works in sound physical and financial condition necessary to
render adequate and efficient sewer service.
   (B)   User charges are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the
United States Environmental Protection Agency, published in the Federal
Register on 9-27-1978 (43 Fed. Reg. 44022, 44039-40). Replacement costs, which
are recovered through the system of user charges, shall be based upon the
expected useful life of the municipal sewage works equipment.
   (C)   The various classes of users of the municipal sewage works for the
purpose of this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Class I - Residential; and
      (2)   Class II - Non-Residential
(1996 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 86-15, passed - -; Ord. 96-02, passed - -; Ord. 98-04,
passed - -; Ord. 99-3, passed - -; Ord. 99-7, passed - -; Ord. 99-20, passed -
-; Ord. 2001-16, passed - -; Ord. 2002-09, passed - -; Ord. 2003-11, passed -
-; Ord. 2004-02, passed - -; Ord. 2010-06, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2010-12,
passed 10-4-2010)
§ 52.067 COLLECTION OF CHARGES AND RATES.
   (A)   For the use of and the services rendered by the municipal sewage
works, rates and charges shall be collected from the owners of each and every
lot, parcel of real estate or building that is connected with the municipal
sewage works or otherwise discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, water
or other liquids, either directly or indirectly, into the municipal sewage
works.
   (B)   Such rates and charges include user charges, debt service costs,
excessive strength surcharges and other service charges, which rates and
charges shall be payable as hereinafter provided and shall be in an amount
determinable as follows:
      (1)   Non-residential sewage rates and charges:
         (a)   Treatment charge:
            1.   All non-residential users (per 1,000 gallons): $6.90; and
            2.   Plus (per 100 cubic feet): $5.22.
         (b)   All non-residential users base rate as follows:
Meter Size Monthly Base Rate User Charge
Meter Size             Monthly Base Rate User Charge
5/8-inch water meter   $18.14
3/4-inch water meter   $23.19
1-inch water meter     $36.86
1-1/4-inch water meter $55.44
1-1/2-inch water meter $77.80
2-inch water meter     $129.86
3-inch water meter     $290.95
4-inch water meter     $501.93
6-inch water meter     $1,134.04
8-inch water meter     $2,015.64
 
      (2)   Residential users (one dwelling unit): flat sewage rate: $56.85.
      (3)   For the service rendered to the town, the town shall be subject to
the same rates and charges as hereinabove provided for a non-residential user,
or to charges and rates established in harmony therewith.
      (4)   In the event a user discharges sanitary sewage, industrial wastes,
water or other liquids into the municipal sewage works, either directly or
indirectly, is not a user of water supplied by the water utility serving the
town, or is a user of water both supplied by the water utility serving the town
and a different water utility not serving the town, and the water used thereon
or therein is not measured by a water meter, or is measured by a water meter
not acceptable to the town, then the amount of water used shall be otherwise
measured or determined by the town. In order to ascertain the rate or charge
provided in this subchapter, the town may require a user, at its expense, to
install and maintain meters, wires, volumetric measuring devices or an adequate
and approved method of measurement acceptable to the town for determining
sewage discharge.
   (C)   The user fees provided for herein are based upon costs which, in large
part, are subject to inflation and other economic and market forces over which
the town has no control. As such, the adequacy of the town's sewage user fees
shall be studied and re-evaluated by town staff or consultants at least once
every four years.
(1996 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 86-15, passed - -; Ord. 96-02, passed - -; Ord. 98-04,
passed - -; Ord. 99-3, passed - -; Ord. 99-7, passed - -; Ord. 99-20, passed -
-; Ord. 2001-16, passed - -; Ord. 2002-09, passed - -; Ord. 2003-11, passed -
-; Ord. 2004-02, passed - -; Ord. 2010-06, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2010-12,
passed 10-4-2010; Ord. 2024-43, passed 12-16-2024)
§ 52.068 BASIS AND DETERMINATION OF CHARGES AND RATES.
   (A)   In order that the rates and charges may be justly and equitably
adjusted to the service rendered to users, the town may also base its charges
on the strength and character of stronger-than-normal domestic sewage and shall
require the user to determine the strength and content of all sewage wastes
discharged, either directly or indirectly, into the municipal sewage works, in
such manner and by such method as the town may deem practicable in the light of
the conditions and attending circumstances of the case, in order to determine
the proper charge. The user shall furnish a central sampling point available to
the town at all times.
   (B)   Normal sewage domestic waste strength should not exceed a biochemical
oxygen demand of 220 milligrams per liter of fluid or suspended solids in
excess of 220 milligrams per liter of fluid. Additional charges for treatment
stronger-than-normal domestic waste shall be made based on the following.
      (1)   Rate surcharge based upon suspended solids. There shall be an
additional charge of $0.12 per pound of suspended solids for suspended solids
received in excess of 220 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (2)   Rate surcharge based upon BOD. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.12 per pound of biochemical oxygen demand for BOD received in excess of
220 milligrams per liter of fluid.
      (3)   Rate surcharge based upon NH-N. There shall be an additional charge
of $0.40 per pound of NH-N for NH-N received in excess of 15 milligrams per
liter of fluid.
      (4)   Rate surcharge based upon total P. There shall be an additional
charge of $2.12 per pound of P for total P received in excess of six milligrams
per liter of fluid.
   (C)   The determination of suspended solids, five-day biochemical oxygen
demand, NH-N and Total P contained in the waste shall be in accordance with the
latest copy of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage and
Industrial Wastes, as written by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation,
and in conformance with Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of
Pollutants, 40 C.F.R. §§ 136.1 et seq., published in the Federal Register on
10-16-1973 (38 Fed. Reg. 28758).
(1996 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 86-15, passed - -; Ord. 96-02, passed - -; Ord. 98-04,
passed - -; Ord. 99-3, passed - -; Ord. 99-7, passed - -; Ord. 99-20, passed -
-; Ord. 2001-16, passed - -; Ord. 2002-09, passed - -; Ord. 2003-11, passed -
-; Ord. 2004-02, passed - -; Ord. 2010-06, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2010-12,
passed 10-4-2010)
§ 52.069 PREPARATION, BILLING AND COLLECTION.
   (A)   Such rates and charges shall be prepared, billed and collected by the
town in the manner provided by law and ordinance.
      (1)   The rates and charges for all users shall be prepared and billed
monthly. At the end of each year, each user shall be given a notice of the
rates charged for operation, maintenance and replacement for that user for the
next year.
      (2)   The rates and charges may be billed to the tenant or tenants
occupying the properties served, unless otherwise requested in writing by the
owner, but such billing shall in no way relieve the owner from liability in the
event payment is not made as herein required.
   (B)   The owners of properties served, which are occupied by a tenant or
tenants, shall have the right to examine the collection records of the town for
the purpose of determining whether bills have been paid by such tenant or
tenants; provided that, such examination shall be made at the office at which
said records are kept and during the hours that such office is open for
business.
   (C)   As provided by statute, all rates and charges not paid when due are
hereby declared to be delinquent and a penalty of 10% of the amount of the
rates or charges shall thereupon attach thereto. The time at which such rates
or charges shall be paid is fixed at 15 days after the date of mailing of the
bill. Such fee, penalty and reasonable attorneys’ fees may be recovered by the
town in a civil action to recover the same.
(1996 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 86-15, passed - -; Ord. 96-02, passed - -; Ord. 98-04,
passed - -; Ord. 99-3, passed - -; Ord. 99-7, passed - -; Ord. 99-20, passed -
-; Ord. 2001-16, passed - -; Ord. 2002-09, passed - -; Ord. 2003-11, passed -
-; Ord. 2004-02, passed - -; Ord. 2010-06, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2010-12,
passed 10-4-2010)
§ 52.070 BY-LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The town shall make and enforce such by-laws and regulations as may be
deemed necessary for the safe, economical and efficient management of the
municipal sewage works, for the construction and use of house sewers and
connections to the municipal sewage works, for the construction and use of
house sewers and connection to the municipal sewage works, and for the
regulation, collection, rebating and refunding of such rates and charges. No
free service shall be provided to any user of the municipal sewage works.
   (B)   The town is hereby authorized to prohibit dumping of wastes into the
municipal sewage works which, in its discretion, are deemed harmful to the
operation of the municipal sewage works, or to require methods affecting
pretreatment of wastes to comply with the pretreatment standards included in
the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit issued to
the municipal sewage works.
(1996 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 86-15, passed - -; Ord. 96-02, passed - -; Ord. 98-04,
passed - -; Ord. 99-3, passed - -; Ord. 99-7, passed - -; Ord. 99-20, passed -
-; Ord. 2001-16, passed - -; Ord. 2002-09, passed - -; Ord. 2003-11, passed -
-; Ord. 2004-02, passed - -; Ord. 2010-06, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2010-12,
passed 10-4-2010)
§ 52.071 SPECIAL RATE CONTRACTS.
   The Council is hereby further authorized to enter into special rate
contracts with customers of the municipal sewage works where clearly definable
costs to the sewage works can be determined, and such special rates shall be
based on such costs.
(1996 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 86-15, passed - -; Ord. 96-02, passed - -; Ord. 98-04,
passed - -; Ord. 99-3, passed - -; Ord. 99-7, passed - -; Ord. 99-20, passed -
-; Ord. 2001-16, passed - -; Ord. 2002-09, passed - -; Ord. 2003-11, passed -
-; Ord. 2004-02, passed - -; Ord. 2010-06, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2010-12,
passed 10-4-2010)
§ 52.072 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   The rules and regulations promulgated by the town, after approval by the
Council, shall provide for an appeal procedure whereby a user shall have the
right to appeal a decision of the administrator of the user charges to the
Council and that any decision concerning user charges of the Council may be
appealed to the Circuit Court of the county under the appeal procedures
provided for in the State Administrative Adjudication Act, being I.C. 22-12-
7 et seq.
(1996 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 86-15, passed - -; Ord. 96-02, passed - -; Ord. 98-04,
passed - -; Ord. 99-3, passed - -; Ord. 99-7, passed - -; Ord. 99-20, passed -
-; Ord. 2001-16, passed - -; Ord. 2002-09, passed - -; Ord. 2003-11, passed -
-; Ord. 2004-02, passed - -; Ord. 2010-06, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2010-12,
passed 10-4-2010)
§ 52.073 PLATTED LOTS AND DEVELOPED PROPERTIES.
   (A)   This section shall apply to all platted lots and developed properties
(each lot or developed property individually referred to herein as a “lot”)
located:
      (1)   Along Willow Road, north from its intersection with Templin Road to
its intersection with Woodside Drive; or
      (2)   Within the following subdivisions (additions) and/or accessed from
the following streets or roads: Subdivisions/Additions - Becker, Century Oaks,
Colonial Heights, Luttrel, North Hills, Northern Meadows and Northview; and
Streets - Woodside Drive, Redbud Lane, Danny Drive, Beverly Drive, Stanley
Drive, Marquette Dive, Sommerset Lane, Stevens Drive, Meadow Lane, Meadow
Court, Becker Drive, Becker Court, (Century) Oak Drive and (Century) Oak Court.
   (B)   Until such time as construction of the sewage works project is
completed and such lot is able to receive sewage works treatment service from
the town, there shall be charged to the owner of any such lot, an interim
service charge of $34 per month, payable monthly by the owner of any such lot.
   (C)   (1)   Upon such time as the interim rate set forth in division (B)
above is no longer applicable, there shall be charged to the owner of any such
lot, a monthly debt service charge of $72 per month, payable monthly by the
owner of any such lot over a period of ten years.
      (2)   The monthly debt service charge set forth in this division (C)
shall be in addition to the rates and charges set forth in division (D) below.
   (D)   Notwithstanding divisions (B) and (C) above, the interim service
charge and monthly debt service charge shall not apply to any particular lot
if, on or before 1-15-1992, the owner of said lot deposited with the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town payment in the amount of $7,110.
   (E)   This section shall not apply to any lot connected to the sewage works
through the lateral system providing service to Coventry Ridge as of 3-1-1992.
(1996 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 86-15, passed - -; Ord. 96-02, passed - -; Ord. 98-04,
passed - -; Ord. 99-3, passed - -; Ord. 99-7, passed - -; Ord. 99-20, passed -
-; Ord. 2001-16, passed - -; Ord. 2002-09, passed - -; Ord. 2003-11, passed -
-; Ord. 2004-02, passed - -; Ord. 2010-06, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2010-12,
passed 10-4-2010)
§ 52.074 IRISHMAN’S RUN USERS.
   Prior users of the Irishman’s Run Package Plant for the provision of
wastewater treatment services (“Irishman’s Run users”) have been disconnected
from the Package Plant and connected to the primary wastewater treatment
facilities of the municipal sewage works through the Irishman’s Run lift
station. Irishman’s Run users shall pay to the municipal sewage works a flat
monthly user fee of $44.50 for wastewater treatment services, plus the
amortized capital surcharge of $45.45 per month previously established by
ordinance, for a total monthly charge of $89.95.
(1996 Code, § 5-1) (Ord. 86-15, passed - -; Ord. 96-02, passed - -; Ord. 98-04,
passed - -; Ord. 99-3, passed - -; Ord. 99-7, passed - -; Ord. 99-20, passed -
-; Ord. 2001-16, passed - -; Ord. 2002-09, passed - -; Ord. 2003-11, passed -
-; Ord. 2004-02, passed - -; Ord. 2010-06, passed 9-7-2010; Ord. 2010-12,
passed 10-4-2010)
§ 52.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
52.015 through
52.030 of this chapter, except this section, shall be served by the town with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limited
provided for in division (B)(1) above shall be guilty of an infraction and, on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $500 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.015 through
52.030 of this chapter shall become liable to the town for any expense, loss or
damage occasioned the town by reason of such violation.
(1996 Code, § 5-22)
   (C)   If a connection is made to the town’s sewer system without either
obtaining a valid sanitary sewer connection permit or paying the requisite
availability fee, such an act shall constitute a violation of §§
52.045 through
52.051 of this chapter, and the individual or owner of real estate making such
connection shall be subject to a fine of $500 per day for each day the
connection is unlawfully installed, and will be required to remove the
connection until the requirements of §§
52.045 through
52.051 of this chapter are met. Each day such unlawful connection exists may be
considered a separate offense. Any fines collected under §
52.047 of this chapter shall be placed in the Town Sewer Availability Fund for
the use and benefit of the town’s municipal sewage works.
(1996 Code, § 5-30)
(Ord. 72-5, passed - -; Ord. 80-5, passed - -; Ord. 86-17, passed - -; Ord. 90-
26, passed - -; Ord. 91-26, passed - -; Ord. 2001-21, passed - -; Ord. 2003-05,
passed - -)
CHAPTER 53: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Obstruction of sidewalks and pathways prohibited
   
53.02   Construction within the public right-of-way of a street, alley,
sidewalk or bicycle/pedestrian pathway
Sidewalks
   
53.15   Definitions
   
53.16   Owner responsibility for sidewalks
   
53.17   Repair or replacement of sidewalks
   
53.18   Installation of new sidewalks
   
53.19   Sidewalk construction
Traffic Impact Fee
   
53.35   Limitation on imposition of impact fee
   
53.36   Establishment of Impact Zone
   
53.37   Zone Improvement Plan
   
53.38   Establishment of road traffic impact fee
   
53.39   Credit in lieu of payment
   
53.40   Impact fee due upon issuance of a building permit
   
53.41   Lien rights established
   
53.42   Form of receipt
   
53.43   Re-establishment of Zionsville Impact Fee Review Board
   
53.44   Appeal of fee assessment
   
53.45   Refunds
   
53.46   Re-establishment of Road Infrastructure Improvement Fund
   
53.47   Use of impact fees collected pursuant to this subchapter
   
53.48   Collections
   
53.49   Indiana Impact Fee Law
   
53.50   Amendment and review
 
   
53.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 OBSTRUCTION OF SIDEWALKS AND PATHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BLOCK or BLOCKING. To interfere with unobstructed travel by any means,
including, but not limited to, placing or maintaining any sign, object or
vehicle whatsoever on any sidewalk.
      SIDEWALK and PATHWAY. Any sidewalk or pathway owned or maintained by the
town, or located in the town, regardless of ownership, and used as a public
access way.
      ADA ACCESSIBILITY GUIDELINES. The accessible route guidelines of the
Americans With Disabilities Act, as set forth in § 4.3 of the Federal ADA
Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG) (codified at 28 C.F.R. part 36, App. A). The
guidelines currently state that walkways shall have a minimum clear width of 36
inches, with 60-inch by 60-inch passing zones at least every 200 feet.
   (B)   Blocking sidewalk or pathway prohibited. No person shall block any
sidewalk or pathway by obstructing the same such that it is difficult or
impossible for a pedestrian to travel on the sidewalk or pathways without
leaving the sidewalk or pathway and walking on property adjacent to the
sidewalk or pathway or on an adjoining curb, street, alley or grass strip. No
person or entity shall block any sidewalk in a manner that would cause a
violation of the ADA Accessibility Guidelines. As provided in the ADA
Guidelines, sidewalks and pathways shall have at least 36 inches minimum width
clearance on the actual sidewalk or pathway measured from the adjoining curb,
street, alley or grass strip, as applicable, in towards the property or
building; provided, however, that, nothing in this section shall be interpreted
as prohibiting a supporting structure permanently affixed to a building from
being within the 36-inch minimum width area if there is at least 36 inches
minimum width clearance from the supporting structure in towards the building.
   (C)   Free speech. This section shall not be interpreted as prohibiting any
person from stopping on any sidewalk or pathway to speak or make a speech;
provided that, such person shall not stand in such a location such that it is
difficult or impossible for a pedestrian to travel on the sidewalk or pathway
without leaving the sidewalk or pathway and walking on property adjacent to the
sidewalk or pathway or on an adjoining street, alley or grass strip.
   (D)   Plants, shrubs and trees. No person shall permit any shrub, tree or
other plant to grow over or on any sidewalk or pathway in such a manner as to
block or obstruct the sidewalk or pathway for pedestrian traffic. It is the
responsibility of the owner of the property on which such plant is located to
remove or trim the plant so that it will not block or obstruct any sidewalk or
pathway. No person, firm or corporation shall be fined for violating this
section unless such person has been notified in writing by any town officer,
employee or police officer to remove or trim such plant and fails to remove or
trim such plant within ten days of such notice.
(1996 Code, § 9-73) (Ord. 99-18, passed - -) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.02 CONSTRUCTION WITHIN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY OF A STREET, ALLEY,
SIDEWALK OR BICYCLE/PEDESTRIAN PATHWAY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, business concern or corporation
to perform any construction activity within the Urban Service District public
right-of-way of any public street, bicycle or pedestrian pathway or alley
within the confines of the Urban Service District corporate limits of the town,
without first obtaining a permit for such act and posting a bond for compliance
with the further requirements of this section.
   (B)   A permit application for such construction activity shall be submitted
to the Zionsville Street and Stormwater Department for review, and must be
approved by the same prior to the commencement of construction activities. The
application fee shall be $25 which shall be deposited in the Motor Vehicle
Highway Fund of the town. The fee may be waived at the discretion of the
Superintendent of the Street and Stormwater Department ("Superintendent"). The
form of permit application may be amended from time to time provided it is
consistent with the terms identified herein.
   (C)   At the time of application for the permit required in division (B)
above, the applicant shall submit security in the form of a bond satisfactory
to said Superintendent in the sum of at least $1,000 to insure restoration of
the area disturbed as a result of such construction activity as hereinafter
specified. Higher bond amounts may be required at the discretion of the
Superintendent based upon the scope of the work, and the bond requirement may
be waived at the discretion of the Superintendent. Entities performing work
repeatedly within rights-of-way may file a perpetual permit bond with the town
in an amount determined by the Superintendent.
   (D)   (1)   Any street cut, trench, access pit or other construction
activity accomplished under this permit shall be restored per applicable
specification(s) as set out in the town’s construction standards or as directed
by the Superintendent. Restoration per applicable specification shall be
accomplished within five working days of completion of the principal work
activity for which the permit was issued. It shall be the permit holder’s
responsibility to temporarily restore and maintain vehicle and/or pedestrian
access and safety of any cut, trench or access pit pending final restoration.
Acceptance of temporary and final restorations and, ultimately, release of
surety, shall be subject to approval by the town.
      (2)   Restoration methods and materials are set out in the town’s
construction standards as follows:
         (a)   Asphalt pavement: specification figures P-18, P-19, P-20;
         (b)   Concrete pavement: specification figures P-18, P-19, P-20; and
         (c)   Sidewalks/pathways: specification figures P-18, P-21.
         Note: flowable fill may be substituted for granular backfill upon
written approval by the Superintendent.
   (E)   Any sod, planting or other landscaping materials or features disturbed
as a consequence of the work under this permit shall be restored in kind.
Acceptance shall be subject to approval by the town.
   (F)   (1)   The permit holder shall be responsible to provide, erect and
maintain any necessary signs, barricades, lights and/or other warning devices
required to safely direct vehicular and pedestrian traffic over, around or
through the work site, and to protect vehicles and pedestrians from any work
site hazard.
      (2)   In the event a two-way, two-lane roadway is restricted to one lane,
traffic-control personnel may be required.
   (G)   The permit holder shall assume all responsibilities for any injuries
or damages to persons or property resulting directly or indirectly from the
work provided for under the permit.
   (H)   The permit holder shall notify the Town Street Department prior to
commencement, and upon completion, of the work provided for under the permit.
   (I)   The bond posted in compliance with this section shall not be released
for a period of three years from the date of completion of the work and shall
not be released without written acceptance of restoration by the Town Street
Department.
   (J)   Violation of this section shall occur when any street, bicycle and
pedestrian pathway or alley within the corporate limits of the town is
disturbed as a result of construction activity without full compliance with the
requirements of this section.
(1996 Code, § 7-60) (Ord. 2001-12, passed - - ; Ord. 2017-16, passed 12- -2017)
Penalty, see §
53.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 53.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEVELOPED AREAS. Any real estate containing existing development or
improvements, or any platted real estate, whether or not containing existing
development or improvements.
   OWNER. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple of a parcel of real estate,
including the life tenant or tenants;
      (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the most current records
of the County Auditor’s Office; or
      (3)   The purchaser or purchasers of such real estate under any contract
for the conditional sale thereof.
   PATHWAY. A pedestrian walkway or bicycle way, as identified on the Pathway/
Sidewalk Network Map of the town, dated December 1999, as may be amended from
time to time.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
business, trust, joint stock company, unincorporated organization, religious or
charitable organization or any owner, person, persons or entities.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real estate within the town, except real estate that
is owned, leased, controlled or occupied by the state, the county or any
departments or agencies of the town.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. Specific and particularly described strip of land,
property or interest therein dedicated to and accepted by the municipality,
county or state to be devoted to and subject to use by the general public for
general transportation purposes or conveyance of utilities whether or not in
actual fact improved or actually used for such purposes, as set forth in a
written grant, declaration or conveyance that is recorded by the office of the
County Recorder.
(1996 Code, § 7-61) (Ord. 71-5, passed - -; Ord. 98-18, passed - -; Ord. 2001-
17, passed - -)
§ 53.16 OWNER RESPONSIBILITY FOR SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Leaf and debris removal. The owner of the private property abutting
the sidewalk shall be responsible for customary clearing and cleaning of
sidewalks and pathways within all public rights-of-ways, to include, but not be
limited to, leaf and debris removal.
   (B)   Snow and ice removal. The owner of the private property shall remove
all snow and/or ice upon the sidewalk or pathways within all public rights-of-
way abutting private property not later than 12:00 noon two days after the snow
has ceased to fall or accumulate, regardless of the source of the accumulation.
Provided that when ice has so formed upon any sidewalk that it cannot be
removed, then the owner shall keep the same effectively sprinkled with sand,
salt, or other suitable substance in such a manner as to prevent the ice from
being dangerous, until such time as it can be removed, and then it shall be
properly removed. If the abutting sidewalk or pathway is greater than four feet
in width, then said sidewalk or pathway need only be cleared of snow in such a
manner as to provide for a minimum of a four feet of clear width area for its
entire length.
(1996 Code, § 7-61) (Ord. 71-5, passed - -; Ord. 98-18, passed - -; Ord. 2001-
17, passed - -; Ord. 2015-15, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 53.17 REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT OF SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The town shall repair or replace sidewalks based upon a survey of
existing sidewalk conditions prepared by the town. The installation, repair,
an/or replacement of sidewalks within the public rights-of-way of developed
areas shall be the responsibility of the town.
   (B)   The conditions of existing sidewalks will be evaluated and ranked into
one of four categories as set out in this section. Condition evaluation
criteria shall include:
      (1)   ADA compliance;
      (2)   Construction material;
      (3)   General condition;
      (4)   Surface condition (i.e., spalling);
      (5)   Horizontal alignment;
      (6)   Cracking (i.e., surface, structural);
      (7)   Horizontal clearance;
      (8)   Vertical level differential(s);
      (9)   Vertical alignment;
      (10)   Heaving (frost or root);
      (11)   Vertical clearance; and
      (12)   Other defects.
   (C)   The survey shall, utilizing the criteria set forth above, rank
existing sidewalk conditions as:
      (1)   Excellent;
      (2)   Good;
      (3)   Fair; or
      (4)   Poor.
   (D)   The survey shall further prioritize the repair or replacement of
sidewalks into one of the following three categories:
      (1)   High-priority/short-term action;
      (2)   Mid-priority/mid-term action; or
      (3)   Low-priority/long-term action.
   (E)   The criteria to be utilized in the prioritization of sidewalk repair
or replacement include the frequency of use of the sidewalk and proximity of
the sidewalk to pedestrian traffic generators.
   (F)   The sidewalks chosen for repair or replacement shall be based upon
their priority listing and condition rating, and shall be accomplished on an
on-going, annual basis as budgeted by the Town Street Department and the Town
Council.
   (G)   It is the intent of the town, through implementation of this policy,
to accomplish substantial enhancement of the town’s sidewalk system in a cost
effective manner. Therefore, sidewalk repair or replacement will be
accomplished on a block-long basis wherever practical and appropriate. Isolated
“spot repairs” will be conducted only in the case of an identified health and
safety condition that mandates immediate site-specific remediation.
(1996 Code, § 7-61) (Ord. 71-5, passed - -; Ord. 98-18, passed - -; Ord. 2001-
17, passed - -; Ord. 2015-15, passed 10-5-2015)
§ 53.18 INSTALLATION OF NEW SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   The town may install new sidewalks in developed areas within the town
where no sidewalks currently exist based upon a survey, prepared by the town,
identifying those developed areas within the town lacking sidewalks. The survey
shall further prioritize the installation of new sidewalks into one of the
following three categories:
      (1)   High-priority/short-term action;
      (2)   Mid-priority/mid-term action; or
      (3)   Low-priority/long-term action.
   (B)   The criteria to be utilized in the prioritization of new sidewalk
installation include the frequency of use of the sidewalk, proximity of the
sidewalk to pedestrian traffic generators and ADA compliance.
   (C)   The locations chosen for sidewalks installation shall be based upon
its priority listing and shall be accomplished on an on-going, annual basis as
budgeted by the Town Street Department and the Town Council.
   (D)   Unless otherwise determined by the Town Council, the repair or
replacement of existing sidewalks shall take precedence over the installation
of new sidewalks.
(1996 Code, § 7-61) (Ord. 71-5, passed - -; Ord. 98-18, passed - -; Ord. 2001-
17, passed - -)
§ 53.19 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION.
   Sidewalks shall be built in compliance with § 02500 of the town’s
construction standards for paving and surfacing, storm sewer, gravity sanitary
sewer, force main, submersible lift station (“town’s construction standards”)
by or under the supervision of the town. An alternative design or construction/
materials (i.e., brick or stone), if requested by an abutting property owner,
may be approved by the Superintendent of the Town Street Department on a case-
by-case basis. If such an alternative design or construction/materials is
approved, the abutting private property owner shall be responsible for
reimbursing the town the additional cost, if any, for the alternative design or
construction/materials above that incurred if the sidewalk installation had
been built to town’s construction standards.
(1996 Code, § 7-61) (Ord. 71-5, passed - -; Ord. 98-18, passed - -; Ord. 2001-
17, passed - -)
TRAFFIC IMPACT FEE
§ 53.35 LIMITATION ON IMPOSITION OF IMPACT FEE.
   This subchapter shall expire and become void five years after its effective
date as required by I.C. 36-7-4-1340, unless action is undertaken to adopt a
replacement impact fee consistent with state law.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.36 ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT ZONE.
   (A)   There is hereby established one Road Infrastructure Impact Zone (the
"Impact Zone"), the boundaries of which are co-terminus with the existing
corporate boundaries of the town, as such boundaries may be extended from time
to time through annexation, and over which boundaries the town exercises
planning and zoning jurisdiction. In this regard, the Town Council specifically
finds that there is a functional relationship between the components of the
infrastructure types in the Impact Zone, as described in the Plan, and that the
infrastructure type, as detailed in the Plan, provides a reasonably uniform
benefit to all citizens throughout the Impact Zone as of the adoption of this
subchapter. The Town Council further finds that all areas within the Impact
Zone are contiguous as required by I.C. 36-7-4-1316.
   (B)   Except as provided herein, this subchapter shall apply uniformly to
all new development within the Impact Zone. This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Development meeting the requirements set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-1322
(g);
      (2)   Improvements which do not require a building permit;
      (3)   Improvements which do not create a need for new and additional
infrastructure, including the erection of a sign, construction of accessory
buildings, structures or fences, or the alteration, renovation or expansion of
an improvement where the use, or intensity thereof, has not changed;
      (4)   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed improvement
provided that the replacement improvement does not create a need for new and
additional infrastructure over and above the infrastructure needed by the
original improvement prior to the destruction or partial destruction thereof;
      (5)   Qualified property, as defined in I.C. 36-1-8-18, unless the owner
requests that an impact fee be imposed on the property.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.37 ZONE IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   (A)   As a precondition to the adoption of this subchapter, the Town Council
undertook a comprehensive and detailed road impact analysis through the
engagement for that purpose of A&F Engineering, an engineering firm of
qualified engineers licensed to perform engineering services in Indiana. The
Town Council now finds that the resulting study and data base constitute a
sufficient study to constitute a "Zone Improvement Plan" as contemplated by
I.C. 36-7-4-1318.
   (B)   The Town Council does hereby adopt and approve the Plan as its Zone
Improvement Plan, for purposes of this subchapter and specifically finds that
the Zone Improvement Plan contains the following elements:
      (1)   A description of the nature and location of existing infrastructure
in the Impact Zone.
      (2)   A reasonable determination of the current level of service provided
within the Impact Zone.
      (3)   A reasonable determination of the community level of service for
the Impact Zone.
      (4)   Reasonable estimates relating to the nature and location of
development that is expected to occur within the Impact Zone during the
following ten-year period.
      (5)   A reasonable estimate of the nature, location, costs, sequencing,
and timing of the intersection and roadway infrastructure necessary to provide
the community level of service for the developments contemplated in division
(B)(4) above.
      (6)   A general description of the sources and amounts of money used to
pay for infrastructure during the previous five years.
      (7)   Reasonable provisions for the completion of the infrastructure
necessary to raise the current level of service to the community level of
service within the following ten-year period.
      (8)   Reasonable provisions for the nature, location, and cost of
infrastructure that is necessary to raise the current level of service to the
community level of service.
      (9)   Reasonable provisions concerning the revenue sources and estimated
amounts of revenue that the town intends to use to raise the current level of
service to the community level of service for existing development.
      (10)   A reasonable estimate of the share of the intersection and roadway
costs identified in division (B)(5) hereof that will be used to raise the
current level of service for existing development or provide service to
existing development, or to provide service to new development.
      (11)   A reasonable estimate of revenues that are from sources other than
impact fees and will be used to finance the cost of raising the current level
of service for existing development or providing service to existing
development.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.38 ESTABLISHMENT OF ROAD IMPACT FEE.
   Based on the Plan, it is determined that each parcel of real property in all
new development hereafter constructed in the town, not specifically excepted
hereunder, shall pay a road impact fee in the amount of $278.35 per 24-hour
generate trip. The calculation of this fee and the formula therefor are
contained in Table 10 of the Zone Improvement Plan adopted by the Town Council
and made a part of the town's Comprehensive Plan.
   (A)   Supporting data. The Town Council hereby makes as part of the record
of these proceedings all the data collected, calculations made, and conclusions
reached by the town's consultant, A&F Engineering, in the process of developing
the Zone Improvement Plan, and specifically instructs the employees of the town
to make such data available to the public for review during regular business
hours, along with any other information that is part of the public record
created as a result of the process involved in enacting this subchapter.
   (B)   Change in use. In the event any parcel of real estate which is
excepted from the fee and not subject to the fee undergoes a change in use from
a use for which the impact fee is imposed, an impact fee will be assessed
against said real estate.
   (C)   Destruction of property. Any person or entity otherwise obligated to
pay the fee established by this subchapter whose property was totally or
partially destroyed by fire, storm, or other casualty beyond his/her/its
control, shall be exempt from said fee if he/she/it repairs or replaces the
destroyed structure without creating a burden on infrastructure great than the
burden imposed by the destroyed infrastructure. In the event of such additional
burden, the fee shall be calculated based only on the increased burden created
by the structure.
   (D)   Designation of responsible agency. The Town Council hereby designates
the town's Public Works Department as the infrastructure agency that is
responsible for acquiring, constructing, and providing each infrastructure
improvement type identified in the Zone Improvement Plan.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.39 CREDIT IN LIEU OF PAYMENT.
   A fee payer is entitled to a credit against an impact fee if the owners or
developer of the development constructs or provides infrastructure that is an
infrastructure type for which the town imposed an impact fee in the impact zone
or constructs or provides an improvement as defined by I.C. 36-7-4-1335(a).
Such infrastructure or improvement will be public property or furnished or
constructed under the requirements of the town (including but not limited to
the Plan) and available for use by other development in the area. Such
infrastructure, for which is credit is allowed, does not include interior
streets, roads, rights-of-way, or other public ways which serve the
development. The amount of a credit will be determined at the date the impact
fee is assessed. If an assessment is not requested, the amount of the credit
will be determined at the time the structural building permit is issued. The
amount of the credit shall be determined by the person constructing or
providing the infrastructure or improvement and the Public Works Department.
The amount of the credit will be equal to the sum of the cost of constructing
or providing the infrastructure or improvement and the fair market value of
land, real property interests, and site improvements provided. Provided,
however, the credit will not include amounts for land or improvements required
by the town to be dedicated to the town for right-of-way pursuant to the town’s
Transportation Plan or any planning or zoning approval.
   (A)   Adjustment of credit. The amount of the credit may be increased or
decreased after the date the impact fee is assessed if, between the date the
impact fee is assessed and the date the structural building permit is issued,
there is a substantial and material change in the cost or value of the
infrastructure or improvement that is constructed or furnished from the cost or
value determined on the date the impact fee is assessed. Provided however, at
the time the amount of the credit is determined on the date the impact fee is
assessed, the person providing the infrastructure or improvement and the
Director of the Department of Public Works, or the Director’s designee, may
agree that the amount of the credit may not be subsequently increased or
decreased.
   (B)   Voluntary waiver of credit. The person providing the infrastructure or
improvement may waive the person's right to a credit against an impact fee by
executing a written waiver and filing such waiver with the Department of Public
Work.
   (C)   Partial credit. If the actual cost of constructing or providing the
infrastructure or improvement and the fair market value of land, real property
interests, and site improvements provided is less than the amount of the impact
fee assessed, the difference shall be due from the owner as otherwise provided.
If the amount of the credit exceeds the impact fee provided for by this
subchapter, no fee will be due to the town and no refund will be due to the fee
payer.
   (D)   Disputed credit amount. If the parties cannot agree on the cost or
fair market value used in calculating the credit, the fee payer or the person
constructing or providing the infrastructure or improvement may file with the
town's Impact Review Board a petition for determination of the amount of the
credit. This petition must be filed not later than 30 days after the structural
building permit is issued for the development on which the impact fee is
imposed. Immediately after receiving a timely filed petition for determination
of a credit amount, the Review Board shall provide a copy of the petition to
the Department of Public Works. Not later than 30 days after receiving a copy
of the petition, the Department of Public Works shall provide to the Board a
response on the form prescribed by the Board. The Board shall immediately
provide the petitioner a copy of the Department of Public Works' response. The
Review Board shall review the petition and the response and hold a public
hearing to determine the amount of the credit not later than 30 days after the
response is provided to the Board. At the hearing, each party may appear and
present evidence in person, by agent, or by attorney. A person may not
communicate with a member of the Board before the hearing with intent to
influence the member's action regarding the appeal. The Board may reverse,
affirm, modify, or otherwise establish the amount of the credit. Within five
days after making its decision, the Board shall provide to the petitioner and
the Town Council a copy of its written findings and decision.
   (E)   Appeal of Board decision. A fee payer aggrieved by the Board's final
determination of the amount of the credit may, within 30 days of the
determination, appeal the determination to the Circuit or Superior Courts of
Boone County. This appeal shall be determined by a trial de nova.
   (F)   Allocation of credit to successors in interest. In addition, a fee
payer or other person or entity responsible for installing infrastructure or
improvements may designate in writing a method of allocating its credits to
future fee payers who may be successors in interest to the credits earned by
the fee payer or others, as part of the certification provided for above.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.40 IMPACT FEE DUE UPON ISSUANCE OF A BUILDING PERMIT.
   The fee imposed pursuant to the terms of this subchapter shall be due and
payable upon the issuance of a building permit by the town. It is understood
that the term "building permit" is synonymous with the term "structural
building permit" as that term is used in I.C. 36-7-4-1323, in that the issuance
of a building permit authorizes the applicant to commence construction
activities, structural or otherwise. The fee which is calculated pursuant to
the terms of this subchapter, shall be due at said time unless the amount of
the fee upon calculation is greater than $5,000, in which case an installment
plan may be requested by the applicant in accordance with the terms set forth
in I.C. 36-7-4-1324.
   (A)   Installment plans. In an installment plan, a maximum of $5,000 or 5%
of the impact fee, whichever is greater, shall become due and payable on the
date the building permit is issued for the development on which the fee is
imposed. The first installment is due and payable one year after the building
permit is issued, and the last installment is due and payable two years after
the building permit is issued. When an impact fee is paid through an
installment plan, interest shall accrue at the rate of 5% per annum on the
portion of the impact fee that is outstanding and does not begin to accrue
until the date the structural building permit is issued for the development or
part of the development on which the impact fee is imposed. If all or part of
an impact fee is not paid when due and payable, the amount of the installment
shall be increased on the first day after the installment is due and payable by
a penalty equal to 10% of the installment amount that is overdue. Interest, as
identified above, shall also be charged on the penalty amount.
   (B)   Request for assessment. If a fee payer requests, the amount of the fee
shall be assessed upon the voluntary submission of a development plan or upon
the issuance of the building permit whichever is earlier. For purposes of this
section, ASSESSMENT means the act of calculating the amount of the fee which
shall be due. The town shall make such assessment within 30 days of the earlier
of the date the fee payer obtains an improvement location permit or the date
the fee payer voluntarily submits to the town a development plan, if a
development plan review is required by the Town Unified Development Ordinance,
and evidence that the property is zoned for the proposed development. If the
development does not require a development plan review, the date of assessment
is within 30 days of the fee payer obtains an improvement location permit.
   (C)   Unique development requiring revision of Zone Improvement Plan. If a
request for assessment is made and the Department of Public Works determines
that the development is of a magnitude that will require the revision of the
Zone Improvement Plan in order to appropriately serve the new development, the
town will revise the Zone Improvement Plan and will assess an impact fee on the
development not later than 180 days after the earlier of the following:
      (1)   The date on which the fee payer obtains an improvement location
permit;
      (2)   The date on which the fee payer submits to the town a development
plan for the development and evidence that the property is properly zoned, as
provided for in this subchapter.
   (D)   Increase of assessment. Once assessed, an impact fee may be increased
only if the structural building permit has been issued and the permit is
changed so that the amount of impact on infrastructure the development creates
in the Impact Zone is significantly increased.
   (E)   Decrease of assessment. Once assessed, an impact fee will be decreased
only if a structural building permit has been issued and the permit is changed
so that the amount of impact on infrastructure the development creates in the
Impact Zone is significantly decreased. If a decrease in assessment is required
and the originally assessed fee has been paid, the town will refund to the fee
payer the amount of overpayment.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.41 LIEN RIGHTS ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1325, the town acquires a lien against the real
estate which is the subject of the fee on the date a building permit is issued.
Upon adoption, this subchapter shall be recorded, and thereafter, it shall
constitute constructive notice of the lien rights of the town with respect to a
parcel of real estate which is the subject of an installment payment of the
fee. The town may, in its discretion, file a specific instrument setting forth
its lien rights with respect to a parcel of real estate which is the subject of
an installment payment of the fee, and such instrument shall constitute actual
notice in addition to the constructive notice provided for by the recording of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.42 FORM OF RECEIPT.
   The Zionsville Fiscal Officer shall issue a receipt for all fees collected,
in substantially the following form:
   Received of                                (fee payer) this          day of
                                the sum of
$                                             in (full) (partial) satisfaction
of Road Impact Fees due pursuant to Zionsville Town Council Ordinance No. 2023-
       relating to improvements to be constructed on the real estate located at
                                                  and described on Exhibit A
attached hereto and made part hereof, and subject to lien rights in favor of
the Town of Zionsville in the event of partial payment with payments remaining
due. The remaining balance due (if any) is in the following amount:
$                                    .
                                                                                        
                                                   Zionsville Fiscal Officer
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.43 RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF ZIONSVILLE IMPACT FEE REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby re-establishes, pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1338,
an Impact Fee Review Board ("Board"), and this Board will exist and will have
the same authority as provided for by state law.
      (1)   This Board shall consist of three citizen members appointed by the
Mayor and who shall qualify as follows:
         (a)   One member shall be a real estate broker licensed in Indiana;
         (b)   One member shall be an engineer licensed in Indiana; and
         (c)   One member shall be a certified public accountant.
      (2)   The Mayor shall provide the Town Council with a copy of the
certificates of appointment of each member of the Board.
   (B)   Eligibility. A Board member shall not be a member of the Zionsville
Plan Commission.
   (C)   Terms. The initial term for the real estate broker shall be one year.
The initial terms of the engineer and the certified public account shall be two
years. At the expiration of the terms of each Board member, successors shall be
appointed in the same manner as the original appointees, and each such
succeeding member shall serve for a term of two years. Each member shall
continue to serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
   (D)   Vacancies. If any person appointed as a Board member shall fail to
qualify as provided within ten days after the mailing to him or her of notice
of his or her appointment, or if any member after qualifying shall die, resign,
or vacate office, the Mayor shall fill such vacancy with a new member meeting
the qualifications of the member being replaced. A new member shall serve out
the remainder of the vacated term.
   (E)   Temporary members. If a Review Board member is unable to hear a
petition due to a conflict of interest, the Mayor shall appoint a temporary
member to serve for the period necessary to dispose of the petition giving rise
to the conflict. The temporary member shall qualify in the same manner as the
member in whose place he or she is serving.
   (F)   Officers. The Board shall elect one of its members as President and
one as Vice-President, each of whom shall serve from the day of his or her
election until the following January 31 and until his or her successor is
elected and qualified.
   (G)   Rules of Procedure. The Board is authorized to adopt by-laws, rules,
regulations, and procedures as it may deem necessary for the proper conduct of
its proceedings and the carrying out of its duties. Meetings and hearings shall
be held at such time as the Board may determine and upon such notice as it may
fix, in accordance with the provisions of the by-laws, rules, and regulations
adopted and state law. The Board may use the town's electronic meeting policy
or if such policy does not exist adopt an electronic meeting policy to
facilitate Board attendance.
   (H)   Quorum and official action. A majority of the Board shall constitute a
quorum and the concurrence of a majority shall be necessary to authorize any
action.
   (I)   Duties. The Board shall conduct its review of the amount of an impact
fee assessed, the amount of a refund, and the amount of a credit using the
procedures established in I.C. 36-7-4-136 and 36-7-4-1338(c).
   (J)   Governing law. The Board shall be governed by I.C. 36-7-4-1338 and all
other applicable provisions of the Impact Fee Statute.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.44 APPEAL OF FEE ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   Any fee payer who believes itself to be aggrieved by the calculation
of the fee may appeal the fee assessment to Board, and the Board shall conduct
a hearing with regard thereto. At such hearing, the fee payer shall bear the
burden of going forward with the evidence and shall present evidence addressing
either of the following propositions:
      (1)   A fact assumption used in determining the amount of the fee is
incorrect; or
      (2)   The amount of the fee is greater than the amount allowed under I.C.
36-7-4-1320, 36-7-4-1321, and 36-7-4-1322.
   (B)   Action By Board. Upon conclusion of the hearing at which the matter is
first presented, or at the conclusion of the hearing if the matter is
continued, the Board shall determine the appropriate amount of the fee based
upon the facts presented and may reverse, affirm, modify, or make such
adjustments in the fee, as it believes are appropriate under the circumstances,
if any, including establishing the amount of an impact fee, a credit, a refund,
or any combination of fees, credit, or refunds.
   (C)   Written findings. The Impact Fee Review Board shall make written
findings of fact supporting its decision and shall provide a copy of its
decision to the Director of the Department of Public Works and the fee payer
involved in the appeal within five days after making its decision.
   (D)   Time for appeals and filing fee. An appeal under this section must be
filed no later than 30 days after the issuance of the building permit. The
appeal shall be initiated with the filing of a petition for review with the
Director of the Department of Finance and Records together with a filing fee in
the amount of $100. The filing fee shall be refunded in full if:
      (1)   The petition for review is granted and the fee is eliminated,
reduced, or adjusted by the Impact Fee Review Board, by independent action of
the town, or by a court having jurisdiction; and
      (2)   The reviewing body determines that the amount of the fee,
reductions, or credits were arbitrary or capricious or contrary to state law.
   (E)   Petitions for appeal. The petition for review shall be in a form
calculated to inform the Impact Fee Review Board of the nature of complaint,
the parties to the action, and the relief requested. In addition, the petition
shall describe the new development on which the fee has been assessed, all
facts related to the assessment of the fee, and the reasons the petitioner
believes that the amount of the fee assessed is erroneous or is greater than
the amount allowed by the fee limitation set forth in this subchapter and the
enabling statute.
   (F)   Appeal of Board decision. A fee payer aggrieved by a final
determination of the Board regarding the assessment of an impact fee may appeal
the Board's determination to the Circuit or Superior Courts of Boone County and
is entitled to a trial de nova. If the assessment of the fee is vacated by the
Court, the assessment of the impact fee shall be corrected by the Board.
   (G)   Stay of payment of fee during appeal. If a petition for review or an
appeal of an impact fee assessment is pending, the impact fee is not due and
payable until after the petition or appeal is finally adjudicated and the
amount of the fee is determined.
   (H)   Issuance of permit during appeal. If a person against whom an impact
fee has been assessed appeals the amount of the impact fee, the town shall not
deny the issuance of a building permit on the basis that the fee has not been
paid or condition issuance of the permit on the payment of the fee. However, if
the impact is $1,000 or less, the fee payer must either pay the impact fee or
initiate an appeal in order be eligible for issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.45 REFUNDS.
   A fee payer is entitled to a refund of an impact fee if the conditions
provided for in I.C. 36-7-4-1332(a) exist. An application for a refund must be
filed with the Director of the Department of Finance and Records not later than
two years after the right to a refund accrues. The town shall issue a refund in
part or in full or shall reject the application not later than 30 days after
receiving an application for a refund. If the town approves a refund in whole
or in part, the town shall pay the amount approved, plus interest from the date
on which the impact fee was paid to the date the refund is issued. The interest
rate for refunds shall be 5% per year. The Public Works Manager is responsible
for accepting or rejecting a refund.
   (A)   Appeals. If the town rejects the application for a refund or approves
a partial refund, the fee payer may appeal that rejection to the Board not
later than 60 days after the rejection or partial approval. The appeal shall be
on a form prescribed by the Board. Upon receipt of an application for appeal,
the Board shall immediately provide to the Director Department of Public Works
notice of the appeal. The Board shall hold a hearing on all appeals for a
refund. This hearing shall be held not later than 45 days after the application
for appeal is filed with the Board. After the hearing, the Board shall
determine the amount of refund that shall be made to the fee payer from the
account established herein. A refund ordered by the Board must include interest
from the date the impact fee was paid to the date the refund is issued, at the
rate of 5% per annum.
   (B)   Appeal of Board decision. A party aggrieved by a final decision of the
Board regarding a refund may appeal the decision to the Circuit or Superior
Courts of Boone County and is entitled to a trial de novo.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.46 RE-ESTABLISHMENT OF ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENT FUND.
   There is hereby re-established Town of Zionsville Road Infrastructure
Improvement Fund ("the Fund") of the town. The Fund shall be a non-reverting
fund and shall receive any and all sums collected pursuant to this subchapter
to be utilized in connection with the purposes set forth herein. The Fund shall
consist initially of one account based upon the current existence of one impact
zone. If, and only if, an additional impact zone is created hereafter, a
separate account shall be maintained for each separate impact zone established
within the town. Interest earned on the Fund or on any account with the Fund,
shall be deposited and maintained within the Fund or the separate account. The
Director of the Department of Finance and Records shall maintain records of the
status of the Fund or any account which may be established therein, and shall
make an annual report of the Fund and accounts to the Plan Commission and
Department of Public Works on or before March 31 each year. This annual report
shall be available to the public in general and fee payers, upon request.
Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1332, the Director of the Department of Finance and
Records is designated as the town official responsible for paying refunds and
interest. No funds shall be expended from the Fund without approval from the
Town Council.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.47 USE OF IMPACT FEES COLLECTED PURSUANT TO THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   Any and all fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter may
be utilized only for the following purposes by the town, acting by and through
its Town Council, which for the purposes of this subchapter is identified as
the infrastructure agency contemplated by I.C. 36-7-4-1317:
   (A)   Providing funds to be utilized by the Department of Public Works for
the provision of new infrastructure that is necessary to serve new development
in the Impact Zone from which the fee is collected and that is identified in
the Zone Improvement Plan;
   (B)   An amount not to exceed 5% of the annual collections of the fee to be
utilized for expenses incurred by the town for the consulting services used to
establish this subchapter;
   (C)   To pay any refund due pursuant to the terms of this subchapter; and
   (D)   To pay the debt service cost of an obligation issued to provide new
intersection and roadway infrastructure described in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.48 COLLECTIONS.
   The town may use any legal remedy to collect and impact fee, interest
thereon, penalties, costs, and collection expenses, including but not limited
to reasonable attorney's fees, filing fees and litigation expenses, imposed by
this subchapter. Any action to collect the fee, interest, penalties, costs, and
collections expenses must be filed not more than ten years after the fee
becomes first due and payable. The Town Judge may prosecute any such
violations.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.49 INDIANA IMPACT FEE LAW.
   The Town Council specifically acknowledges the existence of I.C. 36-7-4-1300
et seq. ("the 1300 Series - Impact Fees") which regulates the imposition of
impact fees by municipal corporations within the State of Indiana. The
substantive and procedural requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-1300 et seq. shall
control in the events of conflicts with this subchapter which are unintended by
the Council.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.50 AMENDMENT AND REVIEW.
   The fee provided for herein is based upon data which, in large part, is
subject to inflation and other economic and market forces over which the town
has no control. The Council may cause a review to be made by town staff or
consultants as may be required to determine the continuing validity of the
impact fee, the Impact Zone, and the Plan. The Council shall consider and adopt
such amendments as are necessary to cause a substantive compliance with all
constitutional and statutory requirements. To the extent required by the facts
and circumstances, this process shall include the steps necessary to update the
Plan and the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2023-23, passed 11-6-2023)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of §
53.01 of this chapter shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $100, for
each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(1996 Code, § 9-73)
   (C)   Any owner, as that term is defined in §
53.15, violating any provision of §
53.16 of this chapter shall be fined as follows:
      (1)   A fine of no more than $50 for each offense, plus costs, damages
and expenses. Each day such violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a
separate offense and shall make the violator liable for the imposition of a
fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for in this section are
cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law. An admission
or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the offender from
compliance with the requirements of §
53.16.
      (2)   In lieu of a fine, the town may abate the violation using the
town’s workforce or contracted labor to perform snow removal, leaf and/or
debris removal. The abatement costs shall not exceed $50 for each offense.
   (D)   Each day a violation of §
53.02 of this chapter is allowed to continue shall constitute a separate
offense punishable, upon conviction, by a fine of not less than $10 for each
offense to which costs of prosecution shall be added.
(1996 Code, § 7-60)
(Ord. 99-18, passed - -; Ord. 2001-12, passed - -)
CHAPTER 54: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
54.01   Fees for collection and disposal of solid waste and recycling services
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 FEES FOR COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE AND RECYCLING SERVICES.
   (A)   Authority. Pursuant to the authority found in I.C. 36-9-30, Solid
Waste Collection and Disposal, as may be amended from time-to-time, the Town
Council serving as the "Board" for purposes of this statute may enter into a
contract for the collection and disposal of solid waste services. The Town
Council shall seek a request for proposals or sealed bids for such services,
which may include recycling services, pursuant to the requirements of I.C. 36-
9-30-5 and I.C. 36-1-12-4 or alternatively I.C. 36-9-30-5.3. After determining
the lowest responsive bidder or lowest responsible proposer ("contractor") (if
using the alternative process allowed by I.C. 36-9-30-5.3), the Town Council
may enter into a contract for such services with contractor.
   (B)   Assessment fee. Each residential property owner shall be assessed a
pro rata charge sufficient to completely finance the collection and disposal of
solid waste and recycling program for the town. The fees for such services
shall be set annually as articulated in the contract for the collection and
disposal of solid waste and recycling services (as shall be amended from time-
to-time).
   (C)   Boone County Solid Waste Management District special assessment fee.
In addition to the fees stated in division (B) above, each household shall be
assessed a special fee per month as prescribed by the Boone County Solid Waste
Management District ("District"). Such fee shall be collected by the town and
remitted directly to the District for payment of the special assessment fees
for each household per month. The town shall be entitled to any and all rebates
provided by the District. The town shall deposit such rebates, if provided,
into a special fund titled "Boone County Solid Waste Management District
Special Assessment Fee Rebate" and shall use such funds only for the purpose of
the town as appropriated by the Town Council.
   (D)   Non-residential property services. The contract awarded to the
contractor may allow the town to receive services under this section at an
appropriate cost to the town if the town elects to participate in contract with
contractor.
(Ord. 2023-08, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   The Town Council may impose rules and regulations for the implementation of
the collection and recycling program. Upon passage and publication in
accordance with state law, rules and regulations imposed under §
54.01 of this chapter shall be enforceable in the same manner as other penal
ordinances and violations shall be punishable by a fine of no more than $300.
(1996 Code, § 5-60) (Ord. 91-11, passed 7-8-1991)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
      
71.   GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   BICYCLES
      
73.   PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING RULES
      
74.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
75.   PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING SCHEDULES
      
76.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Effect and short title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Enforcement and administration of traffic code generally
   
70.04   Authority of Chief of Police, police officers and Fire Department
officials
   
70.05   Required obedience to traffic code
   
70.06   Certain non-motorized traffic to obey traffic code
   
70.07   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted
   
70.08   Public employees to obey traffic regulations
   
70.09   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
70.10   Pedestrians’ rights and duties
Traffic-Control Devices
   
70.25   Authority to install traffic-control devices
   
70.26   Manual and specifications for traffic-control devices
   
70.27   When official traffic-control devices are required for enforcement
purposes
   
70.28   Official traffic-control devices; presumption of legality
   
70.29   Mayor to designate crosswalks and establish safety zones
   
70.30   Traffic lanes
   
70.31   Sign damage or removal
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 EFFECT AND SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   Application. The provisions of this traffic code relating to the
operation of vehicles refer exclusively to the operation of vehicles upon
streets and highways, except where a different place is specifically referred
to in a given section.
   (B)   Effect of headings. Chapter, subchapter and section headings contained
herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit, modify or in any manner affect the
scope, meaning or extent of the provisions of any chapter, subchapter or
section hereof.
   (C)   Short title. This traffic code may be known and cited as the
"Zionsville Traffic Code", "Z.T.C." or "this traffic code".
   (D)   Effect of partial invalidity. If any part or parts of this chapter are
for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity
of the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this traffic code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever
any words or phrases used herein are not defined herein, but are defined in the
state laws regulating the operation of vehicles, such definition therein shall
be deemed to apply to such words and phrases used herein, except when the
context otherwise requires.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Zionsville.
   LOADING ZONE. A space reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles during the
loading or unloading of passengers or property.
   OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named herein, they shall
mean standard time or daylight savings time as may be in current use in the
town.
   POLICE OFFICER. Every officer of the Municipal Police Department or any
officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for
violations of traffic regulations.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.03 ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION OF TRAFFIC CODE GENERALLY.
   (A)   Duties of Chief of Police and police officers. In addition to his or
her other activities, it shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to enforce
the street traffic regulations of the town and all state vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in the town; to make arrests for traffic
violations; to investigate all traffic accidents and make reports on a standard
accident report form; to maintain a standard system of filing accident records
and records of all arrests and warnings; to cooperate with other officers of
the town in the administration of the traffic laws and in developing ways to
improve traffic conditions; to file an annual report with the Council
concerning the number of traffic accidents, the number of moving violations and
parking violation arrests and other data on the traffic activities of his or
her office; and to carry out those duties specially imposed upon said office by
this traffic code.
   (B)   Emergency regulations. The Chief of Police may authorize the temporary
placing of official traffic-control devices when required by an emergency. The
Chief of Police shall notify the Council of his or her action as soon
thereafter as is practical.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.04 AUTHORITY OF CHIEF OF POLICE, POLICE OFFICERS AND FIRE DEPARTMENT
OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, or police officers as are assigned by the Chief
of Police, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic by voice, hand or signal
in conformance with traffic laws; provided that, in the event of a fire or
other emergency or to expedite traffic or to safeguard pedestrians, the Chief
of Police or police officers may direct traffic as conditions may require
notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
   (B)   Officers of the Fire Department, when at the scene of a fire, may
direct or assist police officials in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.05 REQUIRED OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CODE.
   It is unlawful and a violation for any person to do any act forbidden or
fail to perform any act required in this traffic code.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.06 CERTAIN NON-MOTORIZED TRAFFIC TO OBEY TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   Every person propelling any push cart upon a roadway shall be granted
all of the rights and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by this traffic code and by the rules of the road portion
of the State Vehicle Code, except those provisions which, by their very nature,
can have no application.
   (B)   Every person riding an animal or driving any animal-drawn vehicle upon
a roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this traffic code, except those
provisions of this traffic code which, by their very nature, can have no
application.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.07 USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES AND SIMILAR DEVICES RESTRICTED.
   No person upon roller skates, skateboards or riding in or by means of any
coaster, toy vehicle or similar device shall go upon any roadway, except while
crossing a street on a crosswalk and, when so crossing, such person shall be
granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable
to pedestrians.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Clinging to vehicles, see §
71.07
§ 70.08 PUBLIC EMPLOYEES TO OBEY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this traffic code shall apply to the drivers of all
vehicles owned or operated by the United States, the state or any county, town,
district or any other political subdivision of the state, subject to such
specific exceptions as are set forth in this traffic code or in the State
Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.09 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but, not upon returning from, a fire alarm, may park
or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this traffic code.
   (B)   Division (A) above shall not relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to park or stand with due regard for the safety
of all persons, nor shall such provision protect the driver from the
consequences of his or her reckless disregard for the safety of others.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.10 PEDESTRIANS’ RIGHTS AND DUTIES.
   Except where otherwise indicated by a crosswalk or other official traffic-
control devices, a pedestrian shall cross a roadway at right angles to the curb
or by the shortest route to the opposite curb.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES
§ 70.25 AUTHORITY TO INSTALL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   The Council shall have placed and maintained official traffic-control
devices when and as required under the traffic ordinances of the town to make
effective the provisions of said ordinances, and may place and maintain such
additional official traffic-control devices as the Council may deem necessary
to regulate, warn or guide traffic under the traffic ordinances of the town or
the State Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.26 MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the Indiana
Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways, prepared by
the State Highway Commission, and the Indiana Code. All signs and signals
required hereunder for a particular purpose shall, so far as practicable, be
uniform to type and location throughout the town. All traffic-control devices
so erected and not inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this
traffic code shall be official traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.27 WHEN OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES ARE REQUIRED FOR ENFORCEMENT
PURPOSES.
   No provision of this subchapter for which official traffic-control devices
are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if, at the time and
place of the alleged violation, an official device is not in proper position
and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person. Whenever
a particular section does not state that official traffic-control devices are
required, such section shall be effective even though no devices are erected or
in place.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.28 OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES; PRESUMPTION OF LEGALITY.
   (A)   Whenever official traffic-control devices are placed in position
approximately conforming to the requirements of this subchapter, such devices
shall be presumed to have been so placed by the official act or direction of
lawful authority, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
   (B)   Any official traffic-control devices placed pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter and purporting to conform to the lawful requirements
pertaining to such devices shall be presumed to comply with the requirements of
this subchapter, unless the contrary shall be established by competent
evidence.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.29 MAYOR TO DESIGNATE CROSSWALKS AND ESTABLISH SAFETY ZONES.
   The Council is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections, where, in the opinion
of the Council, there is particular danger to pedestrians crossing the roadway
and at such other places as the Council may deem necessary; and
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as the Council may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
   The Mayor, in consultation with the Zionsville Department of Public Works,
is hereby authorized:
   (A)   To designate and maintain, by appropriate devices, marks or lines upon
the surface of the roadway, crosswalks at intersections, where, in the opinion
of the Mayor, there is particular and warranted need to enhance awareness of
pedestrians crossing the roadway and at such other places as the Mayor may deem
necessary; and
   (B)   To establish safety zones of such kind and character and at such
places as the Mayor may deem necessary for the protection of pedestrians.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023; Ord. 2025-08, passed 3-17-2025)
§ 70.30 TRAFFIC LANES.
   The Council is hereby authorized to mark traffic lanes upon the roadway of
any street or highway where a regular alignment of traffic is necessary.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023
§ 70.31 SIGN DAMAGE OR REMOVAL.
   No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt to or in fact alter,
deface, injure, knock down, or remove any official traffic-control device or
sign, or any part thereof.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties. The schedule of violations, adopted by order of the Town
Court on 11-15-2005, is incorporated into this traffic code in its entirety.
Each violator of any provision of this traffic code shall pay a fine and
penalty to the town in the amount set forth in such schedule of violations or
as determined by the Town Court in any of its proceedings.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Whenever a person is charged with a violation of this traffic code,
he or she shall be given notice of such charge by an appropriate notice served
personally or placed in or upon a vehicle stopped or parked in violation of any
provision hereof. Any person, so charged, may appear at the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer within 48 hours of the service of notice served personally or
within 48 hours of the issuance of any notice placed in or upon his or her
vehicle, as provided above, and make payment to said Clerk-Treasurer of the
penalty and fine set out in division (A) above, or such other penalty as may be
specifically provided in this traffic code, as the same may be amended from
time to time. Payment of such fine and penalty shall be deemed an
acknowledgment of such violation and offense.
      (2)   If any person so charged with a violation of this traffic code
elects not to appear and pay said penalty within such designated time, the
town, by its proper officers, shall institute proceedings as provided by law,
before a court of law, magistrate or judge for the collection of such penalty
and enforcement of this traffic code.
      (3)   If, in the opinion of the Chief of Police or his or her police
officers or other duly constituted officer, any person charged with violating
this traffic code is about to leave the jurisdiction, such officer may
institute action forthwith before a court of law, magistrate or judge for the
collection of such fine or penalty.
(Ord. 2023-32, passed 12-4-2023)
CHAPTER 71: GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Speed regulations
   
71.02   Turning movements
   
71.03   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.04   Stop and yield intersections
   
71.05   Driving through funeral or other processions
   
71.06   Limitation on backing
   
71.07   Clinging to vehicles
   
71.08   Muffler requirement
   
71.09   Parades and processions; permit
   
71.10   Unsafe acceleration
   
71.11   Wheelies
§ 71.01 SPEED REGULATIONS.
   (A)   State speed laws applicable. The state traffic laws, including but not
limited to I.C. 9-21-5 et seq., regulating the speed of vehicles shall be
applicable upon all streets within the town, except as this traffic code, as
authorized by state law, hereby declares and determines upon the basis of
engineering and traffic investigations that certain speed regulations shall be
applicable upon specified streets or in certain areas; in which event, it shall
be unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of any speed
so declared in this traffic code when proper signs are in place.
   (B)   Speed limits on designated streets. Upon the basis of an engineering
and traffic investigation, maximum speed limits are hereby determined and
declared reasonable and safe on the streets (or parts of streets), described in
Ch. 74, Schd. V, of this traffic code when signs are erected giving notice
thereof.
(Ord. 2023-35, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 71.02 TURNING MOVEMENTS.
   (A)   Authority to place restricted turn signs. The Council is hereby
authorized, per I.C. 9-21-1-3(10), to determine those intersections at which
drivers of vehicles shall not make a right, left or U-turn, and shall place
proper signs at such intersections. The making of such turns may be prohibited
between certain hours of any day and permitted at other hours; in which event,
the same shall be plainly indicated on the signs or they may be removed when
such turns are permitted.
   (B)   Limitations on turning around. The driver of any vehicle shall not
turn such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street.
(Ord. 2023-35, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 71.03 ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Upon those streets and parts of streets in those alleys described in
Ch. 74, Schd. I, of this traffic code, vehicular traffic shall move only in the
indicated direction that properly erected signs designate, and movement in the
opposite direction is prohibited.
(Ord. 2023-35, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 71.04 STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   Those streets, parts of streets, stop intersections and yield intersections
described in
Ch. 74, Schd. II and
Schd. III, of this traffic code are hereby declared to be through streets, stop
intersections or yield intersections for the purpose of this traffic code.
(1996 Code, § 7-8) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see
§
70.99
§ 71.05 DRIVING THROUGH FUNERAL OR OTHER PROCESSIONS.
   (A)   No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the vehicles comprising a
funeral or other authorized procession while they are in motion and when such
vehicles are conspicuously designated.
   (B)   This provision shall not apply at intersections where traffic is
controlled by traffic-control signals or police officers.
(Ord. 2023-35, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 71.06 LIMITATION ON BACKING.
   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the vehicle unless such movement can
be made with reasonable safety and without interfering with other traffic.
(Ord. 2023-35, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 71.07 CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person riding upon any bicycle, motorcycle, coaster, roller skates,
sled, skateboard or toy vehicle shall attach the same or himself or herself to
any vehicle upon a roadway.
   (B)   This section shall not prohibit attaching a bicycle trailer or bicycle
semi-trailer to a bicycle if that trailer or semi-trailer has been designed for
such attachment.
(Ord. 2023-35, passed 12-4-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Use of coasters, roller skates and similar devices restricted, see §
70.07
§ 71.08 MUFFLER REQUIREMENT.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle in the town without an effective
muffler properly installed on such motor vehicle. No vehicle shall be operated
in said town if it has installed or is using any motor noise muffler device
which fails to suppress the motor exhaust noise to a level equal to or below
the noise volume achieved by the muffler equipment specified by the
manufacturer of such motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2023-35, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 71.09 PARADES AND PROCESSIONS; PERMIT.
   No funeral, procession or parade containing 200 or more persons or 50 or
more vehicles, except the armed forces of the United States, the military
forces of the state and the forces of the Police and Fire Departments, shall
occupy, march or proceed along any street, except in accordance with a permit
issued by the Chief of Police and such other regulations as are set forth
herein which may apply.
(Ord. 2023-35, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 71.10 UNSAFE ACCELERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle to be operated in such a manner
causing the rapid acceleration of the rotation of the wheels resulting in the
loss of traction or the marking of the road surface by the tires.
(Ord. 2023-35, passed 12-4-2023)
§ 71.11 WHEELIES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle in such a manner as to
cause the front tire or tires to leave the surface of the road.
(Ord. 2023-35, passed 12-4-2023)
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES
Section
   
72.01   Effect of regulations
   
72.02   Traffic regulations apply to persons riding bicycles
   
72.03   Riding on bicycles
   
72.04   Riding on sidewalks
   
72.05   Attaching bicycles to poles
§ 72.01 EFFECT OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It is a violation for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required in this chapter.
   (B)   The parent of any child and the guardian of any ward shall not
authorize or knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any highway or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles subject to those exceptions stated herein.
(1996 Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 72.02 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the
rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a
vehicle by this chapter, except as to special regulations in this chapter, and
except as to those provisions of this chapter which, by their nature, can have
no application.
(1996 Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014)
§ 72.03 RIDING ON BICYCLES.
   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the number
of which it is designed or equipped; except that, an adult rider may carry a
child securely attached to his or her person in a backpack or sling.
(1996 Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 72.04 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
   (B)   The Chief of Police is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or
roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles thereon by any person and, when such
signs are in place, no person shall disobey the same.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right-of- way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(1996 Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
70.99
§ 72.05 ATTACHING BICYCLES TO POLES.
   Any person may park near and secure a bicycle to any publicly-owned pole or
post for a period of not more than 12 consecutive hours, unless an official
traffic-control device or any applicable law or ordinance prohibits parking or
securing bicycles at that location. No bicycle shall be secured in any manner
so as to impede the normal and reasonable movement of pedestrian or other
traffic.
(1996 Code, § 7-11) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
70.99
CHAPTER 73: PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Angle parking
   
73.02   Parking not to obstruct traffic
   
73.03   Parking in alleys
   
73.04   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited generally
   
73.05   Parking adjacent to schools
   
73.06   Stopping, standing or parking near hazardous or congested places
   
73.07   Temporary parking prohibitions
   
73.08   Commercial sale or merchandise or the distribution of sample or
promotional commercial merchandise from the town’s public ways
   
73.09   Parking in or obstructing fire lanes
   
73.10   Stopping, standing or parking restricted or prohibited on certain
streets
   
73.11   Commercial vehicles
Loading or Unloading
   
73.25   Council to designate loading zones
   
73.26   Standing in loading zones
   
73.27   Council to designate public carrier stops and stands
   
73.28   Restricted use of bus and taxicab stands
Oversized Vehicles
   
73.40   Dusk to dawn parking
   
73.41   Trailers and recreational vehicles
   
73.42   Extended parking
   
73.43   Effective date
   
73.44   Load boards
Shopping and Public Gathering Areas
   
73.55   Shopping center parking
   
73.56   Handicapped parking
   
73.57   Parking time limit
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 ANGLE PARKING.
   (A)   Signs or markings indicating angle parking. The Council shall
determine upon what streets angle parking shall be permitted and shall mark or
sign such streets, but such angle parking shall not be indicated upon any state
highway within the town unless the State Highway Commission has determined that
angle parking shall be permitted.
   (B)   Obedience to angle parking signs or markings. On those streets which
have been signed or marked by the Council for angle parking, no person shall
park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of the
roadway, indicated by such signs or markings.
(1996 Code, § 7-12) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.02 PARKING NOT TO OBSTRUCT TRAFFIC.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street, other than an alley, in such
a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of
the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic.
(1996 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 98-30, passed - -; Ord.
2001-32, passed - -; Ord. 2005-17, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.03 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(1996 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 98-30, passed - -; Ord.
2001-32, passed - -; Ord. 2005-17, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.04 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING PROHIBITED GENERALLY.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of any intersection or of a crosswalk at an
intersection;
   (G)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (H)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
said entrance (when properly sign posted);
   (I)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street; and/or
   (J)   In a designated fire lane, whether on public or private property.
(1996 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 98-30, passed - -; Ord.
2001-32, passed - -; Ord. 2005-17, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.05 PARKING ADJACENT TO SCHOOLS.
   (A)   The Council is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no parking
upon either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when
such parking would, in the Council’s opinion, interfere with traffic or create
a hazardous situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either side
of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no person
shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
(1996 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 98-30, passed - -; Ord.
2001-32, passed - -; Ord. 2005-17, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.06 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING NEAR HAZARDOUS OR CONGESTED PLACES.
   (A)   The Council is hereby authorized to determine and designate, by proper
signed places not exceeding 100 feet in length in which the stopping, standing
or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition or would
cause unusual delay to traffic.
   (B)   When official signs are erected at hazardous or congested places as
authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle in any such
designated place.
(1996 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 98-30, passed - -; Ord.
2001-32, passed - -; Ord. 2005-17, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.07 TEMPORARY PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   Parking may be temporarily limited or prohibited from time to time for
special occasions and to meet emergencies upon authority of the Chief of
Police, who is hereby given authority for such limitations and prohibition of
parking and all vehicles shall observe such prohibitions and limitations when
proper signs have been erected or placed indicating such prohibition, and the
violation thereof shall be subject to the penalties heretofore or hereafter
provided.
(1996 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 98-30, passed - -; Ord.
2001-32, passed - -; Ord. 2005-17, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.08 COMMERCIAL SALE OF MERCHANDISE OR THE DISTRIBUTION OF SAMPLE OR
PROMOTIONAL COMMERCIAL MERCHANDISE FROM THE TOWN’S PUBLIC WAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, business concern or corporation to sell
commercial merchandise or distribute sample or promotional commercial
merchandise within the public ways of any public street, bicycle or pedestrian
pathway or alley within the confines of the corporate limits of the town unless
said commercial sales of merchandise or distribution of sample or promotional
commercial merchandise is sanctioned as a part of a special event featuring
street vendors approved by the town.
(1996 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 98-30, passed - -; Ord.
2001-32, passed - -; Ord. 2005-17, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.09 PARKING IN OR OBSTRUCTING FIRE LANES.
   (A)   (1)   No vehicle or object, whether attended or unattended, other than
an emergency vehicle on an emergency response shall park in or obstruct by any
means a fire lane.
      (2)   Said vehicle shall be deemed an obstruction and in violation and
shall be subject to the same penalties provided for such parking or otherwise
obstructing fire lanes on public streets.
   (B)   The Town Police Department shall have authority for issuing citations
for violations of this section.
(1996 Code, § 7-13) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 98-30, passed - -; Ord.
2001-32, passed - -; Ord. 2005-17, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.10 STOPPING, STANDING OR PARKING RESTRICTED OR PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN
STREETS.
   (A)   Application of chapter. The provisions of this chapter prohibiting the
standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at those times
herein specified or as indicated on official signs except when it is necessary
to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with
the directions of a police officer or official traffic-control device.
   (B)   Parking prohibited at all times on certain streets. When signs are
erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle at any time upon
any of the streets described in
Ch. 75, Schd. II, of this traffic code.
   (C)   Parking prohibited during certain hours on certain streets. When signs
are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle between the
hours specified in
Ch. 75, Schd. II, of this traffic code of any day, except Sundays and public
holidays within the district or upon any street described in said
Ch. 75, Schd. II, of this traffic code.
   (D)   Parking time limited on certain streets. When signs are erected giving
notice thereof, no person shall park a vehicle for longer than the time
specified in
Ch. 75, Schd. III, of this traffic code of any day, except Sundays and public
holidays within the district at locations described in said
Ch. 75, Schd. III, of this traffic code.
   (E)   Parking signs required. No prohibition, regulation or limitation
relating to stopping, standing, or parking imposed under this or any other
ordinance of the town, except for the provisions of §§
73.40 through
73.43 of this chapter, shall be effective unless official traffic-control
devices are erected and in place at the time of any alleged offense, and it
shall be the duty of the Council to see that such devices are erected and
maintained.
   (F)   Special enforcement procedure. The Chief of Police and his or her
police officers are hereby authorized to move or cause in be moved and properly
stored, at the owner’s expense, any vehicle improperly parked, parked overtime,
or abandoned if, after reasonable effort, the owner or operator of such vehicle
cannot be found or refuses or fails, upon proper notification, to move such
vehicle.
(1996 Code, § 7-15) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.11 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   Commercial vehicles prohibited from using certain streets. When signs
are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any commercial
vehicle exceeding gross weight as specified upon any of the streets or parts of
streets described in
Ch. 75, Schd. IV, of this traffic code; except that, such vehicles may be
operated thereon for the purpose of delivering or picking up materials or
merchandise and then only by entering such street at the intersection nearest
the destination of the vehicle and proceeding thereon no further than the
nearest intersection thereafter.
   (B)   Truck parking restrictions. Freight carrying vehicles of one-ton
capacity or more or vehicles more than 20 feet in length shall not park within
the business district on Main Street of the town, except for the purpose of
loading or unloading freight.
(1996 Code, § 7-16) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
LOADING OR UNLOADING
§ 73.25 COUNCIL TO DESIGNATE LOADING ZONES.
   The Council is hereby authorized to determine the location of loading zones
and shall have placed and maintained appropriate signs indicating the same and
stating the hours during which the provisions of this section are applicable.
(1996 Code, § 7-14) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014)
§ 73.26 STANDING IN LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   No person shall, stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick-up
and loading of property in any place described in
Ch. 75, Schd. I, of this traffic code and marked as a loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no cases shall
the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed 30 minutes.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle may stop temporarily at a loading zone for the
purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when
such stopping does not interfere with any vehicle which is waiting to enter or
about to enter such zone to load or unload property.
(1996 Code, § 7-14) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.27 COUNCIL TO DESIGNATE PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND STANDS.
   The Council is hereby authorized and required to establish bus stops, bus
stands, taxicab stands and stands for other passenger common-carrier motor
vehicles on such public streets in such places and in such number as it shall
determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and
every such bus stop, bus stand, taxicab stand or other stand shall be
designated by appropriate signs.
(1996 Code, § 7-14) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014)
§ 73.28 RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus
stop, or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand, when any such stop or stand
has been officially designated and appropriately signed; except that, the
driver of a passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of
and while actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such
stopping does not interfere with any bus or taxicab waiting to enter or about
to enter such zone.
(1996 Code, § 7-14) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
73.99
OVERSIZED VEHICLES
§ 73.40 DUSK TO DAWN PARKING.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for the
following to park on any street or right-of-way or on town property in the town
from dusk to dawn, except if the vehicle is providing a service and not merely
waiting to provide a service or is making a delivery:
   (A)   Truck/tractors;
   (B)   Road tractors;
   (C)   Semi- and pole trailers;
   (D)   Garbage trucks;
   (E)   Tank trucks;
   (F)   Cement trucks;
   (G)   All buses, including, but not limited to, school buses and private
buses;
   (H)   Trucks over 25 feet in length or having three or more axles;
   (I)   Trailers or recreational vehicles over 40 feet in length;
   (J)   Farm tractors and other implements of husbandry; and
   (K)   Construction equipment and trailers.
(1996 Code, § 7-30) (Ord. 89-14, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.41 TRAILERS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any trailer or recreational vehicle that is not
self-propelled to be parked unattached to a licensed towing vehicle from dusk
to dawn on any town street, right-of-way or property.
(1996 Code, § 7-31) (Ord. 89-14, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.42 EXTENDED PARKING.
   It shall be unlawful for any recreational trailer that is attached to a
licensed towing vehicle or any vehicle licensed as a recreational vehicle under
the laws of the state that is self-propelled to be parked for over 72
consecutive hours on any street or right-of-way or on town property in the
town.
(1996 Code, § 7-32) (Ord. 89-14, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.43 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and publication according to law.
(1996 Code, § 7-33) (Ord. 89-14, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014)
§ 73.44 LOAD BOARDS.
   All trailers must use a sufficient load board to prevent the scarring,
sinking, indentation or damage to pavement when parked on a street, right-of-
way or on town property in the town.
(1996 Code, § 7-35) (Ord. 89-14, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014)
SHOPPING AND PUBLIC GATHERING AREAS
§ 73.55 SHOPPING CENTER PARKING.
   (A)   This section applies to the following properties:
      (1)   The property commonly known as the Boone Village Shopping Center as
the same is owned by Boone Village; and
      (2)   The property commonly known as the Ford Center Shopping Center as
the same is owned by Kosene Acquisitions II.
   (B)   Parallel and/or vertical parking shall be prohibited along or adjacent
to the curb (commonly known as the fire lane) running along the front of all
retail establishments, occupied or unoccupied.
(1996 Code, § 7-40) (Ord. 83-15, passed - -; Ord. 83-19, passed - -; Ord. 96-
04, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.56 HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   This section applies to all areas of the town where handicapped
parking spaces have been marked and designated to assist access to retail
shopping and public gathering places (i.e., library, schools).
   (B)   Parking shall be prohibited in parking spaces designated and clearly
marked for handicapped persons unless the individual falls under the definition
of handicapped as contained in division (C) below.
   (C)   A person is HANDICAPPED within the definition of this section if he or
she is an individual of any age who:
      (1)   Has a temporary or permanent physical disability that requires the
use of a wheelchair, walker, braces or crutches;
      (2)   Has temporary or permanent loss of the use of one or both legs;
and/or
      (3)   Is certified by a physician having an unlimited license to practice
medicine in the state to be severely restricted in mobility, either temporarily
or permanently, by a pulmonary or cardiovascular disability, arthritic
condition or orthopedic or neurological impairment.
(1996 Code, § 7-41) (Ord. 83-15, passed - -; Ord. 83-19, passed - -; Ord. 96-
04, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.57 PARKING TIME LIMIT.
   Time limits for parking, where applicable, are as set forth in Ch. 75, Schd.
III, of this traffic code. A violation of the parking time limit restrictions
carries a fine of $10 as set forth in §
70.99 of this code of ordinances.
(1996 Code, § 7-42) (Ord. 96-04, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see
§
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
70.99 of this traffic code.
   (B)   Any violation of §
73.09 of this chapter constitutes an infraction punishable by a fine of $100
per occurrence and the obstruction, be it vehicle or other personal property
shall be towed away upon the request of the Fire Chief or his or her authorized
representative or a police officer. The owner of such personal property shall
be liable for all tow-in charges and resulting storage charges, if any.
(1996 Code, § 7-13)
   (C)   Any violation of §§
73.40 through
73.44 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not less than $10 and no
more than $300.
(1996 Code, § 7-34)
   (D)   A violation of the provisions of §
73.55 of this chapter shall amount to an ordinance violation and, upon
conviction of such, the violator shall be fined in the sum of $10. Each day of
such violation shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(1996 Code, § 7-40)
   (E)   A violation of the provisions of §
73.56 of this chapter shall amount to an ordinance violation and, upon
conviction of such, the violator shall be fined in the sum of $50. Each day of
such violation shall constitute a new and separate offense.
(1996 Code, § 7-41)
(Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 83-15, passed - -; Ord. 89-14, passed - -; Ord.
83-19, passed - -; Ord. 96-04, passed - -; Ord. 98-30, passed - -; Ord. 2001-
32, passed - -; Ord. 2005-17, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014)
CHAPTER 74: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   One-way streets
      
II.   Through streets and stop intersections
      
III.   Yield intersections
      
IV.   Weight restrictions and truck routes
      
V.   Speed limits
      
VI.   School zones
      
VII.   Automated traffic signals and stop/yield intersections
SCHEDULE I. ONE-WAY STREETS.
   In accordance with and when streets are properly marked and posted, traffic
shall move only in the direction indicated upon the following streets and
alleys:
Street/Intersection Direction Location Special Provisions
Street/Intersection  Direction        Location             Special Provisions
                     East             From Sixth Street to  
Ash Street                            Mulberry Street
                     West             From Elm Street to    
                                      Maple Street
Elm Street           North            From Poplar Street    
                                      to Ash Street
Hawthorne Street     East             From First Street to  
                                      Elm Street
Iris Lane (South)    Heading counter-
and Greenthread      clockwise                             
Drive
Maple Street         South            From Ash Street to    
                                      Poplar Street
Mulsanne Drive,
Carmague Drive,      Heading counter-                      
Corniche Drive and   clockwise
Bentley Drive
                                                           Pursuant to §
                                                           73.01 of this
North-south alley                                          traffic code, the
between East                          From Hawthorne       Town Council hereby
Hawthorne Street and South            Street to the alley  determines and
the alley designated                  designated Old       designates that
Old National Way                      National Way         angle parking shall
                                                           be permitted on this
                                                           one-way portion of
                                                           the alley
Oak Street           East             From First Street to  
                                      Elm Street
Pin Oak Drive (East) Heading counter-                      
and Shelburne Way    clockwise
Pine Street          West             From Elm Street to    
                                      First Street
Second Street        North            From Oak Street to    
                                      Poplar Street
Sixth Street         North            From Locust Street    
                                      to Ash Street
South Cobblestone
Drive, Pebblepointe  Heading counter-                      
Pass and Spring      clockwise
Violet Place
South Cobblestone    Heading counter-
Drive and            clockwise                             
Pebblepointe Pass
Sycamore Street      East             From Third Street to  
                                      Second Street
                                      From Hawthorne
                     South            Street to Sycamore    
Third Street                          Street
                                      From Oak Street
                     South            (formerly SR 334) to  
                                      Pine Street
 
(1996 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 2000-27, passed - -; Ord.
2003-15, passed - -; Ord. 2004-12, passed - -; Ord. 2006-04, passed - -; Ord.
2007-13, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 2016-21, passed 12-19-2016;
Ord. 2017-07, passed 8-7-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. THROUGH STREETS AND STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   In accordance with the provisions of §
71.04 of this traffic code, and when proper signs are erected, vehicles shall
be brought to a full stop at every intersection before entering any of the
following through streets or designated sections of streets. Any street or
highway which is now or which hereafter may be established as the route, or
part of the route, for a state highway, unless specifically designated to the
contrary herein or by amendment hereto.
Street/Special Provision Intersection Type of Stop
Street/Special Provision     Intersection                 Type of Stop
106th Street                 Bennett Parkway              4-way stop
Amber Stone Court            Weather Stone Crossing
Andreade Drive               106th Street
Arborhill Drive              Woods Edge Drive
                             Ridgewood Drive
Ash Street                   Mulberry Street              3-way stop
                             Maple Street                 3-way stop
Austin Oaks Court            Willow Road                  4-way stop
Austin Trace                 Arborhill Drive
Autumn Ash Drive             Purple Ash Drive
                             Cimmaron Ash Drive           Circular intersection
Autumn Way                   CR 975 East
Barth Drive                  CR 975 East
                             Wildwood Drive
Bayberry Lane                Brentwood Avenue
                             Clarkston Road               3-way stop
Beech Street                 Sixth Street                 2-way stop
                             Fifth Street
Becker Court                 Becker Drive
Becker Drive                 Willow Road
                             Century Oaks Drive
Belfair Court                Foxland Run
Bellflower Drive             Greenthread Drive            3-way stop
Benderfield Drive            Bloor Lane
Bennett Parkway              106th Street                 4-way stop
Bent Tree Court              Polo Trail
Bentley Drive                Oak Street
Berkley Court                Foxland Run
Beverly Drive                Stanley Drive
                             Woodside Drive
Black Willow Court           Willow Ridge Drive
Bloor Lane                   Mulberry Street
Brendon Way Drive            Parkway Drive
                             Oak Street
Brentwood Avenue             Clarkston Road
Brentwood Court              Brentwood Avenue
Bridlewood Court             Bridlewood Trail
                             Willow Road                  4-way stop
Brittany Drive               Chase Circle                 4-way stop
                             Fieldmaster Drive            4-way stop
                             US 421 (Michigan Road)
Buttondown Lane              Khaki Court                  3-way stop
                             CR 975 East
Camden Court                 Governor’s Lane            4-way stop
                             Camden Court                 4-way stop
Camden Drive                 Governor’s Lane            4-way stop
                             CR 975 East
Carmargue Drive              Mulsanne Drive
Catalina Circle              Village Walk Drive
Catalina Way                 Cruse Road/CR 600 South
                             Village Walk Drive
                             Sixth Street
                             Fifth Street                 4-way stop
Cedar Street                 First Street                 4-way stop
                             Main Street
                             Elm Street
Chase Circle                 Brittany Drive               4-way stop
Chase Oak Court              Woods Edge Drive
Cimmaron Ash Court           Patmore Ash Drive
                             CR 300 South
Cimmaron Ash Drive           Purple Ash Drive             Circular intersection
                             Autumn Ash Drive             Circular intersection
Clarkston Court              Clarkston Road
                             Willow Road
Clarkston Road               Bayberry Lane                3-way stop
                             US 421
Colony Court                 Mulberry Street
Colony Way                   Mulberry Street
                             Franklin Trace
Conifer Drive                Canopy Way/Foxtail Court
                             Durango Drive/Evergreen Way
Continental Drive (West)     Corniche Drive
                             Ford Road
Corniche Drive (East)        Continental Drive
Cotton Wood Drive            Hickory Ridge Drive
                             Oak Ridge Drive
CR 400 South                 CR 875 East                  2-way stop
                             CR 800 East                  4-way stop
CR 500 South                 CR 800 East                  4-way stop
                             CR 875 East                  4-way stop
CR 550 South                 CR 875 East                  3-way stop
CR 600 South/Cruse Road      Ford Road
CR 800 East                  CR 400 South                 4-way stop
                             CR 500 South                 4-way stop
CR 800 East (Kissell Road)   Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
CR 850 East (Cooper Road)    Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
                             CR 500 South (Whitestown     4-way stop
CR 875 East                  Road)
                             CR 550 South                 3-way stop
CR 950 East (Sheets Road)    Oak Street
CR 975 East/Pleasant View    Whitestown Road              4-way stop
Church Road                  Mulberry Street              4-way stop
Creekside Pass               Promontory Trail
Creekstone Way               Austin Trace
Cricklewood Way              Corniche Drive
                             Continental Drive
Dahlia Drive                 106th Street
                             Old 106th Street
Danny Road                   Woodside Drive
                             Stanley Drive
Daugherty Drive              Greenfield Road/121st Street
Deer Valley Lane             CR 400 South
                             Pin Oak Drive                3-way stop
                             Oak Street
                             Ford Road
Dominion Drive               Ashland Avenue               4-way stop
                             Newport Lane                 4-way stop
                             Roanoke Drive                3-way stop
Durango Drive                Sugar Pine Lane
Eaglewood Drive              Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
Eighth Street                Pine Street
                             Oak Street
                             Sycamore Street
Elm Street                   Hawthorne Street             3-way stop
                             Oak Street                   3-way stop
                             Poplar Street
Evergreen Way                Conifer Drive
Field Master Drive           Brittany Drive               4-way stop
                             Sycamore Street
                             Hawthorne Street
                             Pine Street
Fifth Street                 Oak Street
                             Cedar Street                 4-way stop
                             Poplar Street                4-way stop
                             Ash Street
First Flight Circle          Field Master Drive
                             Oak Street                   3-way stop
First Street                 Sycamore Street              2-way stop
                             Cedar Street                 4-way stop
                             Ash Street
Flagstone Drive              Mossy Rock Drive
Ford Road                    Mulberry Street/Whitestown   4-way stop
                             Road
Ford Valley Lane             Ford Road
Ford Valley Lane west and
northwest bound is a through
street; except that, traffic
on Ford Valley Lane west and
northwest bound must stop    Fox Hollow Ridge
before entering both
intersection locations of
Ford Valley Lane west and
northwest bound
                             Pine Street
                             Oak Street
                             Cedar Street
Fourth Street                Poplar Street
                             Walnut Street
                             Hawthorne Street
                             Linden Street
                             Ash Street
Fox Hollow Ridge             Hunt Club Road
Fullcry Circle               Brittany Drive
                             CR 975 East
                             Camden Court                 4-way stop
Governor’s Lane            Camden Drive                 4-way stop
                             Maxwell Lane (southern       3-way stop
                             intersection)
                             Mulberry Street
Graystone Court              Village Walk Drive           4-way stop
Graystone Lane               Village Walk Drive           4-way stop
Greenthread Court            Greenthread Lane
                             CR 400 South
                             Sedge Court                  3-way stop
                             Greenthread Lane             3-way stop
Greenthread Drive            Rockcress Court              3-way stop
                             Bellflower Drive             3-way stop
                             Sunflower Court              3-way stop)
                             CR 975 East
Greenthread Lane             Greenthread Drive            3-way stop
Hal Sharpe Road              Mulberry Street
                             Bloor Lane
                             Sixth Street
Hawthorne Street             First Street
                             Main Street
                             Elm Street                   3-way stop
Heatherstone Way             West Cobblestone Drive
Hickory Ridge Drive          Oak Ridge Drive              3-way stop
Honeysuckle Lane (East)      Shelburne Way                3-way stop
Honeysuckle Lane (West)      Shelburne Way                3-way stop
Hunt Club Road               Ford Road
Huntington Woods Road        Ford Road
Huntington Woods Point       Sullivans Ridge
Huntsman Drive               First Flight Circle
Iris Lane (North)            Greenthread Drive
Irishman’s Run Lane        Ford Road
Irongate Drive               Oak Street
Isenhour Hills Drive         Mulberry Street
Karen Drive                  Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
Keystone Court               Old Quarry Drive
Khaki Court                  Buttondown Lane              3-way stop
Lakeview Drive               Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
Lakewood Circle              Lakewood Drive
Lakewood Drive               CR 975 East
Lannon Castle Drive          CR 350 South
                             Mossy Rock Drive
Laurel Avenue                Pine Street
Ledge Rock Court             Amber Stone Court
Lennox Court                 Bennett Parkway
Lexington Drive              Oak Street
                             Sixth Street
Linden Street                Fifth Street
                             Third Street
Locust Street                Sixth Street
                             Fifth Street
Main Street                  Ash Street
Manchester Drive             Parkway Drive
                             Oak Street
Maple Street                 Poplar Street
                             Ash Street                   3-way stop
Marquette Drive              Willow Road
                             Governor’s Lane (northern
Maxwell Lane                 intersection)
                             Governor’s Lane (southern  3-way stop
                             intersection)
Mayfield Lane                Sycamore Street (formerly SR
                             334)
Meadow Court                 Meadow Lane
Meadow Lane                  Becker Drive
                             Stevens Road
Monahan Road                 Hunt Club Road
Morningside Court            Morningside Drive
Morningside Drive            Starkey Avenue
                             Ash Street                   3-way stop
Mulberry Street              CR 975 East                  4-way stop
                             Ford Road                    4-way stop
Ninth Street                 Pine Street                  4-way stop
                             Oak Street
                             CR 975 East
Oak Ridge Drive              Hickory Ridge Drive          3-way stop
                             Willow Ridge Court           3-way stop
                             Turkey Foot Avenue           2-way stop
                             First Street                 3-way stop
Oak Street                   Elm Street                   3-way stop
                             Main Street
Oakleaf Drive                Riverbirch Run
                             Creekside Pass
Old 106th Street             Bennett Parkway
Old Quarry Drive             Stonington Place
Old Stone Drive              Flagstone Drive
                             CR 875 East
                             Hunt Club Road
Old Fields Road              Foxland Run
                             Foxland Court
Parkway Drive                Ford Road
Patmore Ash Drive            Purple Ash Drive
Pebblepointe Circle          South Cobblestone Drive
Pebblepointe Pass            South Cobblestone Drive
Phantom Court                Corniche Drive
Pin Oak Drive                Deer Valley Lane             3-way stop
Pin Oak Drive (West)         Shelburne Way
Pin Oak Drive (East)         Sedge Court
                             Ninth Street                 4-way stop
Pine Street                  Sixth Street                 4-way stop
                             First Street
                             Main Street
Plum Street                  Ninth Street
                             Weeping Willow Court
Polo Trail                   Weeping Willow Drive
                             Willow Bend Drive
                             Sixth Street
                             Fifth Street                 4-way stop
Poplar Street                First Street
                             Main Street
                             Elm Street
Promontory Trail             Riverbirch Run
                             Willow Road                  3-way stop
Purple Ash Drive             Cimmaron Ash Drive           Circular intersection
                             Autumn Ash Drive             Circular intersection
Raintree Drive               Sycamore Street (formerly SR
                             334)
Redd Road                    Bennett Parkway
Ridge Valley Court           Willow Springs Drive
Ridgewood Drive              Willow Road                  3-way stop
                             Creekstone Way
Riverbirch Run               Willow Road                  4-way stop
                             CR 400 South
Rock Bridge Drive            Brookstone Place
                             Hearthstone Drive
Rockcress Court              Greenthread Drive            3-way drive
Rockdale Court               Brookstone Place
Russell Lake East Drive      Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
Russell Lake West Drive      Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
Sanctuary Boulevard          Greenfield Road/121st Street
                             Avedon Way
                             Hawthorne Street
                             Oak Street
Second Street                Cedar Street
                             Poplar Street
                             Sycamore Street              3-way stop
                             Pine Street
Sedge Court                  Greenthread Drive            3-way stop
Shadow Rock Circle           Pebblepointe Pass
                             CR 875 East
Shelburne Way                Greenthread Drive
                             Honeysuckle Lane (West)      3-way stop
                             Honeysuckle Lane (East)      3-way stop
Silver Dawn Court            Continental Drive
Silver Wraith Drive          Carmague Drive
                             Pine Street                  4-way stop
Sixth Street                 Oak Street
                             Beech Street                 2-way stop
Skipping Rock Court          Pebblepointe Pass
South Cobblestone Drive      Whitestown Road
Spring Drive                 Sycamore Street (formerly SR
                             334)
Spring Hills Drive           Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
Stanley Drive                Willow Road
                             Sixth Street
Starkey Avenue               Eagleview Court
                             Ford Road
                             Continental Drive
Stevens Road                 Willow Road
                             Century Oaks Drive
Stone Wall Lane              Hunt Club Road
Stonegate Drive              Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
Stonewick Way                West Cobblestone Drive
Stonington Place             Brookstone Place
                             Hearthstone Drive
Sugarbush Drive              Starkey Avenue
Sugarbush Drive (Northbound) Morningside Drive
Sugarbush Ridge              Sugarbush Drive
Sullivan Place               Irishman’s Run Lane
Summer Way                   CR 975 East
Summit Circle                Woods Edge Drive
Sunflower Court              Greenthread Drive            3-way stop
                             Bellflower Drive
Sunrise Court                Wildlife Trail
Sycamore Court               Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
                             Sixth Street
Sycamore Street              Fourth Street
                             Second Street                3-way stop
Sycamore Street (Eastbound)  First Street                 2-way stop
Tally Ho Circle              Field Master Circle          2-way stop
                             Fieldmaster Drive            2-way stop
                             Huntsman Drive
Tally Ho Drive               Field Master Drive           2-way stop
                             Field Master Circle          2-way stop
Temple Avenue                Willow Road
                             Turkey Foot Avenue
Templin Road                 Willow Road
Terrace Drive                Mulberry Street
Thicket Trace                Promontory Trail
                             Hawthorne Street
                             Pine Street
                             Oak Street
Third Street                 Cedar Street
                             Poplar Street
                             Walnut Street
                             Ash Street
Trail Ridge Place            Austin Trace
Trotwood Lane                Ford Road
Turkey Foot Avenue           Oak Ridge Drive              2-way stop
                             Mulberry Street
Valley Meadow Drive          US 421
Valley View Court            Sixth Street
                             Graystone Court              4-way stop
Village Walk Drive           Graystone Drive              4-way stop
                             Waterford Drive              4-way stop
                             Ford Road
                             Fifth Street
                             First Street
Walnut Street                Main Street
                             Maple Street
                             Elm Street
Waterford Drive              Village Walk Drive           4-way stop
Wellington Circle            Foxland Run
                             Farmington Court
West Cobblestone Drive       CR 875 East
                             South Cobblestone Drive
White Oak Court              Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
Whitestown Road              Ford Road                    4-way stop
                             CR 975 East                  4-way stop
Wild Wood Court              Willow Springs Drive
Wildlife Court               Wildlife Trail
Wildlife Trail               Willow Bend Drive
Wildwood Drive               Barth Drive
                             Lakewood Drive
Williamsburg Court           Mulberry Street
Williamsburg Lane            Governor’s Lane
                             Williamsburg Court
Willow Bend Court            Willow Springs Drive         2-way stop
Willow Bend Drive            Willow Springs Drive         2-way stop
                             Sunrise Court
Willow Bend Trail            Willow Bend Drive
                             CR 300 South
Willow Ridge Court           Oak Ridge Drive              3-way stop
Willow Ridge Drive           Willow Springs Drive
                             Willow Road
                             US 421
                             Austin Oaks Court            4-way stop
                             Brittany Drive               4-way stop
Willow Road                  Promontory Trail             3-way stop
                             Woods Edge Drive             3-way stop
                             Riverbirch Run               4-way stop
                             Ridgewood Drive              3-way stop
Willow Springs Drive         CR 300 South
Windpointe Pass              Pebblepointe Pass
Windrift Way                 Pebblepointe Pass
Winter Way                   Autumn Way
Winterberry Court            Greenthread Drive
Winterspring Way             Winterspring Crescent
                             Promontory Trail
Wood Valley Court            Huntington Woods Road
Woodbridge Place             Irishman’s Run Lane
Woods Edge Drive             Willow Road                  3-way stop
                             Trail Ridge Place
Woodside Court               Sullivans Ridge
Woodside Drive               Willow Road
Zion Lane                    Greenfield Road/121st Street
 
(1996 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 84-3, passed - -; Ord. 85-1,
passed - -; Ord. 87-1, passed - -; Ord. 92-03, passed - -; Ord. 93-07, passed -
-; Ord. 94-08, passed - -; Ord. 95-02, passed - -; Ord. 97-1, passed - -; Ord.
97-7, passed - -; Ord. 99-51, passed - -; Ord. 2003-15, passed - -; Ord. 2004-
01, passed - -; Ord. 2004-12, passed - -; Ord. 2006-03, passed - -; Ord. 2006-
04, passed - -; Ord. 2006-15, passed - -; Ord. 2007-02, passed - -; Ord. 2007-
10, passed - -; Ord. 2007-13, passed - -; Ord. 2011-01, passed 4-4-2011; Ord.
2011-04, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 2011-05, passed 8-1-2011; Ord. 2013-01, passed
1-7-2013; Ord. 2013-04, passed 4-8-2013; Ord. 2014-02, passed 3-3-2014; Ord.
passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 2014-05, passed 7-7-2014; Ord. 2015-17, passed 10-5-2015;
Ord. 2016-21, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2017-08, passed 8-7-2017; Ord. 2024-16,
passed 7-1-2024) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
Street/Intersection Yields To
Street/Intersection                     Yields To
Ashwood Court                           Oak Ridge Drive
Beechwood Lane                          Poplar Street
Eighth Street                           Laurel Avenue
                                        Poplar Street
Ford Road and Bloor Lane                Counter-clockwise traffic on the circle
                                        intersection of said drives
Golden Willow Drive and Willow Springs  Counter-clockwise traffic on the circle
Drive                                   intersection of said drives
Greenthread Drive and Iris Lane (South) Counter-clockwise traffic on the circle
                                        intersection of said drives
Hawthorne Street                        Laurel Avenue
Hickory Court                           Oak Ridge Drive
Ivywood Court                           Oak Ridge Drive
Mulsanne Drive, Carmague Drive,         Counter-clockwise traffic on the circle
Corniche Drive and Bentley Drive        intersection of said drives
Ninth Street                            Laurel Avenue
                                        Poplar Street
Shelburne Way and Pin Oak Drive (East)  Counter-clockwise traffic on the circle
                                        intersection of said drives
South Cobblestone Drive and Pebblepoint Counter-clockwise traffic on the circle
Pass                                    intersection of said drives
South Cobblestone Drive, Pebblepoint    Counter-clockwise traffic on the circle
Pass and Spring Violet Place            intersection of said drives
Wildlife Trail, Weeping Willow Drive    Counter-clockwise traffic on the circle
and Willow Bend Trail                   intersection of said drives
 
(1996 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 92-03, passed - -; Ord. 97-
1, passed - -; Ord. 99-5, passed - -; Ord. 2003-15, passed - -; Ord. 2004-12,
passed - -; Ord. 2010-02, passed 4-5-2010; Ord. 2011-01, passed 4-4-2011; Ord.
2013-01, passed 1-7-2013; Ord. 2014-02, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-2014;
Ord. 2015-17, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS AND TRUCK ROUTES.
   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate a
commercial vehicle exceeding one-ton gross weight, except as provided under §
73.11 of this traffic code, upon the “brick” portion of Main Street.
(1996 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
70.99
SCHEDULE V. SPEED LIMITS.
   In accordance with §
71.01 of this traffic code, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof,
the maximum speed limit shall be as set forth in this traffic code upon those
streets or portions thereof and at the times specified. Unless otherwise
specified in this schedule, all streets or portions thereof shall have a
maximum speed limit of 25 mph.
Name of Street Portions Affected Maximum Speed When Limit Special Provisions
                                 Limit         Applies
Name of    Portions      Maximum When
Street     Affected      Speed   Limit   Special Provisions
                         Limit   Applies
106th                    40 mph  All
Street                           times
           From US 421
           (Michigan
           Road) at its
116th      western               All
Street     terminus,     30 mph  times
           east to the
           Boone-
           Hamilton
           County line
           From the
           Boone-
           Hamilton
           County line
           at the east
96th       to the                All
Street     underpass     35 mph  times
           beneath I-465
           at the west
           (Urban
           Service
           District
           limits)
Bennett    South of      30 mph  All
Parkway    106th Street          times
           From the
           Boone-
           Hamilton
CR 300     County Line   40mph   All
South      at the east           times
           to Michigan
           Road/US 421
           at the west
CR 350                   40 mph  All
South                            times
           From CR 875
           East at the
           west to the           All
           Zionsville    30 mph  times
           corporate
CR 400     limits at the
South      east
           From CR 800
           East at the           All
           west to CR    40 mph  times
           875 East at
           the east
           From CR 800
           East at the           All
           west to CR    40 mph  times
           875 East at
           the east
CR 500     From US 421
South      (Michigan
           Road) at the          All
           west, east to 30 mph  times
           the Boone-
           Hamilton
           County line
           From CR 875
CR 550     East to the           All
South      corporate     40 mph  times
           limits at the
           west
CR 600                   30 mph  All
South                            times
           From the
           northern
           corporate
CR 800     limits at the         All
East       north to the  40 mph  times
           southern
           corporate
           limits at the
           south
CR 875                   40 mph  All
East                             times
CR 950                   30 mph  All
East                             times
CR 975                   30 mph  All
East                             times
Cedar      From First            All
Street     Street to Elm 20 mph  times
           Street
           From Ash
Elm Street Street to     20 mph  All
           Sycamore              times
           Street
First      From Sycamore         All
Street     Street to Oak 30 mph  times
           Street
           From its from
           its
           intersection
           with
           Whitestown
           Road/Mulberry 30 mph  All
           Street at the         times
           north to its
           intersection
           with Ford
           Valley Lane
Ford Road  at the south
           From its
           intersection
           with Ford
           Valley Lane
           at the north
           to the bridge 35 mph  All
           over I-865 at         times
           the South
           (Urban)
           Service
           District
           limits
Greenfield
Road (aka                30 mph  All
121st                            times
Street)
Hawthorn   From First            All
Street     Street to Elm 20 mph  times
           Street
Hunt Club                30 mph  All
Road                             times
           From Ash
           Street at the
           north point
           to Sycamore   20 mph  All
Main       Street                times
Street     (formerly SR
           334) at the
           south point
           From Sycamore         All
           Street to     30 mph  times
           106th Street
Maple      From Ash              All
Street     Street to     20 mph  times
           Poplar Street
Mulberry                 30 mph  All
Street                           times
           From First            All
           Street to     30 mph  times
           Ford Road
           From Ford
           Road to CR    40 mph  All
           950 East              times
           (Sheets Road)
           From CR 950
           East (Sheets
           Road) to a
           point 600             All
           linear feet   40 mph  times
           west of the
           centerline of
           CR 950 East
           (Sheets Road)
           From a point
           600 linear
Oak Street feet west of
           the
           centerline of
           CR 950 East
           (Sheets Road)
           to its
           terminus at   45 mph  All
           the western           times
           corporate
           limits, a
           point 1,025
           linear feet
           east of the
           centerline of
           Stonegate
           Drive
           From First            All
           Street to Elm 20 mph  times
           Street
Pine       From First            All
Street     Street to Elm 20 mph  times
           Street
Poplar     From Main             All
Street     Street to Elm 20 mph  times
           Street
           From a point
           810 linear
           feet east of
           the                   All
           centerline of 45 mph  times
           Elm Street
           east to US
           421 (Michigan
Sycamore   Road)
Street     From Elm
           Street to a
           point 810             All
           linear feet   40 mph  times
           east of the
           centerline of
           Elm Street
           From First            All
           Street to Elm 30 mph  times
           Street
Temple                   30 mph  All
Avenue                           times
Templin                  30 mph  All
Road                             times
Turkey                           All
Foot                     30 mph  times
Avenue
Walnut     From First            All
Street     Street to Elm 20 mph  times
           Street
           From Ford
           Road at the
           east, west to
           the Urban
           District
           boundary              All
           approximately 30 mph  times
           850 linear
           feet west of
           the
Whitestown centerline of
Road       Cobblestone
           Drive
           From CR 875
           East at the
           west, east to
           the Urban
           District      40 mph  All
           Boundary, a           times
           distance of
           approximately
           1,380 linear
           feet
Willow                   30 mph  All
Road                             times
Willow     From US 421
Road and   east to the   30 mph  All     All other streets in the Austin Oaks Subdivision shall have the town’s
CR 500     Hamilton              times   default maximum speed limit of 25 mph
South      County line
Zionsville From 106th            All
Road       Street to     35 mph  times
           96th Street
 
(1996 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 95-11, passed - -; Ord. 95-
14, passed - -; Ord. 96-08, passed - -; Ord. 98-16, passed - -; Ord. 2000-15,
passed - -; Ord. 2000-23, passed - -; Ord. 2003-21, passed - -; Ord. 2005-22,
passed - -; Ord. 2006-03, passed - -; Ord. 2006-05, passed - -; Ord. 2006-07,
passed - -; Ord. 2009-12, passed - -; Ord. 2011-04, passed 7-5-2011; Ord. 2012-
02, passed 2-6-2012; Ord. 2012-14, passed 10-1-2012; Ord. 2013-01, passed 1-7-
2013; Ord. 2013-04, passed 4-8-2013; Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-1-2013; Ord. 2014-
02, passed 3-3-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VI. SCHOOL ZONES.
   School zones are established as follows:
 
Name of Street/Portions Affected   Maximum Speed Limit When Limit Applies
CR 300 South from a point 1,326
feet west of it intersection with  30 mph              When flasher is flashing
CR 1200 West to a point 2,280 feet
west of that same intersection
C.R. 875 East from a point 330
feet south of its intersection
with Spring Violet Place to a      30 mph              When flasher is flashing
point 1,890 feet north of that
same intersection
CR 975 East from a point 538 feet
north of its intersection with     25 mph              When flasher is flashing
Camden Drive to a point 1,698 feet
north of that same intersection
Sixth Street from north curb line
of its intersection with Beech     25 mph              All times
Street to its intersection with
Ash Street
 
(1996 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 2003-15, passed - -; Ord. 2013-01, passed 1-7-2013;
Ord. passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 2022-13, passed 8-16-2022) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE VII. AUTOMATED TRAFFIC SIGNALS AND STOP/YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
   Traffic shall follow the direction of and abide by the automated traffic
signals at the following town intersections:
 
96th Street and Technology Center Drive
Ford Road and West Oak Street (formerly SR 334)
South Main Street and Sycamore Street (formerly SR 334)
Zionsville Road and 96th Street
Zionsville Road and Technology Center Drive
Zionsville Road/South Main Street and 106th Street
 
(1996 Code, § 7-20) (Ord. 2011-12, passed 11-7-2011; Ord. 2013-01, passed 1-7-
2013; Ord. passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 2015-17, passed 10-5-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
CHAPTER 75: PARKING, STOPPING AND STANDING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Loading zones
      
II.   Prohibited parking
      
III.   Parking time limits
      
IV.   Vehicles bearing advertisements for sale or lease
SCHEDULE I. LOADING ZONES.
   Loading zones are established as follows:
 
Street       Side Location                        Special Provisions
                  From its intersection with Pine Reserved and limited as a
First Street East Street north to its             loading zone only from 6:00
                  intersection with Oak Street    a.m. to 4:00 p.m., Monday
                                                  through Friday.
 
(1996 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 2003-15, passed - -; Ord.
passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 2015-16, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2015-21, passed 11-2-
2015; Ord. 2019-09, passed 4-15-2019; Ord. 2023-02, passed 2-13-2023) Penalty,
see §
70.99
SCHEDULE II. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   In accordance with §
73.10(B) and (C) of this traffic code, and when signs are erected giving notice
thereof, no vehicle shall be parked upon any of the following described streets
or parts of streets:
Street Side(s) Location Special Provisions
Street              Side(s)         Location              Special Provisions
                                    From its intersection From 6:00 a.m. to 6:
                    Both            with Fifth Street to  00 p.m., Monday
                                    its intersection with through Friday
                                    First Street
                                    From its intersection
Ash Street          Both            with Maple Street to   
                                    its intersection with
                                    First Street
                                    From its intersection
                    North           with First Street to   
                                    its intersection with
                                    Whitestown Road
Bloor Lane          North and south In its entirety        
                                    From its intersection
Brendon Way Drive   Both            with Oak Street south  
                                    to its terminus
                                    From its intersection
                                    with U.S. 421 to a
                    North           point 120 feet east    
                                    its intersection with
Clarkston Road                      the centerline of
                                    Brentwood Avenue
                                    From its intersection
                    South           with U.S. 421 to its   
                                    intersection with
                                    Brentwood Avenue.
                                    From its intersection
                    Both            with Ash Street to     
                                    its intersection with
                                    Oak Street
                                    From its intersection
                                    with Willow Street
Elm Street          Both            its termination and    
                                    the point of
                                    beginning of Willow
                                    Road to the north.
                                    From its intersection
                    West            with Oak Street to     
                                    its intersection with
                                    Hawthorne Street
                                    From its intersection
Hal Sharp Road      West            with Bloor Lane to     
                                    its intersection with
                                    Mulberry Street
                                    From its intersection
                                    with the Big Four
Lemberger Drive     Both            Rail Trail a distance  
                                    of 30 feet in all
                                    directions
                                    From its intersection
Maple Street        Both            with Ash Street to     
                                    its intersection with
                                    Willow Street
                                    From its intersection
                                    with Turkey Foot
Mulberry Street     Both            Avenue to its          
                                    intersection with
                                    Governors Lane
                                    From the west
                                    intersection of       From 8:00 a.m. to 4:
                    East            Poplar and Sixth      00 p.m., Monday
                                    Streets to the        through Friday
North Sixth Street                  intersection of Beech
                                    and Sixth Streets
                                    From its intersection
                    West            with Poplar Street to  
                                    its intersection with
                                    Beech Street
                                    From its intersection
Oak Street          North           with Elm Street to     
                                    its intersection with
                                    First Street
                                                          Parallel and/or
                                    Into the north side   vertical parking
Olde Dominion Drive North and south of Olde Dominion      shall be prohibited
                                    Drive running east    along or adjacent to
                                    and west              the curb on the east
                                                          side
                                    From its terminus
Parkway Drive       Both            west to its            
                                    intersection with
                                    Ford Road
                                    From its intersection
Pine Street         North           with Sixth Street to   
                                    20 feet east of the
                                    intersection
                                    From its intersection
                    North           with Elm to its        
                                    intersection with
Poplar Street                       Maple Street
                                    From its intersection
                    North           with Sixth Street to   
                                    its intersection with
                                    Ninth Street
                                    From its intersection
Second Street       West            with Oak Street to     
                                    its intersection with
                                    Poplar Street
                                    From its intersection
                                    with Sycamore Street
                                    (formerly SR 334)
                                    north to its
South Main Street   West and east   intersection with the  
                                    first alley
                                    immediately to the
                                    north of said
                                    intersection
                                    North from its
Turkey Foot Avenue  Both            intersection with Oak  
                                    Ridge Drive
                                    From its intersection
Willow Street       Both            with Maple Street to   
                                    its intersection with
                                    Elm Street
                                    From its intersection
                                    with 106th Street
Zionsville Road     Both            south to the           
                                    corporation limits of
                                    the town at 96th
                                    Street
 
(1996 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 84-9, passed - -; Ord. 87-1,
passed - -; Ord. 94-02, passed - -; Ord. 94-08, passed - -; Ord. 96-13, passed
- -; Ord. 97-9, passed - -; Ord. 99-5, passed - -; Ord. 2003-15, passed - -;
Ord. 2004-21, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014; Ord. 2015-16, passed 10-5-2015;
Ord. 2017-04, passed 3-20-2017; Ord. 2023-22, passed 11-6-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE III. PARKING TIME LIMITS.
   (A)   Parking prohibited between the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m., Monday
through Friday.
 
Street            Side(s) Location
Cedar Crest       Both    In its entirety
Pine Meadow Drive East    In its entirety
Revere Way        Both    In its entirety
 
   (B)   Parking prohibited between the hours of 12:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m.
 
Street           Side(s) Location
                         From its intersection with First Street (formerly SR
Hawthorne Street North   334) for a distance of 65 feet east to the western end
                         of the building located at 290 S. Main Street
 
   (C)   Parking prohibited between the hours of 3:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. on days
when school is in session.
 
Street             Side(s) Location
                           From its intersection with Mulberry Street to a
Williamsburg Court Both    point 700 linear feet from the centerline of
                           Mulberry Street, approximately the northern property
                           line of 50 Williamsburg Court
Williamsburg Lane  Both    From its intersection with Staten Place to its
                           intersection with Williamsburg Court
 
   (D)   Parking prohibited between the hours of 2:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. on
days when school is in session.
 
Street         Sides(s) Location
Governors Lane Both     From its intersection with CR 975 E. to its
                        intersection with Sherwood Court
Rockwell Court Both     The entirety of the street from its intersection with
                        Governors Lane to its dead end
 
(1996 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 8-1979, passed - -; Ord. 87-1, passed - -; Ord. 96-
13, passed - -; Ord. 97-2, passed - -; Ord. 97-3, passed - -; Ord. 98-7, passed
- -; Ord. 99-16, passed - -; Ord. 2003-15, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014;
Ord. 2015-16, passed 10-5-2015; Ord. 2017-09, passed 10-23-2017; Ord. 2023-03,
passed 2-13-2023) Penalty, see §
70.99
SCHEDULE IV. VEHICLES BEARING ADVERTISEMENTS FOR SALE OR LEASE.
   No vehicle which displays a sign or signs advertising the vehicle as for
sale or lease shall be parked upon any public road or public parking lot in the
town for a period of more than four hours.
(1996 Code, § 7-19) (Ord. 2003-15, passed - -; Ord. passed 3-3-2014) Penalty,
see §
70.99
CHAPTER 76: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
76.01   Definitions
   
76.02   Operation of golf cart
   
76.03   Operator
   
76.04   Minimum safety equipment
   
76.05   Approved areas of operation
   
76.06   Registration
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER'S LICENSE. A valid current license to operate a motor vehicle issued
by the State of Indiana or any other state.
   FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY. A policy of liability insurance coverage on a golf
cart in an amount not less than required by Indiana law for a motor vehicles
operated on public highways in the State of Indiana.
   GOLF CARTS. The definition provided in I.C. 9-13-2-69.7. As it now exists,
that term means a four-wheeled motor vehicle originally and specifically
designed and intended to transport one or more individuals and golf clubs for
the purpose of playing the game of golf on a golf course.
   STREET. The definition provided by I.C. 9-13-2-73. This term may also be
referred to as STREETS.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 76.02 OPERATION OF GOLF CART.
   (A)   The operation of a golf cart within the town is strictly prohibited
unless the golf cart is operated and equipped in full compliance with this
chapter.
   (B)   Golf carts may not operate on any prohibited streets as that term is
defined in §
76.05.
   (C)   This chapter shall not apply to public or private golf courses,
construction sites, retail golf cart outlets or operation upon private
property.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 76.03 OPERATOR.
   (A)   An operator of a golf cart must meet the same requirements for
operating a motor vehicle found in I.C. 9-24-1-1, including but not limited to,
having a valid driver's license and having proof of financial responsibility
which shall be in the golf cart during all times of operation on town streets.
   (B)   An operator of a golf cart on town streets shall obey all driver's
licensing requirements, Indiana traffic laws, and other related laws and
ordinances and yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians and bicycles. An
operator shall comply with all rules listed on golf cart permit application as
well as the permit itself.
   (C)   An operator of a golf cart shall stay in the far right of the traveled
portion of the road, and yield the right-of-way to an overtaking vehicle as
soon as possible to do so safely.
   (D)   An operator shall be required to place a valid registration permit in
compliance with §
76.06 in the upper left-hand corner of the golf cart's front frame.
   (E)   As required in I.C. 9-21-1-3.3(c)(2), an operator shall have no more
than the amount of passengers for which the golf cart was originally designed
to accommodate or no more than five passengers in the golf cart (whichever is
less). The maximum amount of individuals; including the operator and
passengers, in any one golf cart shall be six.
   (F)   An operator shall not allow any open alcoholic containers or other
illegal substances to be in the golf cart at any time during operation on town
streets.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 76.04 MINIMUM SAFETY EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All golf carts operated on town streets shall have the following
minimum safety equipment:
      (1)   Head lights and brake lights; and
      (2)   A rearview mirror; and
      (3)   A slow-moving vehicle sign that conforms to the provisions of I.C.
9-21-9-2, affixed to the rear of the golf cart.
      (4)   A horn.
   (B)   All of the minimum safety equipment described in division (A) above
shall be functional, and in use all of the times while the golf cart is in
operation on town streets.
   (C)   An operator or any person who owns, operates, or rides upon a golf
cart on a town street does so at his or her own risk and peril, and assumes all
liability resulting from such activity. The town does not assume any
responsibility under this chapter by issuing a registration permit to an
operator.
   (D)   Upon request by a law enforcement officer, an operator shall provide
proof of financial responsibility or a certificate of compliance for the
operation of the golf cart on town streets.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 76.05 APPROVED AREAS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Operators of golf carts within the corporate limits of the town who
possess a valid and current registration permit issued by the Police
Department, possesses a valid and current driver's license and whose golf cart
is in compliance with the requirements of this chapter are permitted to operate
in approved areas of operation which shall include all town streets with the
exceptions of Oak Street, Sycamore Street (from First Street to Michigan),
116th Street, 106th Street, 96th Street.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person may operate or
otherwise use a golf cart as a means of transportation on any trail, sidewalk,
or other walking path owned, operated, and/or maintained by the town, including
but not limited to, those trails, sidewalks, or other walking paths owned,
operated, and/or maintained by the town's Parks and Recreation Department. This
division (B) does not apply to any town employee or official operating a golf
cart in connection with official town business.
   (C)   An operator of a golf cart may cross Oak Street in order to travel
from one town street to another town street if:
      (1)   The operation can be done safely; and
      (2)   The crossing is made in compliance with traffic requirements at an
appropriate intersection.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 9-16-2019; Ord. 2023-04, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 76.06 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The Town of Zionsville Police Department ("ZPD") shall issue a
registration permit for all golf carts that meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The ZPD shall impose a two-year registration fee as set forth in the
town fee schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04 for each golf cart. Any revenue generated from the annual registration
fees shall be deposited into the Police Operating Fund to offset the costs to
run the program.
   (C)   A golf cart owner wishing to operate the vehicle on town streets must
renew his/her registration permit on an annual basis. Permits shall be valid
from January 1 to December 31 annually.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 9-16-2019; Ord. 2023-04, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall be issued to the owner indicated
on the registration permit and result in the following penalties, namely:
      (1)   First Offense: $ 150 fine;
      (2)   Second Offense: $250 fine;
      (3)   Third Offense and subsequent offenses: $500 fine and revocation of
the registration permit.
   (B)   Any second or subsequent offense shall be in the same calendar year.
(Ord. 2019-19, passed 9-16-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
91.   FIREARMS
      
92.   NOISE
      
93.   SMOKING AND TOBACCO PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES
      
94.   OPEN BURNING
      
95.   GARBAGE, WEEDS AND GRASSES
      
96.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
97.   UNSAFE BUILDINGS
      
98.   PARKS AND RECREATION; MUSEUMS
      
99.   ANIMALS
      
100.   TREES AND OTHER FLORA
      
101.   BANNERS AND SIGNS
      
102.   FALSE ALARMS
      
103.   NON-DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES REVIEW COMMITTEE
CHAPTER 90: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
90.01   Alcoholic beverages in public places
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any individual to consume alcoholic beverages
in any public place within the corporate limits of the town unless specifically
excluded by subsection below.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the term PUBLIC PLACE is hereby
defined to be any government-owned building, within the corporate limits of the
town and/or the streets, alleys, lands, parks and any other municipally-owned,
operated or leased property of the town.
   (C)   The following properties or activities shall be specifically excluded
from this prohibition:
      (1)   Annual town street dance. The otherwise lawful consumption of
alcoholic beverages during the annual town street dance is hereby specifically
excluded from the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Town approved festival events. Any other individual and/or
organization upon prior written application to and written approval from the
Mayor or Deputy Mayor may be specifically excluded from the provisions of this
section.
      (3)   Zionsville golf course. The otherwise lawful sale and consumption
of alcoholic beverages at the Zionsville golf course, so long as it is park
property and, thus, a public place as defined herein, during its regular
business hours is hereby specifically excluded from the provisions of this
section.
      (4)   Maplelawn Farmstead. The furnishing of alcoholic beverages upon the
premises known as Maplelawn Farmstead by a caterer, subject to all laws,
policies, rules and regulations established by the town; Boone County, Indiana;
and the State of Indiana is hereby specifically excluded from the provisions of
this section.
      (5)   Town Hall. The furnishing of alcoholic beverages upon the premises
known as Town Hall by a caterer, subject to all laws, policies, rules and
regulations established by the town; Boone County, Indiana; and the State of
Indiana is hereby specifically excluded from the provisions of this section.
      (6)   Park property when alcoholic beverages are sold and dispensed by an
approved vendor under the town special event application process or as
established by a designated outdoor refreshment area (DORA) ordinance
(1996 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. 80-15, passed - -; Ord. 2007-14, passed - -; Ord.
2016-16, passed 7-25-2016; Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-17-2025) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the terms of §
90.01 of this chapter shall commit a Class C infraction and thereby shall be
assessed a fine of not more than $500.
(1996 Code, § 9-1) (Ord. 80-15, passed - -; Ord. 2007-14, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: FIREARMS
Section
   
91.01   Compliance with SEA 292 and I.C. 35-47-11.1
§ 91.01 COMPLIANCE WITH SEA 292 and I.C. 35-47-11.1.
   (A)   The Council recognizes and acknowledges the provisions of SEA 292 and
its amendment to I.C. Title 35, including, but not limited to, I.C. 35-47-11.1
and its possible conflict with current town ordinances, rules, regulations and
policies, including former § 9-2 of the code of ordinances, captioned “Firearm
Regulations”.
   (B)   As of 7-1-2011, all ordinances, rules, regulations and policies of the
town in conflict or not in compliance with the provisions of SEA 292 and its
codification as an amendment to I.C. Title 35, including, but not limited to,
I.C. 35-47-11.1, are hereby void and of no further force or effect.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect in accordance with
state law, upon the passage of any applicable waiting periods, all as provided
by the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2011-06, passed 8-1-2011)
CHAPTER 92: NOISE
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Unlawful noise generally
   
92.04   Unlawful noise from a building or structure
   
92.05   Exemptions
   
92.06   Entry onto private property
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared, as a matter of public policy of the town, that:
   (A)   The making, creation or maintenance of noise of various kinds and by
various means that is unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent,
offensive or an obstruction to the free use of property within the corporate
limits of the town has so increased as to constitute a public nuisance;
   (B)   The making, creation or maintenance of noise of various kinds and by
various means that is unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent,
offensive or an obstruction to the free use of property and is prolonged in its
time, place and use, adversely affects and is a detriment to the comfort,
repose, health, peace and safety of the residents of and visitors to the town;
and
   (C)   The necessity, in the public interest, for the declaration of this
public policy as set forth in the provisions of this chapter is declared as a
matter of legislative determination and is designed to secure and promote the
comfort, repose, health, peace and safety of the residents of and visitors to
the town.
(1996 Code, § 9-75) (Ord. 2005-09, passed - -)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on or in the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed
location on or in the ground. STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes,
walls, parking areas and public and private infrastructure.
(1996 Code, § 9-76) (Ord. 2005-09, passed - -)
§ 92.03 UNLAWFUL NOISE GENERALLY.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for
any person to make, create or maintain any noise that is:
      (1)   Unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent, offensive or an
obstruction to the free use of property within the town; or
      (2)   Adversely or substantially affects, annoys, disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose, health and peace and safety of others within the
town.
   (B)   Accordingly, the following acts, among others, are declared to be
unlawful noises in violation of this chapter:
      (1)   Construction or repair of buildings or structures. The erection,
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, or the excavation therefor,
at any times other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday
through Saturday. There shall be an exception to this constituting unlawful
noise in the case of an emergency or urgent necessity in the interest of public
health and safety, but then only with a permit from the Chief of Police, which
permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days while the emergency
or urgent necessity continues and which permit may be renewed for an additional
period up to three additional days while the emergency or urgent necessity
continues. Upon application made at the time the permit for the work is issued
or during the progress of the work, if the Chief of Police determines that
unlawful noise shall not be made, created or maintained by the erection,
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, or the excavation therefor,
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time on Sunday, he or
she may grant permission for such work to be done between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or on Sunday;
      (2)   Music and electronic devices. Playing, using or operating, or
permitting to be played, used or operated, any radio or television receiving
set, musical instrument or other machine or electronic device for producing or
reproducing sound in such a manner as to make, create or maintain an unlawful
noise, or at any time with volume louder than is necessary for convenient
hearing of the person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in
which such machine or electronic device is operated. The operation of such set,
instrument, machine or electronic device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:
00 a.m. in such a manner as to be plainly audible in the immediate vicinity of
the building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this division (B)(2);
      (3)   Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of any unlawful noise
created by the exhaust of any internal combustion engine, or any type of engine
or power unit on a motorcycle or other motor vehicle or craft of any kind,
except through a muffler or other device that will effectively reduce and
prevent unlawful noise therefrom. A motor vehicle must be equipped with a
muffler or other noise dissipation device that is in good working order and is
in constant operation to prevent unlawful noise; and
      (4)   Special use vehicles and equipment. The operation of off-road
vehicles, ATVs, snowmobiles and other special use vehicles shall be prohibited
between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(1996 Code, § 9-77) (Ord. 2005-09, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 UNLAWFUL NOISE FROM A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit persons creating
unlawful noise or persons of disorderly character to assemble in any building
or structure owned, occupied or controlled by him or her.
   (B)   A person who recklessly, knowingly or intentionally engages in conduct
which makes unlawful noise and continues to do so after being directed or
requested to stop commits disorderly conduct.
(1996 Code, § 9-78) (Ord. 2005-09, passed - -) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Noise or sounds emitted from any authorized emergency vehicle;
   (B)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concerts, artistic
performances or any other event authorized by the town;
   (C)   Noise arising from or created by athletic or sporting practices or
events; and
   (D)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established non-
transient businesses when such sounds are customary and within the normal range
appropriate for such use and do not constitute unlawful noise.
(1996 Code, § 9-79) (Ord. 2005-09, passed - -)
§ 92.06 ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any duly authorized town officers or representatives in the course of
their duties in enforcing this chapter shall have the right to enter onto
private property; provided that, they have probable cause that a violation of
this chapter is occurring or has occurred, but they shall not enter into any
structure or building without permission or authorization to do so.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
chapter, the Chief of Police or his or her authorized representatives are
hereby authorized to make inspections of all sources of noise whenever
necessary to determine the quantity and character of such noise. If any person
refuses or restricts entry and free access to any part of a building or
structure, or refuses inspection of any activity, device, facility, motor
vehicle or process where inspection is sought, such officer of the town or his
or her authorized representatives may seek from the Town Court a warrant for
inspection requiring that such person permit entry and free access without
interference, restriction or obstruction, at a reasonable time, for the purpose
of inspecting, testing or measuring noise. The Town Court shall have power,
jurisdiction and authority to enforce all orders issued under the provisions of
this chapter, pursuant to I.C. 33-35-2-8.
(1996 Code, § 9-80) (Ord. 2005-09, passed - -)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   If any duly authorized town officer or representative has probable cause
that a violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred, the town officer
or representative shall first give a verbal or written warning to the person
believed to be violating this chapter. After issuance of the verbal or written
warning from the town officer or representative, the town officer or
representative may write a ticket for a subsequent or continuing violation of
the provisions of this chapter. A person violating the provisions of this
chapter or an order issued under authority of this chapter after receipt of a
verbal or written warning shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a violation. A
violation of this chapter shall carry a fine, which shall be an amount fixed by
the Court in its discretion not greater than $250 per violation, or $100 if
paid at least seven days in advance of the scheduled hearing or appearance date
in Town Court for such violation.
(1996 Code, § 9-81) (Ord. 2005-09, passed - -)
CHAPTER 93:  SMOKING AND TOBACCO PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Application of chapter to town-owned facilities
   
93.04   Smoking and tobacco prohibited in public places
   
93.05   Prohibition of smoking and tobacco in places of employment
   
93.06   Where smoking and tobacco are not regulated
   
93.07   Declaration of establishment as non-smoking
   
93.08   Posting of signs
   
93.09   Enforcement
   
93.10   Non-retaliation
   
93.11   Other applicable laws
   
93.12   Interpretation
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared, as a matter of public policy of the town, that:
   (A)   Numerous medical studies have found that tobacco smoke is a major
contributor to indoor pollution, and that breathing secondhand smoke is a major
cause of disease, including lung cancer, in non-smokers;
   (B)   People at special risk to secondhand smoke include children, the
elderly, individuals with cardiovascular disease or impaired respiratory
function, including asthmatics, and those with obstructive airway disease;
   (C)   Health hazards are induced by breathing secondhand smoke, including
lung cancer, heart disease, respiratory infection, decreased respiratory
function and bronchospasm; and
   (D)   The town finds and declares as the purposes of this chapter to:
      (1)   Protect the public health and welfare by prohibiting smoking and
tobacco in public places and places of employment; and
      (2)   State that the need to breathe smoke-free air shall have priority
over the desire to smoke.
(1996 Code, § 9-82) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CIGAR. Any roll of tobacco that has a wrapper or cover consisting only of
tobacco.
   CIGAR LOUNGE. A private membership paid to a private club that has a
designated area specifically for cigars only purchased at the cigar lounge or
brought on the premises by a member or the member's guest. A cigar lounge shall
be licensed to sell alcoholic beverages pursuant to a permit issued by the
Indiana Alcohol and Tobacco Commission for on-premises consumption and the sale
of cigars. A cigar lounge shall prohibit all persons under the legal age to
lawfully drink alcohol from entering the premises. A cigar lounge shall be an
area enclosed by solid walls or windows, a ceiling and a solid door and
equipped with a ventilation system which is separately exhausted from the
nonsmoking areas of the private club so that air from the smoking area is not
recirculated to the nonsmoking areas and smoke is not back-streamed into the
nonsmoking areas. A cigar lounge may not employ anyone under the age of 21
years.
   ENCLOSED AREA. All space lying between a floor and a ceiling that is
enclosed on all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which
extend from the floor to the ceiling.
   MUNICIPAL BUILDING. Any and all structures owned, leased, operated, or
otherwise occupied by the town (in whole or in part), including all areas
within said buildings and all additions thereto.
   MUNICIPAL PROPERTY. Any and all real property (exclusive of public rights-
of-way) owned or leased by the town (in whole or in part) or the Board of Parks
and Recreation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
   PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT. Any enclosed area under the control of a public or
private employer in which employees normally work or frequent during the course
of their employment, including, but not limited to, work areas, private
offices, employee lounges and restrooms, conference, meeting and classrooms,
employee cafeterias, auditoriums, elevators, hallways and all other enclosed
areas.
   PRIVATE CLUB. Shall:
      (1)   Be organized in good faith under authority of law and in good
corporate standing with the State of Indiana;
      (2)   Have an annual membership fee to be paid by the members in no less
than monthly installments;
      (3)   Not be established or operated for objects of a national, social,
patriotic, or athletic nature; and
      (4)   Have designed a portion of the private club to be used as a cigar
lounge as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area used by or open to the general public,
including, but not limited to, schools, private clubs, retail stores, financial
institutions, department stores, laundromats, beauty, barber and nail shops,
retail food production and marketing establishments, restaurants, retail
service establishments and other commercial establishments, regardless of
whether a fee is charged for admission to such place.
   SMOKE or SMOKING. To ignite or cause to be ignited tobacco or a tobacco
product or derivative which includes but is not limited to tobacco, or a
derivative thereof, e-cigarettes or other devices utilized for "vaping", such
that the product or derivative emits a gas or cloud which may be or is intended
to be inhaled by any person.
   TOBACCO. Any of several plants belonging to the genus Nicotiana, of the
nightshade family, especially one of those species, as N. Tabacum, whose leaves
are prepared for smoking or chewing or as snuff; the prepared leaves, as used
in cigarettes, cigars, and pipes, any product or products made from such;
leaves; any of various similar plants or other genera.
(1996 Code, § 9-83) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018;
Ord. 2025-05, passed 3-3- 2025)
§ 93.03 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER TO TOWN-OWNED FACILITIES.
   All municipal property and all enclosed areas, including buildings and
vehicles owned, leased or operated by the town, shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter. However, town department heads may designate a
limited outdoor area within a municipal property to permit town employees to
smoke or use tobacco.
(1996 Code, § 9-84) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 93.04 SMOKING AND TOBACCO PROHIBITED IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Smoking and tobacco shall be prohibited in all public places within the
town.
(1996 Code, § 9-85) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 PROHIBITION OF SMOKING AND TOBACCO IN PLACES OF EMPLOYMENT.
   Smoking and tobacco shall be prohibited in all enclosed areas within places
of employment within the town.
(1996 Code, § 9-86) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 WHERE SMOKING AND TOBACCO ARE NOT REGULATED.
   The prohibitions of §
93.04 of this chapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult
day care or health care facility;
   (B)   Hotel and motel rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms;
   (C)   Designated rooms in nursing homes and other long-term care facilities
in which residents only may smoke;
   (D)   Except as noted in §
93.03 above, any outdoor area; and
   (E)   Cigar lounges as defined in this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-87) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018;
Ord. 2025-05, passed 3-3- 2025)
§ 93.07 DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NON-SMOKING.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an owner, operator,
manager or other person in control of a public place, place of employment,
establishment, facility or outdoor area may declare that such place or outdoor
area is a non-smoking area. Smoking and tobacco shall be prohibited in any
place in which a sign conforming to the requirements of §
93.08 of this chapter is posted.
(1996 Code, § 9-88) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.08 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   Every public place and place of employment where smoking and tobacco are
prohibited by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous
sign clearly stating that smoking and tobacco are prohibited in such place.
(1996 Code, § 9-89) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 93.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Chief of Police or a duly
authorized representative of the Chief of Police of the town.
   (B)   Any person who desires to register a complaint under or violation of
this chapter may initiate enforcement with the Town Police Department.
   (C)   The Health Department, Fire Department or their designees shall, while
an establishment is undergoing otherwise mandated inspections, inspect for
compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   An owner, manager, operator or employee of an establishment regulated
by this chapter shall inform persons violating this chapter of the appropriate
provisions thereof.
(1996 Code, § 9-90) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 93.10 NON-RETALIATION.
   No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against any employee, applicant for employment or customer because
such employee, applicant or customer exercises the right to a smoke-free
environment afforded by this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-92) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.11 OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS.
   This chapter shall not be interpreted to permit smoking and tobacco where it
is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws or to supersede any local laws
which are more restrictive.
(1996 Code, § 9-93) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 93.12 INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter shall be broadly construed to effectuate the purposes described
in §
93.01 of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-94) (Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A person who smokes or uses tobacco in an area where smoking and
tobacco are prohibited by the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.12 of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine
not exceeding $250 per infraction.
      (2)   A person who owns, manages, operates or controls a public place or
place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.12 of this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
         (a)   A fine not exceeding $100 for a first violation;
         (b)   A fine not exceeding $200 for a second violation within one year
of the first violation; and
         (c)   A fine not exceeding $500 for each additional violation after
the second within one year.
      (3)   Each day on which a violation of §§
93.01 through
93.12 of this chapter occurs shall be considered a separate and distinct
violation.
(1996 Code, § 9-91)
(Ord. 2006-11, passed - -; Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-9-2018)
CHAPTER 94: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
94.01   Prohibited action
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Open burning of certain materials in the town prohibited
   
94.04   General open burning regulations
   
94.05   Permitted open burning
   
94.06   Enforcement
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PROHIBITED ACTION.
   Open burning in the town is prohibited, except as permitted by this chapter.
The town encourages alternatives to open burning, such as sale or reuse.
(1996 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. 90-2, passed - -; Ord. 91-8, passed - -; Ord. 2003-7,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR POLLUTION. The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of sufficient
quantities of one or more air contaminants to injure, or to present a
substantial danger of injuring, human, plant or animal life or health, or
property, or to damage property values, or limit enjoyment of property.
   CLEAN PETROLEUM PRODUCTS. An uncontaminated, refined petroleum product, such
as kerosene or diesel fuel, not previously used in any application.
   CLEAN WOOD PRODUCTS. Wood products, including vegetation, that are not
coated or treated with stain, paint, glue or other coating, preservative or
chemical material.
   NUISANCE. The discharge, emission or release into the atmosphere from any
source whatsoever of air pollution.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any materials wherein air contaminants
resulting from combustion are emitted directly into the air, without passing
through a stack or chimney from an enclosed chamber.
(1996 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. 90-2, passed - -; Ord. 91-8, passed - -; Ord. 2003-7,
passed - -)
§ 94.03 OPEN BURNING OF CERTAIN MATERIALS IN THE TOWN PROHIBITED.
   Open burning of the following materials in the town is prohibited:
   (A)   Garbage or refuse, as defined in §§
95.01 through
95.07 of this code of ordinances;
   (B)   Grass or leaves;
   (C)   Petroleum and petroleum products other than clean petroleum products,
including, but not limited to, waste oil; and
   (D)   Asbestos and asbestos containing material.
(1996 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. 90-2, passed - -; Ord. 91-8, passed - -; Ord. 2003-7,
passed - -) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.04 GENERAL OPEN BURNING REGULATIONS.
   All open burning in the town is subject to the following:
   (A)   All open burning shall be attended at all times during burning until
completely extinguished;
   (B)   If any open burning creates air pollution, a nuisance, a health
hazard, or a fire hazard, it shall be promptly extinguished;
   (C)   No open burning shall be conducted during unfavorable meteorological
conditions such as high winds, temperature inversions or air stagnation;
   (D)   No open burning shall be conducted within 100 feet of a structure or a
power line, or within 300 feet of a frequently traveled road, fuel storage area
or pipeline; and
   (E)   All state and federal laws and regulations.
(1996 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. 90-2, passed - -; Ord. 91-8, passed - -; Ord. 2003-7,
passed - -)
§ 94.05 PERMITTED OPEN BURNING.
   The following open burning shall be permitted in the town, subject to the
conditions in §
94.04 of this chapter:
   (A)   Open burning on a single-unit residential property, only during
daylight hours and which shall be extinguished prior to sunset. Burning shall
be permitted only in a non-combustible container that is sufficiently vented to
induce adequate primary combustion, has enclosed sides, a bottom and a mesh
covering with openings no larger than one-quarter inch square, and only clean
wood products and paper are burned;
   (B)   Recreational or ceremonial fires, such as fires for scouting
activities, and fires used for cooking purposes, such as camp fires, subject to
the conditions in §
94.04 of this chapter and the following conditions:
      (1)   Only clean wood products, charcoal or clean petroleum products may
be burned;
      (2)   The local Fire Department and Health Department must be notified at
least 24 hours prior to any open burning where the size of the pile being
burned is more than 125 cubic feet;
      (3)   Fires shall not be ignited prior to two hours before the
recreational activity is to take place and shall be completely extinguished
upon conclusion of the activity;
      (4)   The pile to be burned shall be less than 1,000 cubic feet and only
one pile may be burned at a time; and
      (5)   Fires shall not take place within 500 feet of any fuel storage area
or pipeline.
   (C)   Open burning, for the sole purpose of heating, using clean wood
products or paper in non- combustible container that is sufficiently vented to
induce adequate primary combustion, and has enclosed sides and a bottom, and a
mesh covering with openings no larger than one-quarter inch square. This type
of open burning shall be subject to the conditions in §
94.04 of this chapter and the following conditions:
      (1)   May only occur between October 1 and May 15; and
      (2)   Shall not be conducted for the purpose of disposal.
   (D)   Open burning with approval of the State Air Pollution Control Board or
its designated agent, as provided in 326 I.A.C. 4-1-1, which includes burning
for county highway roadside clearing, initial public right-of-way clearing,
railroad tracks repair and maintenance, waste oil spillage, mission related
activities on DNR-controlled properties, firefighter training, emergencies
including spilled material or natural disasters clearing and natural growth for
land use change or land management.
(1996 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. 90-2, passed - -; Ord. 91-8, passed - -; Ord. 2003-7,
passed - -)
§ 94.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Town Volunteer Fire Department and the Town Police Department shall have
authority for issuing citations for violations of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. 90-2, passed - -; Ord. 91-8, passed - -; Ord. 2003-7,
passed - -)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter constitutes an infraction punishable by a fine
of not less than $20 and not greater than $2,500 per occurrence. Each day in
which any such violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1996 Code, § 9-6) (Ord. 90-2, passed - -; Ord. 91-8, passed - -; Ord. 2003-7,
passed - -)
CHAPTER 95: GARBAGE, WEEDS AND GRASSES
Section
Accumulation of Garbage
   
95.01   Definitions
   
95.02   Disposal and container required
   
95.03   Wrapping of garbage required
   
95.04   Disposal of natural debris and bulky refuse
   
95.05   Commercial accumulations
   
95.06   Evidence of violations
   
95.07   Abatement; collection of costs
Weeds and Grasses
   
95.20   Failure to cut
   
95.21   Abatement; costs
 
   
95.99   Penalty
ACCUMULATION OF GARBAGE
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTAINER. A metal or plastic can of not more than 32-gallon capacity having
a tight-fitting cover and so equipped with handles that it may be lifted and
carried by one man; or, in the alternative, a CONTAINER shall mean a gas or
electric incinerator.
   GARBAGE. The waste resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and
consumption of food, whether for humans or for animals, and of waste from the
handling, storage and sale of food materials.
   NATURAL DEBRIS. Leaves, trees and tree limbs of large bulk accumulating from
natural processes.
   REFUSE. All trash, combustible or not, including, but not limited to, paper,
cartons, boxes, barrels, wood furniture, bedding, metals, cans, small or large
quantities of dirt, rock and pieces of concrete, glass, crockery, ashes and the
residue from fires and other mineral wastes, but shall not include natural
debris, but shall include earth and waste from building operations.
(1996 Code, § 9-7)
§ 95.02 DISPOSAL AND CONTAINER REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the corporate
limits of the town any garbage or refuse, except in a container; except that,
such refuse which is too bulky to place in a container shall be disposed of as
natural debris.
(1996 Code, § 9-7) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 WRAPPING OF GARBAGE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to place any garbage in any container unless the same
shall be wrapped in any plastic or paper wrapping or bag.
(1996 Code, § 9-7) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04 DISPOSAL OF NATURAL DEBRIS AND BULKY REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to place or permit to remain anywhere in the corporate
limits of the town any natural debris or refuse too bulky to place in
containers, except on or immediately adjacent to the public street or alley,
preparatory to having such material collected and disposed of by the town, or
in a lawfully established dump by a person, firm or corporation engaged to so
collect and dispose of garbage, trash and refuse.
(1996 Code, § 9-7) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 COMMERCIAL ACCUMULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be lawful in the commercial areas of the corporate limits of
the town to dispose of refuse and natural debris, but not garbage, in trash
bins, which shall consist of enclosed metal, wooden or plastic structures;
except that, material placed in such trash bins shall be placed therein in
boxes or containers and shall not be loosely thrown therein.
   (B)   The owner or operator of any business establishment in the corporate
limits of the town shall build or provide in any alley adjacent or reasonably
close to his or her establishment an enclosed metal, wooden or plastic
structure for use as a trash bin, unless the amount of trash, boxes and
containers which such business establishment accumulates is small enough in
quantity and bulk to be contained within a container.
(1996 Code, § 9-7) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 EVIDENCE OF VIOLATIONS.
   The fact that garbage, refuse or natural debris is found on any property or
in any street in the town shall be prima facie evidence of the fact that the
person responsible for the deposit thereof or the occupant of such property is
guilty of the violation of this subchapter so occurring.
(1996 Code, § 9-7)
§ 95.07 ABATEMENT; COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   (A)   Any mass or accumulation of garbage, refuse and natural debris other
than natural debris deposited by the wind and natural forces, on any property
within the corporate limits of the town in violation of this subchapter, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   The owner or occupant of the property upon which such nuisance is
found shall be ordered by the Town Manager to abate the same, not later than a
date to be stated in a written notice ordering such abatement, and in no case
less than ten days from the date of said notice.
   (C)   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant to abate such nuisance, the
Town Manager may enter, or authorize entrance by a person, firm or corporation
engaged in the business of sanitation collection and disposal, to enter upon
such premises and abate the same, the cost of which shall be assessed against
the owner of such property and, if not paid within 30 days after notification
thereof, the town may impose a lien upon such property for the expense and
shall place the same upon the tax duplicate in the office of the County Clerk-
Treasurer for collection as provided by law.
(1996 Code, § 9-7)
WEEDS AND GRASSES
§ 95.20 FAILURE TO CUT.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of
ground within the corporate limits of the town to fail to cut weeds and grasses
down and remove or to have cut down and removed all weeds and grasses from the
premises owned or occupied by him or her and also from the streets and alleys
adjacent thereto after notice has been given to him or her to do so by the Town
Manager. Said owner or occupant of the property upon which the weeds and
grasses exist shall have ten days from the date of said notice to cut down and
remove all weeds and grasses from the premises.
(1996 Code, § 9-8) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.21 ABATEMENT; COSTS.
   Upon failure of the owner or occupant to comply with the notice provided for
in §
95.20 of this chapter, the town shall cause such weeds or grasses to be so cut
down and removed from such premises at its own expense and shall keep an
accurate account of the expense of such cutting and removal on each lot or
parcel of ground. Thereafter, the Clerk-Treasurer of the town shall certify the
cost of such cutting and removal upon each lot or parcel of ground to the
County Auditor, together with the description of the lot or parcel of ground to
be placed on the tax duplicate and collected as taxes are now collected against
such lot or parcel of ground as provided by law.
(1996 Code, § 9-8)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to remedies provided in §§
95.07 and
95.21 of this chapter, any person violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of an ordinance violation and, upon conviction, shall be fined in an
amount not to exceed $250. Each day a violation is allowed to continue
constitutes a separate and distinct offense.
(1996 Code, § 9-10) (Ord. 81-12, passed - -; Ord. 91-1, passed - -; Ord. 2002-
5, passed - -)
CHAPTER 96: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Declaration of nuisance outside lawfully operated scrapyards, salvagers
and junkyards
   
96.03   Storage in open restricted
   
96.04   Compliance with state law; notices and the like
   
96.05   Notice to remove
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE.
         (a)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
         (b)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days;
         (c)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
         (d)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours;
         (e)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential
has been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and
left on public property;
         (f)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
than this chapter if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner’s agent within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; and
         (g)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is
mechanically inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a
location visible from public property for more than 20 days.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a vehicle
that is self-propelled. The term does not include a farm tractor, implement of
husbandry or motorized bicycle.
      UNREGISTERED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is not registered as
required by state law, specifically I.C. 9-18-2-1 and the requirements to
obtain the appropriate indicia of ownership, such as a license plate or renewal
tag, and display the same as required by I.C. 9-18-2-7 and all regulations of
the State Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   The definitions from I.C. 9-13-2, applicable to motor vehicle law
generally, are hereby incorporated by reference hereto.
(1996 Code, § 9-9)
§ 96.02 DECLARATION OF NUISANCE OUTSIDE LAWFULLY OPERATED SCRAPYARDS, SALVAGERS
AND JUNKYARDS.
   Because of the danger to health from vermin, insects and rodents, and
because of the danger to the safety of children, all abandoned motor vehicles
or unregistered motor vehicles are hereby declared to be a nuisance, except as
otherwise provided in §
96.03 of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-9) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 STORAGE IN OPEN RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to openly store or allow to
remain in the open upon public or private property within the corporate limits
of the town any abandoned motor vehicle or unregistered motor vehicle for a
period of three days or more on public property, or for a period of 48 hours on
private property without the consent of the owner or person in control of the
property, or for a period of 20 days or more on private property, unless such
motor vehicle is used as part of an automobile sales or repair business which
operates under a duly issued and exhibited retail license and is operated and
located in a properly zoned area. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to auto scrapyards or salvage rebuilders or recyclers that are duly
operated and licensed by the state and the town, and are operated and located
in a properly zoned area.
(1996 Code, § 9-9) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW; NOTICES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Whenever the Chief of Police shall determine that an abandoned motor
vehicle or unregistered motor vehicle is located or stored in the open upon
public property within the corporate limits of the town, he or she shall follow
the requirements of I.C. 9-22-1-11 through 9-22-1-14, including preparing and
posting a notice tag, preparing a report and photographs and disposing of the
vehicle. If such vehicle is not removed within three days pursuant to such
order and notice, the Chief of Police shall cause such vehicle to be removed by
a wrecker service, the cost and expense of such removal and storage shall be
paid by the owner of such vehicle.
   (B)   Whenever the Chief of Police shall determine that an abandoned motor
vehicle or unregistered motor vehicle is located or stored in the open upon
private property without the consent of the owner or person in control of that
property for more than 48 hours, he or she shall follow the requirements of
I.C. 9-21-1-11 through 9-21-1-14, including preparing and posting a notice tag,
preparing a report and photographs and disposing of the vehicle. If such
vehicle is not removed within three days pursuant to such order and notice, the
Chief of Police shall cause such vehicle to be removed by a wrecker service,
the cost and expense of such removal and storage shall be paid by the owner of
such vehicle.
(1996 Code, § 9-9)
§ 96.05 NOTICE TO REMOVE.
   Whenever the Chief of Police shall determine that an abandoned motor vehicle
or unregistered motor vehicle is located or stored in the open upon private
property within the corporate limits of the town, he or she shall issue an
order to the owner of such vehicle to remove such vehicle within ten days.
Notice of such order shall be placed upon such vehicle and copies of such
notice shall be served upon any adult owning or occupying the real estate on
which such vehicle is located and also upon the owner of the vehicle, if his or
her name and whereabouts be known. If no owner or occupant of the real estate
or owner of such vehicle can be found, a notice affixed to any building on the
real estate shall constitute notice to the owner and/or occupant of the real
estate and to the owner of such vehicle. If there is no building on the real
estate, such notice may be affixed elsewhere on the real estate. If such
vehicle is not removed within ten days pursuant to such order and notice, and
if such order is not stayed by the issuing officer pursuant to a written
request showing good cause for a permanent or temporary stay, the Chief of
Police shall cause such vehicle to be removed by a wrecker service, the cost
and expense of such removal and storage by the wrecker service shall be paid by
the owner of such vehicle.
(1996 Code, § 9-9)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   In addition to remedies provided herein, any person violating any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of an ordinance violation and, upon conviction,
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $250. Each day a violation is allowed
to continue constitutes a separate and distinct offense.
(1996 Code, § 9-10) (Ord. 81-12, passed - -; Ord. 91-1, passed - -; Ord. 2002-
5, passed - -)
CHAPTER 97: UNSAFE BUILDINGS
Section
   
97.01   Establishment of Unsafe Building Law
   
97.02   State law adopted
   
97.03   Abatement or removal
   
97.04   Enforcement; Building Commissioner
   
97.05   Discretionary powers
   
97.06   Definition
   
97.07   Good and workmanlike manner
   
97.08   Unsafe Building Fund
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF UNSAFE BUILDING LAW.
   Under the provisions of I.C. 36-1-3 and specifically I.C. 36-7-9-1, the Town
Council does hereby establish the town’s Unsafe Building Law.
(1996 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 82-2, passed - -)
§ 97.02 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29 are hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference as the town’s Unsafe Building Law. All proceedings within the town
for the inspection, repair and removal of unsafe buildings shall be governed by
said law and the provisions of this chapter. In the event that the provisions
of this chapter conflict with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-1 et seq., then the
provisions of the state statute shall control.
(1996 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 82-2, passed - -)
§ 97.03 ABATEMENT OR CONTROL.
   All buildings or portions thereof within the town which are determined after
inspection by the Building Commissioner to be unsafe as defined in this chapter
are hereby declared to be public nuisances and shall be abated by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or removal in accordance with the procedure
specified in the town’s Unsafe Building Law.
(1996 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 82-2, passed - -)
§ 97.04 ENFORCEMENT; BUILDING COMMISSIONER.
   The Building Commissioner for the town, the same being the duly elected
Clerk-Treasurer for the town, is hereby designated as the department and
enforcement authority and shall be authorized to administer and to proceed
under the provisions of this law. The Town Council is hereby specified as the
hearing authority under this law.
(1996 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 82-2, passed - -)
§ 97.05 DISCRETIONARY POWERS.
   Wherever in the building regulations of the town or the town’s Unsafe
Building Law, it is provided that anything must be done to the approval of or
subject to the direction of the Building Commissioners, or any other officer of
the town, this shall be construed to give such officer only the discretion of
determining whether the rules and standards established by ordinance have been
complied with; and no such provisions shall be construed as giving any officer
discretionary powers as to what such regulations or standards shall be, power
to require conditions not prescribed by ordinance, or to enforce ordinance
provisions in an arbitrary or discretionary manner.
(1996 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 82-2, passed - -)
§ 97.06 DEFINITION.
   The definition of an UNSAFE BUILDING contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4 is hereby
supplemented to provide minimum standards for building condition or maintenance
in the town by adding the following to said definition, to wit: any building or
structure which has any or all of the conditions or defects hereinafter
described shall be deemed to be an unsafe building; provided that, such
conditions or defects exist to the extent that they are consistent with the
definition of unsafe building as contained in I.C. 36-7-9-4:
   (A)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway or other means of exit is not of
sufficient width or size or is not so arranged as to provide safe and adequate
means of exit in case of fire or panic;
   (B)   Whenever the stress in any materials, member or portion thereof, due
to all dead and live loads, is more than one and one-half times the working
stress or stresses allowed for new buildings or similar structure, purpose or
location;
   (C)   Whenever any portion thereof has been damaged by fire, earthquake,
wind, flood or by any other cause, to such an extent that the structural
strength or stability thereof is materially less than it was before such
catastrophe and is less than the minimum requirements for new buildings of
similar structure, purpose or location;
   (D)   Whenever any portion, member or appurtenance thereof is likely to
fail, to become detached or dislodged or to collapse and thereby injure persons
or damage property;
   (E)   Whenever any portion of a building or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof is not of sufficient strength or
stability or is not so anchored, attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting a wind pressure of one-half of that specified for new
buildings or similar structure, purpose or location without exceeding the
working stresses permitted for such building;
   (F)   Whenever any portion thereof has cracked, warped, buckled or settled
to such an extent that walls or other structural portions have materially less
resistance to winds or earthquakes than is required in the case of similar new
construction;
   (G)   Whenever the building or structure, or any portion thereof, because
of:
      (1)   Dilapidation, deterioration or decay;
      (2)   Faulty construction;
      (3)   The removal, movement or instability or any portion of the ground
necessary for the purpose of supporting such building;
      (4)   The deterioration, decay or inadequacy of its foundation; or
      (5)   Any other cause, is likely to partially or completely collapse.
   (H)   Whenever, for any reason, the building or structure, or any portion
thereof, is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is being used;
   (I)   Whenever the exterior walls or other vertical structural members list,
lean or buckle to such an extent that a plumb line passing through the center
of gravity does not fall inside the middle one-third of the base;
   (J)   Whenever the building or structure, exclusive of the foundation, shows
33% or more damage or deterioration of its supporting member or members, or 50%
damage or deterioration of its non- supporting members, enclosing or outside
walls or coverings;
   (K)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind,
earthquake or flood or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become:
      (1)   An attractive nuisance to children; or
      (2)   Freely accessible to persons for the purpose of committing unlawful
acts.
   (L)   Whenever any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirements or prohibition applicable
to such building or structure provided by the building regulations as governed
by the Building Code of the town as well as any law or ordinance of the state
relating to the condition, location or structure of buildings;
   (M)   Whenever any building or structure which, whether or not erected in
accordance with all applicable laws and ordinances has in any non-supporting
part, member or portion less than 50% or in any supporting part, member or
portion less than 66% of the:
      (1)   Strength;
      (2)   Fire-resisting qualities or characteristics; or
      (3)   Weather-resisting qualities or characteristics required by law in
the case of a newly constructed building of like area, height and occupancy in
the same location.
   (N)   Whenever a building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangements, inadequate light, air or
sanitation facilities, or otherwise, is determined by the County Sanitarian to
be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is likely
to cause sickness or disease;
   (O)   Whenever any building or structure, because of obsolescence,
dilapidated condition, deterioration, damage, inadequate exits, lack of
sufficient fire-resistive construction, faulty electric wiring, gas connections
or heating apparatus, or other cause, is determined by the Chief of the Town
Volunteer Fire Department to be a fire hazard; and
   (P)   Whenever any portion of a building or structure remains on a site
after the demolition or destruction of the building or structure or whenever
any building or structure is abandoned for a period in excess of six months so
as to constitute such building or portion thereof an attractive nuisance or
hazard to the public.
(1996 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 82-2, passed - -)
§ 97.07 GOOD AND WORKMANLIKE MANNER.
   All work for the reconstruction, alteration, repair or demolition of
buildings or other structures shall be performed in a good and workmanlike
manner according to the accepted standards and practices in the trade. The
provisions of the rules and regulations pertaining to construction, plumbing,
electrical, mechanical and general construction requirements as contained in
the Building Code of the town shall be considered standard and acceptable
practice for all matters covered by this chapter or orders issued pursuant
thereto by the Building Commissioner of the town.
(1996 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 82-2, passed - -) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08 UNSAFE BUILDING FUND.
   An Unsafe Building Fund is hereby established in the operating budget of the
town in accordance with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-9-14.
(1996 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 82-2, passed - -)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or the provisions
as contained in I.C. 36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29 shall commit a Class C
infraction. Each day that the violation continues constitutes a separate
offense.
(1996 Code, § 9-20) (Ord. 82-2, passed - -)
CHAPTER 98: PARKS AND RECREATION; MUSEUMS
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Park rules generally
   
98.02   Lincoln Park
Park and Recreation Impact Fee
   
98.15   Limitation on imposition
   
98.16   Establishment of impact zones
   
98.17   Zone improvement plan
   
98.18   Establishment of fee
   
98.19   Credit in lieu of payment; exemptions
   
98.20   Impact fee due upon issuance of location improvement permit
   
98.21   Lien rights established
   
98.22   Form of receipt
   
98.23   Appeals
   
98.24   Impact Fee Review Board
   
98.25   Park and Recreation Impact Fee Fund
   
98.26   Use of impact fees collected
   
98.27   House Enrolled Act 1467
   
98.28   Amendment and review
   
98.29   Effective date
 
   
98.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01 PARK RULES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BOARD. The Zionsville Board of Parks and Recreation.
      CAMPING. The use of a temporary tent, temporary structure, or motorized
vehicle as a residence or dwelling for the purpose of living therein, as
evidenced by, but not limited to: sleeping, eating food, storage of personal
belongings, and/or changing clothes in the tent, structure, or motorized
vehicle and/or by the length of time an individual occupies the vehicle when
stationary. Any determination of camping must be made by assessing the totality
of the circumstances.
      MOTORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is self-propelled. The term does not
include an electric bicycle or an electric personal assistive mobility device.
      PARK PROPERTY. All lands and property owned by, or under the control and
jurisdiction of the Town Board of Parks and Recreation.
      PERSON. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association or
corporation.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Parks and Recreation duly appointed
by the Board.
   (B)   Rules and restrictions.
      (1)   No person shall hunt, trap, snare or kill any bird or animal on
park property.
      (2)   No person shall fire or discharge a firearm, including air or
spring powered pellet or BB guns, or do any other act prohibited by Town Ord.
80-8, on or into any park property.
      (3)   No person shall shoot an arrow with a bow or otherwise on or into
any park property, unless prior written consent is granted by the Board or
Superintendent.
      (4)   No person shall operate any motorized vehicle or off-road vehicle,
except town maintenance vehicles, on any park property, except on the
designated parking areas.
      (5)   The riding of bicycles for recreation within park property is
permitted only on trails or other areas designated by the Board for bicycle
use. No person shall organize, sanction, hold or engage in any bicycle race or
speed contest on park property unless prior written consent is granted by the
Board or Superintendent.
      (6)   No person shall maintain, construct, assemble or store any
building, tree house, structure or personalty on park property.
      (7)   No person shall possess or consume any alcoholic beverages or
controlled substances, as defined by state criminal statutes, on park property,
except for the lawful possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages sold
and dispensed by the Zionsville Golf Course or sold and dispensed by an
approved vendor under the town special event application process or as
established by a designated outdoor refreshment area (DORA) ordinance.
      (8)   No person shall cut, remove, deface or destroy any tree, shrub,
flower or plant excluding the normal and customary maintenance and control of
weeds; further that, this provision shall not prohibit removal of any plants
and the like made as a part of and necessary to any nature or biology studies
conducted by classes under the supervision of their teachers or the
Superintendent, and then only with prior written consent granted by the Board
or Superintendent.
      (9)   Except for barbecue grills installed thereon, no person shall start
or cause to be started a fire unless prior written consent is granted by the
Board or Superintendent.
      (10)   No person shall be on any park property after or before the hours
to be specified by the Board and posted at any applicable park property unless
prior written consent is granted by the Board or Superintendent.
      (11)   No person shall cut, remove, deface, vandalize or destroy any
sign, building, structure or other property on park property.
      (12)   No person shall operate motorized equipment or machinery such as a
motor vehicle, motorized toy or an audio device, such as a radio, television
set, tape or disc player or musical instrument, louder than necessary for the
convenient hearing of such person, thereby disturbing the peace, quiet and
comfort of others, unless prior written consent is granted by the Board or
Superintendent.
      (13)   No person, except authorized town staff, individuals and entities
authorized by the town, or public safety personnel with jurisdictional
authority, shall launch or land, or cause to be launched or landed, any
unmanned aerial vehicles (UAV) within park property except in designated areas.
      (14)   No person shall park any motor vehicle or trailer on any park
property including parking areas after or before the hours to be specified by
the Board and posted at any applicable park property unless prior written
consent is granted by the Board or Superintendent.
      (15)   No person shall swim anywhere except within designated swimming
areas.
      (16)   No horses or horse trailers are allowed except on designated
equestrian trails and in designated equestrian facilities.
      (17)   No camping is permitted on park property as defined in division
(A) unless prior written consent is granted by the Board or Superintendent.
(1996 Code, § 9-31) (Ord. 82-10, passed - -; Ord. 90-4, passed - -; Ord. 98-17,
passed - -; Ord. 2007-14, passed - -; Ord. 2025-07, passed 3-17-2025) Penalty,
see §
98.99
§ 98.02 LINCOLN PARK.
   (A)   In accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1105, as amended, authorizing the
setting aside of sites, memorials, edifices and monuments in commemoration of
persons or objects of historical or architectural interest or value as a part
of our citizens’ heritage, be it now ordained by the Town Council that the site
of Lincoln Park bounded by Oak Street on the south, First Street on the east,
Cedar Street on the north and Second Street on the west, all within the
corporate limits of the town be hereby set aside as a historical memorial
commemoration of Abraham Lincoln.
   (B)   Be it further ordained that this section may not be changed or
abrogated, except after a public hearing duly advertised by giving of ten days’
notice of such hearing by two publications one week apart in a newspaper
serving the area, with all interested citizens of the town being given
opportunity to be heard in the matter.
(1996 Code, § 9-32) (Ord. 1962-2, passed - -)
PARK AND RECREATION IMPACT FEE
§ 98.15 LIMITATION ON IMPOSITION.
   This subchapter shall expire and become void five years after its effective
date as required by I.C. 36-7-4-1340, however, the town may adopt a replacement
impact fee ordinance consistent with I.C. 36-7-4-1300 et seq.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.16 ESTABLISHMENT OF IMPACT ZONES.
   (A)   There is hereby established one park and recreational infrastructure
impact zone (“impact zone”), the boundaries of which are co-terminus with the
existing corporate boundaries of the town, as such boundaries may be extended
from time to time through annexation, and over any boundaries for which the
town exercises planning and zoning jurisdiction. In this regard, the Town
Council specifically finds: there is a functional relationship between the
components of the park and recreational infrastructure type in the impact zone;
the park and recreational infrastructure type provides a reasonably uniform
benefit to all citizens throughout the impact zone; that all areas within the
impact zone are contiguous as required by I.C. 36-7-4-1316. Except as provided
herein, this subchapter shall apply uniformly to single-family detached,
duplex/condo and townhouse, and multi-family apartment residential developments
within the impact zone for which the town may require an improvement location
permit, and which creates a need for new and additional park and recreational
infrastructure.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Development meeting the requirements set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-1322
(g);
      (2)   Improvements which do not require an improvement location permit;
      (3)   Improvements which do not create a need for new and additional
infrastructure, including the erection of a sign, construction of accessory
buildings, structures or fences, or the alteration, renovation or expansion of
an improvement where the use, or intensity thereof, has not changed;
      (4)   The replacement of a destroyed or partially destroyed improvement,
provided that the replacement improvement does not create a need for new and
additional infrastructure over and above the infrastructure needed by the
original improvement prior to the destruction or partial destructions thereof;
      (5)   Non-residential development; and
      (6)   “Qualified property” as that term is defined in I.C. 36-1-8-18,
except that, upon request of the owner of qualified property, an impact fee may
be imposed on the qualified property.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.17 ZONE IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
   As a precondition of the adoption of this subchapter, the town engaged Baker
Tilly to prepare a comprehensive and detailed park and recreational
infrastructure impact analysis, referred to as a “special purpose report” by
Baker Tilly. The Town Council hereby adopts the special purpose report prepared
by Baker Tilly dated September 8, 2021, as its zone improvement plan.
Additionally the Town Council hereby adopts specifically the zone improvement
plan as part of the comprehensive plan for the Town of Zionsville, Indiana,
pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-500 et seq.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.18 ESTABLISHMENT OF FEE.
   (A)   Based on the zone improvement plan, the Town Council determines that
the park and recreational infrastructure impact fee for each residential
dwelling unit is as follows:
      (1)   Detached single-family home fee is as set forth in the town fee
schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04;
      (2)   Attached single-family home fee is as set forth in the town fee
schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04; and
      (3)   Multi-family home fee is as set forth in the town fee schedule
incorporated by reference in §
34.04.
   (B)   The Town Council hereby makes all of the data collected, the
calculations made and the conclusions reached by Baker Tilly in the process of
developing and drafting the zone improvement plan a part of the official record
considered by the Town Council in enacting this subchapter, and specifically
instructs the employees of the town to make such data and other information
available to the public for review during regular business hours.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.19 CREDIT IN LIEU OF PAYMENT; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1335, any person obligated to pay an impact
fee pursuant to the terms of this subchapter may have the option of
constructing, providing, and dedicating park and recreational infrastructure
owned and operated by a neighborhood association for the public benefit, all as
described and defined in the zone improvement plan and in accordance with the
specifications for such park and recreational infrastructure to be improved,
instead of paying all or part of any impact fee to the town. The fee payer, or
other person or entity constructing and providing the infrastructure or
improvement, shall be given credit for the actual costs of constructing and
providing such park and recreational infrastructure for the town, provided that
the park and recreational infrastructure meets the requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-
1335. A request for credit shall be presented prior to the issuance of the
improvement location permit. In the event the actual cost of such
infrastructure does not equal the amount of the impact fee pursuant to the
calculation provided for in § 98.18 hereof, the remaining balance shall be due
in accordance with the provisions stated hereafter.
   (B)   Credits against impact fees otherwise due shall be allowed pursuant to
this section for all park and recreational infrastructure improvements
constructed or provided in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1313 and I.C. 36-7-4-
1335. In addition, a fee payer or other person or entity responsible for
constructing the infrastructure or improvements shall be allowed to designate
in writing a reasonable and administratively feasible method of allocating its
credits to future fee payers who may be successors in interest to the credits
earned by the fee payer or others, as part of the certification provided for
above.
   (C)   Any person or entity otherwise obligated to pay the impact fee
established by this subchapter whose property was totally or partially
destroyed by fire, storm, or other casualty beyond his or her control, shall be
exempt from said impact fee if such person or entity repairs or replaces the
destroyed structure without creating a burden on infrastructure greater than
the burden imposed by the destroyed infrastructure. In the event of such
additional burden, the impact fee shall be calculated based only on the
increased burden created by the structure.
   (D)   The person providing the infrastructure or improvement may waive the
person’s right to a credit under this section.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.20 IMPACT FEE DUE UPON ISSUANCE OF IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   The impact fee imposed pursuant to the terms of this subchapter shall
be due and payable upon the issuance of an improvement location permit by the
town. It is understood that the improvement location permit is synonymous with
the term "structural building permit" as that term is used in I.C. 36-7-4-1323,
in that the issuance of an improvement location permit authorizes the applicant
to commence construction activities, structural or otherwise.
   (B)   The entire impact fee which is calculated pursuant to the terms of
this subchapter shall be due upon the issuance of an improvement location
permit unless the aggregate amount of the impact fee is greater than $5,000, in
which case an installment plan may be requested by the applicant in accordance
with the terms set forth in I.C. 36-7-4-1324(a) through (d). The Zionsville
Impact Fee Review Board shall establish specific rules consistent with I.C. 36-
7-4-1324(a) through (d) for installment payments. The interest rate on any
installment plan shall not exceed the pre-judgment rate as established by
Indiana law, as amended, and shall only accrue on the outstanding portion of
the impact fee beginning on the date the improvement location permit is issued.
   (C)   If all or part of an installment is not paid when due and payable, the
amount of the installment shall be increased on the first day after the
installment is due and payable by a penalty amount equal to 10% of the
installment amount that is overdue, and interest shall be charged on the
penalty amount.
   (D)   If a fee payer requests, the amount of the impact fee shall be
assessed upon the voluntary submission of a development plan or upon the
issuance of the improvement location permit, whichever is earlier. The town
shall make the assessment within 30 days of the date of such voluntary request
or upon the issuance of the improvement location permit with or without the
request. For purposes of this section, "assessment" means the act of
calculating the amount of the impact fee which shall be due.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.21 LIEN RIGHTS ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1325, on the date of issuance of an improvement
location permit, the town acquires a lien against the real estate on which the
impact fee is assessed. The town may, in its discretion, file a specific
instrument setting forth its lien rights with respect to a parcel of real
estate which is the subject of an installment payment of an impact fee, and
such instrument shall constitute actual notice in addition to the constructive
notice provided for by the recording of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.22 FORM OF RECEIPT.
   The Zionsville Department of Finance and Records shall issue a receipt for
any and all impact fees collected and the form of such receipt shall be as
follows:
 
   Received of  (fee payer)  , this            day of                       , 20     the sum of $            in (full) (partial) satisfaction of
Park and Recreation Impact Fees due pursuant to Zionsville Town Council Ordinance No.              relating to improvements to be constructed on
the real estate described on Exhibit A, attached hereto, made part hereof, and subject to the collection remedies and lien rights in favor of
the Town of Zionsville in the event or partial payment with payments remaining due pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1325. The remaining balance due (if
any) is in the following amount: $          . This impact fee is dedicated to the creation of the following infrastructure element in accordance
with the Zone Improvement Plan:                                                         .
                                                                        
   Chief Financial Officer
   Town of Zionsville, Indiana
 
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.23 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any fee payer who is aggrieved by the calculation of the impact fee,
by the rejection of an application for a refund of an impact fee, by the
approval of only a partial refund of an impact fee, or by a determination of
the amount of a credit, may appeal from such calculation, rejection, partial
approval, or determination to the Zionsville Impact Fee Review Board, and the
Zionsville Impact Fee Review Board shall conduct a hearing with regard thereto.
At such hearing, the fee payer shall bear the burden of going forward with the
evidence and shall present evidence addressing either of the following
propositions:
      (1)   A fact assumed in determining the amount of the impact fee is
incorrect; or
      (2)   The amount of the impact fee is greater than the amount allowed
under I.C. 36-7-4-1320, 36-7-4-1321 and 36-7-4-1322.
   (B)   Upon conclusion of the hearing, the Zionsville Impact Fee Review board
shall make a determination based upon the facts presented, and may reverse,
affirm, modify or make such adjustments in the impact fee as it believes are
appropriate under the circumstances, if any, including establishing the amount
of an impact fee, a credit, a refund or any combination of fees, credits or
refunds.
   (C)   The Zionsville Impact Fee Review Board shall provide a copy of its
decision to the town and the fee payer involved in the appeal within five days
after making its decision, and shall make written findings of fact to support
its decision.
   (D)   An appeal under this section must be filed no later than 30 days after
the issuance of the improvement location permit, or not later than 60 days
after the rejection or partial approval of an application for a refund of an
impact fee, as applicable. The appeal shall be initiated with the filing of a
petition for review with the Zionsville Department of Finance and Records,
together with a filing fee in the amount of $100. The filing fee shall be
refunded in full if:
      (1)   The petition for review is granted and the impact fee is
eliminated, reduced or adjusted by the Zionsville Impact Fee Review Board, by
independent action of the town or by a court having jurisdiction; and
      (2)   The reviewing body determines that the amount of the fees,
reductions, or credits were arbitrary or capricious.
   (E)   The petition for review shall be in a form calculated to inform the
Zionsville Impact Fee Review Board of the nature of the complaint, the parties
to the action and the relief requested. In addition, the petition shall
describe the new development on which the impact fee has been assessed, all
facts related to the assessment of the impact fee and the reasons the
petitioner believes that the amount of the impact fee assessed is erroneous or
is greater than the amount allowed by the fee limitation set forth in the
enabling statute.
   (F)   The town shall not deny the issuance of an improvement location permit
on the basis that the impact fee has not been paid, or condition issuance of
the permit on the payment of the impact fee; however, if the impact fee is
$1,000 or less, the town may require the fee payer to pay the impact fee or
initiate an appeal under this section before the improvement location permit is
issued.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.24 IMPACT FEE REVIEW BOARD.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes an Impact Fee Review Board
("Board"), which shall consist of three citizen members appointed by the Mayor
of Zionsville and who shall qualify as follows:
      (1)   One member shall be real estate broker licensed in Indiana;
      (2)   One member shall be an engineer licensed in Indiana; and
      (3)   One member shall be a certified public accountant.
   (B)   No Board member shall be a member of the Zionsville Advisory Plan
Commission.
      (1)   The term of office of the members of the Board shall commence from
the date of their appointment and expire five years from the date of
appointment.
      (2)   At the expiration of the respective terms of each of the Board
members originally appointed, their respective successors shall be appointed in
the same manner as the original appointee, and each such succeeding member
shall serve for a term of five years. Each member shall continue to serve until
his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
      (3)   In the event any person appointed as a Board member shall fail to
qualify as provided within ten days after the mailing to him or her of notice
of his or her appointment, or if any member after qualifying shall die, resign,
vacate office, or in the event a member is unable to hear a petition due to a
conflict of interest, the Mayor of Zionsville shall fill such vacancy with a
new or temporary (in the event of a conflict of interest) member meeting the
qualifications of the member being replaced. A new member shall serve out the
remainder of the vacated term, while a temporary member shall serve for the
period necessary to dispose of the petition giving rise to the conflict.
      (4)   The Board shall be governed by I.C. 36-7-4-1338(c) and all other
applicable provisions of Indiana's impact fee statute.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.25 PARK AND RECREATION IMPACT FEE FUND.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby establishes the Park and Recreation Impact Fee
Fund ("Fund") for the town. This Fund shall be a non-reverting fund and shall
receive any and all sums collected pursuant to this subchapter to be utilized
in connection with the purposes set forth herein. The Fund shall consist
initially of one account, based upon the current existence of one impact zone.
In the event, and only in the event, an additional impact zone is created
hereafter, a separate account shall be maintained for each separate impact zone
established within the town. Interest earned on the Fund, or on any account
with the Fund, shall be deposited and maintained within the Fund or the
separate account. The Zionsville Department of Finance and Records shall
maintain records of the status of the Fund, or any account established therein,
and shall make an annual report of the Fund to the Zionsville Plan Commission
and to the Zionsville Town Council, which report shall be available to the
public, in general, and fee payers, upon request.
   (B)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1332(e), the Zionsville Chief Financial
Officer is designated as the town official responsible for accepting, rejecting
and paying on refund requests. In order to facilitate refunds when they may be
due, the Zionsville Chief Financial Officer is directed to identify the purpose
of any impact fee paid in order that a refund, if any, may be paid from the
Fund or account into which the impact fee was originally deposited.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.26 USE OF IMPACT FEES COLLECTED.
   Any and all fees collected pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter may
be utilized for the following purposes only by the town, acting by and through
its Town Council, which for the purposes of this subchapter is identified as
the "infrastructure agency" contemplated by I.C. 36-7-4-1317:
   (A)   Providing funds to be utilized by the town for the purpose of paying
the capital costs of new park and recreational infrastructure that is necessary
to serve the new development within the corporate limits of the town and that
is identified in the plan;
   (B)   An amount not to exceed 5% of the annual collections of the impact fee
to be utilized for expenses incurred by the town for the consulting services
used to establish this subchapter;
   (C)   To pay any refund amounts due pursuant to the terms of this
subchapter; and
   (D)   To pay the debt service cost on any obligation issued to provide new
park and recreational infrastructure described in division (A) above.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.27 HOUSE ENROLLED ACT 1467.
   The Town Council specifically acknowledges the existence of House Enrolled
Act 1467 ("Act") adopted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana which
regulates the imposition of impact fee ordinances by municipal corporations
within the State of Indiana. It is the intent of the town to comply with the
Act, and this subchapter shall be construed in all respects to be consistent
with the Act. The substantive and procedural requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-1300
et seq. shall control in the event of conflicts between this subchapter and the
Act, which conflicts are unintended by the Town Council.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.28 AMENDMENT AND REVIEW.
   The impact fee provided for herein is based upon data which, in large part,
is subject to inflation and other economic and market forces over which the
town has no control. The Town Council may, not less than once each year, cause
a review to be made by town staff or consultants, as may be required, to
determine the continuing validity of the impact fee, the impact fee zone and
the zone improvement plan. The Town Council shall consider and adopt such
amendments as are necessary to cause substantive compliance with all
constitutional and statutory requirements. To the extent required by the facts
and circumstances, this process shall include all steps necessary to update the
zone improvement plan and the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.29 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be in full force and effect six months after its
adoption by the Town Council in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1340.
(Ord. 2011-14, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2022-02, passed 3-7-2022)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   If any person shall violate any of the provisions of §
98.01 of this chapter, or shall do any act prohibited herein, or shall fail,
neglect or refuse to obey any lawful order given by the Superintendent or town
police officer in connection with the provisions of §
98.01 of this chapter, for each such violation, failure or refusal, such person
shall be fined in any sum not less than $10 and no more than $300, except as
otherwise provided in any other local or state statute or ordinance. Each day
of such unlawful activity, as is prohibited by the first sentence of this
division (B), shall constitute a separate violation.
(1996 Code, § 9-31) (Ord. 82-10, passed - -; Ord. 90-4, passed - -; Ord. 98-17,
passed - -; Ord. 2007-14, passed - -)
CHAPTER 99: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
99.01   Restrictions concerning animals located on personal or public property
within the Urban District of the Town of Zionsville or a property immediately
adjacent to/abutting the Urban Service District
   
99.02   Loose animals
   
99.03   Enforcement
   
99.04   Animal defecation on public sidewalks and pathways prohibited
   
99.05   Applicability
Animal Control Pursuant to I.C. 36-1-3
   
99.20   Definitions
   
99.21   Abandoned animals
   
99.22   Animal fecal matter
   
99.23   Impoundment of animals
   
99.24   Loud animals
   
99.25   Dangerous animals
   
99.26   Biting animals; reporting
   
99.27   Entry onto private land
   
99.28   Animals utilized by law enforcement
 
   
99.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 99.01 RESTRICTIONS CONCERNING ANIMALS LOCATED ON PERSONAL OR PUBLIC PROPERTY
WITHIN THE URBAN DISTRICT OF THE TOWN OF ZIONSVILLE OR A PROPERTY IMMEDIATELY
ADJACENT TO/ABUTTING THE URBAN SERVICE DISTRICT.
   No owner shall allow his/her animal(s), including but not limited to dogs
and chickens, to be outside his/her premises or place of business within the
Urban District of the Town of Zionsville or a property immediately adjacent to/
abutting the Urban Service District. It shall be a violation of this subchapter
for any person to possess or harbor more than ten chickens at one time at the
owner’s personal property or place of business within the Urban District of the
Town of Zionsville or a property immediately adjacent to/abutting the Urban
Service District. This limitation restricts the number to ten chickens per
household regardless of how many individuals live in the household.
Additionally, this limitation restricts the number to ten chickens per place of
business. Furthermore, it shall be a violation of this subchapter for any
person in the Urban Service District of the Town of Zionsville or a property
immediately adjacent to/abutting the Urban Service District to own or harbor a
rooster. A violation of this subchapter shall subject the animal’s owner to
liability for a citation and a fine of $25 for each violation up to and
including three violations within a calendar year. Any animal owner being cited
for more than three violations of this subchapter in any one calendar year
shall be liable for a fine of up to $75 for any additional violations during
that calendar year (unless otherwise stated in this subchapter).
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-2-2015) (Formerly Ord. 77-2 as amended by Ord. 95-03)
§ 99.02 LOOSE ANIMALS.
   (A)   No animals, including but not limited to, dogs and chickens, shall be
allowed outside their owner’s premises unless under the reasonable control of
some person. A chicken is not allowed to roam free on any public property or
the property neighboring the animal’s owner without express written permission
of the neighbor(s).
   (B)   For purposes of this provision, REASONABLE CONTROL OF A DOG is defined
to mean that the animal is restrained by a secure collar and a leash not in
excess of six feet in length and the owner of the animal or such other person
exercising control of the animal is connected to or holding the other end of
the leash. For purposes of this section, REASONABLE CONTROL OF A CHICKEN is
defined to mean that the animal is confined in a chicken coop or by a fence
securing the animal to the owner’s premises.
(1996 Code, § 9-41) (Ord. 95-03, passed - -; Ord. 99-18, passed - -; Ord. 2015-
02, passed 3-2-2015) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Sworn officers are hereby empowered, in accordance with state
statute, to take all appropriate action with regard to violations of §§
99.20 through
99.29 of this chapter, including, where authorized by state statute, the
arrangement for capture and confinement of animals deemed to be a public
nuisance.
      (2)   Further, sworn officers shall be empowered to issue written
warnings and citations to owners of animals in violation of this subchapter.
      (3)   It is the intent and recommendation of the Town Council that unless
extenuating or grievous circumstances exist in connection with a first
violation, that the owners of such animals be issued a written warning upon a
determination by the sworn officer that a violation has occurred for the first
time.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to conflict with any
state statutes addressing animal control, nor shall this chapter be interpreted
as relieving any animal owner from liability for any and all damages and/or
fines under state statute or common law for any improper or illegal activity
engaged in by his or her animals.
(1996 Code, § 9-42) (Ord. 1995-03, passed - -; Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-2-2015)
§ 99.04 ANIMAL DEFECATION ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS AND PATHWAYS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having control or custody of
any animal to permit the animal to defecate upon the public property of the
town or upon the private property of another unless the person immediately
removes the feces and properly disposes of it; provided, however, that, nothing
herein contained authorizes such person to enter upon the private property of
another without permission. Disabled persons who use service dogs are exempt
from this provision.
(1996 Code, § 9-43) (Ord. 99-18, passed - - ; Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-2-2015)
Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter, specifically §§
99.20 through
99.29 of this chapter, shall be applicable only in the Urban Section of the
town.
(Ord. 2013-14, passed 10-7-2013)
ANIMAL CONTROL PURSUANT TO I.C. 36-1-3
§ 99.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED ANIMAL. Any animal left without proper food and water for a period
of over 24 hours, or any barking animals without supervision for a period of
over 24 hours; provided, however, the definition of ABANDONED ANIMAL shall not
apply to animals in the custody of a licensed veterinarian until such
veterinarian has had custody of the animal for five days without the benefit of
a contract with the owner to provide shelter for the animal.
   ANIMAL RUNNING AT LARGE.
      (1)   An animal:
         (a)   Not on the property of its owner;
         (b)   Not under the immediate control of its owner; or
         (c)   Not otherwise controlled by a competent person.
      (2)   The term ANIMAL RUNNING AT LARGE does not include the use of a dog
under the supervision of a person to hunt, chase or tree predatory animals or
game birds, or the use of a dog to control or protect livestock or in other
related agricultural activities.
   DEPARTMENT. The Police Department of the Town of Zionsville.
   LOUD ANIMAL. Any animal which persistently barks, crows, or howls or emits
other sounds and thereby unreasonably deprives a person of peace and quiet.
   OWNER. A person who owns, keeps or harbors a dog or other animal within the
town’s corporate limits, except a veterinarian or an operator of a commercial
kennel insofar as they may keep animals in the course of their business.
(1996 Code, § 9-44) (Ord. 2001-7, passed - -; Ord. 2004-14, passed - -; Ord.
2007-18, passed - -; Ord. 2013-14, passed 10-7-2013; Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-2-
2015)
§ 99.21 ABANDONED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No owner shall permit his or her animal to be abandoned. Any sworn
officer or animal control officer may either:
      (1)   Provide food and water to an abandoned animal, with the owner
paying for such services; or
      (2)   Impound an abandoned animal.
   (B)   As soon as practical, notice of impoundment under this section shall
be posted at the house or be mailed to the owner, or if the owner is unknown,
to the address at with the animal was found and impounded.
(1996 Code, § 9-44) (Ord. 2001-7, passed - -; Ord. 2004-14, passed - -; Ord.
2007-18, passed - -; Ord. 2013-14, passed 10-7-2013; Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-2-
2015) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.22 ANIMAL FECAL MATTER.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner to allow his or her animal to deposit
fecal matter on any improved property other than that of the owner. It shall be
a defense to this section if the owner immediately removes the fecal matter
from the property.
(1996 Code, § 9-44) (Ord. 2001-7, passed - -; Ord. 2004-14, passed - -; Ord.
2007-18, passed - -; Ord. 2013-14, passed 10-7-2013) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.23 IMPOUNDMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any member of the Department who has probable cause to believe
that there has been a violation of this chapter, or that there is a need to
impound a potentially dangerous animal or a dangerous animal (each as defined
herein) to protect public safety, may take custody of the animal. The animal
shall be impounded, at the owner’s expense, at a veterinarian hospital, animal
shelter or animal clinic designated by the Department for evaluation. There, a
veterinarian or veterinarian’s designee shall:
         (a)   Investigate the condition of the animal and the circumstances
relating to the animal’s condition; and
         (b)   Make a recommendation regarding the confiscation and/or
disposition of the animal.
      (2)   The owner of the impounded animal may obtain release of such animal
upon compliance with provisions of this chapter and the payment of the
appropriate impoundment fee and any other fees and fines as applicable.
   (B)   An animal impounded under this section and which is not claimed by its
owner shall be confined by the Department in a humane manner for a period of
capture of not less than ten days. An animal not claimed within the ten-day
impoundment period may be kept otherwise humanely disposed of in the discretion
of the Department.
   (C)   Following the ten-day impoundment period, a person other than the
animal’s owner may adopt the impounded animal which has not been claimed, and
shall pay the appropriate impoundment fee and any other fees and fines as
applicable. The person who adopts such animal which has been impounded under
this section shall first agree in writing to:
      (1)   Immunize the animal again rabies as required by state law; and
      (2)   Attach a permanent identification tag or microchip to such animal.
(1996 Code, § 9-44) (Ord. 2001-7, passed - -; Ord. 2004-14, passed - -; Ord.
2007-18, passed - -; Ord. 2013-14, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 99.24 LOUD ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep a loud animal on any premises within the Urban District
of the Town of Zionsville or a property immediately adjacent to/abutting the
Urban District of the Town of Zionsville which the Department finds disturbs,
without provocation by any person, by frequent and sustained barking, howling,
crowing, yelping or other sound, one or more persons domiciled in the immediate
vicinity of the premises, after having been notified personally or by mail by
the Department or the animal control authority that the animal had been
reported to disturb such person or persons by such barking, howling, crowing,
yelping or other sound.
(1996 Code, § 9-44) (Ord. 2001-7, passed - -; Ord. 2004-14, passed - -; Ord.
2007-18, passed - -; Ord. 2013-14, passed 10-7-2013; Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-2-
2015) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.25 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   General. No person shall own, keep or harbor a dangerous animal within
the town. The owner of a dangerous animal shall remove the animal from the town
as directed by the Department and obey any orders from the Town Court regarding
the animal. If the owner of a dangerous animal cannot be located, the dangerous
animal shall be impounded by an animal control officer or member of the
Department and placed in a secure location until the owner can be located and
notified. If the owner is not located after a reasonable period of time, the
dangerous animal shall be taken to the nearest county animal shelter and
euthanized. A dangerous animal running at large, which because of its
disposition or diseased condition is too hazardous to apprehend, may be
destroyed by a member of the Department, animal control officer or by a person
acting in self-defense or defense of his or her family or another person or
defense of his or her domestic animal.
   (B)   Dangerous animal defined. A DANGEROUS ANIMAL is any of the following:
      (1)   Any animal that has the propensity to attack or bite any person or
domestic animal without provocation and the capacity to inflict serious injury,
as defined, to a person or domestic animal;
      (2)   Any animal that when unprovoked, approaches and contacts any person
in a violent or terrorizing manner, with the apparent attitude of attack while
that person is upon the streets, sidewalks other public grounds or places
within the town;
      (3)   Any animal that has been listed as a “potentially dangerous animal”
by the Department and exhibits behavior warranting listing the animal as a
“dangerous animal”; and
      (4)   Any animal that has killed a domestic animal while off the property
owned or occupied by the owner of the animal.
   (C)   Exceptions to dangerous animal definitions. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, an animal will not be deemed dangerous if the animal attacks or
bites a person while that person is committing a criminal trespass, other tort
or a crime upon the premises occupied by the owner of the animal. An animal
will not be deemed dangerous if the animal attacks or bites a domestic animal
while that domestic animal is on the premises occupied by the owner of the
animal, or if the animal was defending a human being from an unjustified attack
wherever the person is, or if the animal was, at the time just prior to a bite
or an attack, being teased, harassed, abused or assaulted by a person.
   (D)   Public complaints of dangerous animals. Any person may file a
complaint with the Department that a particular animal harbored within the town
is dangerous. The Department thereafter shall investigate the propensity of the
animal, including, but not limited to, discussions with the owner regarding
such complaint. The owner of a dangerous animal, as determined by the
Department, may challenge the determination in the Town Court. During the
pendency of the challenge, the alleged dangerous animal shall remain with the
dwelling of the owner, and only as necessary to defecate outside or to be taken
for veterinary care. At all times while off the owner’s property, the alleged
dangerous animal shall be muzzled and leashed and under the direct supervision
and control of the owner or other responsible person.
   (E)   Potentially dangerous animals. The owner of an animal deemed a
potentially dangerous animal is required to post notice of the animal’s
dangerousness, such as a “Beware of Dog” sign, in order to inform both children
and adults of the presence of a potentially dangerous animal on the premises.
Potentially dangerous animals are allowed outside only under the direct
supervision and leashed control of the owner or other responsible party.
   (F)   Potentially dangerous animals defined.
      (1)   A POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL is any of the following:
         (a)   Any animal who, when unprovoked on two separate occasions within
the prior 12-month period, engages in behavior that required a defensive action
by any person to prevent bodily injury when that person and animal are off the
property owned or occupied by the owner of the animal;
         (b)   Any animal which when unprovoked bites a person causing a less
severe injury, as defined;
         (c)   Any animal which, when unprovoked, has caused serious injury to
a domestic animal while that animal is off the property owned or occupied by
the owner of the animal;
         (d)   Any animal whose behavior has caused a person to file, in good
faith, a public complaint of an alleged dangerous animal, pursuant to division
(D) above; or
         (e)   Any animal whose behavior has caused a person, as required by
law or in good faith, to file a report of an animal bite with the Department,
pursuant to §
99.26 of this chapter.
      (2)   An officer of the Department may take into possession any animal
that falls under divisions (1)(b) and (1)(c) of the definition of potentially
dangerous animals.
   (G)   Notification of potentially dangerous animal. The Department shall
investigate the propensity of the animal to be a potentially dangerous animal.
Such investigation shall include, but not be limited to, discussions with the
owner regarding such matter. The owner of a potentially dangerous animal, as
determined by the Department, may challenge the determination in the Town
Court. During the pendency of the challenge, the alleged potentially dangerous
animal shall remain with the dwelling of the owner, and only as necessary to
defecate outside or to be taken for veterinary care. At all times while off the
owner’s property, the alleged potentially dangerous animal shall be muzzled and
leashed and under the direct supervision and control of the owner or other
responsible person.
   (H)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BITE. A break in the skin of a person or domestic animal caused by the
tooth of a dog, cat or other animal.
      LESS SEVERE INJURY. Any injury consisting of a mark on the skin or a
break in the skin but which injury does not require medical attention from a
trained medical professional.
      SERIOUS INJURY. Any injury that requires medical attention from a trained
medical professional. Bites or injuries which create the need for a person to
get a series of rabies shots, even if out of caution, are SERIOUS INJURIES.
(1996 Code, § 9-44) (Ord. 2001-7, passed - -; Ord. 2004-14, passed - -; Ord.
2007-18, passed - -; Ord. 2013-14, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 99.26 BITING ANIMALS; REPORTING.
   (A)   The owner of an animal which bites a human being shall immediately
notify the Department of such bite and provide information to complete the
required State Department of Health form (State Form 14072). If a doctor,
veterinarian or hospital employee obtains information that a person has been
bitten by an animal, such person shall forthwith notify the Department so that
the required report can be subsequently completed. Each report shall be sent to
the County Health Department for documentation and review.
   (B)   (1)   Upon notification that an animal bite has occurred, the owner or
keeper shall surrender to the Department the animal that is responsible for the
attack for supervised strict confined observation. The period of confinement
must be at least ten days in duration and under the supervision of either:
         (a)   The animal’s owner; provided, the owner’s home is equipped with
an area to confine the animal and prevent it from having contact with any other
human or animal; or
         (b)   A local annual hospital or veterinarian clinic.
      (2)   The owner shall be responsible for all costs associated with the
animal’s confinement. Where possible, the Department shall give written notice
to the animal’s owner upon confinement.
   (C)   Any rabies illness detected in the confined animal shall be
immediately reported to the County Health Department. The animal’s owner shall
then be financially responsible for having the animal euthanized and comply
with the State Department of Health laws.
(1996 Code, § 9-44) (Ord. 2001-7, passed - -; Ord. 2004-14, passed - -; Ord.
2007-18, passed - -; Ord. 2013-14, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 99.27 ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE LAND.
   Any duly authorization officers in the course of their duties in enforcing
this chapter shall have the privilege of entering onto private land provided
the officer has probable cause that a violation of this chapter has occurred,
but said officer shall not enter into any building or dwelling without
permission or authorization.
(1996 Code, § 9-44) (Ord. 2001-7, passed - -; Ord. 2004-14, passed - -; Ord.
2007-18, passed - -; Ord. 2013-14, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 99.28 ANIMALS UTILIZED BY LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be inapplicable to animals utilized in
the line of duty by a duly qualified law enforcement officer, fire or safety
officer, or member of the Department.
(1996 Code, § 9-44) (Ord. 2001-7, passed - -; Ord. 2004-14, passed - -; Ord.
2007-18, passed - -; Ord. 2013-14, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
99.01 of this chapter shall subject the dog’s owner to liability for a citation
and fine of $25.
(1996 Code, § 9-40)
   (C)   A violation of §
99.02 of this chapter shall subject the owner of the animal to liability for a
citation and fine of $25 for each violation up to and including three
violations within a calendar year. Any dog owner being cited for more than
three violations of §
99.02 of this chapter in any one calendar year shall be liable for a fine of up
to $75 for any additional violations during that calendar year.
(1996 Code, § 9-41)
(Ord. 77-2, passed - -; Ord. 95-03, passed - -; Ord. 2001-7, passed - -; Ord.
2004-14, passed - -; Ord. 2007-18, passed - -; Ord. 2013-14, passed 10-7-2013;
Ord. 2015-02, passed 3-2-2015)
CHAPTER 100: TREES AND OTHER FLORA
Section
General Provisions
   
100.01   Definitions
   
100.02   Duty to enforce
   
100.03   Permit required
   
100.04   Guarantees
   
100.05   Protection during building operations
   
100.06   Duties of property owner
   
100.07   Destruction of diseased or hazardous flora
   
100.08   Recommended street trees
   
100.09   Encroachment consent
   
100.10   Obstruction of recorded easement in favor of the town
Location Regulations
   
100.25   Vision clearance areas
   
100.26   Pedestrian clearance
   
100.27   Vehicle clearance
   
100.28   Traffic-control clearance
   
100.29   Obstruction of easements
   
100.30   Distance from established sidewalk or curb
   
100.31   Spacing of trees
   
100.32   Prohibited and recommended species
   
100.33   Hazard prohibitions
   
100.34   Placement under or near utilities prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 100.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Planning and Administrative Services for the town
or his or her designated representative.
   FLORA. All trees, shrubbery and other plants which grow to a height of more
than two and one-half feet in height.
   OCCUPANT. The person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, business,
trust, joint stock company, unincorporated organization, religious or
charitable organization or any owner, person, persons or entities who are from
time to time in possession of or exercising dominion and control over any house
or other structure located on private property.
   OWNER. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple of a parcel of real estate,
including the life tenant or tenants;
      (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the most current records
of the County Auditor’s office; or
      (3)   The purchaser or purchasers of such real estate under any contract
for the conditional sale thereof.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
business, trust, joint stock company, unincorporated organization, religious or
charitable organization or any owner, persons, persons or entities.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All real estate within the town, except real estate that
is owned, leased, controlled or occupied by the state, county or any
departments or agencies of the town.
   TREE. Any woody, perennial plant and includes those having a single or
multiple main stems, which grow to a minimum height of over ten feet.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -)
§ 100.02 DUTY TO ENFORCE.
   The Town Street Department and Parks and Recreation Department shall have
the authority to perform trimming and cutting of flora in or obstructing any
public right-of-way, street, alley or way as may be necessary to provide
unobstructed vision or free passage of pedestrians or motorists along the
public rights-of-way, streets, alleys or ways.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -)
§ 100.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall plant any flora on or in any portion of a public
right-of-way, street, alley or way within the town unless the Director shall
have first reviewed the proposal with the town of the Street Department and
Parks and Recreation Department, and approved the kind or variety thereof,
designated the location therefor and granted a permit for such planting.
   (B)   The permit obtained for the above noted planting shall be one of the
following:
      (1)   Consent to encroachment: required for any planting of trees or
flora within public rights-of-way or public land (§
100.09 of this chapter); or
      (2)   Obstruction of recorded easement: required for the installation of
any encroachment in a recorded and platted easement which runs in favor of the
town (§
100.10 of this chapter).
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.04 GUARANTEES.
   The permit holder shall guarantee the survival of each tree planted within
the rights-of-way of any public street, alley or way for one year after the
planting date. Any tree not surviving for one year shall be placed, either by
the permit holder or by the town, at the permit holder’s expense, or removed by
the town at the town’s expense. After a period of one year, the permit holder
shall be relieved of the survival guarantee, and all flora planted within the
rights-of-way of any public street, alley or way shall become the property of
the town, which shall have complete and continued authority to ensure that all
terms and conditions set forth in this chapter are maintained.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -)
§ 100.05 PROTECTION DURING BUILDING OPERATIONS.
   In connection with the erection, alteration or repair of any building or
structure, or other construction activity, the owner thereof, or his or her
agent or independent contractor, shall take all necessary steps to prevent
injury to any flora growing within the rights-of-way of any public street,
alley way or park.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -)
§ 100.06 DUTIES OF PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   The owner of any private property in the town that borders or lies
adjacent to any public right-of-way, street, alley, way or park and upon which
any trees or flora may be standing or planted, shall trim or cause such trees
or flora to be trimmed, either at the property line, or to a clear height of:
      (1)   At least nine feet above the surface of any abutting sidewalk;
      (2)   Fourteen feet above any public street or alley right-of-way; and
      (3)   At least nine feet within the vision clearance area.
   (B)   All branches or parts thereof over any portion of a public right-of-
way, street, alley or way, or which obstruct or interfere with the visibility
of any traffic-control sign, signal or device shall be trimmed or cut. No
person shall plant or maintain any tree or flora so close to any property line
as to obstruct the vision or free passage of pedestrians or motorists along a
street, sidewalk, public right-of-way or vision clearance area. The town shall
have the authority to perform or cause to be performed any cutting or trimming
as may be necessary to remove any obstruction caused by trees or flora that are
prohibited by the provisions hereof as may be deemed necessary to facilitate
traffic movement and safety within.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.07 DESTRUCTION OF DISEASED OR HAZARDOUS FLORA.
   The Town Street Department and Parks and Recreation Department shall have
the authority to destroy any flora growing within the rights-of-way of any
public street, alley, way or park if infected by disease or injurious insects
or if, in the judgement of the town, it represents a dangerous condition or
hazard to the public. Such destruction also may be effected when necessary for
the protection of other flora.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -)
§ 100.08 RECOMMENDED STREET TREES.
   (A)   Overstory/shade trees.
Botanical Name Common Name Best Cultivars Mature Height Mature Spread
Botanical Name   Common Name       Best Cultivars   Mature Height Mature Spread
Acer platinoides Norway Maple      Summershade      45            40
Acer x freemanii Celebration Maple Celzam
                                   Autumn Flame     35            35
Acer rubrum      Red Maple         Red Sunset       45            35
                                   October Glory    40            35
Acer saccharum   Sugar Maple       Green Mountain   45            35
Carpinus betulus European Hornbeam Fastigiata       35            25
Celtis laevigata Sugar Hackberry   All Season       40            25
Celtis           Common Hackberry  Prairie Pride    40            40
occidentalis
Ceroidiphyllum   Katsuratree                        45            30
japonicum
Eucommia         Hardy Rubbertree                   50            40
ulmoides
Ginko biloba     Ginko             Lakeview         45            25
(male only)                        Princeton Sentry 60            25
Gleditisia       Thornless         Imperial         35            35
triacanthos      Honeylocust       Skyline          45            45
inermis
                                   Aristocrat       40            30
Pyrus calleryana Callery pear      Cleveland Select 35            20
                                   Redspire         35            25
Quercus bicolor  Swamp White Oak                    55            45
Quercus coccinea Scarlet Oak                        60            40
Quercus          Shingle Oak                        55            45
inbricaria
Quercus phellois Willow Oak                         55            40
Quercus rubra    Red Oak                            65            45
Quercus shumarii Shumard Oak                        50            40
Sophora japonica Japanese Pagoda   Regent           50            45
                 tree
Taxodium         Bald Cypress                       75            20
distichum
Tilia Americana  American Linden   Redmond          35            25
                                   Chancellor       35            20
Tilia cordata    Littleleaf Linden Glenleven        45            30
                                   Greenspire       40            30
Tilia x euchoria Crimean Linden                     45            35
Tilia tomentosa  Silver Linden     Sterling         45            35
Ulmus parvifolia Lacebark Elm                       50            40
Zelkova serrata  Japanese Zelkova  Green Vase       50            40
                                   Village Green    45            40
 
   (B)   Understory/ornamental trees.
Botanical Name Common Name Best Cultivars Mature Height Mature Spread
Botanical Name    Common Name       Best Cultivars  Mature Height Mature Spread
Acer campestre    Hedge Maple       Queen Elizabeth 35            30
Acer ginnala      Amur Maple        Flame           20            20
Amelanchier       Serviceberry,
Canadensis        Juneberry                         12            15
(arborea)
Crataegus crus-   Thronless         Crusader        15            15
galli inermis     Cockspur
                  Hawthorne
Crataegus orus-   Vaughn Hawthrone  Vaughn          30            30
galli x
Phaenopyrum
Crataegus         Washington                        30            25
phaenopyum        Hawthorne
Crataegus         Frosted Hawthorne                 30            20
pruinosa
Crataegus viridis Green Hawthorne   Winter King     20            25
                                    Adams           20            20
                                    American Beauty 20            15
                                    Centurion       25            20
                                    David           12            12
                                    Donald Wyman    20            20
                  Flowering         Harvest Gold    20            15
Malus species     Crabapple         Indian Summer   18            18
                                    Madonna         18            10
                                    Ormiston Roy    20            25
                                    Prairifire      20            15
                                    Robinson        25            25
                                    Sentinel        18            12
                                    Sugar Tyme      18            15
Syringa           Tree Lilac        Ivory Silk      25            15
reticulata                          Summer Snow     20            15
Viburnum          Blackhaw                          35            20
prunifolium
 
(1996 Code, § 9-74)
§ 100.09 ENCROACHMENT CONSENT.
 
CONSENT TO ENCROACHMENT
 
THIS CONSENT TO ENCROACHMENT (“Consent”), made and entered into this        day of                 ,           by and between the TOWN OF ZIONSVILLE, a municipal corporation, (hereinafter called “First Party”) and                                              (hereinafter called “Second
Party”) WITNESSETH THAT:
 
WHEREAS, First Party is the owner of a right-of-way for                                                         in the Town of Zionsville, located in Boone County, State of Indiana, as identified on a survey prepared by                             dated                            
(“Survey”) [attached hereto as Exhibit A]; and
 
WHEREAS, Second Party is the owner of real estate located in Boone County, State of Indiana, being described in Exhibit B attached hereto and made a part hereof, which said real estate adjoins the above-described right-of-way owned by First Party; and
 
WHEREAS, it would appear based on the Survey that the                                                  (the “Encroachment”) now situated on the real estate owned by Second Party encroaches over and upon the right-of-way owned by First Party [for a distance of approximately               
feet]; and
 
WHEREAS, it is the desire and intent of the parties hereto to permit said Encroachment to remain as now situated, for the use and convenience of the Second Party, without such continued use in any way serving as a basis for Second Party to acquire any right, title or interest in and to
the right-of-way owned by First Party.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that for and in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained and set forth, the parties hereto now mutually promise, covenant and agree as follows:
 
1. First Party does hereby consent to the Encroachment now located on the property of Second Party [as shown on the Survey], over and across the right-of-way of First Party.
 
2. It is mutually understood and agreed that such consent to the Encroachment does not create in Second Party any right, title or interest in and to that portion of the right-of-way owned by First Party upon which said Encroachment
 
now is or may hereafter be located, and that the said Second Party hereby specifically waives any right, title and interest in and to that portion of the real estate owned by the First Party within the boundaries of said existing right-of-way, which the Second Party might heretofore have
acquired, now has acquired or might hereinafter acquire by any means of adverse possession.
 
3. Second Party hereby covenants and agrees not to extend or increase any presently existing Encroachment any further over or upon the real estate owned by the First Party.
 
4. Second Party hereby covenants and agrees that the consent hereby granted may be revoked by the First Party at any time after ninety (90) days prior written notice of termination. On or before the expiration of the ninety (90) days after written notice from the First Party, the Second
Party shall remove the Encroachment at the Second Party’s sole cost and expense. Should the Second Party fail to remove said Encroachment, the First Party may do so and the Second Party hereby releases the First Party from any and all liability resulting from the removal of Encroachment
or any diminution in the value of the real estate owned by the Second Party.
 
5. All notices, requests and demands hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or served when presented personally, when delivered to any overnight courier service with guaranteed next business day delivery or, if deposited in the U.S. Mail,
postage prepaid, certified or registered, addressed to the appropriate party at the address set forth below following the signatures of the parties hereto. Such notices, requests and/or demands shall be effective on the actual receipt thereof or, in the case of U.S. Mail, on the third
calendar day after mailing. Any party may change its address as set forth herein by notice given as herein provided to the other party.
 
6. The covenants and agreements herein contained and set forth shall be construed as covenants and agreements running with the title to each of the above-described parcels of real estate and right-of-way, and shall be binding upon the parties hereto, their respective heirs, devisees,
legal representatives and assigns.
 
7.                                                    , as                                                for the Town of Zionsville, further states that [he] [she] is duly empowered to execute this Consent for and on behalf of the Town of Zionsville, and that all required resolutions
have been made and approved to authorize the execution of this Consent for and on behalf of the Town of Zionsville.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have hereunto executed this Consent the day and year first above written.
 
FIRST PARTY:                           SECOND PARTY:
 
TOWN OF ZIONSVILLE                                                                                          
(signature)
 
By:                                                                                                                                                 
(signature)                           (printed name
 
                                                                                                                                          
Not personally, but in [his][her] capacity as         (signature)
                             for the Town of Zionsville
                                                                     
Address:                                 (printed name)
 
                                                                     Address:
 
                                                                                                                                          
 
                                                                     
 
 
 
 
STATE OF INDIANA         )
) SS:
COUNTY OF                                )
 
Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally appeared                                               for and on behalf of                                                   , the                                   of the Town of Zionsville, the First Party herein
described, who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing Consent to Encroachment.
 
WITNESS my hand and Notarial Seal this                       day of                                    ,                       .
 
My Commission Expires:               Signature:                                                                      
 
                                                            Printed:                                                                         
Notary Public
 
Residing in                                                 County, Indiana
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
STATE OF INDIANA          )
) SS:
COUNTY OF                               )
 
Before me, a Notary Public in and for said County and State, personally appeared                                             , the Second Party herein described, who acknowledged the execution of the foregoing Consent to Encroachment.
 
WITNESS my hand and Notarial Seal this                       day of                                    ,                       .
 
My Commission Expires:               Signature:                                                                      
 
                                                            Printed:                                                                         
Notary Public
 
Residing in                                                 County, Indiana
 
 
This instrument was prepared by:                                                                                   .
 
 
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -)
§ 100.10 OBSTRUCTION OF RECORDED EASEMENT IN FAVOR OF THE TOWN.
 
STATE of INDIANA      )
COUNTY of BOONE      ) SS:
 
 
AFFIDAVIT OBSTRUCTION OF RECORDED EASEMENT
IN FAVOR OF THE TOWN OF ZIONSVILLE, INDIANA
 
 
I,                                                             , owner of real estate know as                                                , in the
                                                                         Subdivision, common address of                                           ,
Zionsville, Indiana, in consideration of the Town’s consent for the installation of an encroachment in a recorded and platted easement, do hereby
certify, acknowledge, and affirm that the Town of Zionsville shall not be responsible or liable for any loss occasioned by the removal, alteration or
destruction of (a)                                                 to be located within the drainage and/or utility easement of aforementioned
                                                     Subdivision by the Town of Zionsville in the lawful exercise of its rights and duties in regards to
the maintenance, repair, or improvement to said drainage and/or utility easement which runs in favor of the Town of Zionsville.
 
By:                                                                             
Printed:                                                                       
Title:                                                                           
 
 
Accepted by the Town of Zionsville
By:                                                                 
Building Commissioner
 
 
 
State of                                         )
County of                                      SS:
 
 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this                          day of                                        , 20             .
 
 
                                                                       
Notary Public Signature
 
                                                                       
Notary Public Printed
 
My Commission expires                                                          .
 
My County of Residence is                                                      .
 
 
This instrument prepared by                                                 , Building Commissioner, Town of Zionsville, Indiana.
 
 
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -)
LOCATION REGULATIONS
§ 100.25 VISION CLEARANCE AREAS.
   (A)   No tree or flora, as herein defined, shall be erected, placed, planted
or maintained so as to interfere with a vision clearance area located between
the heights of two and one-half feet and nine feet above the crown of a street,
driveway or alley.
   (B)   A vision clearance area shall be established for all streets,
driveways or alleys in one of the following manners:
      (1)   At the intersection of streets, vision clearance areas are formed
at each corner by the street right-of-way lines and a line connecting points on
the right-of-way lines located 25 feet away from the intersection of such
street right-of-way lines. In the case of a round or corner-cut right-of-way,
the measurement shall be taken from the intersection of the right-of-way lines
extended; or
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/193fb1f5c2977a45cab4a8302a82f0205a06d833/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1572.jpg]
      (2)   At the intersection of a street with a driveway or alley, vision
clearance areas shall be formed by the intersection of the street right-of-way
line and the driveway surface edge or the right-of-way of the alley and a line
connecting points ten feet from the intersection of such street right-of-way
line and the driveway surface edge or alley right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/193fb1f5c2977a45cab4a8302a82f0205a06d833/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1574.jpg]
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.26 PEDESTRIAN CLEARANCE.
   No tree or flora shall have branches that hang lower than eight feet over a
sidewalk.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.27 VEHICLE CLEARANCE.
   No tree or flora shall have branches that hang lower than 14 feet over
streets.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.28 TRAFFIC-CONTROL CLEARANCE.
   No tree or flora shall have branches or foliage that interfere with the
visibility of traffic-control signs or devices.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.29 OBSTRUCTION OF EASEMENTS.
   Unless expressly authorized by the appropriate agency or department of the
town, no tree or flora shall be erected, placed, planted or maintained upon
recorded easements in favor of the town. The town shall not be responsible for
or liable for any loss occasioned by the removal, alteration or destruction of
a tree or flora by the town in the proper exercise of its rights and duties in
regard to an easement in favor of the town.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.30 DISTANCE FROM ESTABLISHED SIDEWALK OR CURB.
   No tree shall be planted in any public right-of-way, street, alley, way or
park within the town at a distance of less than two feet from any established
sidewalk or curb bordering any public right-of-way, street, alley, way or park.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.31 SPACING OF TREES.
   (A)   No tree shall be planted in any public right-of-way, street, alley or
way within the town less than the following planted in any public right-of-way,
street, alley or way within the town:
      (1)   Forty feet on center of linear distance from any other tree (if
deciduous shade [overstory] trees are used); or
      (2)   Twenty-five feet on center of linear distance from any other tree
(if deciduous ornamental [understory] trees are used).
   (B)   The minimum size of all required landscape plant materials, at the
time of planting, shall comply with the plant sizes listed below.
 
Minimum Plant Sizes
Plant Categories                       Minimum Size at Time of Planting
Deciduous shade (overstory) tree       2-1/2" caliper at 6" above the ground
Deciduous ornamental (understory) tree 1-1/2" caliper at 6" above the ground
Evergreen tree                         6' high
Evergreen tree - narrow spread         4' high
Hedge plant                            24" - 30" high
 
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.32 PROHIBITED AND RECOMMENDED SPECIES.
   (A)   Prohibited species.
      (1)   The following tree species shall not be used for planting along any
public right-of-way, street, alley, way or park:
         (a)   Acer negundo (box elder);
         (b)   Acer saccarinum (silver maple);
         (c)   Ailanthus altissima (“tree of heaven” or “stink tree”);
         (d)   Betul papyrifera (paper birch);
         (e)   Betula pendul (European white birch);
         (f)   Catalpa bignoniodes (southern catalpa);
         (g)   Elaegnus angustifolia (Russian olive);
         (h)   Ginko biloba - female only (ginko);
         (i)   Morus/Mulberry species;
         (j)   Plantanus occidentalis (America planetree or American sycamore);
         (k)   Populus alba (white poplar);
         (l)   Populus deltoids (eastern cottonwood);
         (m)   Populus nigre “Italica” (Lombardy poplar);
         (n)   Quercus palustris (pin oak);
         (o)   Salix species (all willows);
         (p)   Ulmus Americana (Amerian elm); and
         (q)   Ulmus pumila (Siberian elm).
      (2)   The tree species listed are prohibited due to such factors as:
size; weak wood; shallow roots; lack of disease resistance; pest problems;
location suitability; seed or fruit set; or visual appearance.
      (3)   Other species of trees may at any time and from time to time be
excluded by the town.
   (B)   Recommended species.
      (1)   The tree species listed in §
100.08 of this chapter shall be those utilized in the placement of trees within
the rights-of-way of the town. The tree species listed in §
100.08 of this chapter are recommended for such factors as: size; disease
resistance; few pest problems; location suitability; lack of or minimal seed or
fruit set; and visual appearance.
      (2)   Other species of trees may at any time and from time to time be
included as recommended species by the town.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.33 HAZARD PROHIBITIONS.
   No person or entity shall place, nor permit to be placed, any tree or flora
that will cause or tend to cause a hazardous or unsafe condition either for
pedestrians or motorists.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 100.34 PLACEMENT UNDER OR NEAR UTILITIES PROHIBITED.
   No person or entity shall place, nor permit to be placed any tree or flora
that will cause or tend to cause a hazardous or unsafe condition, or
potentially cause damage to any public utilities, to include, but not be
limited to, water, sewers, storm drain, electric, gas, fiber optic systems or
lines.
(1996 Code, § 9-74) (Ord. 2001-13, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 101: BANNERS AND SIGNS
Section
   
101.01   Permit required for hanging banners over streets
§ 101.01 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR HANGING BANNERS OVER STREETS.
   (A)   Any requests for permission to place and display a banner on or above
a street or highway within the corporate limits of the town shall include the
payment of a $25 deposit payable to the Clerk-Treasurer for the town to ensure
proper removal of said banner at the end of the designated time period or
event.
   (B)   All said banners which are allowed to be placed on or over streets
within the corporate limits of the town shall be removed not later than seven
days after the end of the event advertised or displayed on said banner or that
time period established by the Council for the town, whichever event occurs
first.
   (C)   In the event that the banner is not removed or taken down in timely
compliance with this section, then, and in that event, the Clerk-Treasurer for
the town shall forthwith deposit the tendered deposit fee, the same having been
forfeited by the applicant.
   (D)   In the event that the banner is timely removed as contained in this
section, then, and in that event, the applicant shall be entitled full and
immediate return of the monies deposited with the Clerk-Treasurer for the town.
   (E)   Nothing as contained in this section shall repeal, circumvent or amend
any of the existing signage requirements presently contained in the zoning laws
of the town.
(1996 Code, § 9-70) (Ord. 83-20, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 102: FALSE ALARMS
Section
   
102.01   Fines for false alarms
§ 102.01 FINES FOR FALSE ALARMS.
   Any person, firm, corporation or entity having a fire, burglar, holdup or
any type of intrusion alarm shall be charged a fee as set forth in the town fee
schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04 for the second false alarm responded to by the Police Department of Fire
Department within any 12-month period and a fee as set forth in the town fee
schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04 for each false alarm so responded to thereafter within the same 12-month
period. Such fee may be waived if the owner, lessee or possessor of the alarm
shows to the satisfaction of the Chief of Police or Fire Department Chief,
under penalty of perjury, and within 30 days of occurrence of the false alarm,
that the false alarm was not the result of negligence, an intentional act or
improper maintenance.
(1996 Code, § 9-72)
CHAPTER 103: NON-DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES REVIEW COMMITTEE
Section
   
103.01   Establishment of Non-discriminatory Practices Review Committee
   
103.02   Public policy and purpose
   
103.03   Application and exclusions of Chapter 103
   
103.04   Exclusive jurisdiction
   
103.05   Meetings of NDPRC and annual report
   
103.06   Powers of NDPRC
   
103.07   Discriminatory practices
   
103.08   Complaint processing
§ 103.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF NON-DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Non-discriminatory Practices Review
Committee (NDPRC) as a Commission authorized understate law by I.C. § 22-9-1-
12.1.
   (B)   The NDPRC is comprised of five members of which three shall be members
of the Town Council and two shall be made up from either Zionsville resident(s)
and/or Zionsville business owner(s) who are not council members. One resident
or business owner member shall be selected by the Town Council and one shall be
selected by the Town Executive. The Town Council shall select three of its
members to serve as members of the NDPRC. The committee members shall select a
committee chairperson from among their membership at their first meetine in
each calendar year. All appointments to the NDPRC expire at midnight on
December 31 of each year. NDPRC Committee members may be reappointed for an
unlimited number of terms at the discretion of the appointing authority. All
members serve at the pleasure of their appointing authority and can be removed
at any time. Any member that is removed or resigns during the term of his/her
appointment shall be replaced by the appointing authority within 30 days from
receipt of removal or resignation. Initial appointments to the NDPRC may be
made prior to January 1 and shall serve until December 31 of the year in which
they were appointed.
   (C)   Any information regarding a complaint, and all actions taken by the
NDPRC shall be confidential and not made public, except as required by state or
federal law. Members of the NDPRC shall sign a confidentiality agreement
regarding certain information in order to protect complainants and those
against whom allegations have been made. The NDPRC shall retain the
confidentiality of a complaint unless the circumstances will require release
per state statute.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 103.02 PUBLIC POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the Town of Zionsville that it does not
discriminate in the provision of its services or programs on the basis of race,
religion, color, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender
identity, disability, or familial, veteran or military status. It is the public
policy of the Town of Zionsville to provide equal opportunity for education,
employment, access to public accommodations, and acquisition through purchase
or rental of real property, including, but not limited to housing, and to
eliminate segregation or separation based on race, religion, color, sex,
national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, or
familial, veteran or military status.
   (B)   Denial of equal opportunity to persons because of race, religion,
color, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity,
disability, or familial, veteran or military status is contrary to the
principles of freedom and equality of opportunity and is a burden to the public
policy of the Town and are considered discriminatory practices. The purpose of
the chapter is to promote equal opportunity without regard to race, religion,
color, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity,
disability, or familial, veteran or military status.
   (C)   It is also the public policy of the town to protect employers,
businesses and other organizations, labor organizations, employment agencies,
property owners, real estate brokers, builders, and lending institutions from
unfounded charges of discrimination.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 103.03 EXCLUSIONS FROM CHAPTER 103.
   (A) This chapter doe s not apply to churches, church schools, church
affiliated day care centers, not-for-profit organizations and/or associations
operated primarily for a religious purpose. This chapter does not apply to any
not-for-profit association, social club, fraternal society or corporation
organized exclusively for religious or fraternal purposes and that is not open
to the general public.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 103.04 EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION.
   (A)   As required by I.C. § 22-9-1-12.1, any person filing a complaint with
NDPRC may not also file a complaint with any local agency, and any person
filing a complaint with a local agency may not also file a complaint with NDPRC
concerning any of the matters alleged in such complaint.
   (B)   A local agency having jurisdiction and receiving such a complaint may
transfer the complaint to NDPRC, which shall treat the complaint as if
originally made to NDPRC. NDPRC may transfer such a complaint to any local
agency having jurisdiction, which shall be considered as if originally filed
with such local agency.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 103.05 MEETINGS OF NDPRC AND ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   NDPRC shall meet, after appropriate public notice, upon the call of
the chair. Upon determination that there is merit to a filed claim, the chair
shall call a meeting no less than 30 days after receipt of the complaint.
Completion of a report and determination on the claim by the committee shall be
provided within 45 days after first meeting. An extension of an additional 30
days can be granted by the chair if requested by the committee.
   (B)   The NDPRC shall report its activities in the form of official minutes
and documents or an annual report, at least one time per year, to the Town
Council.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 103.06 POWERS OF NDPRC.
   (A)   As allowed by I.C. 22-9-1-12.1(c), and related statutes, NDPRC shall
have the power to:
      (1)   Investigate, conciliate, and hear complaints. Complaints must be
signed and properly verified by the individual who alleges a discriminatory
action against her or him (or by such person’s legal guardian), and include the
complainant’s and any aggrieved person’s full name and address, and be filed
with NDPRC within 90 days after the alleged discriminatory act is committed.
Such complaint must state the alleged discriminatory practice, the name and
address of the person, association or corporation alleged to have committed a
discriminatory act in such complaint, the acts or omissions comprising the
alleged discriminatory act(s), the date(s) of the alleged acts, and a list of
any other administrative or legal action known to be pending or planned to be
filed regarding the same act(s). Complaints alleging discrimination in private
employment matters may not be filed with the NDPRC. Notwithstanding, an
individual may file a complaint against a private employer alleging a
discriminatory act precluding him/her from being fairly considered for
employment with the private employer. Complaints alleging discrimination in
public employment may not be filed until a complainant employee has exhausted
all internal complaint and resolution matters with the employer, utilizing the
employer’s policies and procedures; however, the 90 day filing period begins to
count on the day of the last action taken by the employee under such policy;
      (2)   Subpoena and compel the attendance of witnesses or production of
pertinent documents and records;
      (3)   Administer oaths;
      (4)   Examine witnesses;
      (5)   Appoint hearing examiners or panels;
      (6)   Make findings and recommendations;
      (7)   Issue cease and desist orders or orders requiring remedial action;
      (8)   Order payment of actual damages, except that damages to be paid as
a result of discriminatory practices relating to employment shall be limited to
lost wages, salaries, commissions or fringe benefits;
      (9)   Impose fines, maximum amount of which may be imposed per offense or
violation are limited herein;
      (10)   Propose rules and regulations to the Town Executive or Town
Council;
      (11)   Ensure that employers, labor organizations, employment agencies,
property owners, real estate brokers, builders, and lending institutions are
protected from unfounded charges;
      (12)   Initiate complaints, except that no person who initiates a
complaint may participate as a member of the agency in the hearing or
disposition of such complaint; and
      (13)   May conduct programs and activities to carry out the public policy
of the state, as provided in I.C. § 22-9-1-2, within the territorial boundaries
of Zionsville.
   (B)   NDPRC review of an action is at the discretion of the Chair. No action
by the NDPRC or lack thereof creates a private right of action against the
NDPRC or the town.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 103.07 DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES.
   (A)   Discriminatory practices are prohibited and unlawful.
   (B)   DISCRIMINATORY PRACTICES, as defined in this chapter, mean any
exclusion by an employer of a person from an employment opportunity(ies) on the
basis of race, religion, color, sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual
orientation, gender identity, disability, or familial, veteran or military
status and/or any exclusion by a housing provider of a person from the
purchase, lease, or rental of housing on the basis of race, religion, color,
sex, national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity,
disability, or familial, veteran or military status, or the denial of any
public accommodation to a person on the basis of race, religion, color, sex,
national origin, ancestry, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, or
familial, veteran or military status.
   (C)   It is not a discriminatory practice to maintain separate dressing
rooms, locker rooms or restrooms for men and women or to maintain unisex
restrooms or dressing rooms. It is not a discriminatory practice for an
employer to hire employees, classify employees, or refer to employees on a
basis which is a bona fide requirement of occupation reasonably necessary for
normal operations or purposes of such employer’s business or operations.
Nothing in this chapter shall require, or be interpreted to require, the hiring
of persons on the basis of quota or percentage of population.
   (D)   EMPLOYER means any person, association, or corporation which employs
six or more persons within Zionsville.
   (E)   HOUSING PROVIDER means any person, association, or corporation which
offers for rent or sale more than three housing units in any 12 month period
within Zionsville.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 7-7-2015)
§ 103.08 COMPLAINT PROCESSING.
   (A)   Any properly filed complaint shall be reviewed by the Chair of NDPRC,
or if he or she is unavailable, his or her designee NDPRC member, within 30
days. The Chair or designee of the Chair may personally investigate the
complaint or direct authorized town staff, outside authorized consultants, the
complaint. A properly filed complaint shall be shared with all NDPRC members,
but shall remain confidential during investigation. A properly filed complaint
shall also be shared with the person, association or corporation who is the
subject of such complaint.
   (B)   If the Chair determines that no probable cause exists showing that a
violation of this chapter has occurred, the Chair may dismiss the complaint and
shall inform the complainant and the person, association, or corporation who
was the subject of such complaint.
   (C)   If, after investigation, the Chair determines that probable cause
exists that allegations made in a properly filed complaint are likely to be
true or support a possible finding of substantive violation of this chapter,
the Chair shall inform the complainant and the person, association or
corporation who is the subject of such complaint ofthis preliminary
determination and offerthe parties the opportunity to remediate the subject of
such complaint. The Chair may designate authorized town staff, outside
authorized consultants, other NDPRC member(s), or law enforcement (if
authorized by the town executive) to participate in such effort. No
discussions, writings or communications made in an effort to discuss
remediation shall be used at any later proceeding as an admission of violation
or absence of violation. If the parties are unable to agree upon a resolution
to the complaint within 30 days after receiving notice, the Chair may call a
hearing for the matter before the NDPRC.
   (D)   At or after a hearing regarding a complaint, a majority vote
(requiring at minimum three votes on the prevailing side) may take any of the
following actions: dismiss the complaint, order the subject of the complaint to
cease or alter any violating activity, order the subject of the complaint to
pay a fine to the town or actual damages to the complainant (if actual economic
harm to the complainant is shown by clear and convincing evidence) of up to
$1,250 for each violation of this chapter, order the complainant to pay a fine
to the town or actual damages to the subject of the complaint (if actual harm
to the subject of the complaint is shown by clear and convincing evidence) of
up to $1,250 for each complaint which is determined to be false and intended to
harm the subject of the complaint. All determinations of a complaint by NDPRC
shall be provided in writing to the complainant and subject of such complaint.
   (E)   A determination of the NDPRC may be appealed by the complainant or
subject of such complaint, within 30 days of receiving written notice of a
final determination by NDPRC. The Town Council may review the record and
uphold, reverse, or alter any final finding of the NDPRC or penalty imposed by
the NDPRC. If the Town Council takes no formal action on the matter within 60
days, the action of the NDPRC is considered final, although subject to any
judicial review allowed by law.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 7-7-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   HOUSE TO HOUSE SOLICITATIONS
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
112.   PAWNBROKERS
      
113.   HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGES
CHAPTER 110: HOUSE TO HOUSE SOLICITATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Application
   
110.04   Fees
   
110.05   Application requirements
   
110.06   Prohibited actions
   
110.07   Solicitor to carry and present credentials
   
110.08   License duration, transferability and revocation
   
110.09   Veterans
   
110.10   Restrictions on licensee/house-to-house solicitation
   
110.11   Exemptions
   
110.12   Effect and scope
   
110.13   No solicitation list
   
110.14   Construction of clause headings
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms shall have meanings ascribed in this chapter.
   APPLICANT. Any solicitor or sponsor on whose behalf one or more individual
solicitors pursue house-to-house activities.
   CORPORATE LIMITS. Include the Town Service District and the Rural Service
District of the town.
   EXEMPT PERSONS. Include the following:
      (1)   An individual while and to the extent he or she is engaged in
protected political speech or activity;
      (2)   An individual while and to the extent he or she is engaged in
protected religious speech or activity;
      (3)   An individual engaged in the solicitation of funds and/or the sale
of cookies, candies, paper products or similar sundries for and on behalf of a
not-for-profit organization or association that is exempt from the Indiana
Gross Retail Tax;
      (4)   An individual who, due to the applicable federal or state law, is
exempt from local licensing requirements. These individuals shall follow the
established hours, manner, and restrictions, in which house-to-house soliciting
may be conducted within the city.
   HOUSE-TO-HOUSE SOLICITATIONS. Include all methods and means of soliciting
funds and/or of selling commercial products, services or property within the
corporate limits of the town ("town"), by and through the uninvited in-person
solicitation of town residents on private property.
   VENDOR. A person, partnership, corporation, company, organization or entity
who is not an exempt person and who is engaged in the selling, peddling,
marketing for future sales, merchandising or brokering of products, services or
property to the general public for a commercial purpose and/or who is engaged
in the solicitation of funds.
   VENDOR SOLICITOR. Any individual licensed as a solicitor and employed by a
vendor and shall include both commercial and non-commercial solicitors.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any vendor solicitor to engage in house-to-house
solicitation in the corporate limits of the town ("town"), unless such vendor
solicitor shall have first secured a license from the ZPD and issued pursuant
to §
110.08 below. The requirement for a license is for each vendor solicitor
employed by a vendor who will conduct business within the corporate limits of
the town.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.03 APPLICATION.
   Each vendor who wishes to conduct business within the corporate limits of
the town shall complete an application on the form(s) provided by the ZPD and
pay the license fee as hereinafter required. The following minimum requirements
shall:
   (A)   Any vendor who desires to engage in house-to-house solicitation shall
first obtain from the ZPD a non-transferable house-to-house solicitation
license ("license") permitting such activity by vendor and vendor solicitor,
employees and agents; and
   (B)   If the vendor intends to sell or offers to sell any type of food or
beverage, the ZPD shall refer the application to the Boone County Health
Department for review and recommendation. The review shall include, at a
minimum, an inspection of all refrigeration equipment to be used by the vendor,
vendor solicitor, employees and agents and shall ensure that minimum sanitation
requirements established by state and local law are met; and
   (C)   The ZPD shall provide any person, upon request, a house-to-house
vendor application form ("application") to be completed by the vendor for each
vendor solicitor engaging in house-to-house solicitation and submitted to the
ZPD for review and approval by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.04 FEES.
   (A)   Each vendor shall pay one of the following:
      (1)   Ten business day permit fee is as set forth in the town fee
schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04; or
      (2)   Thirty (30) business day permit fee is as set forth in the town fee
schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04; or
      (3)   One hundred twenty (120) business day permit fee is as set forth in
the town fee schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04; and
      (4)   An additional non-refundable license fee for each vendor solicitor
application is as set forth in the town fee schedule incorporated by reference
in §
34.04; and
      (5)   An non-refundable criminal history fee for each vendor solicitor
conducting activities on its behalf upon completing an application for a
license pursuant to this chapter is as set forth in the town fee schedule
incorporated by reference in §
34.04.
   (B)   All funds shall be deposited into the Fund 271 for use by the ZPD to
offset the cost of administering this program and enforcing these requirements.
Upon denial of any application, the license fees, but not the processing fee,
shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.05 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The application for a license required by this chapter shall be
acknowledged by or on behalf of the applicant, made to the ZPD, and shall
contain such information as it might require, including the following
information:
      (1)   The telephone number and address of, and name under which, the
business is to be conducted or the organization on behalf of which the
commercial solicitation is to be conducted;
      (2)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (3)   A description of the business to be conducted, goods or property to
be sold, or purpose of the commercial solicitation; and
      (4)   The duration of the business or commercial solicitation to be
conducted.
      (5)   General information about the vendor, vendor's business and nature
of vendor's proposed house-to-house solicitation. The applicant shall provide
the following information:
         (a)   The date of incorporation of vendor's company; and
         (b)   The state of incorporation of vendor's company; and
         (c)   The date on which such corporation was qualified to transact
business as a foreign corporation in Indiana if vendor's company was not
incorporated in Indiana.
      (6)   The vendor and each vendor solicitor shall provide the following:
         (a)   A valid government issued photo ID; and
         (b)   A signed release authorizing the ZPD to run a national criminal
history check report. Each applicant is required to obtain a criminal
background check which shall be completed by the ZPD and kept on file during
the permit period; and
         (c)   If the vendor solicitor is a minor, a copy of a work permit
issued by the State of Indiana.
      (7)   If a vendor or vendor solicitor has a criminal arrest record, the
Chief of Police may require the vendor or vendor solicitor to deliver an
official copy of any records related to the arrest and/or conviction, and may
include other documents in the request including but not limited to a police
report, court records or protection order. The Chief of Police, in his or her
sole discretion, may deny an application based on a record of arrest or
conviction.
      (8)   The name, address, and telephone number of the contact person who
will respond on behalf of the vendor to consumer complaints and be available
for a period of time not less than 60 calendar days following the last date
that the vendor or vendor solicitor engages in house-to-house solicitation in
the town.
   (B)   The decision as to whether an application is approved or denied shall
be made by the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, within 30 calendar days
from the date the application is submitted to the Police Department for
processing unless the Chief of Police requests additional information from the
vendor or a vendor solicitor. Each vendor solicitor shall be required to
complete an application to be kept on file by the D for the time period that
the commercial solicitation shall be conducted. The Chief of the Police
Department or his or her designee(s) shall make the decision as to whether an
application is approved or denied.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.06 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any vendor or vendor solicitor to commit any of the
following acts:
   (A)   Solicit from any person after that person has stated that he or she is
not interested in the solicitation, does not wish to be solicited or does not
wish to buy from or contribute to the cause for which the solicitation is being
conducted, which shall include any individual property listed on the town's do
not solicit list;
   (B)   Solicit contributions by misrepresentation of his or her name,
occupation, relation to the cause solicited for, or perpetrate any fraud or
deception in connection with any solicitation for any cause;
   (C)   Solicit funds by promising a person solicited that his or her funds
will, directly or indirectly, be used to purchase tickets for any event which
tickets will be given to another person for charitable purposes, unless the
donor gives his or her written approval for said use and the tickets are in
fact given to another person for a benevolent cause and the value of the
tickets is not reflected in any financial report to increase the gross or net
income of the solicitation;
   (D)   Solicit at any location where a sign has been posted which indicates
that the inhabitants do not wish to be solicited; and
   (E)   Refuse or fail to comply with any requirements established for a
solicitor by this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.07 SOLICITOR TO CARRY AND PRESENT CREDENTIALS.
   No person shall engage in a direct and in-person solicitation under a
license granted pursuant to this chapter unless each such person shall have in
his or her possession:
   (A)   A valid license issued pursuant to this chapter; and
   (B)   One of the following:
      (1)   A valid driver's license; or
      (2)   A valid non-driver's state issued identification card.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.08 LICENSE DURATION, TRANSFERABILITY AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The term of a license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be for the
duration period stated in the license permit described in this chapter. No
license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be transferable. A license issued
pursuant to this chapter may be revoked or suspended by the ZPD for any
violation of this chapter. If the Zionsville Police Department determines that
one or more of the following apply to a vendor, vendor solicitor, and/or to any
employee or agent of the vendor who applies for a license or who is involved in
house-to-house solicitation, then the Zionsville Police Department shall deny
the application and/or revoke an issued license and/or identification card(s)
relating thereto, whichever action is applicable under the circumstances:
      (1)   Vendor or vendor solicitor submitted an application that contains
materially false or misleading information;
      (2)   Vendor or vendor solicitor was, within 15 calendar days prior to
the date of the vendor's or vendor solicitor's application, convicted of a
felony or misdemeanor crime of dishonesty, fraud, theft or moral turpitude;
      (3)   Vendor or vendor solicitor has violated this chapter or has been
charged with or convicted of a felony or misdemeanor crime of dishonesty,
fraud, theft and/or moral turpitude after the issuance of but prior to the
expiration date of such person's license and/or identification card;
      (4)   Vendor or vendor solicitor has failed to properly display his or
her identification card while engaged in house-to-house solicitation; and
      (5)   Two or more written and sworn complaints have been delivered to the
ZPD Chief of Police or his or her designee(s) regarding allegedly untruthful or
illegal conduct concerning vendor or any vendor solicitor during his or her
house-to-house solicitation, including, but not limited to, violating any "No
Solicitation Sign" or the "Town of Zionsville No Solicitation List."
      (6)   The vendor or vendor solicitor has violated this chapter within the
previous two years prior to the application.
   (B)   The holder of any license revoked or suspended may obtain, by appeal,
a hearing before the Town Council. Processing and license fees are not
refundable in the event of a license revocation. An appeal must be filed by the
license holder no later than 30 calendar days following revocation. The Town
Council shall schedule a hearing on the appeal at the next regular meeting of
the Town Council. The Town Council may affirm the revocation, modify the
revocation, or reinstate the license.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.09 VETERANS.
   Veterans described and meeting the qualifications and obtaining the license
pursuant to I.C. 25-25-2-1 shall not have to pay a processing or license fee
hereunder.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.10 RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSEE/HOUSE-TO-HOUSE SOLICITATION.
   The following restrictions shall apply:
   (A)   House-to-house or place-to-place solicitations shall only be conducted
between the following hours:
      (1)   October 1 through April 30 between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. EST of
any day.
      (2)   May 1 through September 30 between 10:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. EST of
any day.
   (B)   Subject to earlier revocation, pursuant to this section, a license, as
well as any identification card(s) issued therewith if applicable, shall be
valid for exactly ten, 30 or of 120 business days, as applicable, from the date
the license or identification card was issued, and shall thereafter immediately
expire and become null and void.
   (C)   Vendor and vendor solicitor shall comply with all applicable federal,
state and local laws and regulations while engaging in house-to-house
solicitation.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to solicit on posted premises. It is unlawful for
any vendor to ring the bell, or knock on the door, or otherwise attempt to gain
admittance for the purpose of peddling or soliciting at any residence, dwelling
or place of business at which a sign bearing the words "No Solicitors" (or
words of similar import indicating that solicitors are not wanted on said
premises) is painted, affixed, or otherwise exposed to public view; provided,
that in this section shall not apply to any peddler or solicitor who rings the
bell, knocks on the door, or otherwise attempts to gain admittance to such
residence or dwelling at the invitation or with the consent of the occupant
thereof.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to solicit on any premises that is listed on the
town's No Solicitation List. Such list shall be provided to the vendor and any
vendor solicitor annually no later than January 1 and shall be valid for one
year. It shall be the responsibility of the vendor to obtain a new list
annually from the ZPD and to provide such list to any and all vendor solicitors
employed by or contracted by the vendor.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.11 EXEMPTIONS.
   The license requirements of this chapter shall not apply to non-commercial
solicitors.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.12 EFFECT AND SCOPE.
   The adoption of this chapter by the town, and the license of any vendor or
vendor solicitor hereunder, shall not constitute an endorsement of approval of
the cause, goods, property and/or services represented or provided by, nor the
product of any person(s) while engaged in house-to-house solicitation.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.13 NO SOLICITATION LIST.
   Any property owner in the corporate limits of the town may register the
property on the town's No Solicitation List. To register for the list, the
property owner shall fill out the no solicitation form and file it with the
Mayor's Action Center no later than December 1 annually. The ZPD will prepare
and/or update the list once annually and provide to all Solicitors effective
January 1 annually.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.14 CONSTRUCTION OF CLAUSE HEADINGS.
   The clause headings appearing herein have been provided for convenience and
reference and do not purport and shall not be deemed to define, limit, or
extend the scope or intent of the clause to which they appertain.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   The following penalties will apply:
   (A)   Citations for violation of this chapter may be issued by the ZPD. Each
violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $250 per vendor
solicitor per calendar day. If the violation is not paid, an enforcement action
may be filed by the ZPD in the town's court.
   (B)   The town may seek a temporary and/or permanent restraining order
against any vendor and/or vendor solicitor in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (C)   The town's remedies hereunder shall be cumulative and pursuit of one
remedy shall not preclude the pursuit or others under this section or
otherwise.
(Ord. 2023-15, passed 9-5-2023)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Grant of authority
   
111.03   Construction and maintenance of the system; street occupancy
   
111.04   Construction schedule
   
111.05   Rates and programming
   
111.06   Complaint and service procedure
   
111.07   Payment of fees
   
111.08   Liability, indemnification and insurance
   
111.09   Transfer of franchise
   
111.10   Non-collusion warranty
   
111.11   Termination of franchise
   
111.12   Location of equipment
   
111.13   Emergency use of facilities
   
111.14   Installation
   
111.15   Schedule of programming, rates and charges
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or SYSTEM. Any system which receives and amplifies
signals broadcast by one or more television and/or radio stations and which
transmits programming originated by the system itself or by another party, and
distributes such signals and programming by wire, cable, satellite or other
means to persons who subscribe to such service; provided that, the same does
not include microwave or other similar link-up. It is further provided that
CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM or SYSTEM does not include any similar system not
requiring the use of public ways.
   CLERK-TREASURER. The duly elected Clerk-Treasurer for the Town of
Zionsville, Indiana.
   COUNCIL. The Town Council for the Town of Zionsville.
   FRANCHISE. The non-exclusive right to construct, operate and maintain a
cable television.
   GROSS REVENUES. The total amount of money received during the applicable
calendar years by the operator for basic monthly service rates (not including
premium service) paid by the subscriber, including, but not limited to, basic
monthly service rates for police or fire alarm or other services not now
included in §
111.15 of this chapter or any subsequent amendments thereto.
   OPERATOR. The person awarded the cable television franchise under this
chapter, the same being Omega of Zionsville Cable TV Company.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or
organization of any kind.
   PUBLIC WAY. The surface and the area above and below the surface of any
public street, highway, lane, alley, sidewalk, path, right-of-way or easements
and any public utility, easements or rights-of-way dedicated generally for
public utility uses.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who contracts or agrees to purchase the regular
subscriber service, pay television or any other service provided by the cable
television system, including those persons who are given free service and use
of the cable television system including anyone actually using such services.
   TERRITORY. The area included within the corporate limits of the Town of
Zionsville, Indiana.
   TOWN. The Town of Zionsville, Indiana.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.02 GRANT OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Franchise. The town hereby gives and grants to the operator the non-
exclusive right, privilege, authority, license and franchise to use the public
ways of the town for and in the territory or areas contained in this chapter,
for the purpose of constructing, operating and maintaining a cable television
system during the term and under the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Public utility pole use. The operator shall have the right, privilege
and authority to lease, rent or in any other manner obtain the use of towers,
poles, lines, cables and other equipment and facilities from any and all
holders of public utility licenses, easements, rights-of-way and franchises
within the corporate limits of the town, subject to any and all existing and
future ordinances enacted by the town. It is the intention of the town that all
holders of public licenses, easements, rights-of-way and franchises within the
town shall cooperate in making available to the operator poles and pole line
facilities wherever and whenever possible and wherever such use does not
interfere with the normal use and operation of said poles and pole lines by the
owners thereof. The owner shall have the right to erect, install and maintain
its own towers, poles, guys, anchors and ducts as may be necessary for the
proper construction and maintenance of the system; provided that, poles placed
on public easements and rights-of-way shall first have their location approved
by the Council.
   (C)   Operation. The operator shall, during the term of the franchise,
furnish reasonable, adequate and efficient television service to its
subscribers and agrees to maintain its system in good repair and working order
and to provide adequate facilities for such maintenance. In addition, the
operator itself shall operate the system as to not interfere with the direct
broadcast reception of other signals, whether television, radio or otherwise,
or with the transmission of telephone and telegraph signals, or with the
distribution of electric or electronic signals or energy by others, whether by
air, wire, cable, conduit or otherwise.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.03 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEM; STREET OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All poles, cables and other fixtures placed by the operator within the
public ways of the town shall be so located as to cause minimum interference
with the proper use of public ways and adjoining premises.
   (B)   If the disturbance of any public way is necessary, the operator shall
comply with all provisions of ordinances of the town and shall first seek
Council approval prior to any disturbance of the public way.
   (C)   If, at any time during the period of the franchise, the town shall
elect to change the grade of any public way, the operator, upon reasonable
notice by the town, shall relocate its poles, cables and other fixtures at no
expense to the town.
   (D)   (1)   The operator shall have the authority to trim trees upon and
overhanging the public ways of the town so as to prevent the branches of such
trees from coming in contact with the cables and equipment of the operator;
except that, at the option of the town, such trimming may be done by it or
under its supervision and direction.
      (2)   The operator shall notify the town of its intention to trim such
trees in order to provide the town an opportunity to exercise its option to
supervise and direct.
   (E)   In all sections of the town where the cables, wires or other like
facilities of public utilities are placed underground, the operator shall, at
its own expense, place its cables, equipment and facilities underground.
   (F)   The operator shall have the right to use the public ways throughout
the town as necessary or advisable for the efficient construction, operation
and maintenance of its system.
   (G)   No location of any pole or other wire-holding structure of the
operator shall be a vested interest and such poles or structures shall be
removed or modified by the operator at no expense to the town whenever the
Council determines that the public convenience so requires.
   (H)   The town shall have the right to install and maintain free of charge
upon the poles of the operator any wire and pole fixtures, on the condition
that such wire and pole fixtures do not unreasonably interfere with the
operator’s operation of the cable television system.
   (I)   The operator shall at all times employ ordinary care and shall install
and maintain and use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing
failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injury or nuisance to
the public.
   (J)   The operator shall install and maintain its cables and other equipment
in accordance with the requirements of any applicable state, local or federal
electrical code requirements and any amendments thereto.
   (K)   All installation of equipment shall be of a permanent nature and in
accordance with good engineering practice. The operator’s service drops shall
be installed in a neat and workmanlike manner, including the house attachments,
so as to preserve the best overall appearance of power, telephone and cable
television drops to the air and attached to the buildings. The service drops
are to be installed, where practicable, from the cable away from a pole so as
to preserve climbing space on the pole. In the event a subscriber discontinues
cable television service and requests removal of the operator’s service drop,
such removal shall also be accomplished in a neat and workmanlike manner at the
operator’s expense.
   (L)   The operator shall first obtain the approval of the Council before
using subcontractors or prior to entering into any subcontracts for the
construction of the cable television system for connection to individual
subscribers. The town shall not be liable to any such subcontractor of the
operator.
   (M)   Prior to the start of underground construction, the operator must give
written notice to all affected property occupants informing them that the
operator will be working the area affecting such property occupants. Such
notice shall include a telephone number, which may be called by property
occupants who encounter any problems or damages as a result of such work done
by the operator.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.04 CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The operator agrees to make cable television services available to all
areas and households desiring said service within the territory regardless of
density. The operator agrees to provide cable television services to all
customers annexed by the town here and after the date of this chapter and
further agrees to, subject to the awarding of a franchise by the applicable
governing body, service subscribers living in areas adjacent to, but outside,
the territory contained in this chapter where the density is a minimum of 30
households per mile. Any timetables for the servicing of the areas adjacent to,
but outside, the territory served under this chapter shall not be a part of
this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Subject to a determination by the Council that, through no fault
of its own, the operator would otherwise be faced with an undue hardship in
meeting the construction schedule, the following schedule shall be established
for the providing of cable television services to all areas and subscribers
within the territory as follows:
Begin construction       90 days
Completion               360 days
Completion of make-ready 90 days
Establish office         90 days
Establish warehouse      60 days
Initial turn-on          150 days
Order equipment          30 - 60 days
Strand map               60 days
Substantial completion   180 days
Utility contracts        60 days
 
      (2)   All time periods are established from the date of the adoption of
this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.05 RATES AND PROGRAMMING.
   (A)   Subscriber rates and charges. The rates and charges to subscribers for
signals distributed under this chapter by the operator shall be set forth in
the schedule of programming, rates and charges, the same being §
111.15 of this chapter. Said rates and installation charges are fixed and
guaranteed not to be raised for a period of two years from the date the system
is turned on.
   (B)   Modification of rates. After expiration of the two-year period from
date of turn on, the operator may make changes to the rates and charges in
accordance with the following procedures.
      (1)   The operator shall file with the Council the amended schedule of
rates and charges, including the operator’s justification for the proposed
schedule.
      (2)   Within ten days from said notification, the Council shall establish
the date, place and time for a hearing on the amended schedule, and the
operator shall be required to notify its subscribers of the hearing by
announcement on at least one channel of its system, between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 9:00 p.m., for five consecutive days. Additionally, the date, time and
place of the public hearing and the text of the amended schedule shall be
published, at the operator’s expense, in two newspapers of general circulation
in the town at least five days prior to the date set for the hearing. The
Council shall, as soon as practicable after notification and publication, hold
an appropriate public hearing to consider the proposed amended schedule of
rates and charges.
      (3)   The Council shall, within 60 days from the date of the hearing on
the operator’s submission of an amended schedule of rates and charges, notify
the operator in writing of its acceptance, rejection or modification of said
rates.
      (4)   The criteria for the Council’s decision as to the establishment of
the modification of rates and charges shall be that the same are fair,
reasonable and non-discriminatory. FAIR AND REASONABLE shall mean what is fair
and reasonable to both the operator and the subscribers and shall generally be
defined as the minimum rates and charges necessary to meet all applicable costs
and service, including fair return on all invested capital, assuming efficient
and economical management of the system.
      (5)   In order for the Council to determine whether proposed amendments
to rates and charges conform with the criteria established in division (B)(4)
above, the operator shall file, concurrently with the filing of the amended
schedule of rates and charges, the following financial reports which shall
reflect the operation of the system:
         (a)   Balance sheet;
         (b)   Income statement; and
         (c)   Statement of sources and application of funds, including
detailed supporting schedule of expenses, income, assets and other items. The
operator’s account records applicable to the system shall be available for
inspection by the town at all reasonable times; this requirement not being
limited to an investigation by the town to determine the reasonableness and
fairness of any submission by the operator of amended schedule of rates and
charges.
   (C)   Programming.
      (1)   The operator will install a 54-channel, two-way space system
complete with an earth satellite receiving dish creating an independent system
in the town. All construction will be of the highest quality to assure
durability, expandability and high technical performance. The operator will
make available equipment for local programming desired by the town, including,
but not limited to, broadcasts of high school athletic games and meetings of
the Town Council. In other words, the operator shall provide the ability to
transmit and receive as well as to provide free installation charge and monthly
service charge to all public schools and governmental offices.
      (2)   The schedule of programming, rates and charges, as incorporated in
§
111.15 of this chapter, either as to basic service or premium service, shall
not be changed or modified, with the exception of Channels 15 through 17, the
determination of which will be made prior to the initial turn-on of the system,
without prior written consent of the Council under the same requirements and
procedures necessary for the change of modification of rate and charges
heretofore set out in this chapter.
      (3)   The operator shall have the authority to control the programs
presented over any public or leased access channel. However, the town, upon a
determination by the town that such action is necessary or advisable to ensure
that the system is being operated in the public interest, reserves the right to
limit the operator’s authority to control such program to the full extent
permitted by law.
      (4)   No monitoring of any terminal connected to a system shall take
place without specific authorization by the subscriber or other user of the
terminal in question, nor shall oral or visual monitoring of any end take place
without clear indication to the subscriber that such monitoring is presently
taking place. Such indication may be in the form of an audible sound signal or
light signal or any other form the operator deems reasonable, with the
subscriber’s approval. This indication to the subscriber is not required where
a terminal is merely polled by a digital signal pursuant to a prior
authorization, as opposed to a voice or visual monitoring. It is the intent of
this section to give absolute protection against unwarranted invasion of
privacy to each subscriber on the system. It, at any time, the operator
initiates a subscriber response system for use in the system, the operator
shall notify the Council in writing and demonstrate to the Council that the
system can operate effectively in a particular mode without any unwarranted
invasion of privacy.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.06 COMPLAINT AND SERVICE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Office.
      (1)   The operator shall maintain a local office in the town which shall
be open during all usual business hours, have a listed telephone number and
shall be operated so that complaints or requests for repairs or adjustments may
be received at any time, whether the office is open or closed. The local office
shall be established by the operator within 90 days from the adoption of this
chapter, said office to be a full and complete service office including the
taking of payments, complaints, new service and dispatch for service work.
      (2)   The operator shall furnish each subscriber written instructions
that clearly set forth procedures for placing a service call or requesting an
adjustment. Investigative action shall be initiated by operator in response to
all service calls, other than major outages, within the normal maximum response
time of the same business day that the call is made. In any event, operator
shall properly respond not later than one business day after said call is made
with corrective action to be completed as promptly as practicable. Appropriate
records shall be made of service calls showing when and what corrective action
was taken. The operator shall provide emergency service to be available for
weekend and evening hours and in the event subscribers have service problems
that extend longer than three days, rebates shall be awarded to the subscriber
by the operator, the amounts and nature of rebates to be furnished each
subscriber to the cable television system.
   (B)   Termination of service.
      (1)   Upon termination of service to any subscriber, the operator shall
promptly remove all of its facilities equipment from premises of such
subscriber upon request.
      (2)   If any subscriber terminates service during the first year’s
subscription because of the operator’s failure to render service to such
subscriber, or if the service to a subscriber is terminated without good cause
or because the operator ceases to operate the cable television system for any
reason, except expiration of the franchise, the operator shall refund to such
subscriber an amount equal to the initial tap-in connection charge paid by the
subscriber.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.07 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   In consideration of the rights, privileges and permits hereby grant in
compensation to the town for the use of its public place, the operator agrees
to pay to the town, no later than March 1 for the preceding calendar year, 3%
of gross revenues from the sale of services to the cable television system.
   (B)   The town shall have the right to inspect the operator’s books, plans,
income tax returns and other business records and its studios, equipment and
other facilities at any time during normal business hours and a complete
accounting supporting the gross revenues paid to the town shall be submitted by
operator not later than March 1 of each year.
      (1)   Security fund. Within 30 days after the adoption of this chapter,
the operator shall deposit with the town the sum of $50,000 to partially assure
that satisfactory completion of construction of the cable television system
along with providing a source of funds to provide indemnification should any
damage be incurred by citizens of the town or subscribers as a result of
improper installation of workmanship. The town shall keep the deposit in an
interest-bearing account or certificate of deposit as may be allowed by law and
all interest shall accrue and be paid to the operator. Subsequent to the
completion and activation of the cable television system, the town shall
release $35,000 of the above security fund to operator and town may release
additional sums upon application for release made by operator to the town. The
operator shall be entitled to the return of the security fund, or portions
thereof, as remains on deposit with the town to the expiration of the term of
this chapter; providing, there is then no outstanding default on the part of
the operator.
      (2)   Letter of credit. Within 30 days after the adoption of this
chapter, the operator shall furnish to the town an irrevocable letter of credit
ensuring and guaranteeing the timely construction and full activation of the
cable system by the operator. The irrevocable letter of credit shall be in the
sum of $250,000 and be issued and drawn with such terms, conditions and
contingencies as approved by the Council and legal counsel for the Council.
Said irrevocable letter of credit shall provide for the recoverability by the
town, from the financial institution issuing the irrevocable letter of credit,
of any and all damages, losses or costs suffered by the town resulting from the
failure of the operator to satisfactorily complete the fully activate the cable
television system within one year from the adoption of this chapter. Said
letter of credit shall expire by its terms not later than one year and three
months from adoption of this chapter. Any extension to said irrevocable letter
of credit shall be agreed to by the Council only when said Council finds that
such extension is necessary and appropriate due to causes beyond the control of
the operator.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.08 LIABILITY, INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   The operator shall indemnify the town for all expenses and costs,
including attorneys’ fees and other out-of-pocket expenses, arising out of or
resulting from the grant of authority under this chapter to the operator.
   (B)   The operator shall pay all damages and penalties which the town may
legally be required to pay as a result of the grant of authority to operator
under this chapter, including all damages arising out of the installation,
operation or maintenance of the cable television system, whether or not any act
or omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited under this
chapter.
   (C)   The operator shall indemnify, protect and save harmless the town
against losses and physical damage to property, bodily injury or death to
persons, including payments made under any worker’s compensation laws. The
company shall carry insurance to protect itself, the utility companies and the
town from and against all claims, demands, actions, judgments, costs, expenses
and liabilities which may arise or result, directly or indirectly, from or by
reason of such loss, injury or damages. Such insurance policies shall
specifically provide that the town and utility be shown as named insureds. The
amounts of such insurance against liability due to physical damage to property
shall be no less than $50,000 as to any one claim and not less than $200,000
aggregate in any single policy year. The amounts of insurance against liability
due to bodily injury or to death of persons shall be not less than $100,000 as
to any one person or occurrence and not less than $300,000 as to all such
claims arising from any one accident; provided that, the operator shall carry a
minimum of $1,000,000 umbrella coverage as further protection for the operator,
utilities and town. All insurance required by this chapter shall be and remain
in full force and effect for the entire period of this chapter. The policies of
insurance, or a certificate copy of insurance, shall be deposited with and kept
on file by the town in the office of the Clerk- Treasurer.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.09 TRANSFER OF FRANCHISE.
   In the event the franchise is transferred, in whole or in part, prior
written consent of the Council to such transfer shall be required. Such consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld; provided that, the proposed assignee or
transferee agrees to comply with all the provisions of this chapter and is able
to provide proof of financial responsibility and other qualifications as may be
satisfactory to the town. The consent of the town to any sale or other transfer
shall not constitute a waiver of release of any of the rights of the town under
this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.10 NON-COLLUSION WARRANTY.
   The operator warrants that is has neither paid nor agreed to pay any
commission, fee, percentage, gift or any other consideration, including
providing service without charge, contingent upon or resulting from the
adoption of this chapter to any officer, employee or agent of the town.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.11 TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   General. This chapter, and all rights herein granted, shall take
effect and be in full force from and after its final passage hereof, in any
publication as may be required by law, and upon the filing of acceptance by the
operator with the Clerk-Treasurer of the operator’s desires to meet the terms
and conditions of this chapter, the same shall continue in full force and
effect for a period of ten years after the effective date of this chapter. Upon
the expiration of the original terms of this chapter, the operator, or its
successors and assigns, may apply for a renewal of this chapter for an
additional term of ten years under terms and conditions hereinafter established
by the town and after a public hearing and determination that the operator has
substantially complied and can and will continue to comply with the terms and
conditions of this chapter and any amendments thereto.
   (B)   Penalties and forfeiture.
      (1)   In addition to all other applicable rights and powers retained by
the town by virtue of this chapter, the town shall have the right to terminate
and cancel the rights and privileges under its grant of authority to the
operator for the following reasons:
         (a)   Violates any material provisions of this chapter;
         (b)   Attempts to evade any of the provisions of this chapter or
practices any fraud or deceit upon the town; or
         (c)   Fails to meet the construction schedule as heretofore set forth
in this chapter or as may be modified by the Council under the terms and
conditions of this chapter.
      (2)   The termination and cancellation of the operator’s rights and
privileges under this chapter shall be affected only by ordinance and after 30
days’ written notice to the operator and an opportunity to be heard before the
Council.
   (C)   Final termination. Upon final termination, expiration or forfeiture of
any rights under this chapter, the operator shall remove its cables, wires and
equipment from all poles of the town and all space reserved for the town’s use
on poles belonging to others. If not so removed, the town shall have the right
to remove or have its contractor remove them at the risk, cost and expense of
the company without any liability accruing to the town.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.12 LOCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   The location of any head-in equipment shall be located in the territory to
be served by the operator under this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.13 EMERGENCY USE OF FACILITIES.
   In case of any disaster, duly declared by the Council, the operator shall,
upon request by the Council, make available to the town for emergency use
during the disaster period all facilities not necessary to the operator
fulfilling its other legal obligations.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.14 INSTALLATION.
   Where it is necessary for operator to cut through any yards in order to
reach a subscriber, the operator shall restore yards, bushes, trees and shrubs
to their original condition prior to the installation of the service to the
subscriber. All manner and method of hookup to the subscriber will be done in a
neat and workmanlike manner.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
§ 111.15 SCHEDULE OF PROGRAMMING, RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Basic service: $9 per month (plus tax):
      (1)   WGN (WGN-TV, Channel 9, Chicago): well-rounded programming format
featuring movies, sports, specials and syndicated programs from Chicago’s
leading independent television station;
      (2)   WTBS (WTBS-TV, Channel 17, Atlanta): cable-oriented, independent
station. Family directed programs, sports, movies, quality syndications,
national/international news, unique “superstation” programming;
      (3)   ESPN (Entertainment and Sports Programming Network): the sports
fanatic’s Shangri-La, featuring 1,400 NCAA events;
      (4)   CBN (Christian Broadcasting Network): Christian music, news,
sports, children and family entertainment presented 24 hours per day, including
Ross Bagley, the world’s first video deejay, plus free phone-in prayer and
counseling for viewers. Programs represent 67 different sources;
      (5)   CNN (Cable News Network): 24-hour live news format. Round-the-clock
news coverage developed specifically for the cable viewer. Headline, in-depth
reporting, hard news, sports, weather, features and financial reports, news
when viewer wants it;
      (6)   WOR (WOR-TV, Channel 9, New York): New York’s independent station
featuring 700 action packed hours of sports programming, plus movie and
television shows from the past decades;
      (7)   USA Network: features a package of 375 sporting events annually,
including weeknight action from the NHL, SASL, NBA, MISL and major league
baseball; Calliope, a wonderland of films for children; and The English
Channel, the first culturally-oriented series produced exclusively for cable
television;
      (8)   Nickelodian: a programming playground constructed to capture the
spirit and curiosity of youngsters and adolescents;
      (9)   Zionsville Information Channel: computerized information channel
containing local information, premium channel listings, time and temperature.
Advertising will be available to local merchants on this channel;
      (10)   Channel 6, Indianapolis, ABC;
      (11)   Channel 8, Indianapolis, CBS;
      (12)   Channel 13, Indianapolis, NBC;
      (13)   Channel 4, Indianapolis, Independent; and
      (14)   Channel 20, Indianapolis, Educational.
   (B)   Premium service: three optional channels:
      (1)   HBO (Home Box Office): the industry’s most popular full service
compliment of first run movies, sports and entertainment specials;
      (2)   The Movie Channel (TMC): movie programming, 24 hours every day; and
      (3)   Cinemax: designed specifically to compliment HBO as a second
service. All movie service structured into time blocks according to female,
children, family or adult audience appeal.
   (C)   Rate information.
      (1)   The $9 basic rate contained in division (A) above entitles each
customer to as many outlets in the home as he or she wishes.
      (2)   The pay rate will be $9 for each service desired. However, a
discount of 10% will be offered for those taking two pay services. A flat rate
of $29.95 will be offered for subscribers taking the entire package. In
addition, a converter will be offered free as long as the subscriber maintains
at least two pay services in his or her home.
      (3)   Primary installation charge will be $15 for the first outlet and
$7.50 for each additional outlet. The operator will waive half of the
installation charge on initial hook-ups. Installation charges are also
guaranteed as per §
111.05 of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 11-20) (Ord. 82-3, passed - -)
CHAPTER 112: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License
   
112.03   License application
   
112.04   License fees
   
112.05   Unlawful purchases
   
112.06   Record book to be kept
   
112.07   Card record for police
   
112.08   Retention of acquired personal property
   
112.09   Serial numbers required
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person (as that term is hereinafter defined) who lends money
on the deposit or pledge of personal property, or who deals in the purchase of
personal property on the condition of selling the property back again at a
stipulated price, other than choses in action, securities or printed evidence
of indebtedness.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, association, limited liability company,
partnership, joint stock association, trust, corporation or any other entity
capable of bringing suit or being sued.
   PLEDGER. The person who delivers personal property into the possession of a
pawnbroker as security for a loan or to sell the item of personal property
unless such person discloses that the person is or was acting for another and,
in such event, PLEDGER shall mean or refer to the disclosed principal.
(1996 Code, § 11-21) (Ord. 2003-12, passed - -)
§ 112.02 LICENSE.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of being a
pawnbroker without first obtaining a license from the Chief of Police or his or
her designee.
(1996 Code, § 11-22) (Ord. 2003-12, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   All applicants shall, as a condition for the granting of a license, agree
that in the event the applicant as a pawnbroker receives personal property of
any kind which is stolen, the applicant claims no right, title or interest in
or to such personal property, and that upon request by any law enforcement
officer having jurisdiction over the location of the applicant’s place of
business, the applicant will voluntarily surrender such personal property to
the possession of that law enforcement agency when given a receipt for the
same.
(1996 Code, § 11-23) (Ord. 2003-12, passed - -)
§ 112.04 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual fee for a license required by this chapter is set forth in the
town fee schedule incorporated by reference in §
34.04 for each place of business of the pawnbroker.
(1996 Code, § 11-24) (Ord. 2003-12, passed - -)
§ 112.05 UNLAWFUL PURCHASES.
   It shall be unlawful for any pawnbroker under this chapter to receive any
items of personal property in the course of the pawnbroker’s business from any
pledge who is in an intoxicated condition, a minor or who is known or suspected
by the pawnbroker to have acquired and be disposing of property unlawfully.
(1996 Code, § 11-25) (Ord. 2003-12, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 RECORD BOOK TO BE KEPT.
   (A)   Every pawnbroker under this chapter shall keep and preserve a record
book containing an accurate description in the English language legibly written
in ink of:
      (1)   All items pawned and the amount of money loaned thereon;
      (2)   The time of the transaction;
      (3)   The name, address, date of birth, Social Security number, telephone
number, age, color, height, weight, complexion, style of beard or mustache, any
visible distinctive marks or conditions, style of dress of the pledger pawning
the items;
      (4)   A photocopy of a piece of photo identification of the pledger; and
      (5)   The number of the pawn ticket issued therefore.
   (B)   The record book required to be kept by division (A) above shall be
open to inspection at all reasonable times by any officer of the Town Police
Department.
   (C)   In addition to the above record book, every pawnbroker under this
chapter shall provide a list of serialized items that have been acquired by
transfers from any location outside of the town’s corporate boundaries to the
Town Police Department no later than the next business day after the item is
received.
(1996 Code, § 11-26) (Ord. 2003-12, passed - -)
§ 112.07 CARD RECORD FOR POLICE.
   In addition to the record book required by this chapter, all pawnbrokers
shall, at the time of receiving any pawned items, fill out a three by five-inch
card for each item pawned. Each card shall contain the information required to
be kept by pawnbrokers under this chapter and the right thumbprint of the
pledge pawning or selling the item. If the right thumb is missing, any of the
pledger’s fingerprints may be used. The thumbprint shall be made in the manner
approved by the Town Police Department and shall not be blurred or obliterated.
The pawnbrokers shall mail these cards to the Town Police Department no later
than the next business day after the item is received.
(1996 Code, § 11-27) (Ord. 2003-12, passed - -)
§ 112.08 RETENTION OF ACQUIRED PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   All items of personal property received by a pawnbroker under this chapter
shall be held intact for at least seven business days after the pawnbroker has
mailed a copy of the record required to be maintained under state law, which
details the item of personal property received, to the Town Police Department.
Whenever any pawnbroker receives written notice, either from the Town Police
Department or from an individual, that someone is maintaining a claim of right
to possession of the item adverse to the pawnbroker, the pawnbroker shall keep
the personal property in its possession for 30 days or turn the item over to
the Town Police Department, if so required by the Department. Once notice of an
adverse claim to the item has been given under this section, the item shall be
held for 30 days, during which legal proceedings may be commenced to determine
who is entitled to the property. If the matter is not settled or legal
proceedings have not been commenced within 30 days, the item of personal
property shall be returned to the pawnbroker by the Town Police Department, if
held by them.
(1996 Code, § 11-28) (Ord. 2003-12, passed - -)
§ 112.09 SERIAL NUMBERS REQUIRED.
   No pawnbroker shall accept, as collateral security or for purchase, any
property of the type given manufacturer’s serial numbers or other identifying
insignia, unless such property has the manufacturer’s serial number or other
identifying insignia plainly visible thereon.
(1996 Code, § 11-29) (Ord. 2003-12, passed - -)
CHAPTER 113: HORSE-DRAWN CARRIAGES
Section
   
113.01   Permit requirements
   
113.02   Vehicles and use regulations
   
113.03   Operators’ qualifications
   
113.04   Liability insurance
   
113.05   Rates
   
113.06   Care of horses
   
113.07   Prohibited conduct
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Owners and operators of horse-drawn carriage businesses shall apply to
the Clerk-Treasurer of the town for a permit to use the public way, using
designated application forms provided by the Clerk-Treasurer. These forms shall
set forth the owner-operator’s proposed routes for the company’s carriages,
hours of operation, the type of vehicle, to be used and shall be signed by both
the owner of the carriages and/or business and the operator of said business.
   (B)   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, all
applications for permits required by this section shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The number of carriages to be licensed;
      (2)   Seating capacity and name of manufacturer of the carriage;
      (3)   A brief financial statement concerning the applicant including the
type of business entity (i.e., partnership, corporation) which owns the
business;
      (4)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, if the
applicant is an individual; whether any of the partners have ever been
convicted of a felony, if the application is a partnership; and whether any of
the officers or directors have been convicted of a felony, if the applicant is
a corporation;
      (5)   The name of all persons other than the applicant who have any
financial interest in any of the carriages or other property to be used in the
business; and
      (6)   Applicable phone numbers of the business and emergency phone
numbers where the owners and/or operators can be reached in the event of an
emergency.
   (C)   The Town Council shall set and approve all carriage routes as well as
operating times with due consideration of public health and safety and all
permit applications submitted to the Clerk-Treasurer shall be referred to the
Town Council for approval of routes and times. The town specifically limits to
four the number of permits to be issued and in effect at any one point in time.
   (D)   Permits shall cost annually the sum of $50 per carriage. Said permits
may be renewed annually upon written application in the same form and substance
as contained in the initial application.
(1996 Code, § 9-50) (Ord. 84-4, passed - -)
§ 113.02 VEHICLES AND USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Each carriage which is desired to be used in the business and for
which a permit is sought shall be inspected prior to the granting of the
application, with the owner/operator to furnish a certificate of inspection by
a person, firm or business acceptable to the Town Council. The inspection shall
be done to verify that the carriage conforms to the safety requirements and
minimum conditions and standards as hereinafter set out.
      (1)   Carriages will have no less than one and three-eighths inch spoked
wheels with a rubber covering thick enough to protect the streets from damage
and to keep noise to a minimum.
      (2)   All carriages will be equipped with tail lights, brakes, brake
lights and turn signals on the rear of the vehicle.
      (3)   Carriages will be equipped with front lights on both sides that
will emit light to the front and side that will be visible from a distance of
not less than 500 feet.
      (4)   Each carriage will be equipped with a device to catch horse manure
from falling to the pavement until the operator is above to place it in a
standard wire-tire plastic bag which he or she shall carry with him or her for
permanent disposal when said operator returns to the base of operation.
      (5)   Each carriage shall be equipped with a chemical to be poured over
the horse urine by operators so as to break down and eliminate accumulated
agents and odors.
      (6)   Each carriage shall be equipped with a slow moving vehicle sign
approved by the state and attached to the rear of the vehicle in a place
appropriate to permit clear observation by vehicles approaching the carriage.
      (7)   All horses will have rubber compound type horseshoes on the front
two feet and either a rubber shoe or borium cork shoe on the two rear feet to
keep the animal from slipping on the pavement.
      (8)   No carriage shall be allowed more than six passengers at any one
point in time.
      (9)   Owners and/or operators of the carriages shall not permit alcoholic
beverages, in any form, to be utilized by passengers while in the carriages.
   (B)   The Town Council shall, along with approving of routes and times for
the use and operation of said carriages, also approve designated special
curbside areas throughout the town as “carriage stands” for use in picking up
and discharging horse-drawn vehicle passengers. In addition, carriages shall
use off-street parking or curbside areas for waiting and picking up or
discharging passengers so to not cause the carriages to be double parked, nor
be operated other than in the far right lane of traffic. Operators shall pick
up and discharge passengers only in the curb lanes while lawfully parked.
(1996 Code, § 9-51) (Ord. 84-4, passed - -) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03 OPERATORS’ QUALIFICATIONS.
   No person shall operate a horse-drawn carriage unless the person has
obtained the age of 18 years and holds a valid motor vehicle operator’s license
issued by the state.
(1996 Code, § 9-52) (Ord. 84-4, passed - -) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Before a license required under this chapter shall be issued or
renewed, the applicant therefor shall post or maintain with the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town an indemnity bond or a policy of public liability insurance,
approved as to form by the Town Attorney, with the limits to be $100,000 for
the death and/or injury of one person, $300,000 for total liability for death
or personal injury arising out of any one event or occurrence. In addition,
said policy or bond shall provide for $25,000 for property damage.
   (B)   The bond or policy of insurance shall be maintained in its original
amount by the permitee in full force and effect and at all times during the
period for which the permit is in effect. The bond or proof of insurance shall
be filed as a necessary requirement of the permit process and shall subject the
permitee to cancellation of this permit in the event that a lapse occurs.
(1996 Code, § 9-53) (Ord. 84-4, passed - -)
§ 113.05 RATES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the operator of a carriage to inform any
person hiring the carriage of all the rates and charges before any service is
rendered.
   (B)   (1)   Operators of the various carriages shall carry rate cards and
exhibit them on demand. Rate cards shall also be affixed to the carriage in a
prominent location so as to advise prospective clients of the rates and fares.
Rate cards shall bear the name of the owner of the carriage, operator of the
carriage and the address of the owner along with a complete schedule of rates
and fares.
      (2)   It shall be the exclusive responsibility of the owner to provide
rate cards to all operators and to affix the same to the carriages.
(1996 Code, § 9-54) (Ord. 84-4, passed - -)
§ 113.06 CARE OF HORSES.
   Owners and operators of the carriages shall maintain the horses used in said
operation, whether leased or owned by the owners and/or operators, in good
health and abiding by the rules of good animal husbandry.
(1996 Code, § 9-55) (Ord. 84-4, passed - -)
§ 113.07 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or operator of any carriage to
operate without the permit required under this chapter.
   (B)   No operator shall permit more persons to occupy or ride on his or her
carriage than as set out under this chapter.
   (C)   No operator shall permit any person to ride on any part of the
carriage, except those portions specifically provided for passenger use, while
the vehicle is in motion.
   (D)   Operators of the carriages shall not solicit passengers or patronage
in a loud tone of voice or in any manner tantamount to annoying or obstructing
the movement of persons for the purpose of soliciting passengers.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any operator to drive a carriage under the
age of 18 years or without a proper operator’s license as contained in this
chapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-56) (Ord. 84-4, passed - -) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any owner or operator who violates the provisions of this chapter
shall be fined in a sum not to exceed $100. Each violation shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (B)   Violations of any of the permit requirements of this chapter or any
rule or regulation promulgated hereunder shall be grounds for suspension or
revocation of carriage permit issued under this section.
(1996 Code, § 9-57) (Ord. 84-4, passed - -)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   HOSTING MINORS; LIQUOR OR CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
      
131.   CURFEW
      
132.   WEAPONS
CHAPTER 130: HOSTING MINORS; LIQUOR OR CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES
Section
   
130.01   Definitions
   
130.02   Unlawful gathering
   
130.03   Police Department notification procedure
   
130.04   Response and investigation procedure
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR. A person who is under the age of 21 years.
   OWNER. A person either holding title to, leasing, residing in or in any way
having a possessory interest in real estate within the town.
(1996 Code, § 9-60) (Ord. 84-20, passed - -)
§ 130.02 UNLAWFUL GATHERING.
   (A)   It shall be a town ordinance violation for the owner of any real
property within the town to cause, permit, host or to have on his or her
property any gathering of minors where the possession and/or consumption of
alcoholic beverages and/or use of controlled substances is taking place thereby
endangering the peace and safety of the residents of the town.
   (B)   Acts, pursuant to this chapter, which are hereby declared to endanger
the peace and safety of the residents of the town are the following: possession
and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages and/or controlled substances by
minors which are otherwise prohibited by town ordinances and/or state statutes.
   (C)   Upon the giving of notice to an owner by any member of the Town Police
Department of the existence of any gathering as set forth above, said owner
shall immediately act to cause the possession and/or consumption of the
alcoholic beverages and/or controlled substances by said minors to terminate.
Failure of the owner to terminate said activity of the minors at said gathering
shall constitute a further violation of this section.
   (D)   A person cited under this chapter shall be notified and required to
appear only by summons.
(1996 Code, § 9-61) (Ord. 84-20, passed - -) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 POLICE DEPARTMENT NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE.
   The Town Police Department shall respond to and investigate thoroughly all
reported violations of this chapter. Department personnel assigned to
communication duty shall properly document and record all reported violations
of this chapter and shall forward the same to the appropriate police unit for
follow-up response and investigation. The discharge of any duties by an
investigating officer shall be entered in a log used by the Town Police
Department in the normal course of business of said Department and in accord
with Department policy.
(1996 Code, § 9-62) (Ord. 84-20, passed - -)
§ 130.04 RESPONSE AND INVESTIGATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   In the event that a report is received by the Town Police Department
relative to a gathering which will occur at some future time and place and
which will constitute a violation under this chapter, then, and in that event,
the town police officer duly charged with said investigation shall make
arrangements to meet with the owner and thereby provide a copy of this chapter
to the owner and render an explanation to the owner regarding the consequences
for a violation of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that a report is received by the Town Police
Department as to an existing gathering which would be a violation of this
chapter, then, and in that event, the officer to whom said matter is assigned
shall immediately investigate the facts and allegations of said report to
determine if a violation of this chapter is being committed. In the event a
violation of this chapter is occurring, the owner of the property at which such
gathering is taking place shall be furnished a copy of this chapter by the
investigating officer along with an explanation as to the consequences for a
violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The failure by the investigating officer to immediately locate the
owner of the property where a gathering in violation of this chapter is taking
place shall not be construed as preventing a citation being issued to the owner
for a violation of this chapter. The failure by the owner to cause a
termination of the possession and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages and/or
controlled substances by said minors, when asked to do so by the investigating
officer, is a further violation of this chapter.
   (C)   In the event that the Town Police Department receives a report as to
an owner, who in the past, has caused, permitted, hosted or had on his or her
property a gathering of minors in violation of this chapter, then, and in that
event, the town police officer to whom this matter is assigned shall deliver a
copy of this chapter to the owner accompanied with due explanation of the
consequences for the violation of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 9-63) (Ord. 84-20, passed - -)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found to have violated the terms and provisions of this chapter
shall be fined not less than $25, nor more than $500, for each offense.
(1996 Code, § 9-61) (Ord. 84-20, passed - -)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Curfew hours for minors younger than 15 years of age
   
131.02   Curfew hours for children 15, 16 and 17 years of age
   
131.03   Emancipation
   
131.04   Exemptions
   
131.05   Enforcement
   
131.06   Curfew responsibility of parent, guardian or custodian
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 CURFEW HOURS FOR MINORS YOUNGER THAN 15 YEARS OF AGE.
   It is a curfew violation for a child less than 15 years of age to be in a
public place after 11:00 p.m. or before 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(1996 Code, § 3-60) (Ord. 2000-22, passed - -; Ord. 2007-08, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 CURFEW HOURS FOR CHILDREN 15, 16 AND 17 YEARS OF AGE.
   It is a curfew violation for a child 15, 16 or 17 years of age to be in a
public place:
   (A)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on Saturday or Sunday;
   (B)   After 11:00 p.m. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday; or
   (C)   Before 5:00 a.m. on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday.
(1996 Code, § 3-60) (Ord. 2000-22, passed - -; Ord. 2007-08, passed - -
) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 EMANCIPATION.
   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child was
emancipated:
   (A)   Under I.C. 31-37-19-27 or I.C. 31-6-4-15.7 (before its repeal);
   (B)   By virtue of having married; or
   (C)   In accordance with the laws of another state or jurisdiction.
(1996 Code, § 3-60) (Ord. 2000-22, passed - -; Ord. 2007-08, passed - -)
§ 131.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   It is a defense to a violation under this chapter that the child engaged in
the prohibited conduct while:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent, guardian or custodian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult specified by the child’s parent, guardian or
custodian;
   (C)   Participating in, going to or returning from:
      (1)   Lawful employment;
      (2)   A school-sanctioned activity;
      (3)   A religious event;
      (4)   An emergency involving the protection of a person or property from
an imminent threat of serious bodily injury or substantial damage;
      (5)   An activity involving the exercise of the child’s rights protected
under the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or Art. 1, § 31, of
the Constitution of the state, or both, such as freedom of speech and the right
to assembly; or
      (6)   An activity conducted by a non-profit or governmental entity that
provides recreation, education, training or other care under the supervision of
one or more adults.
   (D)   Participating in an activity undertaken at the prior written direction
of the child’s parent, guardian or custodian; or
   (E)   Engaged in interstate or international travel from a location outside
Indiana to another location outside Indiana.
(1996 Code, § 3-60) (Ord. 2000-22, passed - -; Ord. 2007-08, passed - -)
§ 131.05 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer may not detain a child or take a child into
custody based on a violation of this chapter unless the law enforcement
officer, after making a reasonable determination and considering the facts and
surrounding circumstances, reasonably believes that:
      (1)   The child has violated this chapter; and
      (2)   There is no legal defense to the violation.
   (B)   A child who commits a curfew violation under this chapter is subject
to enforcement procedures provided in I.C. 36-1-6 and I.C. 34-28-5. The first
complaint filed against a child for a violation of this chapter shall be filed
in Town Court and the town shall direct a copy of the complaint to the child’s
parent, guardian or custodian, if such person is known or can be identified by
reasonable inquiry. All subsequent complaints against the same child for a
violation of this chapter shall be directed to the County Circuit Court and the
town shall direct a copy of the complaint to the child’s parent, guardian or
custodian, if such person is known or can be identified by reasonable inquiry.
(1996 Code, § 3-60) (Ord. 2000-22, passed - -; Ord. 2007-08, passed - -)
§ 131.06 CURFEW RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENT, GUARDIAN OR CUSTODIAN.
   It is and shall be unlawful for a parent, guardian or other person having
custody over a child to permit a child to commit a curfew violation under this
chapter. If a parent, guardian, custodian or child is charged with a second or
subsequent violation of this chapter, there shall be presumption that the
parent, guardian or custodian is responsible under this chapter for the child’s
violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-22, passed - -; Ord. 2007-08, passed - -) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who is found guilty of a violation of this chapter shall be
punishable by a fine not exceeding $50 per violation.
   (B)   In addition to the imposition of the foregoing fine, the Court, upon
request, may order such injunctive relief as is appropriate and necessary to
prevent a child from committing further violations of this chapter.
(1996 Code, § 3-60) (Ord. 2000-22, passed - -; Ord. 2007-08, passed - -)
CHAPTER 132: WEAPONS
Section
   
132.01   Discharging firearms
   
132.02   Exemptions
   
132.03   Restriction on regulation
 
   
132.99   Penalty
Cross reference:
   Firearms, see §
91.01
§ 132.01 DISCHARGING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to shoot, fire, or discharge any firearm
within the urban area of the town, as provided herein. For purposes of this
section, FIREARM shall mean any weapon that is capable of expelling, designed
to expel or may readily be converted to expel a projectile by means of
explosion. FIREARM shall include handguns, machine guns, rifles, shotguns, and
all other weapons which fit the definition of firearm as provided herein, as
defined by I.C. 35-47-1 et seq., or any other applicable state or federal laws.
(Ord. 2019-08, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 132.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall not prohibit the discharge of firearms by certain
exempted persons, namely:
      (1)   Any legally appointed local, state or federal law enforcement
officer acting within the capacity of his or her authorized duty;
      (2)   Any person, who is legally authorized and licensed to own and
possess a firearm, is acting in self-defense, the defense of their dependents,
or the defense of a fellow citizen(s), if the circumstances are such that a
reasonable and responsible adult would determine that discharging the firearm
is of absolute and immediate necessity, and that no alternative and less
dangerous solution is feasible at the time, and in doing so does not violate
any local, state, or federal laws;
      (3)   Any duly licensed hunter, provided all applicable hunting laws and
regulations are adhered to and the hunter has permission to discharge the
weapon on the land being used for hunting;
      (4)   Any person discharging a weapon at a lawfully operated shooting
range, skeet range, or gun club;
      (5)   Any person discharging a weapon for the purpose of defending
themselves or their loved ones (including an animal) against another animal;
      (6)   Any person discharging a weapon for the purpose of ending the life
of an injured or sick animal.
   (B)   This chapter shall not be construed to restrict or otherwise prohibit
the legal possession, purchase, or use of firearms in accordance with
applicable Indiana law, the Indiana Constitution or the United States
Constitution.
(Ord. 2019-08, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 132.03 RESTRICTION ON REGULATION.
   This chapter only regulates the firing or discharging of weapons within the
urban area (see map set forth in Attachment A to Ordinance 2019-08,
incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein) and shall not be
construed to regulate or otherwise restrict the following:
   (A)   Firearms, ammunition, and firearm accessories;
   (B)   The ownership, possession, carrying, transportation, registration,
transfer, and storage of firearms, ammunition, and firearm accessories; and
   (C)   Commerce in and taxation of firearms, firearm ammunition, and firearm
accessories.
(Ord. 2019-08, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter shall result in the following penalties,
namely:
      (1)   First Offense: $250 fine;
      (2)   Second Offense: $750 fine;
      (3)   Third offense and subsequent offenses: $2,500 fine.
   (B)   Any second or subsequent offense shall be in the same calendar year.
(Ord. 2019-08, passed 4-15-2019)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Adoption of Americans with Disability Act standards
   
150.02   Reorganization of Eagle Township, Union Township and Town of
Zionsville
   
150.03   Reclassifying certain areas from Rural Service District to Town
Service District
   
Exhibit A:   Descriptions of reclassified territory
   
Exhibit B:   Schematic illustration of reclassified property from the Rural
Service District to the Town Service District
   
150.04   Reclassifying certain areas from Rural Service District to Town
Service District - Reclassification 2
   
Exhibit C:   Description of reclassified territory
   
Exhibit D:   Schematic illustration of reclassified property from Rural Service
District to the Town Service District
§ 150.01 ADOPTION OF AMERICANS WITH DISABILITY ACT STANDARDS.
   The 2010 Americans with Disabilities Act Standards for Accessible Design, as
amended, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this code as if set
forth at length herein.
(Ord. 2012-04, passed 3-5-2012)
§ 150.02 REORGANIZATION OF EAGLE TOWNSHIP, UNION TOWNSHIP AND TOWN OF
ZIONSVILLE.
   Amending the Zionsville Comprehensive Plan, Zoning Ordinance, Subdivision
Control Ordinance and Zoning Map to facilitate the reorganization of Eagle
Township, Union Township and the Town of Zionsville. A copy of the ordinance is
on file in the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 150.03 RECLASSIFYING CERTAIN AREAS FROM RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT TO TOWN
SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Reclassified territory. 
      (1)   The Town Council hereby reclassifies certain areas from the Rural
Service District to the Town Service District, consisting of the following
areas or subdivisions: Irishman’s Run, Fox Hollow, The Willows, Willow Glen,
Willow Ridge, Hidden Pines, Bridlewood and Northwest Technology Park.
      (2)   The service districts map is hereby amended to reflect the
reclassified areas being moved into the Town Service District and the same is
approved and adopted as the town’s official service districts map as attached
hereto as Exhibit B. The reclassified territory is described on Exhibit A
attached hereto and the revised schematically illustrated on Exhibit B,
consisting of approximately 976.72 acres.
   (C)   Public hearing. Notice of the public hearing on the reclassification
was published on May 30, 2012 and June 6, 2012 in The Zionsville Times-Sentinel
and the public hearing on the reclassification of certain areas in the town was
held on July 2, 2012 before the Town Council.
   (D)   Subsequent actions. The Town Clerk/Treasurer is authorized, empowered
and directed to take any and all action necessary or required by state law to
effectuate the purposes of this section and the reclassification of the
territory from the Rural Service District to the Town Service District.
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-6-2012)
EXHIBIT A: DESCRIPTIONS OF RECLASSIFIED TERRITORY
Area One:
Bounded on the north by CR 300 South/146th Street; on the west by U.S. 421; on
the south by the Brittany Chase and Austin Oaks Subdivisions; and on the east
by the Boone/Hamilton County line - containing approximately 785.86 acres and
includes within the area the following subdivisions:
   The Willows - approximately 193.18 acres
   Willow Glen - approximately 49.69 acres
   Willow Ridge - approximately 160.16 acres
   Bridlewood - approximately 26.42 acres
Area Two:
Northwest Technology Park - Bounded on the north and west by I-465; on the
south by West 96th Street; and on the east by Zionsville Road - containing
approximately 39.90 acres
Area Three:
Bounded on the north by Hunt Club Road; and the west roughly by the Roundstone
and Irishman’s Run Subdivisions and on the south by I-865 - containing
approximately 150.96 acres and includes within the area the following
subdivisions:
   Fox Hollow - approximately 64.82 acres
   The Woodlands at Irishman’s Run - approximately 76.11 acres
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-6-2012)
EXHIBIT B: SCHEMATIC ILLUSTRATION OF RECLASSIFIED PROPERTY FROM THE RURAL
SERVICE DISTRICT TO THE TOWN SERVICE DISTRICT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/193fb1f5c2977a45cab4a8302a82f0205a06d833/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1563.jpg]
Note: To view Exhibit B in PDF, please click EXHIBIT_B
(Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-6-2012)
§ 150.04 RECLASSIFYING CERTAIN AREAS FROM RURAL SERVICE DISTRICT TO TOWN
SERVICE DISTRICT - RECLASSIFICATION 2.
   (A)   Reclassified territory.
      (1)   The Town Council hereby reclassifies certain areas from the Rural
Service District to the Town Service District, consisting of the following
areas or subdivisions: Devonshire, Holliday Farms and Chelsea Park as well as
adjacent un-platted properties.
      (2)   The Service Districts Map is hereby amended to reflect the
reclassified areas being moved into the Town Service District and the same is
approved and adopted as the town's official Service Districts Map as attached
hereto as
Exhibit B. The reclassified territory is described on
Exhibit A attached hereto and is schematically illustrated on
Exhibit B attached hereto, consisting of approximately 701 acres.
   (B)   Public hearing. Notice of the public hearing on the reclassification
was published on September 7, 2023 and September 19, 2023 in the Lebanon
Reporter and the public hearing on the reclassification of certain areas in the
town was held on October 2, 2023 before the Zionsville Town Council.
   (C)   Subsequent actions. The town's Director of Finance and Records is
authorized, empowered and directed to take any and all action necessary or
required by state law to effectuate the purposes of this section and the
reclassification of the territory from the Rural Service District to the Town
Service District.
(Ord. 2023-18, passed 10-2-2023)
EXHIBIT C: DESCRIPTION OF RECLASSIFIED TERRITORY
Area One
The area is located on the south by South County Road 400 South, on the east by
South County Road 875 East – containing approximately 69 acres and includes
within the area the following subdivision(s):
   Devonshire – approximately 69 acre(s).
Area Two
The area is located south of Holiday Road, east of U.S. 421, north of Willow
Road and west of 975 East – containing approximately 597 acres and includes
within the area the following subdivision(s):
   Holliday Farms – approximately 597 acre(s).
Area Three
The area is located at the northwest corner of the intersection of Michigan
Road and Templin Road (550 South) – containing approximately 56 acres and
includes within the area the following subdivision(s):
   Chelsea Park – approximately 35 acre(s).
(Ord. 2023-18, passed 10-2-2023)
EXHIBIT D: SCHEMATIC ILLUSTRATION OF RECLASSIFIED PROPERTY FROM RURAL SERVICE
DISTRICT TO THE TOWN SERVICE DISTRICT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/193fb1f5c2977a45cab4a8302a82f0205a06d833/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1871.png]
(Ord. 2023-18, passed 10-2-2023)
TITLE XVII: BOONE COUNTY CODE
   Editor’s Note:
      This Title XVII consists of Ordinance 2008-07, passed 6-16-2008 which
contains the 2008 version of the Boone County Code of Ordinances
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
17.10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 17.10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
17.10.01   Title of code
   
17.10.02   Interpretation
   
17.10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
17.10.04   Construction of code
   
17.10.05   Rules of interpretation; definitions
   
17.10.06   Severability
   
17.10.07   Reference to other sections
   
17.10.08   Reference to offices; name designations
   
17.10.09   Errors and omissions
   
17.10.10   Reasonable time
   
17.10.11   Repeal or modification of code section
   
17.10.12   Limitation periods
   
17.10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
17.10.14   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
17.10.15   Section histories; statutory references
   
17.10.16   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
17.10.99   General penalty
§ 17.10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the county, as revised,
codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component codes, titles,
chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the “Boone County
Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances” or
“code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
§ 17.10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 17.10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 17.10.04 CONSTRUCTION OF CODE.
   (A)   This code is a codification of previously existing laws, amendments
thereto and newly enacted laws. Any previously existing law or amendment
thereto reenacted by this code shall continue in operation and effect, as if it
had not been repealed by this code. All rules and regulations adopted under
laws reenacted in this code shall remain in full force and effect unless
repealed or amended subsequent to the enactment of this code.
   (B)   Any appropriation repealed and reenacted by this code is continued
only for the period designated in the original enactment of that appropriation.
   (C)   The numerical order and position of sections in this code does not
resolve a conflict between two or more sections.
   (D)   Any irreconcilable conflict between sections shall be resolved by
reference to the dates that the sections were originally enacted. The section
most recently enacted supersedes any conflicting section or division.
   (E)   All references within a section of this code to any section of
previously existing laws refer to the numbers in the original enactment.
   (F)   (1)   The numerical designations and descriptive headings assigned to
the various titles, chapters, subchapters or sections of this code, as
originally enacted or as added by amendment, are not law and may be altered by
the compilers of this or any subsequent codification, in any official
publication, to more clearly indicate its content. These descriptive headings
are for organizational purposes only and do not affect the meaning, application
or construction of the law they precede.
      (2)   Each note following a section of this code is for reference
purposes only and is not a part of the section.
   (G)   All references to any section of this code refer to all subsequent
amendments to that section, unless otherwise provided.
(I.C. 1-1-1-5)
§ 17.10.05 RULES OF INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. This code shall be construed by the following
rules unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the legislative intent or
context of the provision.
      (1)   Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, ordinary and usual
sense. Technical words and phrases having a peculiar and appropriate meaning in
law shall be understood according to their technical import.
      (2)   Words imputing joint authority to three or more persons shall be
construed as imputing authority to a majority of the persons, unless otherwise
declared in the section giving the authority.
      (3)   Where a section requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent
or deputy may perform in addition to the principal, the performance of the act
by an authorized deputy or agent is valid.
      (4)   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and words in the plural shall include the singular; the use of a verb in the
present tense shall include the future, if applicable.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The Clerk-Treasurer of the County Board of
Commissioners.
      COUNTY COUNCIL. The County Council of Boone County, Indiana.
      HIGHWAY. Includes bridges, roads and streets, unless otherwise expressly
provided.
      MONTH. One calendar month.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, receiver and bodies politic. Whenever used in
any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING and FOLLOWING. When referring to sections or divisions in this
code, refer to the sections or divisions next following or next preceding that
in which the words occur, unless some other section is designated.
      WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Include printing, lithographing or other modes of
representing words and letters. Where the written signature of a person is
required, the terms mean the proper handwriting of the person, or the person’s
mark.
      YEAR. One calendar year, unless otherwise expressly provided.
(I.C. 1-1-4-5)
§ 17.10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   If any section of this code now enacted or subsequently amended or its
application to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does
not affect other sections that can be given effect without the invalid section
or application.
   (B)   Except in the case of a section or amendment to this code containing a
non-severability provision, each division or part of every section is
severable. If any portion or application of a section is held invalid, the
invalidity does not affect the remainder of the section unless:
      (1)   The remainder is so essentially and inseparably connected with and
so dependent upon the invalid provision or application that it cannot be
presumed that the remainder would have been enacted without the invalid
provision or application; or
      (2)   The remainder is incomplete and incapable of being executed in
accordance with the legislative intent without the invalid provision or
application.
   (C)   This section applies to every section of this code regardless of
whether a section was enacted before or after the passage of this code.
(I.C. 1-1-1-8)
§ 17.10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 17.10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES; NAME DESIGNATIONS.
   (A)   Reference to offices. Reference to a public office or officer shall be
deemed to apply to any office, officer or employee of this municipality
exercising the powers, duties or functions contemplated in the provision,
irrespective of any transfer of functions or change in the official title of
the functionary.
   (B)   Name designations. Whenever any ordinance or resolution of the Board
refers to any board, bureau, commission, division, department, officer, agency,
authority or instrumentality of any government, and that name designation is
incorrectly stated; or at the time of the effective date of that ordinance or
subsequent thereto, the rights, powers, duties, or liabilities placed with that
entity are or were transferred to a different entity; then the named board,
bureau, commission, department, division, officer, agency, authority or
instrumentality, whether correctly named in the ordinance at its effective date
or not, means that correctly named entity, or the entity to which the duties,
liabilities, powers and rights were transferred.
(I.C. 1-1-6-1)
§ 17.10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 17.10.10 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be a Saturday, Sunday or a state holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 17.10.11 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF CODE SECTION.
   When a section of this code is repealed which repealed a former section or
law adopted prior to the enactment of this code, the former section or law is
not revived unless it so expressly provides. The repeal of any section shall
not extinguish or release any penalty, forfeiture or liability incurred under
the section, unless the repealing section so expressly provides. The section
shall be treated as still remaining in force for the purposes of sustaining any
proper action or prosecution for the enforcement of the penalty, forfeiture or
liability.
(I.C. 1-1-5-1)
§ 17.10.12 LIMITATION PERIODS.
   The running of any period of limitations or any requirement of notice
contained in any law, whether applicable to civil causes or proceedings, or to
the prosecution of offenses, or for the recovery of penalties and forfeitures,
contained in a law repealed and reenacted by this code, shall not be affected
by the repeal and reenactment; but all suits, proceedings and prosecutions for
causes arising or acts committed prior to the effective date of this code may
be commenced and prosecuted with the same effect as if this code had not been
enacted.
Statutory reference:
   Periods of limitation, see I.C. 1-1-1-7
§ 17.10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 17.10.14 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to an indication
thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or title
shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 17.10.15 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section. Example:
(Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Am. Ord. 20, passed
1-1-1980; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (I.C. 36-5-2-2)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
         § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
            This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection
or copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
         Statutory reference:
            Inspection of public records, see I.C. 5-14-3-1 et seq.
§ 17.10.16 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 17.10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to the following:
      (1)   A fine not exceeding $2,500 for the first violation; and
      (2)   A fine not exceeding $7,500 for second and subsequent violations,
except for violations of ordinances regulating traffic and parking.
   (B)   A separate violation shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
Statutory reference:
   Authority, see I.C. 36-1-3-8(a)(10)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
17.30.   GENERAL COUNTY POLICIES
      
17.31.   COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
      
17.32.   PURCHASING PROCEDURES
      
17.33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
17.34.   FUNDS, FEES, TAXES AND THE LIKE
CHAPTER 17.30: GENERAL COUNTY POLICIES
Section
   
17.30.01   Additional appropriation ordinance; number of votes needed
   
17.30.02   Enhanced emergency telephone system
   
17.30.03   Deadly weapons, alcoholic beverages in Courthouse and county-owned
buildings
   
17.30.04   Retainment of standard service weapons upon retirement
   
17.30.05   Membership in organizations
   
17.30.06   Auction of property by County Sheriff
§ 17.30.01 ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE; NUMBER OF VOTES NEEDED.
   An ordinance requesting additional appropriations from the County Council
under I.C. 36-2-5-12 may be passed only after receiving an affirmative vote
from at least 2/3 of all elected members of the County Council.
(Ord. 2002-07, passed 5-14-2002)
§ 17.30.02 ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Generally. Under the authority of and subject to the provisions of
I.C. 36-8-16 et seq., an emergency telephone system fee is hereby established
for the funding of the installation and operation of the enhanced emergency
telephone system in Boone County, Indiana. The fee shall be collected from the
telephone service users of Boone County, Indiana, and administered in
accordance with the Indiana Code, as outlined at I.C. 36-8-16, and the
following terms set forth in this section.
   (B)   Definitions.
      ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM. A telephone system that uses the
three- digit “911” number to send automatic number identification and automatic
location identification for reporting police, fire, medical or other emergency
situations.
      EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY.
         (a)   The access from a particular service users premises to a
telephone system, which shall include:
            1.   An access line;
            2.   A private branch exchange (PBX) trunk;
            3.   A centrex line trunk equivalent, all of which are provided by
the service supplier; and
            4.   A mobile telephone system access trunk, whether the trunk is
provided by a telephone company or a radio common carrier.
         (b)   The term does not include:
            1.   A service supplier owned and operated telephone pay station
line;
            2.   A wide area telecommunication service (WATS);
            3.   A foreign exchange (FX) line; or
            4.   An incoming only line.
      SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person who provides exchange telephone service to a
service user.
      SERVICE USER. A person to whom exchange telephone service is provided.
   (C)   Monthly fee. A monthly fee of $1.96 per month per telephone access
line or other exchange access facility shall be collected by the service
supplier for each month or part of a month an exchange access facility is in
service as a part of its normal billing process.
   (D)   Service supplier fee. Each service supplier that collects the enhanced
emergency telephone system fee on behalf of Boone County shall be entitled to a
3% administrative fee as compensation for collecting the monthly fee.
   (E)   Remittal of fee. Each service supplier shall remit all monthly fees
collected, except for the 3% administrative fee, to the Treasurer of Boone
County, State of Indiana, within ten days of the last day of each calendar-year
quarter. At the same time the fees are remitted, the service supplier shall
provide a fee collection report to the Auditor of Boone County, State of
Indiana, on a form approved or provided by the Auditor.
   (F)   Establishment of Fund.
      (1)   The Treasurer of Boone County, State of Indiana, shall establish a
separate fund for the deposit of collected enhanced emergency telephone system
fees.
      (2)   The fund shall be known as The Boone County Enhanced Emergency
Telephone System Fund. All fees remitted by the service supplier shall be
deposited in said fund. The Boone County Treasurer may invest the money in the
Fund in the same manner that other money of Boone County may be invested. The
fees imposed in the Boone County Enhanced Emergency Telephone System Fund shall
be used only for the payment of the following:
         (a)   The lease, purchase or maintenance of enhanced emergency
telephone equipment, including necessary computer hardware, software and data
base provisioning;
         (b)   The rates associated with the service suppliers enhanced
emergency telephone system network services; and
         (c)   The personnel expenses of the emergency telephone system.
      (3)   The County Council of Boone County may appropriate money in the
Fund only for the expenditures.
   (G)   Delinquent fee report. During January of each year, each service
supplier that collects the enhanced emergency telephone system fee for Boone
County shall provide a delinquent fee report to the Boone County Treasurer. The
report shall list the name, address and amount due from each service user who
is two or more months delinquent in paying the fee. The service supplier shall
also indicate the amount of delinquent fees for which each person included on
the list is liable.
   (H)   Commencement of fee collection. Each service supplier shall commence
collection of the enhanced emergency telephone system fee as soon as it is
administratively practicable after the effective date of this section.
   (I)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect on the
first day of the second month after its passage by the Boone County Council as
provided by Indiana law, specifically, I.C. 36-8-16-9.
   (J)   Indiana Code controlling. This ordinance shall be applied, construed
and administered in accordance with I.C. 36-8-16, and any amendment thereto. In
the event that I.C. 36-8-16, shall be amended by the State of Indiana in such a
manner as to become inconsistent, or cause a conflict with the provisions of
this section, then, and in that event, this section shall be amended to include
and adopt those provisions of the Indiana Code amending I.C. 36-8-16, as if the
same were fully set forth and incorporated herein.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 4-19-1994)
§ 17.30.03 DEADLY WEAPONS, ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN COURTHOUSE AND COUNTY-OWNED
BUILDINGS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DEADLY WEAPONS.
         (a)   A loaded or unloaded firearm; or
         (b)   A weapon, device, taser or electronic stun gun, equipment,
chemical substance or other material that in the manner it is used, could
ordinarily be used or is intended to be used, is readily capable of causing
serious bodily injury.
      FIREARM. Any weapon which is capable of, designed to or that may be
readily converted to expel a projectile by means of an explosion.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes serious permanent disfigurement, unconsciousness, extreme
pain, or permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of a bodily
member or organ.
(I.C. 35-41-1-25)
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, a person shall not possess
on or about his person within the Boone County Courthouse, or any other county
owned building or real property, any deadly weapon or alcoholic beverage. Any
person in violation of this section shall be subject to a fine of up to $2,500
per violation and the Boone County Attorney is hereby authorized to enforce
this section through the Boone County Courts system.
   (C)   (1)   Division (B) above does not apply to the following persons,
while on duty, or while appearing in Court to testify in an official capacity:
law enforcement officers (I.C. 35-41-1-17), Indiana Department of Corrections
Officers, Conservation Officers, Community Corrections personnel, Court
personnel or employees of the United States duly authorized to carry deadly
weapons and county employees in the capacity of their office.
      (2)   The persons described in the foregoing paragraph as being exempt
from the provisions of this section shall not be exempt if they, or any of
them, or any member of the family of one of them, is a party to any proceeding
taking place in court. Officers not on regular duty, but who may be in the
Courthouse on special assignment, or on business not associated with their
official duties, shall also be exempt from the provisions of this section
unless they, or any one of them, come within the provision of the first
sentence of this division.
   (D)   Any person of whom a court security officer, or any law enforcement
officer on duty in an official capacity, has probable cause to believe, may
have on or about his or her person a deadly weapon, is or has consumed an
alcoholic beverage on county property in violation of this section, may be
searched for the deadly weapon and any such weapon or illegal contraband found
on or about the person shall be seized and held for disposition according to
law, and the person may be subject to prosecution for any offenses committed
beyond the violation of this section.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and upon publication as may be required by law.
   (F)   Upon passage, the Boone County Commissioners shall cause prominent
notices of this section to be posted at each entry to the Boone County
Courthouse and all other county owned facilities informing the general public
of the possible penalties for violation of this section.
(Ord. 1995-5, passed 12-31-1998)
§ 17.30.04 RETAINMENT OF STANDARD SERVICE WEAPONS UPON RETIREMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section shall be to authorize the Sheriff
of Boone County to permit eligible merit police employees to retain his or her
standard service weapon upon retirement. The purpose of this section is to show
appreciation to merit police employees of Boone County, Indiana, who retire
after at least 20 years of service.
   (B)   Specification. When an eligible merit police employee, as determined
by the Sheriff, of the Boone County Sheriff's Department retires after at least
20 years of service, he or she is authorized to retain his or her standard
service weapon (handgun) and receive a retired badge in recognition of his or
her service to the Department and the public. Upon his or her retirement, the
Department shall issue to him or her an identification card that gives his or
her name and rank, signifies that he or she is retired, and notes his or her
authority to retain his or her service weapon.
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect
immediately upon adoption by the Boone County Board of Commissioners for those
officers retiring after enactment of this section.
(Ord. 98-24, passed 12-31-1998)
§ 17.30.05 MEMBERSHIP IN ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County is authorized to budget and
the County Council is authorized to appropriate funds from the general fund or
from other funds to provide membership for the county and for the elected and
appointed officials and members of the county’s boards, council, departments
and/or agencies in local, regional, state and national associations of a civic,
educational or governmental nature, which have as their purpose the betterment
and improvement of county governmental operations.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County is further authorized to
budget and the County Board is further authorized to appropriate funds to pay
the expenses of duly organizes representatives to attend the meetings and
functions of organizations to which the county belongs.
(Ord. 82-11, passed 10-12-1982)
§ 17.30.06 AUCTION OF PROPERTY BY COUNTY SHERIFF.
   (A)   The Boone County Sheriff be, and he or she is, hereby authorized to
dispose of, at sale or auction, any personal property seized and retained as
evidence by the Boone County Sheriff’s Department, provided that the personal
property and evidence to be auctioned or sold shall no longer be needed or
required as evidence in any pending cases.
   (B)   The Boone County Sheriff shall determine the time and place of the
auction or sale, the same to be conducted as often as the Sheriff deems it
necessary to dispose of evidence no longer needed to be held and retained by
the Sheriff's Department for any purpose.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the Boone County Sheriff to check
with the Boone County Prosecuting Attorney’s Office, or the Prosecuting
Attorney’s Office from any other judicial circuit in which the Boone County
Sheriff's Department has seized and holds evidence in pending cases, to make
the determination that the personal property to be sold at sale or auction is
no longer required or needed as evidence.
   (D)   The Boone County Sheriff shall assume sole and complete responsibility
for the appropriate and legally authorize transfer of any handguns or other
firearms as the result of the auction or sale and shall determine whatever
policies or procedures may be necessary so to not violate any federal or state
laws as a result of the auction or sale of these firearms.
   (E)   Any and all net proceeds as the result of the auction or sale shall be
placed in Boone County’s general fund although nothing in this provision shall
prohibit the Sheriff, in his or her discretion, to retain the services of an
auctioneer or seller to facilitate liquidation of the property.
(Ord. 80-4, passed 10-6-1980)
CHAPTER 17.31: COUNTY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
17.31.01   Tourism Council
   
17.31.02   Plan Commission
   
17.31.03   Weed Control Board
   
17.31.04   Police Reserves
§ 17.31.01 TOURISM COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Boone County Tourism Commission, established pursuant to Ord. 98-
16, shall be known as the Boone County Tourism Council (Council).
   (B)   (1)   The Council shall be comprised of seven members. All terms of
office for members shall begin January 1 and all initial terms shall begin
January 1, 2003. The initial term for each appointment shall be staggered as
follows: two persons for three years; three persons for two years; and two
persons for one year each. Thereafter, each term shall be for a two-year
period. Those whose terms expire may be reappointed.
      (2)   A simple majority of the members shall be engaged in the
convention, visitor or tourism business, or shall be involved in or promoting
conventions, visitors or tourism.
      (3)   At least two of the members must be engaged in the business of
renting or furnishing rooms, lodging, or accommodations, if they are available
and willing to serve. No more than one of these members may be affiliated with
the same business entity.
      (4)   No more than a simple majority of the members may be affiliated
with the same political party.
   (C)   The appointments specified for the Council shall be made by the County
Commissioners and the Mayor of the City of Lebanon in the ratio specified by
I.C. 6-9-18-5.
   (D)   All other actions associated with the Council shall be in conformance
with I.C. 6-9-18-5 and applicable state, federal and local law.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after the date
of its passage and the publication as is required by law.
(Ord. 2003-2, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 17.31.02 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (A)(2) below, the Boone County Area
Plan Commission (APC) shall consist of seven members, as follows:
         (a)   One citizen member appointed by the Town Council of Whitestown
who is a resident of the Town of Whitestown;
         (b)   One citizen member appointed by the Town Council of Advance who
is a resident of the Town of Advance;
         (c)   One representative appointed by the elected School Boards of
Eagle-Union, Lebanon and Western Boone. The appointment will rotate between the
three school corporations with the first appointment after the current schools
representative’s term expiring being with Eagle-Union, then Lebanon, then
Western Boone, until further amendment, if any, of this section;
         (d)   The Boone County Agricultural Extension Educator;
      (e)   One citizen member who is a resident of the unincorporated area of
the county, appointed by the Boone County Board of Commissioners;
         (f)   One citizen member who is a resident of the incorporated area of
the county, appointed by the Boone County Council;
         (g)   The Boone County Surveyor, subject to division (A)(2)(c) below.
      (2)   If after the effective date of this section any additional town
council or councils (other than the councils serving Whitestown and Advance) in
the county pass an ordinance adopting the Area Planning Law and agreeing to the
representation set forth in this section, then the membership of the APC shall
be changed as follows.
         (a)   The members listed in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(f)
shall continue in office with no change in their terms or appointing
authorities.
         (b)   One additional citizen member shall be appointed by the Town
Council of each additional town participating in the Area Planning Department,
which appointee shall be a resident of the town.
         (c)   If the number of additional towns participating in the Area
Planning Department is an odd number, then the Boone County Surveyor shall no
longer serve as a member of the APC.
         (d)   If the number of additional towns participating in the Area
Planning Department is an even number, then the Boone County Surveyor shall
serve as a member of the APC.
      (3)   Each citizen member appointed under this division (A) must have the
qualifications set forth in § 216 of the Area Planning Law, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and must maintain the qualifications throughout
their term of office or a vacancy shall be deemed to have occurred per division
(C)(1) below.
   (B)   Term of citizen members.
      (1)   This section does not affect the terms of office of the six current
members of the APC.
      (2)   When a current term of office of a citizen member expires, each
subsequent appointment of a citizen member shall be for a term of four years.
Except as otherwise herein provided, all citizen member appointments shall be
for a four-year term.
      (3)   With respect to the citizen member position of the APC which is to
be appointed by the Town Council of Advance, that citizen member shall
initially be appointed for a term expiring on December 31, 2002.
      (4)   With respect to any other citizen member position on the APC which
may in the future be appointed by the Town Council of an additional town
pursuant to division (A)(2)(b) above, that citizen member shall initially be
appointed for a term expiring on December 31, 2001 (or December 31 of every
fourth year thereafter, as the case may be).
   (C)   Vacancies; alternate members.
      (1)   If a vacancy occurs among the APC members who are appointed, then
the appointing authority shall appoint a member for the unexpired term of the
vacating member.
      (2)   The appointing authority may appoint an alternate member to
participate on the APC in a hearing or decision if any regular member that it
has appointed is unavailable. An alternate member must satisfy the same
qualifications as required of the regular member and shall have all of the
powers and duties of a regular member while participating on the APC.
   (D)   Application to Boards of Zoning Appeals. This section does not affect
the membership of the Boone County Area Board of Zoning Appeals under § 902 of
the Area Planning Law, or the Whitestown Board of Zoning Appeals under § 901 of
the Area Planning Law.
   (E)   Effective date. This section takes effect on January 1, 1999, or
immediately upon its adoption by the legislative bodies of all units that are
participating in the Area Planning Department, as described in § 211 of the
Area Planning Law, whichever is later.
(Ord. 99-1, passed 2-1-1999)
§ 17.31.03 WEED CONTROL BOARD.
   (A)   A weed control board is now established pursuant to I.C. 15-3-4.6-
1 and shall be known as the Boone County Weed Control Board.
   (B)   Those members of the Boone County Weed Control Board shall have all of
the powers and duties as contained in I.C. 15-3-4.6, including those powers
specifically contained in I.C. 15-3-4.6-4.
   (C)   Any person who fails to begin a program recommended by the Weed
Control Board to control and contain noxious weeds within the time period
prescribed in I.C. 15-3-4.6-6 is guilty of a Class C infraction.
   (D)   All provisions of I.C. 15-3-4.6 shall be adopted hereby and
incorporated herein.
(Ord. 82-9, passed 4-19-1982)
Editor’s note:
   Two copies of the provisions adopted by reference in this section are
available for public inspection at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer during
regular business hours.
§ 17.31.04 POLICE RESERVES.
   (A)   Enactment of this section shall create, pursuant to I.C. 36-8-3-20,
the Boone County Police Reserves, which shall be known hereinafter as the Boone
County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit.
   (B)   The maximum number of members of the Reserve Unit shall be authorized
and established by the Boone County Sheriff to fit the Department’s manpower
and staffing needs.
   (C)   Members of the Boone County Sheriff’s Reserve Unit shall not be
members of the regular Police Department, but shall have all of the same police
powers as regular members, except as may be limited by the rules of the Boone
County Sheriff’s Department.
(Ord. 82-10, passed 10-4-1982)
CHAPTER 17.32: PURCHASING PROCEDURES
Section
   
17.32.01   Purchasing Agent
   
17.32.02   Rules for purchase
§ 17.32.01 PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County hereby determines that it
is the purchasing agency for the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County, Indiana, hereby designates
the following persons to serve as purchasing agents for the county:
      (1)   Each elected county official;
      (2)   Each Circuit, Superior and County Court Judge;
      (3)   The county’s Highway Superintendent; and
      (4)   County employees as are designated from time to time, in writing.
   (C)   This section is effective upon passage and signing by the presiding
officer.
(Ord. 98-13, passed 6-15-1998)
§ 17.32.02 RULES FOR PURCHASE.
   The following are the purchasing rules for Boone County, Indiana.
   (A)   Protection of offers; status of documents as public records.
      (1)   Protection of offers prior to opening. The purchasing agent(s)
shall retain all offers received in a secure location prior to the date and
time at which offers will be opened in order to prevent disclosure of the
contents prior to the opening of the offers.
      (2)   Unobstructed evaluation of offers. After offers have been opened,
the purchasing agent(s) shall be responsible for maintaining the offers in such
a manner as to permit evaluation of the offers by the persons responsible for
evaluating the offers.
      (3)   Public records status of bids. Bids submitted in response to an
invitation for bids must be available for public inspection and copying after
the time of the bid opening.
      (4)   Register of proposals. The purchasing agent(s) shall prepare a
register of proposals for each request for proposals issued which shall contain
information concerning the proposals which are available for public inspection
and copying, as outlined by the Indiana State Purchasing Law in I.C. 5 22-9-5.
Disclosure of proposals may be performed only under the guidelines of the same
statute or as the same is amended, from time to time. Proposals may not be
disclosed.
   (B)   Discussions with offerors responding to a request for proposals. The
purchasing agent(s) may conduct discussions with, and best and final offers may
be obtained from responsible offerors who submit proposals determined to be
reasonably susceptible of being selected for a contract award.
   (C)   Delay of opening of offers.
      (1)   When the Board of Commissioners makes a written determination that
its in the county’s best interests, offers may be opened after the time stated
in the solicitation.
      (2)   The date, time and place of the rescheduled opening must be
announced at the time and place of the originally scheduled opening.
   (D)   Evidence of financial responsibility.
      (1)   Purchases less than $25,000. The purchasing agent(s) may not
require evidence of financial responsibility when the estimated cost of a
purchase is less than $25,000.
      (2)   Purchases between $25,000 and $100,000. The solicitation may
include a requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial
responsibility. If evidence of financial responsibility is required, the
solicitation must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a
bond or certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated
cost of the purchase.
      (3)   Purchases over $100,000. The solicitation shall include a
requirement that an offeror provide evidence of financial responsibility and
must indicate the kind of evidence that will be acceptable. If a bond or
certified check is required, it may not exceed 10% of the estimated cost of the
purchase.
      (4)   Small business set-asides. The purchasing agent(s) may determine
that no evidence of financial responsibility shall be required for a small
business set-aside purchase.
   (E)   Use of RFP for purchases of designated types of supplies. The county
determines that:
      (1)   When it is either not practicable or advantageous for purchasing
agents to purchase certain types of supplies by sealed competitive bidding; and
      (2)   Receiving of proposals is the preferred method for purchasing
supplies, then purchasing agent should request assistance or permission from
the Commissioners before doing so. In essence, the position of the county is to
request competitive bids, proposals or quotes, unless otherwise decided in
writing.
   (F)   General rules applicable to Boone County, Indiana. The Boone County
Commissioners, to permit those purchasing agents designated by County Ord. 98-
13, to procure day-to-day supplies necessary for operation of county government
for county government offices without having to seek extra input for such
purposes from the County Commissioners, as the designating body for purchasing
agents, (i.e. pencils, paper, notebooks, data processing supplies and the like
and, in the case of the County Highway Department, those purchases or leases
necessary for repair and maintenance of County Highways). It is the policy of
Boone County, in conjunction with the Boone County Council, that those parties
designated as purchasing agents may pursue the office supplies, as necessary,
subject to the availability of funds in their annually-approved operating
budget as approved for that particular office of county government.
   (G)   Modification and termination of contracts.
      (1)   Price adjustments. The purchasing agent(s) may include provisions
to permit price adjustments in a purchase contract. The following provisions
for price adjustments may be included.
         (a)   Price adjustments must be computed by agreement on a fixed price
adjustment before the beginning of the pertinent performance or as soon after
the beginning of performance as possible.
         (b)   Price adjustments must be computed by unit prices specified in
the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
         (c)   Price adjustments must be computed by costs attributable to the
events or situations under the clauses with adjustment of profit or fee, all as
specified in the contract or subsequently agreed upon.
         (d)   Price adjustments must be computed in such other manner as the
contracting parties may be mutually agreed upon.
         (e)   In the absence of agreement by the parties, price adjustments
must be computed by a unilateral determination by the governmental body of the
costs attributable to the events or situations under the clauses with
adjustment of profit or fee, all as computed by the governmental body in
accordance with applicable rules adopted by the governmental body.
      (2)   Adjustments in time of performance. The purchasing agent(s) may
include provisions in a purchase contract concerning adjustments for time of
performance under the contract.
      (3)   Unilateral rights of county. The purchasing agent(s) may include in
a purchase contract provisions dealing with the unilateral right of the county
to order changes in the work within the scope of the contract or to order
temporary work stoppage or delays in time of performance.
      (4)   Quantity variations. The purchasing agent(s) may include in a
purchase contract provisions dealing with variations between the estimated
quantities of work in a contract and the actual quantity delivered.
   (H)   Purchase of services.
      (1)   The county determines that each county agency, department and
office and elected county official may purchase services in whatever manner the
purchaser determines to be reasonable.
      (2)   The county purchasing agency may not require any county agency,
department or office, or any county elected official, to purchase services in
any particular manner.
         (a)   Purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States. Supplies
manufactured in the united states shall be specified for all county purchases
and shall be purchased unless the county determines that:
            (1)   The supplies are not manufactured in the United States in
reasonably available quantities;
            (2)   The prices of the supplies manufactured in the United States
exceeds by an unreasonable amount the price of available and comparable
supplies manufactured elsewhere;
            (3)   The quality of the supplies manufactured in the United States
is substantially less than the quality of comparably priced available supplies
manufactured elsewhere; or
            (4)   The purchase of supplies manufactured in the United States is
not in the public interest.
(Ord. 98-14, passed 9-8-1998)
CHAPTER 17.33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
17.33.01   Applicability
   
17.33.02   Definitions
   
17.33.03   General scope and intent; liberal construction of powers
   
17.33.04   Limitations: nonsupersession of emergency powers of County Sheriff
   
17.33.05   Limitations: nonsupersession of emergency powers of incorporated
municipalities; conformance of municipal regulations with county regulations
Organization and Administration
   
17.33.15   Boone County Emergency Management Advisory Council established:
appointment and terms of members; election of officers duties of Council
   
17.33.16   Emergency Management Agency established: organization and
constituency of the agency
   
17.33.17   Director of Emergency Management Agency: appointment, qualification
and tenure
   
17.33.18   Director of Emergency Management Agency: general powers and duties
   
17.33.19   Deputy Director: general powers and duties
   
17.33.20   Board of Commissioners: general administrative powers and duties;
tests of emergency plans
   
17.33.21   Qualifications and appointment of emergency management volunteers
   
17.33.22   Department personnel administration; status of paid employee;
establishment of merit system if Federal funding is used
   
17.33.23   Departmental budgeting and finance
   
17.33.24   Emergency operations plan: formulation, content, and adoption of
plan
   
17.33.25   Countywide jurisdiction of emergency management agency; emergency
operations plan; and related official powers
Emergency Powers Regulations, and Procedures
   
17.33.40   Applicability
   
17.33.41   Pre-disaster responsibilities of Emergency Management Agency
   
17.33.42   Special emergency powers and duties of Chief Executive Officer:
declaration of local disaster emergency
   
17.33.43   Special emergency powers and duties of Chief Executive Officer:
convention of emergency meeting of Board of Commissioners; special meeting
procedures
   
17.33.44   Special emergency powers and duties of Chief Executive Officer:
plenipotentiary powers in absence of Board quorum
   
17.33.45   Special emergency powers and duties of Board of Commissioners
   
17.33.46   Special emergency powers and duties of Director of Emergency
Management Agency; recommendations to Commissioners on special emergency
actions
   
17.33.47   Special emergency powers and duties of Director of Emergency
Management Agency; power to implement emergency plans during presumptive state
of emergency; rendering of assistance by Emergency Management Agency
   
17.33.48   General duties of county officers and employees during emergency
state
   
17.33.49   Priority of emergency orders, rules and regulations
   
17.33.50   Noncompliance with emergency orders, rules and regulations;
obstruction impersonation of emergency management authorities; penalties and
enforcement
   
17.33.51   Limitation of liability during state of emergency or emergency
management tests or exercises
   
17.33.52   Reimbursement for use of property commandeered during emergency
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 17.33.01 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter, unless otherwise indicated also apply to,
govern, and refer to §§
17.33.15 et seq. and §§
17.33.40 et seq.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER of the county as referred
to in I.C. 10-4-1-23(a) for purpose of declaring a local disaster emergency and
as referred to hereinafter means the presiding officer of the Board of
Commissioners. The presiding officer shall be considered as the regularly
designated President of the Board of Commissioners; except if he or she is
absent or incapacitated and the Board has a regularly designated President Pro
Tem, then the President Pro Tem shall be considered as the CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER. If the president is absent of incapacitated and there is no designated
President Pro Tem, then the remaining two Commissioners shall select among
themselves one to be presiding officer in the same manner as when an ordinary
business meeting needs to be conducted in the absence of the President. If both
the President and another Commissioner are absent or incapacitated, then the
remaining Commissioner shall be considered presiding officer.
   COUNCIL. Unless clearly referring to the County Council, means the Boone
County Emergency Management Agency Council as established under §
17.33.15.
   DIRECTOR. Refers to the County Director of Emergency Management Agency as
established and appointed pursuant to §
17.33.17.
   EMERGENCY. A condition resulting from natural disaster, technological
emergency, or local, state, or national incident which cannot be handled by
normal operation personnel or facilities.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The mitigation of, preparation for, response to, and
recovery from all emergency functions pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-3(l), other than
functions for which military forces or other federal agencies are primarily
responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage resulting from
disasters. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, medical and health services, rescue, engineering, warning
services, communications, radiological, chemical and other special weapons
defense, evacuation of persons from stricken areas, emergency welfare services,
emergency transportation, plan protection, temporary restoration of public
utility service, and other functions related to civilian protection, together
with all other activities necessary or incidental to the preparation for and
coordination of the foregoing functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the Emergency Management Agency including persons and private agencies or
government units offering services to the county during emergency situations or
mutual aid to other emergency services who request assistance.
   LOCAL, STATE, or NATIONAL SECURITY INCIDENT. Any condition such as terrorist
attacks, riots, strikes, insurrection or other civilian disturbances.
   NATURAL DISASTER. Any condition affecting or threatening public health,
welfare, or security as a result of flood, tornado, blizzard, or other natural
cause.
   PARTICIPATING EMERGENCY SERVICE.
      (1)   Any county department or agency designated by the Commissioners
pursuant to §
17.33.16(B)(4); and
      (2)   Any department or agency of the state, another county, a
municipality or other municipal corporation, or a volunteer organization
designated to participate in the county’s emergency management programs and
activities pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-9 and §
17.33.18(A)(5).
   PERSONNEL. County officers and employees and emergency management volunteers
unless otherwise indicated.
   TECHNOLOGICAL EMERGENCY. Incidents such as, but not limited to, severe fire,
explosions, hazardous material releases, radiological problems, communication
failure, and energy or power failures.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.03 GENERAL SCOPE AND INTENT: LIBERAL CONSTRUCTION OF POWERS.
   The general intent of this chapter is to provide for all necessary and
dispensable powers and procedures reasonably needed to prevent, cope with or
make more tolerable emergency conditions. For this and all powers, both
ministerial and discretionary, as conferred herein shall be liberally construed
and shall be construed as intending to supplement and augment, and not to
limit, any powers or reasonable exercise of discretion which may ordinarily
pertain to county officers, employees, departments, and agencies.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.04 LIMITATIONS; NONSUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF COUNTY SHERIFF.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede or delimit any statutory
powers of the County Sheriff to determine, respond to, and provide for the
control of public disasters and other emergency situations under the provisions
of I.C. 10-2-4-6 and 10-2-4-7.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.05 LIMITATIONS: NONSUPERSESSION OF EMERGENCY POWERS OF INCORPORATED
MUNICIPALITIES; CONFORMANCE OF MUNICIPAL REGULATIONS WITH COUNTY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to supercede or delimit the powers
of any incorporated municipality under I.C. 10-4-1-10 to adopt and implement
emergency plans and promulgate and enforce special emergency regulations and
procedures in the advent of an actual emergency affecting the municipality.
   (B)   However, pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-15, the regulations and procedures as
promulgated by the municipal authorities may not be inconsistent with the
county emergency management program and emergency operations plan.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 17.33.15 BOONE COUNTY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ADVISORY COUNCIL ESTABLISHED;
APPOINTMENT AND TERMS OF MEMBERS; ELECTION OF OFFICERS; DUTIES OF COUNCIL.
   In accordance with I.C. 10-4-1-10, there is established a Boone County
Emergency Management Advisory Council.
   (A)   The Boone County Emergency Management Advisory Council shall consist
of the following individuals or their designees:
      (1)   The president of the county executive;
      (2)   The president of the county fiscal body;
      (3)   The mayor of each city located in the county.
      (4)   An individual representing the legislative bodies of all towns
located within the county.
      (5)   The Sheriff of Boone County.
      (6)   A representative of law enforcement, a representative of fire
services, a representative of emergency medical services, a representative of
general industry, and a representative of general media and representatives of
such private and public agencies or organizations which can be of assistance to
emergency management as the organizing group considers appropriate, or as may
be added later by the County Emergency Management Advisory Council.
   (B)   The Advisory Council shall have a chair who shall be the President of
the County Executive, a vice-chair, recording secretary, and a vice-recording
secretary.
   (C)   With the exception of the President of the County Commissioners,
member shall be appointed to two-year terms.
   (D)   The County Emergency Advisory Management Council shall exercise
general supervision and control over the emergency management and disaster
program of the county and shall select or cause to be selected a County
Director of Emergency Management Agency who shall have direct responsibility
for the organization, administration, and operation of the emergency management
program in the county; shall be responsible to the Chair of the Emergency
Management Advisory Council; and shall not hold any other local or state
government office.
   (E)   The Advisory Council shall meet at least once quarterly.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.16 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY ESTABLISHED; ORGANIZATION AND
CONSTITUENCY OF THE AGENCY.
   (A)   There is hereby established an Emergency Management Agency within the
executive branch of the county government for the purpose of utilizing to the
fullest extend possible the personnel and facilities of existing county
departments and agencies to mitigate, prepare, respond and recover from any
emergency a defined in §
17.33.02. The County Commissioners and the Director of Emergency Management
Agency shall be responsible for the Agency's organization, administration and
operation.
   (B)   They shall consist of the following:
      (1)   An executive head of the Emergency Management Agency who shall be
known as the Director of Emergency Management Agency appointed in accordance
with §
17.33.17.
      (2)   A Deputy Director who shall be appointed by the Director with
approval of the Emergency Management Advisory Council.
      (3)   Emergency management volunteers, as deemed necessary and appointed
by the Director in accordance with §
17.33.21.
      (4)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all county departments
and agencies suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency management and designated
by the County Commissioners to participate in the emergency management
activity.
      (5)   Staff officers with responsibility for warning, communications,
radiological, health, emergency care, police, fire, light rescue, public
education and information, and transportation who may be appointed by the
Director but which positions shall be, as far as possible, additional duty
assignments to existing personnel.
      (6)   Such assistants, clerical help, and other employees as deemed
necessary to the proper functioning of the Agency who may be appointed by the
Director.
   (C)   However, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no
compensated position may be established within the Emergency Management Agency
nor any person appointed to such position without the authorization of the
County Council pursuant to I.C. 36-2-5-3(a) and the making of sufficient
appropriations to pay the compensation. This provision does not give the County
Council any power of approval over particular candidates for any position but
refers only to their general statutory powers to determine the number of
officers, deputies, and employees of county departments; classify positions;
and adopt schedules of compensation. In addition, it is also the intent of this
section that emergency management and disaster assignments shall be as nearly
consistent with normal duty assignments as possible.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.17 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT: APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS AND
TENURE.
   The Director of Emergency Management Agency shall be selected by the County
Emergency Management Advisory Council and appointed by the Board of
Commissioners. Qualifications for Director will be determined by the Emergency
Management Advisory Council with input from County Commissioners, provided that
pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-10(f), the Director may hold no other local, state, for
federal office. The appointment of Director shall be permanent unless the
County Commissioners determine the Director to be inadequate to fulfill his or
her responsibilities which shall include deliberate disregard of the directives
of superior county or state authorities or physical or mental incapacity to
perform his or her duties.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.18 DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Director, subject to the direction and control of the County
Commissioners, shall be executive head of the Emergency Management Agency and
shall have responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation
of the emergency management organization, including the following powers and
duties:
      (1)   The Director shall be responsible for public relations,
information, and education regarding all phases of emergency management.
      (2)   The Director shall be responsible for the development of a county
emergency operations plan, and upon adoption, shall be responsible for the
implementation and revision of the plan as to maintain it in a current state of
readiness at all times. Ths plan shall include all major cities and towns
within the county.
      (3)   The Director shall coordinate within Boone County all activities
for emergency management and shall maintain liaison and coordinate with all
other affected agencies, public and private.
      (4)   The Director shall coordinate the recruitment and training of
volunteer personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the
county for emergency management purposes.
      (5)   The Director may seek, negotiate, and enter into (with approval or
ratification of the Commissioners and to the extent consistent with the State
Emergency Operations Plan and program) mutual-aid arrangements with other
public and private agencies for emergency management purposes and take all
steps in accordance with the arrangement to comply with or take advantage
thereof in the event of an actual emergency affecting the parties.
      (6)   The Director may, when the offer has been approved by the Governor,
accept an offer of the Federal Government to provide for the use of the county
any services, equipment, supplies, materials, or funds for emergency management
purposes by way of gift, grant or loan.
      (7)   The Director may seek and accept from any person, firm, or
corporation any gratuitous offers to provide services, equipment, supplies,
materials, funds, or licenses, or other privileges to use real estate or other
premises to the county for emergency management purposes.
      (8)   The Director may issue proper insignia and papers to emergency
management workers and other people directly concerned with emergency
management.
   (B)   The Director, in addition to the powers and duties expressly provided
above, shall be construed to have all powers and duties of a director of a
local emergency management agency under I.C. 10-4-1. In particular, by not by
limitation, the Director, through the Emergency Management Agency, may perform
or cause to be performed with respect to the county, any function parallel or
analogous to those performed on a statewide basis by the Indiana State
Emergency Management Agency under I.C. 10-4-15.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.19 DEPUTY DIRECTOR: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   If a Deputy Director has been appointed pursuant to §
17.33.16(B)(2), he or she shall during normal times assist the Director in the
performance of his or her duties. During an emergency, the Deputy Director
shall assist the Director and fulfill the duties of the Director in the absence
or inability of the Director to serve.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.20 BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS AND DUTIES;
TESTS OF EMERGENCY PLANS.
   The powers and duties of the County Commissioners pertaining to emergency
management in time of normal county operation are to:
   (A)   Maintain general supervision over the planning and administration for
the Emergency Management Agency.
   (B)   Adopt the emergency management and disaster plans.
   (C)   As related to county forces, coordinate the emergency management
activities and make assignments of emergency management duties in order to meet
situations not covered in the normal duties and powers of such agencies. In
addition, the County Commissioners may take all necessary action to conduct
testes of the emergency management plans. Emergency management tests may be
conducted at any time with or without prior notification. All emergency tests
conducted within the boundaries of Boone County shall be coordinated with the
Emergency Management Agency and the Boone County Sheriff's Department.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.21 QUALIFICATIONS AND APPOINTMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEERS.
   (A)   The Director shall make sure that each volunteer personnel meets the
following qualifications before he or she is sworn in as a member:
      (1)   Be at least 18 years of age.
      (2)   Not be convicted of a felony.
      (3)   Complete and have on file an application form.
      (4)   Possess a high school diploma or General Equivalency Diploma (GED).
      (5)   Complete any assigned training or education.
   (B)   Upon satisfaction of the above requirements, with the approval of the
Director of the Emergency Management Agency, and following the oath as
described in I.C. 10-4-1-20(b) the applicant is officially a member of the
Boone County Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.22 DEPARTMENT OF PERSONNEL ADMINISTRATION; STATUS OF PAID EMPLOYEES;
ESTABLISHMENT OF MERIT SYSTEM IF FEDERAL FUNDING IS USED.
   In general, any paid employees of the Emergency Management Agency shall have
the same employment status and shall be governed by the same uniform personnel
policies, rules, and procedures that apply to other county employees. However,
in the event that during such time as the county emergency management program
may hereafter be directly supported by federal funding, the Board of
Commissioners shall adopt and implement a merit system applicable only to paid
employees of the Agency other than the Director. The merit system shall conform
to the standards and comply with other requirements set forth in CPA1–3:
Federal Assistance Handbook: Emergency Management Direction and Control
Programs (January 1984) or subsequent editions thereof as may be in effect at
the time.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.23 DEPARTMENTAL BUDGETING AND FINANCE.
   The Advisory Council shall advise the Director in preparation of the budget.
The County Council shall appropriate such funds as it may deem necessary for
the purpose of emergency management. All funds appropriated or otherwise
available to the Emergency Management Agency shall be administered by the
Director subject to the approval of the County Commissioners in the same manner
as provided by law or ordinance for other county funds except as otherwise
provided under §
17.33.45(B)(9) through (11).
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.24 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN: FORMULATION, CONTENT, AND ADOPTION OF
PLAN.
   (A)   A Boone County operations plan shall be adopted by resolution of the
Boone County Commissioners. In the preparation of this plan, as it pertains to
county organization, it is the intent that the services, equipment, facilities,
and personnel of all existing departments and agencies shall be utilized to the
fullest extent possible.
   (B)   The following content shall be adopted:
      (1)   Basic plan. To include:
         (a)   Purpose.
         (b)   Situation/assumption.
         (c)   Concept of operations.
         (d)   Assignment of responsibilities.
         (e)   Direction and control.
         (f)   Continuity of government.
         (g)   Administrative and logistics.
         (h)   Execution.
      (2)   Annexes. The following annexes will be required:
         (a)   Direction and control (warning and communications.)
         (b)   Radiological protection.
         (c)   Law enforcement.
         (d)   Fire and rescue.
         (e)   Health and medical.
         (f)   Welfare.
         (g)   Shelter.
         (h)   Evacuation.
         (i)   Public works.
         (j)   Resource and supply.
   (C)   In addition, all participating emergency services who develop internal
plans shall coordinate those plans with the Emergency Management Agency in
order to include those plans within the county comprehensive plan. When
approved, it shall be the duty of a county departments and agencies to perform
the functions and duties assigned by the plan and to maintain their portion of
the plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.25 COUNTYWIDE JURISDICTION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY; COUNTY
EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN; AND RELATED OFFICIAL POWERS.
   Except as provided by §§
17.33.04 and
17.33.05, the jurisdiction of the County Emergency Management Agency and the
jurisdiction and applicability of the county’s comprehensive emergency
management and disaster plan as adopted pursuant to §
17.33.24, and the exercise of any powers of the chief executive officer of the
county and the County Commissioners under §
17.33.41, shall be comprehensive and inclusive countywide and effective in both
the incorporated and unincorporated areas of the county.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
EMERGENCY POWERS, REGULATIONS, AND PROCEDURES
§ 17.33.40 APPLICABILITY.
   Sections
17.33.40 et seq. apply whenever:
   (A)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the Governor pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-7.
   (B)   A state of emergency affecting all or part of the county has been
declared by the chief executive officer of the county pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-
23(a) and §§
17.33.15 et seq.
   (C)   A presumptive state of emergency is deemed to exist affecting all or
part of the county causing the Director to invoke and implement emergency plans
and procedures in accordance with §
17.33.47.
   (D)   When the Board of Commissioners has implemented a test of the county’s
emergency plans and procedures in accordance with §
17.33.20 to the extent necessary or dispensable to the test.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.41 PRE-DISASTER RESPONSIBILITIES OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
   The Emergency Management Agency’s primary pr-disaster responsibility shall
be the warning function as prescribed in the warning plan and emergency
communications prescribed in the communications plan for the entire county
including all cities and towns.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.42 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
DECLARATION OF LOCAL DISASTER EMERGENCY.
   In the event of actual or threatened natural disaster, technological
emergency or local, state, or national security incident affecting the county,
the chief executive officer of the county may declare a local disaster
emergency pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-23(a) for any period not to exceed seven
days. The declaration shall be in writing and indicate the nature of the
disaster, the conditions which have brought it about, and the area or areas
threatened and to which the state of emergency applies (which may include the
entire county or only designated parts thereof.) The declaration shall be filed
in the offices of the County Clerk and the clerk of any incorporated
municipality included in the declared disaster area and shall be announced or
disseminated to the general public by the best means available. However, the
declaration is not invalidated nor ineffective if any of the filing and
dissemination requirements cannot be complied with due to the prevailing
adverse circumstances. Such a declaration is not necessary if the Governor,
pursuant to I.C. 10-4-1-7, has already proclaimed a statewide or area wide
state of emergency including the county.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.43 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
CONVENTION OF EMERGENCY MEETING OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS; SPECIAL MEETING
PROCEDURES.
   As soon possible after a disaster emergency affecting the county is declared
either by the Governor or by the chief executive officer of the county, the
chief executive of the county shall convene a meeting of the County
Commissioners to perform their legislative and administrative functions as the
situation may demand. If the chief executive officer fails or is unable to
perform the above duty, the meeting shall be convened by some other member of
the Board of Commissioners, or by the auditor, or the successively empowered
county officer in accordance with I.C. 36-2-2-8(a). Any such meeting of the
Commissioners shall automatically be deemed an emergency meeting subject to
only such procedural provisions of law as govern emergency meetings of the
County Commissioners including relaxation of any applicable notice requirements
pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-5(d) and may be held in any convenient and available
place. The meeting shall continue without adjournment for the duration of the
disaster emergency but may be recessed for reasonable periods of time as
necessary and permitted by the circumstances.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.44 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER:
PLENIPOTENTIARY POWERS IN ABSENCE OF BOARD QUORUM.
   In the event that a quorum of the Board of Commissioners cannot be assembled
for purposes of the meeting required under §
17.33.43, the chief executive officer of the county shall be considered a
plenipotentiary representative of the Board and shall have all powers and may
take all actions of the full Board under §
17.33.45(B)(2) through (13) until the assemblage of a quorum is possible.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.45 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS.
   (A)   At the meeting convened under §
17.33.43, the Commissioners with the consultation of the Director, may exercise
any of their normal and executive legislative powers to the extent related to
the emergency and necessary to deal therewith.
   (B)   In addition, however, they may also exercise any of the following
special and extraordinary powers:
      (1)   The Commissioners may extend the period of a state of emergency
declared by the chief executive officer pursuant to §
17.33.42 to last more than seven days if necessary.
      (2)   The Commissioners may terminate the state of emergency except for a
state of emergency proclaimed by the Governor.
      (3)   The Commissioners may order the activation and implementation of
the county’s comprehensive emergency management and disaster control plan that
has been adopted pursuant to §
17.33.24 or such several component parts thereof as may be relevant to the
emergency.
      (4)   The Commissioners may assemble and utilize emergency management
forces including personnel of the Emergency Management Agency, participating
emergency services, and any other forces at the disposal of the Commissioners
hereunder for emergency management purposes.
      (5)   The Commissioners may order volunteer forces to the aid of the
county, state, or political subdivisions thereof as soon as practicable. Those
volunteer forces will be under the direction of the Emergency Management
Agency.
      (6)   The Commissioners may, to the extent permitted by I.C. 10-4-1-25
and subject to its provisions, command service from and/or requisition the use
of equipment, facilities, supplies, or other property belonging to other
organizations, corporations, or private persons as necessary to control the
emergency and protect and provide for the public safety and welfare.
      (7)   The Commissioners may order the evacuation of all or part of the
population from stricken areas of the county and prescribe routes modes of
transportation, and destination for such evacuation.
      (8)   The Commissioners may make provision for availability and use of
temporary emergency housing, which housing need not necessarily comply with any
minimum housing standards, building or zoning regulations, etc., which would
govern the use and location of premises for housing purposes during normal
times.
      (9)   The Commissioners may suspend for the duration of the state of
emergency (or for a lesser period as they determine) any provisions of or
procedures prescribed by ordinances of the county if they would be
impracticable during the emergency, would interfere with the implementation and
carrying out of emergency plans, or would be inimical to actions necessary to
protect the public safety and welfare; provided, however, that except in
accordance with division (10), below the Commissioners may no suspend any
provisions of ordinances or procedures which are mandated by statute.
      (10)   In the event of a natural disaster, technological emergency, or
local, state, or national security incident effecting the county or when a
state of emergency has been proclaimed by the Governor, the Commissioners may
also in accordance with I.C. 10-4-1-10(l)(5) waive any procedures or
requirements of statute or of county ordinances reflecting statutory
requirements and mandates and pertaining to the appropriation and expenditure
of public funds, the incurrence of obligations, the performance of public
works, the entering into of contracts, the employment of permanent or temporary
workers or utilization of volunteer workers, the rental of equipment, or the
purchase and distribution of supplies, material, and facilities.
      (11)   The Commissioners may assign special emergency duties and
functions to any county offices, departments, and agencies irrespective of
their usual duties and functions and any unexpected and unencumbered monies
budgeted and appropriated for the operation of such offices, departments, and
agencies and not otherwise dedicated by law to different and specified purposes
may, within the scope of each major budget and appropriation category (major
object classification), be utilized and expended for the purpose of carrying
out such special emergency duties and functions.
      (12)   The Commissioners may make and promulgate such emergency
regulations as may be deemed necessary to protect life and property, preserve
order, conserve critical resources, or implement and carry out the provisions
of the county’s or state’s disaster plans including but not limited to the
power to order the roads closed, establish curfews, close businesses, or any
action that they dem necessary to save lives and recover from a declared
emergency. This power also includes the power to supplement, modify, or suspend
any general contingency regulations which may have been incorporated as part of
the county's previously adopted emergency operations plan. Any emergency
regulations adopted under this division (B)(12) shall not be effective until
promulgated, which promulgation shall be by written filing in the office of the
County Clerk as required by I.C. 10-4-1-15(b) provided, however, that should
such filing be impossible because of the emergency situation such regulations
shall be effective and enforceable notwithstanding. Such regulation shall have
the full force of law and shall be enforceable by any police officer in
accordance with I.C. 10-4-1-17.
      (13)   The Commissioners may request the state or the United States or
their agencies and political subdivisions to send aid (including financial
assistance) if the situation is beyond the control of the regular and emergency
county forces and resources.
   (C)   All actions and regulations under this section may be by executive
order and need not be made or adopted by ordinance or resolution but shall be
consistent with and subordinate to any actions, orders, or regulations made by
the Governor or state agency implementing State Emergency Operations Plan.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.46 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AGENCY; RECOMMENDATIONS TO COMMISSIONERS ON SPECIAL EMERGENCY
ACTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Director of Emergency Management Agency to make
recommendations and advise the Board of Commissioners of the chief executive
officer on any actions which it would be necessary or desirable to take under §
17.33.45 in the event of an emergency.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.47 SPECIAL EMERGENCY POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT AGENCY; POWER TO IMPLEMENT EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN DURING
PRESUMPTIVE SATE OF EMERGENCY; RENDERING ASSISTANCE BY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
AGENCY.
   In the event that an emergency clearly exists or is imminent within the
county and a state of emergency has not been declared by the Governor nor is
any person having the powers of the chief executive officer of the county
present to declare such an emergency pursuant to §
17.33.47, the Director may temporarily presume the existence of a state of
emergency even though not officially declared and may, as his or her own
judgement dictates, invoke, implement, and carry out such provisions of the
county’s adopted comprehensive emergency management and disaster plan as are
necessary to cope with the emergency and protect the public safety and welfare
and shall be construed to have all powers necessary and dispensable to doing so
to the extent not specifically limited by statute or specifically limited
herein until such time as a chief executive officer becomes available. This
section also applies to the Deputy Director to the extent that the Deputy
Director is required to assume the duties of the Director as provided by §
17.33.19 in the latter’s absence or incapacitation during the emergency.
Assistance from the Emergency Management Agency may be rendered without a
declaration of an emergency in order to assist local emergency services in time
of need.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.48 GENERAL DUTIES OF COUNTY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES DURING EMERGENCY
STATE.
   All officers and employees of the county shall cooperate with and give
active support to the County Commissioners and the County Director of Emergency
Management Agency in all emergency management operations and shall comply with
all orders of the Commissioners and County Director of Emergency Management
Agency issued pursuant to §§
17.33.40 et seq.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.49 PRIORITY OF EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   At all times when the orders, rules, and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to §§
17.33.40 et seq. shall be in effect, they supercede all existing ordinances,
orders, rules and regulations insofar as this latter may be inconsistent
therewith.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.50 NONCOMPLIANCE WITH EMERGENCY ORDERS, RULES, AND REGULATIONS:
OBSTRUCTION OR IMPERSONATION OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES; PENALTIES AND
ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever §§
17.33.40 et seq. apply as provided in §
17.33.40, it shall be unlawful and a penal ordinance violation for any person
to:
      (1)   Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay the Commissioners, the
Director of Emergency Management Agency, participating emergency services,
authorized emergency management staff of volunteers, or other authorities from
implementing, carrying out, and enforcing emergency plans and procedures;
      (2)   Fail to observe, abide by, or comply with any emergency management
duties, orders, regulations, and procedures as made applicable to such person
by the appropriate authorities; or
      (3)   Falsely wear or carry identification as a member of the County
Emergency Management Agency or to otherwise falsely identify or purport himself
or herself to be a county emergency management authority.
   (B)   Any regular or reserve police officer of the State of Indiana or any
of its political subdivisions or any member of the County Emergency Management
Agency or a participating emergency service is hereby empowered to issue and
serve a civil citation against any person found to be committing an offense
described above. Any person who commits an offense as described above shall be
liable to a fine of $2,500, such fine subject, however, to the discretion of
the court of jurisdiction.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.51 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY DURING STATE OF EMERGENCY OR EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT TESTS OR EXERCISES.
   The county, its assigned personnel, and participating emergency services
shall be held blameless and without responsibility for the loss of life or
injury to persons or the destruction of any property during an emergency as
performed under the direction of the Director of Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
§ 17.33.52 REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF PROPERTY COMMANDEERED DURING EMERGENCY.
   Owners of property commandeered for the use in any emergency by any county
official shall be reimbursed for its use by the county in a manner approved by
the County Council.
(Ord. 96-7, passed 8-5-1996)
CHAPTER 17.34: FUNDS, FEES, TAXES AND THE LIKE
Section
Funds
   
17.34.01   County funds to be disbursed by disbursing officer
   
17.34.02   Non-Reverting County Corrections Fund
   
17.34.03   Arc Rehab Services Fund
   
17.34.04   Litter Ordinance Enforcement Fund
   
17.34.05   Electronic Map Generation Fund
   
17.34.06   Boone County Enhanced Emergency Telephone System Fund
   
17.34.07   County Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund
   
17.34.08   Convention, Recreation and Visitor Promotion Fund
Fees
   
17.34.20   Enhanced emergency telephone system and related fees
   
17.34.21   Inmate medical co-payment at Boone County jail
   
17.34.22   Recording of documents
   
17.34.23   Copying fee
   
17.34.24   Electronic maps/GIS data fees
   
17.34.25   Plat book maintenance fee
   
17.34.26   County Surveyor fee
   
17.34.27   Special economic development charge
   
17.34.28   Health Department fees
   
17.34.29   County Sheriff Department firing range fee
   
17.34.30   Annual sex or violent offender registration and address change fees
   
17.34.31   Returned checks fees
Taxes
   
17.34.45   Innkeeper’s tax
   
17.34.46   Delinquency of personal property taxes
FUNDS
§ 17.34.01 COUNTY FUNDS TO BE DISBURSED BY DISBURSING OFFICER.
   (A)   A system allowing the lawful county disbursing officer to pre-pay the
following bills prior to a regularly scheduled Commissioner’s meeting shall be
adopted:
      (1)   Utility bills;
      (2)   Bond payments;
      (3)   Jail lease payments;
      (4)   Gas payments;
      (5)   Refunds;
      (6)   Juvenile grants;
      (7)   Postage;
      (8)   Approved lodging expense for county employees for attendance at
state-called meetings;
      (9)   Payments to election workers;
      (10)   Payments for emergency repairs and repairs reimbursed by
insurance;
      (11)   Payments to Motorola for radio equipment;
      (12)   Payment for recording fees;
      (13)   Payment for copies leasing expenses;
      (14)   Payment for witness fees and witness mileage for the Boone County
Prosecutor's office; and
      (15)   Drainage ditch assessments.
   (B)   The Commissioners, having jurisdiction over the allowance of the
claim, shall review and allow the claim at their next regular or special
meeting following the pre-approved payment of the expense.
(Ord. 2004-13, passed 9-20-2004; Am. Ord. 2006-03, passed - -2006; Am. Ord.
2006-08, passed - -2006; Am. Ord. 2006-18, passed - -2006; Am. Ord. 2007-7,
passed 3-5-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-13, passed 7-2-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-25, passed
12-17-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-02, passed 1-7-2008; Am. Ord. 200809, passed 8-8-
2008; Am. Ord. 2008-11, passed 9-9-2008)
§ 17.34.02 NON-REVERTING COUNTY CORRECTIONS FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby established a special Non-Reverting County Corrections
Fund for jail purposes with the County Sheriff being responsible for the day-
to-day operation of the account and being strictly accountable to County
Council, who shall remain responsible for the ultimate administration of the
NonReverting County Corrections Fund and shall have final authority over
distribution and application of any funds deposited in the Fund. The funds
shall consist of deposits received for the Department of Correction in excess
of those actual expenses incurred by the keeping of the Department of
Correction's prisoners, and such other funds as are permissible by state law.
   (B)   The Non-Reverting County Corrections Fund may be used only for funding
the operation of the county jail, county jail programs, and other local
correctional facilities. Any money remaining in the County Corrections Fund at
the end of the year shall not revert to any other fund of the county but shall
remain in the County Corrections Fund.
   (C)   The county receives the amount of $35 per day per prisoner from the
state for those individuals incarcerated on behalf of the state as
reimbursement for this service. In addition, the state pays medical costs for
those individuals. Of this per diem amount, $20 shall be allocated to the Non-
Reverting County Corrections Fund and $15 shall be allocated to the County
General Fund.
(Ord. 92-6, passed 6-8-1992; Am. Ord. 93-2, passed 2-16-1993)
§ 17.34.03 ARC REHAB SERVICES FUND.
   (A)   Pursuant to I.C. 12-29-1-1, the Board of Commissioners does hereby
authorize the continued furnishing of financial assistance to Arc Rehab
Services to operate a community mental retardation and other developmental
disabilities center in the county.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners does hereby conclude there is a continued
need for the services Arc provides in the county and that the funding for Arc
should significantly increase as no growth factor has been applied thereto for
many years and the county's present funding level does not represent a fair
share of Arc’s budget.
   (C)   The Board of Commissioners, having reviewed the funding options
available for a community mental retardation and developmental disabilities
center, does hereby request the County Council, as the county’s fiscal body, to
implement and approve an annual levy equivalent to $110,000 to provide
financial assistance to Arc for its operation of a community mental retardation
and developmental disabilities center, per I.C. 12-29-1-1(c), which amount
equals approximately 10% of Arc’s present budget, and that the levy amount, per
I.C. 6-1.1-18.5-10, be excluded from the ad valorem property tax limit
otherwise imposed on the county.
   (D)   The Board of Commissioners does hereby further request that the
foregoing levy, once enacted, be reviewed annually and adjusted consistent with
the growth factor and the objective of providing financial assistance
equivalent to 10% of Arc’s annual budget, provided Arc continues to furnish a
community mental retardation and other developmental disabilities center to
meet the need of the county’s citizens for these services.
(Ord. 2007-10, passed - -2007)
§ 17.34.04 LITTER ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   Purpose. To provide funding for the enforcement of the Litter
Ordinance.
   (B)   Creation.
      (1)   There is hereby created a special fund to be designated as the
“Litter Ordinance Enforcement Fund of Boone County, Indiana.”
      (2)   This Fund shall be a continuing fund, with all balances remaining
therein at the end of each fiscal year, and no balances shall lapse into the
county general funds or ever be diverted, directly or indirectly, in any
manner, to any other uses than for the purpose of enforcement and
administration in connection with the litter control ordinance.
      (3)   The Fund shall be comprised of revenue derived from the collection
of fines and penalties levied pursuant to the litter ordinance.
      (4)   Moneys from this Fund shall be appropriated in accordance with
procedures for expenditures of public funds.
      (5)   The Fund shall be administered by the County Auditor.
(Ord. 2002-4, passed 4-8-2002)
§ 17.34.05 ELECTRONIC MAP GENERATION FUND.
   There is hereby established a specific Electronic Map Generation Fund. The
Fund consists of those fees collected for providing an electronic map pursuant
to I.C. 5-14-3-8 and/or I.C. 5-14-3-8.5 which are collected under §
17.34.24. This Fund shall be a dedicated fund for the purposes of maintenance,
upgrading and enhancement of the electronic map, and, the reimbursement of
expenses incurred by a public agency in supplying an electronic map in the form
requested by a purchaser.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 17.34.06 BOONE COUNTY ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM FUND.
   (A)   The County Treasurer shall establish a separate fund for the deposit
of collected enhanced emergency telephone system fees.
   (B)   The Fund shall be known as the “Boone County Enhanced Emergency
Telephone System Fund”. All fees remitted by the service supplier shall be
deposited in the Fund. The County Treasurer may invest the money in the Fund in
the same manner that other money of the county may be invested. The fees
imposed in the County Enhanced Emergency Telephone System Fund shall be used
only for the payment of the following:
      (1)   The lease, purchase, or maintenance of enhanced emergency telephone
equipment, including necessary computer hardware, software, and data base
provisioning;
      (2)   The rates associated with the service suppliers’ enhanced emergency
telephone system network services; and
      (3)   The personnel expenses of the emergency telephone system.
   (C)   The County Council may appropriate money in the Fund only for such
expenditures.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 4-19-1994)
§ 17.34.07 COUNTY SEX AND VIOLENT OFFENDER ADMINISTRATION FUND.
   The county establishes a County Sex and Violent Offender Administration Fund
and the County Sheriff's Department shall deposit all funds collected for sex
or violent offender registration fees and address change fees for sex or
violent offenders into this account. The County Auditor shall monthly transfer
10% of any fees collected to the State Treasurer for deposit in the state sex
and violent offender administration fund under I.C. 11-8-8-21.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 8-13-2007)
§ 17.34.08 CONVENTION, RECREATION AND VISITOR PROMOTION FUND.
   The County Treasurer shall forthwith establish a Convention, Recreation, and
Visitor Promotion Fund. The Treasurer shall deposit in this Fund all amounts
received under this section. Money in this Fund, including but not limited to
tax receipts in §
17.34.45(A) and any accumulated income therefrom, may be expended only to
promote and encourage industrial development within the county and the
respective municipalities located therein. Expenditures of funds so collected
shall be as set forth in a budget to be submitted annually to the County
Council for its review and subject to its approval, and no expenditure may be
made using such funds unless in accordance with an appropriation made by the
County Council in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. 93-13, passed 10-19-1993)
FEES
§ 17.34.20 ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM AND RELATED FEES.
   (A)   Establishment. Under the authority of and subject to the provisions of
I.C. 36-8-16 et seq., an emergency telephone system fee is hereby established
for the funding of the installation and operation of the enhanced emergency
telephone system in the county. The fee shall be collected from the telephone
service users of the county and administered in accordance with the Indiana
Code, as outlined at I.C. 368-16 et seq., and the following terms set forth in
this section.
   (B)   Definitions.
   ENHANCED EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM. A telephone system that uses the three-
digit “911” number to send automatic number identification and automatic
location identification for reporting police, fire, medical or other emergency
situations.
   EXCHANGE ACCESS FACILITY. The access from a particular service users
premises to a telephone system, which shall include an access line; a private
branch exchange (PBX) trunk; a centrex line trunk equivalent, all of which are
provided by the service supplier; and a mobile telephone system access trunk,
whether the trunk is provided by a telephone company or a radio common carrier.
The term does not include a service supplier owned and operated telephone pay
station line; a wide area telecommunication service (WATS); a foreign exchange
(FX) line; or an incoming only line.
   SERVICE SUPPLIER. A person who provides exchange telephone service to a
service user.
   SERVICE USER. A person to whom exchange telephone service is provided.
   (C)   Monthly fee. A monthly fee of $.69 per month per telephone access line
or other exchange access facility shall be collected by the service supplier
for each month or part of a month an exchange access facility is in service as
a part of its normal billing process.
   (D)   Service supplier fee. Each service supplier that collects the enhanced
emergency telephone system fee on behalf of the county shall be entitled to a
3% administrative fee as compensation for collecting the monthly fee.
   (E)   Remittal of fee. Each service supplier shall remit all monthly fees
collected, except for the 3% administrative fee, to the County Treasurer within
10 days of the last day of each calendar year quarter. At the same time the
fees are remitted, the service supplier shall provide a fee collection report
to the County Auditor on a form approved or provided by the Auditor.
   (F)   Delinquent fee report. During January of each year, each service
supplier that collects the enhanced emergency telephone system fee for the
county shall provide a delinquent fee report to the County Treasurer. The
report shall list the name, address, and amount due from each service user who
is two or more months delinquent in paying the fee. The service supplier shall
also indicate the amount of delinquent fees for which each person included on
the list is liable.
   (G)   Commencement of fee collection. Each service supplier shall commence
collection of the enhanced emergency telephone system fee as soon as it is
administratively practicable after the effective date of this section.
   (H)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect on the
first day of the second month after its passage by the County Council as
provided by Indiana law, specifically, I.C. 36-8-16-9.
   (I)   Indiana Code controlling. This section shall be applied, construed and
administered in accordance with the I.C. 36-8-16 et seq., and any amendment
thereto. In the event that I.C. 36-8-16 et seq., shall be amended by the state
in such a manner as to become inconsistent, or cause a conflict with the
provisions of this section, then, and in that event, this section shall be
amended to include and adopt those provisions of the Indiana Code amending I.C.
36-8-16 et seq., as if the same were fully set forth and incorporated herein.
(Ord. 94-6, passed 4-19-1994)
§ 17.34.21 INMATE MEDICAL CO-PAYMENT ATT BOONE COUNTY JAIL.
   (A)   The provisions of state law pertaining to the implementation of a
Medical Co-Payment Program for county jail inmates, and the rules adopted in
conjunction therewith, as proposed and explained by the County Sheriff, are
hereby adopted as outlined in H.E.A. 1059, as passed by the 1994 Indiana State
Legislature.
   (B)   The County Sheriff shall incorporate the changes and rules necessary
to implement this program into the County Jail Inmate Handbook and provide
appropriate notice to inmates of the established co-payment charge as set forth
as part of the implementation of the Inmate Medical CoPayment Program allowed
by state law.
   (C)   The intent of this section shall follow that of the state legislation
which is to encourage inmates to assume some financial responsibility for their
health care needs when in need of medical treatment. Medical services will be
provided to inmates regardless of their ability to pay.
   (D)   The County Commissioners adopt the maximum co-payment currently
permitted under state law in the amount of $10. This amount shall apply to a
doctors visit, dentist visit, optometrist visit or any other medical related
service at the county jail.
(Ord. 94-10, passed 9-12-1994)
§ 17.34.22 RECORDING OF DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The provisions of H.E.A. 1297, as passed by the 1995 Indiana State
Legislature, pertaining to the implementation of a supplemental fee for
recording documents, and which has been presented and explained to the County
Commissioners by the County Recorder are hereby adopted by the Commissioners
acting as the legislative body of the county.
   (B)   The County Recorder shall incorporate the changes necessary to
implement this program into the County Recorders office and advise the general
public and patrons of the office of the establishment of this supplemental fee
by prominent posting in the office that the fee schedule is readily available
to the general public.
   (C)   The County Commissioners adopt the fee amount of $3 for recording a
single document.
   (D)   All revenues derived from the supplemental recording fee pursuant to
this section shall be deposited in the County Records Perpetuation Fund.
(Ord. 95-4, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 17.34.23 COPYING FEE.
   (A)   All offices of the county (not otherwise covered by statute or
ordinance) shall henceforth charge a uniform fee of $.10 per page for each
photographic/xerographic reproduction and $1 for each facsimile machine
transmission of county public records provided pursuant to any oral or written
request made of an office maintaining the public record being sought. These
fees shall apply to standard size documents of 8½" x 11" or 8½" x 14" in size.
Other documents in excess of these standard sizes shall be reproduced at their
actual cost. The procedure for requesting and the receipt of such copies is
outlined in this section.
   (B)   Those requests for copies from an office subject to this section
received through the United States mail shall be charged postage for the return
of those items requested at the prevailing rate per ounce established by the
United States Postal Service for first class postage. If the requestor provides
the appropriate amount of postage in advance with the copy request, then no
postage shall be assessed upon the request for copies.
   (C)   The fees established by this section shall not apply, nor do they
supersede, the schedules set by state law for copy or facsimile charges for
those county offices or records governed by state statute or court order as
outlined in I.C. 5-14-3-8(f). (For example, but not limited to, recording copy
fees/Clerk’s certification and/or copy fees).
   (D)   Persons requesting xerographic or facsimile copies from a county
office subject to this section, other than the Recorder or Clerk, shall
complete a written request on a form provided for such service by the county
office, which specifies with reasonable particularity the record being
requested. The completion of the written request will permit the calculation of
service fees and postage where applicable, to be accurately determined and
invoiced for providing the copy/facsimile service. Payment of the specified fee
shall be made to the county office prior to receipt of the copies requested.
Form requests for copies may be submitted at any time during the normal hours
in which the county office/agency is open for the transaction of the public's
business. (A copy of request form is attached to Ordinance 97-16 and
incorporated by reference).
   (E)   (1)   The county office/agency from which the request for copies is
made shall have a reasonable opportunity to provide the requested information,
and, shall make a reasonable effort to do so taking into consideration the
following factors: ( for example, and not limited to) available staffing,
equipment, and the volume of information requested. Compilation and copying of
public documents may not unreasonably interfere with the business of the public
agency.
      (2)   The office may not exceed 24 hours within which to provide the
requested documents pursuant to such written request as made in person. If the
request is made by United States mail, the requested copies shall be provided
within one week of the date of the receipt of the request in the office where
the records sought are kept.
      (3)   In the event an individual makes an oral request for copies, the
same may be denied orally pursuant to state law. However, if a request
initially is made in writing, or through some form of enhanced access, as
defined by state law or local ordinance, or, if an oral request that has been
denied is later renewed in writing, the county office may deny the request if:
         (a)   The denial is in writing; and
         (b)   The denial includes:
            1.   A statement of the specific exemption or exemptions
authorizing the withholding of all or part of the county public record; and
            2.   The name and the title or position of the person responsible
for the denial.
      (4)   No request for records may be denied because the person making the
request refuses to state the purpose of the request, unless such condition is
required by an applicable state or federal statute.
   (F)   In the event any county department provides information in booklet or
pamphlet form, the booklet or pamphlet shall be provided to the public at the
actual unit price or for the printing of the booklet or pamphlet rounded to the
next even dollar.
   (G)   Copy and facsimile fees collected by county offices, as required by
this section, shall be deposited with the County Auditor no less than monthly.
Form 362, “Report of Collections”, as prescribed by the State Board of
Accounts, shall be used for reporting, posting and accounting purposes of the
county office making the collections.
   (H)   Per I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), only those persons duly authorized by the county
may reproduce, store, grant access, deliver, or sell any information obtained
from a county office or department to any other person, partnership or
corporation. Information obtained from the county’s data base may not be used
for the purposes of advertising, selling or solicitation for the purchase of
goods and services or merchandise, or to sell, loan, give away, or otherwise
deliver information obtained by a copy request to any other person. A clearly
visible notice of this provision of state law shall be posted in each
department of the county and provided to the recipient requesting copies of
public information at no charge.
   (I)   A person who violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of an infraction as defined by state law and may be fined up to a maximum
amount of $2,500. Each violation of the provisions of this section shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 97-16, passed 10-14-1997)
§ 17.34.24 ELECTRONIC MAPS/GIS DATA FEES.
   (A)   The county specifically incorporates into this section those
definitions contained in I.C. 5-143-2, for purposes of this section, as pertain
to electronic data as if set forth herein as the same are currently enacted and
as may be hereinafter amended by the State Legislature, as if specifically set
forth herein. These definitions include, but are not limited to, for example:
COPY, DIRECT COST, ELECTRONIC MAP, PERSON, and ENHANCED ACCESS, as part of the
definitions in place at the time of adoption of this section.
   (B)   The County Auditor’s office, the public office that maintains and is
the principal location of the County GIS System, shall henceforth charge fees
as noted on the attached schedule for each Electronic Map/GIS data request made
by those who submit requests for such information. Written requests for such
information shall be made of the County Auditor’s office to assure proper
responses may be formulated. The procedure for requesting the public records,
as provided by Ordinance 97-16, shall be used for the request. That portion of
Ordinance 97-16, establishing the procedure for submission of written requests
for county records (herein referring and applying to electronic map(s) and /or
GIS data public records) is specifically incorporated herein as if specifically
set forth herein.
   (C)   (1)   Persons requesting copies of county electronic map(s), or other
GIS records, shall complete a written request, on a form provided for such
service by the Auditor’s office, which specifies with reasonable particularity,
the record being requested. The completion of the written request will assist
the provider in calculating service fees to be accurately determined and
invoiced for providing the electronic map(s)/data information sought. The
written request will also permit conformance with the provisions of I.C. 5-14-
3-4 pertaining to those public records excepted from disclosure requirements,
if applicable.
      (2)   Payment of the specified fee(s) must be made to the County Auditor
prior to receipt of the electronic map(s)/GIS data as requested in writing by
the applicant.
      (3)   Form requests for electronic map(s)/GIS data may be submitted at
any time during the normal hours in which the County Auditor or other county
office with GIS data access and reproduction capability, is open for the
transaction of the public's business. (A copy is attached to Ordinance 98-12
and incorporated by reference.)
   (D)   (1)   The County Auditor’s office, where the County GIS System is
physically located, (or other county offices capable of providing electronic
map(s) or GIS data access, subsequent to the adoption of this section), or,
where the request for electronic information should be made, shall make
reasonable efforts to provide the requested information as soon as possible to
the party requesting the same, taking into consideration the following factors:
for example, and not limited to, available staffing, equipment status, and the
volume of information requested.
      (2)   The office should not exceed 24 hours within which to provide the
requested electronic map(s)/GIS data and information, pursuant to such written
request as made in person, or, one week, in the event of a request made by
United States mail. Those requests for records obtained through the United
States mail shall be charged appropriate postage or express delivery charges,
at the prevailing rate per ounce established by the postal service or express
service carrier, as may be made by the request or of the data, if not otherwise
provided to the county in advance.
      (3)   In the event a person makes an oral request for electronic map(s)/
GIS data, the same may be denied orally pursuant to state law. However, if a
request initially is made in writing, or through some form of enhanced access,
as defined by state law or local ordinance, or, if an oral request that has
been denied, is renewed in writing, the county office may deny the request if:
         (a)   The denial is in writing; and
         (b)   The denial includes:
            1.   A statement of the specific exemption or exemptions
authorizing the withholding of all or part of the county public record; and
            2.   The name and the title or position of the person responsible
for the denial.
      (4)   No request for records may be denied because the person making such
request refuses to state the purpose of the request, unless such condition is
required by an applicable state or federal statute.
   (E)   The County Auditor’s office (or other county offices capable of
providing electronic map(s) or GIS data access, subsequent to the adoption of
this section) may contract with an independent service provider capable of
providing the information requested as authorized under I.C. 5-14-3-3.5, as an
additional method of providing enhanced access to public records.
   (F)   Per I.C. 5-14-3-3(e), only those persons duly authorized by the fiscal
body of the county, per local ordinance, may reproduce, store, grant access,
deliver, or sell, any information obtained from the county electronic map(s)/
GIS data, from any department or subdivision of the county to any other person.
Information obtained from the county data base of electronic map(s) and/or GIS
data shall not be used for the purposes of advertising, selling or solicitation
for the purchase of goods and services or merchandise, or to sell, loan, give
away, or otherwise deliver information obtained by a request for electronic map
(s)/GIS data to any other person. A clearly visible notice of this provision of
state law and this section shall be posted in the County Auditor’s office and
shall be provided to the recipient requesting the electronic map(s)/GIS data at
no charge.
   (G)   (1)   A person who violates the provisions of this section by using
electronic data contrary to the provisions of this section may be prohibited
from obtaining additional electronic data under the provisions of this section.
      (2)   In addition, a person who violates the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of an infraction as defined by state law and may be fined up to
a maximum amount of $2,500. Each violation of the provisions of this section
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (H)   Fees collected for electronic maps or GIS data, as required by this
section, shall be deposited with the County Auditor no less than monthly. Form
362, “Report of Collections” as prescribed by the State Board of Accounts shall
be used for reporting, posting and accounting purposes.
Electronic Maps)/GIS Data Fee Schedule
Electronic Maps)/GIS Data Fee Schedule
GIS layer reproduction charges Cost is per layer/acre       $.058
Media charges                  Cost is per visit (4mm tape) $ 9.00
                               (3.5 disk )                  $1.50
Reproduction labor/equipment   Charge per occurrence        $15.00
                               Cost per 17" x 17"           $1.90
Hardcopy plots                 Cost per 8½" x 11"          $.95
                               Cost per 24" x 36"           $3.00
                               Cost per 36" x 48"           $4.00
 
(Ord. 98-12, passed 5-12-1998; Am. Ord. 99-2, passed 2-9-1999)
§ 17.34.25 PLAT BOOK MAINTENANCE FEE.
   (A)   There is hereby established a fee in the amount of $5 for each real
property endorsement that the County Auditor makes pursuant to state law. This
fee, as outlined in I.C. 36-2-9-18(d), is in addition to any other fee provided
by state law. The County Auditor shall place the revenue received under this
collection authorization in a dedicated fund for use in maintaining the county
plat books.
   (B)   When available, the County Auditor will accept digitized plats or
surveys prepared with the use of Computer Aided Design (CAD) software programs
which are compatible with the computer hardware and software utilized by the
County Auditor’s office. When available, the Auditor may request, but may not
require, a survey, if available, to assist the Auditor’s office in entering
deeds and property transfers into the digitized records of property transfers
in the county.
   (C)   Any revisions to plats resulting from changes in measurement to the
original digitized plat book sheet, which are not attributable to county
personnel but rather to errors and/or omissions by the developer, engineer, or
individual submitting the original plat for recording and subsequent digitizing
in the county plat books, shall be borne by the individual or organization
submitting the new plat which corrects the original plat first approved for
recording purposes.
(Ord. 93-3, passed 2-16-1993; Am. Ord. 94-11, passed 9-12-1994; Am. Ord. 2003-
24, passed 12-22-2003)
§ 17.34.26 COUNTY SURVEYOR FEE.
   The fee schedule for application and inspection fees for the office of
County Surveyor are as follows:
Subdivision
Subdivision
Minor subdivision                                     
   Primary and secondary                          $250
Major subdivision                                     
   Primary                                        $500 + $15 per lot
   Secondary                                      $500 + $10 per lot
Revision – (change to an approved plat not recorded$250
Amendment – (change to recorded plat)              $250
Re-plat – (vacation of a recorded plat)            $250
 
 
Shopping Center
Preliminary Development Plan                 $1000 + $15/lot
Final Development Plan                       $1000 + $10/acre
Amendment to approved Final Development Plan $1000 + $10/acre
 
 
Planned Unit Development
Preliminary Development Plan                      $500 + $15/lot
Final Development Plan                            $500 + $10/lot
Amendment to an approved Planned Unit Development $500 + $10/lot
 
 
Development Plan Review
Preliminary Development Plan  $500 + $15/lot
Final Development Plan        $500 + $10/acre
Amendment to Development Plan $500 + $10/acre
 
 
Commercial/Industrial
Application and review $1,000 + $10/acre
 
 
Individual Residence
Regulated drain outlet              $100/outlet
Regulated drain crossing permit     $150/crossing
Regulated drain encroachment permit $150/encroachment
(Note: All fees in this section of the table can be waived or modified by the
County Surveyor and/or the County Drainage Board)
 
 
Utilities
Regulated drain crossing permit     $250/crossing
Regulated drain encroachment permit $.25/foot (minimum $250)
(Note: All fees in this section of the table can be waived or modified by the
County Surveyor and/or the County Drainage Board. All fees will be waived if
the permit is for work within a new subdivision. A new subdivision refers to a
development granted final approval by the County Area Plan Commission within
the last 24 months.)
 
 
Other
Removal of obstruction application      $25
Variance of regulated drainage easement $150
(Note: All fees in this section of the table can be waived or modified by the
County Surveyor and/or the County Drainage Board.)
 
 
Engineering Review Fees
All engineering projects will require a review fee above and beyond the
application fees. The review fee shall equate to the contract rate of the
reviewing engineer, not to exceed $110/hour. This fee shall be paid to the
office of the County Surveyor and shall be paid in full before any project
approval is given.
 
Residential
Residential
Single-family dwelling $200
Two-family dwelling    $250
Additions              $50
Accessory structures   $50
Detached garage        $50
Swimming pools         $50
Relocation             $50
 
 
Stop Work Orders
Permit re-instatement fee              Minimum $500 or two times the filing
                                       fee, whichever is greater
Continued construction after stop work $1,000 first day and up to $500 for each
order                                  additional day
 
Miscellaneous Fees
Miscellaneous Fees
Copy of County Drainage Ordinance       $25
Mylar aerial                            $1
GIS aerial                              $2
Blueprint copies – 24" x 36" and less $1.50
Blueprint copies – 36" x 48" and large$3
Returned check fee                      $30
All fees are non-refundable (unless so permitted by the County Drainage Board)
 
(Ord. 2005-02, passed 2-14-2005)
§ 17.34.27 SPECIAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CHARGE.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the county to promote and
enhance the quality of the life of the residents of the county by furthering
the development of the economic resources of the county through the attraction,
retention, and creation of suitable business investment with an emphasis on
commercial and industrial concerns that have minimal environmental impact. In
connection with this effort, it is the policy of the county to take steps to
improve the opportunities for job creation, to foster job retention, to lessen
the burden of government and to broaden the tax base through the development of
the commercial, business, and industrial potential of the county.
   (B)   It is the intent of the municipalities in the county to support
economic development and the goals set forth above by assisting the county in
the collection of charges relative to multi-family, commercial, or industrial
development within their respective jurisdictions.
   (C)   In connection therewith, the county deems it appropriate and in the
public welfare to provide for the payment of increased services from the BCEDC.
   (D)   (1)   In addition to and not as a substitution for financial
assistance and support afforded the BCEDC from the general funds of the
respective municipalities who are signatories to this section and interlocal
agreement, there is hereby established and created as a means to pay for the
services provided by the BCEDC a special “Boone County Economic Development
Service Fund” (EDS Fund) which shall serve as a depository for economic
development charges collected pursuant to this section and interlocal
agreement. The EDS Fund shall be collected by the County Auditor for plats
recorded in the Auditor’s office and by the respective municipal entities on
behalf of the county via interlocal agreement for residential, commercial and
industrial development which may occur within their respective boundaries but
without the necessity of platting in the County Auditor’s office. The
respective collectors of the charges, to-wit: the County Auditor and the
respective municipal entities (the EDS Funds collected by the County Auditor in
the case of plats recorded in the County Auditor's office, and by the
appropriate municipal entities in cases where building permits are obtained
without the necessity of platting) shall be administered/coordinated by the
County Auditor and paid directly to the BCEDC for the use, benefit, services
and mission of the BCEDC on a semi-annual basis. The respective municipal
entities shall set up their own mechanisms/funds for the purpose of collection
and receipting of the charges for delivery to and administration by the County
Auditor.
      (2)   The special economic development charge, designated as a
contribution in aid of economic development within the county and the
aforementioned municipalities, shall be and is hereby established as follows
for any commercial, industrial, office or retail development within the county:
 
Square Foot Building Charge
0 - 19,999           $100
20,000 - 49,999      $250
50,000 - 149,999     $500
150,000 - 249,999    $1,000
250,000 and above    $2,000
 
      (3)   In addition, the special economic development charge designated as
a contribution in aid of economic development within the county shall be and is
hereby established for residential development in the sum of:
         (a)   $75 per residential single-family lot. Only platted residential
developments consisting of five or more residential lots are subject to the
economic development charge.
         (b)   For residential multi-family development, such as, apartments,
condominiums and town houses, in the sum of $50 per residential living unit.
      (4)   Residential subdivisions which require platting shall have their
charges collected by the County Auditor and that commercial, industrial,
office, retail and multi-family residential development which does not
necessarily require platting shall have its economic development charge
collected on behalf of the county by the appropriate municipal entities of the
aforementioned municipalities.
   (E)   (1)   All of the aforementioned shall require the payment of the
charge either at the time of:
         (a)   Recording the plats; or
         (b)   At the time of the issuance of building permits
      (2)   The County Auditor or appropriate municipal entity of the
respective municipalities shall provide receipt evidencing payment of the
economic development charge as established under this section. All revenues
collected under this section as an economic development charge shall be
deposited into the aforementioned EDS fund, administered and coordinated by the
County Auditor, and paid directly to the BCEDC on a semi-annual basis for the
use, benefit, services and mission of the BCEDC. Until the monies are remitted
to the BCEDC, they may be invested in accordance with the laws of the state as
applicable to county and municipal governments. Any interest or other return
earned upon the investment of the funds may be utilized by the municipalities
as a means to offset any administrative expenses incurred as a result of the
collection of charges.
      (3)   Following the effective date of this section, on the first business
day on or after April 1 and October 1, the Auditor shall transmit all funds
collected by the aforementioned municipalities and the county to the BCEDC for
the purpose of providing increased services and benefits described in this
section and interlocal agreement.
   (F)   The amount of the economic development charge may be altered or
modified only by amendment of the section. Any one of the signatories hereupon
may request a formal review and evaluation of this section and interlocal
agreement by the County Commissioners by filing the request at any time. At the
time of adoption, it is the intent of the interlocal signatories hereupon that
this agreement shall remain in full force and effect for an initial term of one
year and shall be renewed annually thereafter. Should any municipality
aforementioned wish to withdraw at the end of the initial one year term or any
subsequent term, written notice of the intent shall be delivered to the office
of BCEDC at least 90 days prior to the end of the current term. A withdrawal by
one municipality shall not affect the validity of this section and interlocal
agreement as to the remaining participants and the ordinance shall continue in
full force and effect for those remaining signatories hereupon. This section
and the interlocal agreement shall automatically be renewed for subsequent one
year terms unless the County Commissioners or any of the other signatories,
after formal review and evaluation, determine that this section and interlocal
agreement should be modified or not be renewed and provide written notice of
such intent to the EDC at least 90 days prior to the end of then current term.
(Ord. 2005-23, passed 12-5-2005)
§ 17.34.28 HEALTH DEPARTMENT FEES.
   (A)   Generally. The County Board of Health is empowered to establish and
collect fees in accord with the definitions and provisions of this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. An agent in principal of the Board and Health
Officer as provided in I.C. 16-1-4-21.
   BOARD. The Boone County Board of Health as provided for in the state
statutes.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The County Health Officer as provided for in I.C. 16-1-5-2.
   (C)   Fees for services. The Board of Health having jurisdiction may charge
a service fee not in excess of the cost for providing to any person the
following services:
      (1)   Home health care as prescribed within the meaning of Section 1881
(o) of the Social Security Act for a Home Health Agency and as authorized by
the State Board of Health (I.C. 16-1-3-28).
      (2)   For any personal health service provided through the County Health
Department including, but not limited to the Chest Clinic as authorized by I.C.
16-1-4-24.
      (3)   For services provided by the County Health Department in providing
a copy of a certificate of birth and death (I.C. 16-1-4-24).
      (4)   For services provided in the inspection of public eating and
drinking establishments, retail markets, itinerant food stands, and semi-public
food service establishments to obtain a permit for license for food markets and
eating and drinking establishments as required by the Ordinance 1976-3 as
authorized by I.C. 18-1-1-5-7 and 17-2-22-2.
      (5)   For supervision and inspection of sanitary installations as
required by the Ordinance 1975-2 and HSE 25 as authorized by I.C. 17-2-22-3.
   (D)   Collection accounting and disposition.
      (1)   Collection of fees. The Board shall collect such fees established
as part of this section in accord with the schedules designated which is
attached hereto and made a part hereof.
      (2)   Accounting for fees. All fees collected by the Board shall be
accounted for in detail for each program service area.
      (3)   Disposition of fees. All fees collected by the Board shall be
transferred to the County Health Fund, the exception of those fees designated
by the Board of Health to be placed in the Gift Fund. The monies collected in
accord with the provisions of this section shall be used only for the
maintenance or future expansion of the specific program services from which
they are derived.
      (4)   Health services; fees; other county health jurisdictions. Fees
collected for health services provided individuals in other county health
jurisdictions and involving payment from county tax revenue shall be collected
in accord with an agreement pursuant to I.C. 16-1-4-22, as amended by P.L. 53,
Acts of 1974.
County Health Department
County Health Department
   Permit Fees - Environmental Division
Septic permits                             
   New septic installation permit      $150
   Septic repair to an existing septic $50
system
   Septic installer registration fee   $25
Well permits                               
   Well permit                         $30
   Well pump permit                    $20
   Well driller’s license - first lic$25e
      Each additional license       $5
Food establishment fees                    
   Restaurants                          
      1-50 seats                    $25
      51-100 seats                  $75
      More than 100 seats           $125
   Retail food permits                  
      0 - 2,999 square feet         $ 25
      3,000 - 6,999 square feet     $75
      7,000+ square feet            $125
   Catering                            $25
   Carry-out                           $25
   Bed and breakfast                   $25
   Temporary food permit               $25
*Late fees for food permits will be double the amount of the yearly permit fee
Permit Fees - Nursing and Vital Records Division
Certified death certificate               $10 first copy
                                          $6 each additional copy
Un-certified death certificate            $6 each
Certified birth certificate               $10 each
Un-certified birth certificate            $6 each
Amendment to birth certificate            $6 per amendment
Home birth registration                   $10 each
Paternity affidavit                       $10 each
Genealogy search                          $5 per name
Notary fee                                $5 per document
Injection fee                             $6
Tuberculosis skin test (PPD)              $10
Influenza vaccine injection               Current Medicare reimbursable amount
Pneumonia vaccine injection               Current Medicare reimbursable amount
Other purchased vaccines                  Cost plus injection fee
Educational instructor fee                $30 per 30 minutes per instructor
 
(Ord. 81-1, passed 2-2-1981; Am. Ord. 93-8, passed 6-7-1993; Am. Ord. 2003-13,
passed 7-7-2003; Am. Ord. 2005-12, passed 5-9-2005; Am. Ord. 2007-18, passed 8-
20-2007)
§ 17.34.29 COUNTY SHERIFF DEPARTMENT FIRING RANGE FEE.
   The County Sheriff may charge a daily fee of $25 for the use of the County
Sheriff Department's firing range. Any fees collected shall be deposited in the
commissary account for the Sheriff.
(Ord. 2007-17, passed 8-13-2007)
§ 17.34.30 ANNUAL SEX OR VIOLENT OFFENDER REGISTRATION AND ADDRESS CHANGE FEES.
   (A)   The County Sheriff’s Department is hereby authorized to charge the sum
of $50 per year for the registration of sex or violent offenders and $5 for
each time a sex or violent offender registers an address change with the County
Sheriff's Department.
   (B)   The County Council may appropriate money from the County Sex and
Violent Offender Administration Fund to defray the expense of administering or
ensuring compliance with the laws concerning the Indiana sex and violent
offender registry.
(Ord. 2007-16, passed 8-13-2007)
§ 17.34.31 RETURNED CHECKS FEE.
   (A)   The County Clerk is hereby authorized to charge the sum of $20 for
each bad or non-sufficient fund check received in payment of various items in
the Clerk’s office.
   (B)   The County Prosecutor’s office may collect as a protest fee, service
fee and/or charge an amount not to exceed the greater of $27.50 or 5% but not
more than $250 of the amount due in all matters initiated by the County
Prosecutor’s office pursuant to I.C. 35-43-5-5. Any amount of money collected
by the County Prosecutor's office than cannot be accepted by the payee of an
unpaid and dishonored check may then be deposited into the County Prosecutor's
special fee fund (a/k/a the Boone County Prosecutor’s Office’s Bad Check
Program Fund), which is identified as line item 0537-287 in the County Budget.
(Ord. 82-12, passed 10-12-1982; Am. Ord. 97-23, passed 12-1-1997; Am. Ord. 04-
04, passed 2-172004; Am. Ord. 2006-04, passed - -2006; Am. Ord. 2006-14, passed
9-18-2006)
TAXES
§ 17.34.45 INNKEEPER'S TAX.
   (A)   (1)   A tax is hereby levied on every hotel, motel, or inn engaged in
the business of renting or furnishing, for periods of less than 30 days, any
room or rooms, lodgings or accommodations located in the county.
      (2)   The tax does not apply to gross income received in a transaction in
which:
         (a)   A person rents a room, lodgings or accommodations for a period
of 30 days or more; or
         (b)   A person rents an apartment or residence on a tenancy of less
than a month-to-month basis.
      (3)   The tax shall be levied at the rate of 5% on the gross retail
income derived from lodging income only and is in addition to the state gross
retail tax imposed under I.C. 6-2.5.
      (4)   The tax shall be reported on forms approved by the County Treasurer
and shall be paid monthly to the County Treasurer not more than 20 days after
the end of the month in which the tax is collected.
   (B)   All of the provisions of I.C. 6-2.5 relating to rights, duties,
liabilities, procedures, penalties, definitions, and administration are
applicable to the imposition and administration of the tax imposed under this
section except to the extent those provisions are in conflict or inconsistent
with the specific provisions of this section or the requirements of the County
Treasurer.
   (C)   Any entity, person, corporation, or other business described in
division (A) of this section shall begin collection of the tax imposed by this
section on December 1, 1993.
   (D)   Any entity, person, corporation or other business combination who
receives a transfer of money collected under this section and knowingly uses
that money for any purpose not permitted under this section commits a Class D
felony.
(Ord. 93-13, passed 10-19-1993)
§ 17.34.46 DELINQUENCY OF PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES.
   The County Treasurer shall be directed to provide written notification of
delinquencies of personal property taxes, both by regular mail and through
publication in local newspapers serving the county to those individuals and
entities that are delinquent in the payment of personal property taxes by at
least three installments as of the previous year’s November installment or
earlier installments in the payment of the personal property taxes.
(Ord. 97-24, passed 12-1-1997)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
17.50.   SOLID WASTE
      
17.51.   SEWERS
      
17.52.   WELLS, PUMPS AND GEOTHERMAL HEAT PUMP SYSTEMS
      
17.53.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 17.50: SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
17.50.01   Solid Waste Management District
Solid Waste, Hazardous Waste
   
17.50.20   Short title
   
17.50.21   Definitions
   
17.50.22   Listing of hazardous waste
   
17.50.23   Transport permit and transport vehicle license requirements
   
17.50.24   Hazardous waste facility standards
   
17.50.25   Solid waste landfill standards
   
17.50.26   Facility permits
   
17.50.27   Public notice, comment and hearing
   
17.50.28   Inspection and investigation
   
17.50.29   Enforcement
   
17.50.30   Transportation and Facility Special Fund
   
17.50.31   Delegation of functions and duties
   
17.50.32   Incorporation by reference
 
   
17.50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 17.50.01 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County, pursuant to the provisions
of House Enrolled Act 1240 of the 106th General Assembly of the State of
Indiana designated as I.C. 13, do now form a solid waste management district to
be known as the Boone County Solid Waste Management District, organized in
compliance with the provisions of the law, and to perform all of the functions
authorized and directed by the law, as it is now promulgated or as same may
hereafter be modified by judicial decision or legislative amendment.
   (B)   The Board of Commissioners is hereby authorized to enter into the
operation of the District which may from time to time be amended as needed and
which agreement shall guide the District in the performance of the
responsibilities imposed by the laws of the State of Indiana and the United
States of America as they are from time to time deemed necessary by the
governing board of the District to be composed in accordance with House
Enrolled Act 1240 of the 106th General Assembly of 1990 of the State of Indiana
and I.C. 13 and all other laws applicable.
(Ord. 91-3, passed 7-1-1991)
SOLID WASTE, HAZARDOUS WASTE
§ 17.50.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the Waste Transportation and Facility
Ordinance of Boone County, Indiana.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.21 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person who makes application for a permit or license under
this subchapter.
   BOARD. The Board of County Commissioners of Boone County, Indiana.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, injection, spilling, leaking or placing of any
waste into or on any land or water so that such waste or any constituent
thereof may enter the environment or be emitted into the air or discharged into
any waters, including ground waters.
   FACILITY. All contiguous land and structures, other appurtenances and
improvements on the land, used for treating, storing or disposing of waste.
   FREE LIQUIDS. Liquids which readily separate from the solid portion of a
waste under ambient temperature and pressure.
   GROUND WATER. Water below the land surface in a zone of saturation.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste on the listing of hazardous wastes compiled and
maintained by the Health Department in accordance with §
17.50.22.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. Any facility within the boundaries of Boone
County, Indiana, that treats, stores or disposes of more than 1,000 kilograms
of hazardous waste in any 30 consecutive day period.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Board of Health of Boone County, Indiana.
   LANDFILL. A facility or part of a facility where waste is intentionally
placed into or on any land.
   LANDFILL CELL. A discrete volume of a landfill which uses a liner or other
methods to provide isolation of wastes from adjacent cells or wastes. Examples
of LANDFILL CELLS are trenches and pits.
   LEACHATE. Any liquid, including any suspended components in the liquid, that
has percolated through or drained from waste.
   LINER. A continuous layer of natural or man-made materials, beneath or on
the sides of a landfill or landfill cell, which restricts the downward or
lateral escape of waste, waste constituents or leachate.
   ON-SITE. The same or geographically contiguous property which may be divided
by public or private right-of-way, provided the entrance and exit between the
properties is at a cross-roads intersection, and access is by crossing as
opposed to going along, the right-of-way. Non-contiguous properties owned by
the same person, but connected by a right-of-way which he or she controls and
to which the public does not have access, is also considered on-site property.
   OPERATOR. The person responsible for the overall operation of a facility.
   OWNER. The person who owns a facility or part of a facility.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, municipal
corporation, city, school city, town, school town, school district, school
corporation, county, any consolidated unit of government, political
subdivision, state agency or any other legal entity.
   RUN-OFF. Any rainwater, leachate or other liquid that drains over land from
any part of a facility.
   SATURATED ZONE or ZONE OF SATURATION. That part of the earth’s crust in
which all voids are filled with water.
   SLUDGE. Any septic tank pumpings or any solid, semi-solid or liquid waste
generated from a municipal, commercial or industrial wastewater treatment
plant, water supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility exclusive
of the treated effluent from a wastewater treatment plant.
   TRANSPORT VEHICLE. A motor vehicle or rail car used for the transportation
of cargo by any mode. Each cargo-carrying body (trailer, railroad freight car
and the like) is a separate transport vehicle.
   TRANSPORTATION. The movement of waste by air, rail, highway or water.
   TRANSPORTER. A person engaged in the off-site transportation of waste by
air, rail, highway or water.
   WASTE. Solid waste or hazardous waste or any combination of solid waste and
hazardous waste.
   (B)   Other terms not defined in this section shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in state law, or if not defined there, then the meaning
ascribed by common usage.
   (C)   In this subchapter, the present tense includes the past and future
tenses and the future tense the present unless otherwise provided. The singular
includes the plural and the plural the singular.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.22 LISTING OF HAZARDOUS WASTE.
   (A)   Hazardous waste determination. The Health Department shall find a
waste to be hazardous if the waste:
      (1)   Presents an immediate or persistent hazard to man or wildlife;
      (2)   Is resistant to natural degradation or detoxification; or
      (3)   Is bioconcentrative, flammable, reactive, toxic, corrosive or
infectious in addition to any other harmful characteristic.
   (B)   Designated hazardous waste. The Health Department shall designate as
hazardous waste the following:
      (1)   Any waste which when submitted to the extraction procedure set
forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, Appendix II, produces an extract that contains a
substance at a concentration that is ten times higher than the concentration of
that substance permitted in drinking water used for human consumption by
federal regulation (40 C.F.R. part 141, subpart B) or state regulation.
      (2)   Any waste which:
         (a)   Is generated at a municipal sewage treatment plant that does not
have in place a pretreatment program in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 403;
         (b)   Contains polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) on a dry-weight basis
at a concentration of ten mg/kg (parts-per-million or ppm) or higher;
         (c)   Contains on a dry-weight basis more than:
            1.   Five hundred ppm lead;
            2.   Five hundred ppm chromium (total); or
            3.   One hundred ppm cadmium.
         (d)   Contains less than 30% solids; or
         (e)   Poses a risk to the public health because of the pathogens
present in the waste.
      (3)   Any leachate from a facility if hazardous waste is treated, stored
or disposed of in the facility.
   (C)   Hazardous waste list. The Health Department, no later than 30 days
after the effective date of this subchapter, shall compile and maintain and
thereafter semi-annually update a listing of wastes which have been determined
to be hazardous:
      (1)   As provided for in divisions (A) and (B) above;
      (2)   By regulation of the United States Environmental Protection Agency;
or
      (3)   By regulation of the Indiana Environmental Management Board.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.23 TRANSPORT PERMIT AND TRANSPORT VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Transport permit requirement. It shall be unlawful within the
boundaries of Boone County, Indiana, for any person to:
      (1)   Transport more than 50 cubic yards of solid waste in any seven-
consecutive day period to a hazardous waste facility without holding a valid
transport permit issued by the Board;
      (2)   Transport any hazardous waste to a hazardous waste facility without
holding a valid transport permit issued by the Board; and
      (3)   Accept waste from a transporter if the transporter is not in
compliance with the requirements of divisions (A)(1) and (2) above.
   (B)   Transport vehicle license requirement.
      (1)   (a)   Each transport vehicle operated by a person subject to the
requirements of division (A) above shall hold a transport vehicle license from
the Board.
         (b)   There shall be displayed on both side of any such transport
vehicle the following placard: “Boone County, Indiana, licensed transport
vehicle No. _______ (year).”
      (2)   The numbers and letters used in such a placard shall not be less
than two inches high.
   (C)   Application for transport permit. All persons shall make application
for a transport permit 90 days in advance of the proposed start of operation
unless a shorter time is approved by the Board. An application for renewal of a
permit shall be made 60 days prior to the expiration date of the permit.
   (D)   Application for transport vehicle license. Applications for transport
vehicle license for new transport vehicles or replacement of existing transport
vehicles shall be submitted to the Board 30 days before the intended use of the
transport vehicle unless a shorter time is approved by the Board.
   (E)   Permit and license issuance.
      (1)   Transport permit. The Board shall not issue a permit unless it
finds that:
         (a)   The transport vehicles, other transportation equipment and
transporting procedures of the applicant are such that transportation of waste
to a hazardous waste facility within Boone County, Indiana, will not pose an
unreasonable risk to the public health or public safety; and
         (b)   The applicant has committed in writing to maintain for each
transport vehicle insurance against liability for damages sustained by a person
other than an employee of the applicant within the following minimum coverage:
$1,000,000 for the injury or death of any person as a result of an accident and
$250,000 for property damage. Any insurance policy shall be written by a
company authorized to do business in the State of Indiana.
      (2)   Transport vehicle license. A license for a transport vehicle shall
be issued if the applicant operates the transport vehicle and holds a valid
transport permit issued by the Board.
      (3)   Permit conditions and denial. A permit issued under this section
shall contain such terms and conditions as are deemed necessary by the Board to
protect the public health and the environment. In the event a permit
application is denied, the Board shall send written notice by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the applicant and shall set forth the reasons for
the action.
   (F)   Recording and reporting.
      (1)   Any person whose transportation of waste is subject to the
provisions of this section shall keep records of all transportation and
disposal of such wastes within Boone County, Indiana. These records shall
include the date, source of waste, quantity, type and the point and method of
disposal. These reports shall be submitted to the Board once per month and
shall be submitted prior to the fifteenth day of the following month.
      (2)   The permittee shall be required to retain for a minimum of three
years any records of transport activities subject to the provisions of this
section.
      (3)   With respect to wastes subject to the provisions of this section,
the permittee shall submit to the Board any manifest or other report required
by 40 C.F.R. part 263 or by state law by the fifteenth day of the month
following that month in which the manifest or other report was first prepared.
   (G)   Duration. A permit or license under this section shall be issued for a
period not to exceed one year.
   (H)   Non-transferability. No permit or vehicle license granted under this
section shall be valid in case of transfer.
   (I)   Fees.
      (1)   A fee of $200 will be charged and collected by the Board for each
permit when application is made under this section, the fee to include the
charge for issuance of a transport permit and one vehicle transport license. A
fee of $50 will be charged for each additional transport vehicle license issued
to a permittee. There shall be no refund of any application fee if a permit
should be denied.
      (2)   A fee of $.10 shall be charged for each cubic yard of waste
transported in Boone County, Indiana, which is subject to the requirements of
this section. This fee shall be collected by the operator of the hazardous
waste facility upon receiving waste subject to the requirements of this section
and remitted at the end of each month to the Board together with the reports
required hereby.
      (3)   The fee herein shall not be charged for any waste transported to
any state, county or municipally owned and operated landfill in Boone County,
Indiana.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.24 HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Federal, state or local approvals and permits for a hazardous waste
landfill notwithstanding, within the boundaries of Boone County, Indiana, there
shall be no disposal of hazardous waste within:
      (1)   Three hundred yards of any stream, creek or other surface water;
      (2)   Five hundred yards of any well which is used to provide water for
human consumption;
      (3)   Five hundred yards of any church or school grounds; or
      (4)   Two hundred yards of any dwelling without the written consent of
the occupant and owner of the dwelling.
   (B)   A hazardous waste landfill shall comply with all requirements hereof.
   (C)   (1)   An owner or operator of a hazardous waste facility shall furnish
prior to treatment or disposal of a waste at the facility sufficient analyses
for each such waste to enable the Board to determine:
         (a)   At what level any priority pollutant designated as toxic in §
307(a) of the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), is present in
the hazardous waste;
         (b)   If the waste is reactive, corrosive or ignitable; or
         (c)   If the waste is infectious.
      (2)   The Board may order an owner or operator to provide additional
analysis for this waste or to provide samples of the waste for analysis.
   (D)   Solid waste and hazardous waste shall not be disposed of in the same
landfill cell without the prior written consent of the Board. In the event that
the Board determines that hazardous waste must be segregated, the same shall be
placed in a landfill cell which uses a liner to provide isolation of wastes
from adjacent cells or wastes. The design of the landfill liner shall reflect a
consideration of:
      (1)   The physical and chemical characteristics of the wastes in the
landfill;
      (2)   The pressure head of leachate on the liner;
      (3)   Climatic conditions in the area;
      (4)   The permeability of the liner material, including compaction
density and moisture content where earthen materials are present;
      (5)   The physical and chemical properties of the soil underlying the
landfill that supports any emplaced liner; and
      (6)   The potential for damage to the liner system that could occur
during installation of any emplaced liner.
   (E)   A hazardous waste facility shall not operate without a leachate and
run-off control system which reduces to the extent technically feasible any air
and water pollution. The design of such a leachate and run-off control system
shall reflect a consideration of:
      (1)   The physical and chemical characteristics of the waste in the
facility;
      (2)   Climatic conditions in the area;
      (3)   The volume of leachate or contaminated run-off that could be
produced at the facility; and
      (4)   The available options for controlling any leachate or contaminated
run-off that is collected at the facility.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.25 SOLID WASTE LANDFILL STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. The standards set forth in this section are for use in
determining whether a solid waste landfill poses a reasonable probability of
adverse effects on the public health or the environment. A landfill failing to
satisfy these standards poses a reasonable probability of adverse effects on
the public health and the environment and is to be considered an open dump. No
permit shall be issued by the Board to an open dump.
   (B)   Floodplains.
      (1)   A landfill shall not restrict the flow of the base flood, reduce
the temporary water storage capacity of the floodplain or result in washout of
solid waste, so as to pose a hazard to human life, wildlife or land or water
resources.
      (2)   As used in division (B)(1) above:
      BASE FLOOD. A flood that has a 1% or greater chance of recurring in any
year or a flood of a magnitude equaled or exceeded once in 100 years on the
average over a significantly long period.
      FLOODPLAIN. The lowland and relatively flat areas adjoining surface
waters which are inundated by the base flood.
      WASHOUT. The carrying of solid waste by waters of the base flood.
   (C)   Species depletion.
      (1)   A landfill shall not cause or contribute to the taking, injury or
unreasonable depleting of plants, fish or wildlife.
      (2)   The operation of a landfill shall not result in the destruction or
adverse modification of the habitat of species.
      (3)   As used in this section, DESTRUCTION OR ADVERSE MODIFICATION means
a direct or indirect alteration of critical habitat which appreciably
diminishes the likelihood of the survival and recovery of species using this
habitat.
   (D)   Surface water. With respect to streams, creeks and other surface
waters wholly or partially within the boundaries of Boone County, Indiana, a
landfill shall not:
      (1)   Cause a discharge of pollutants into those waters;
      (2)   Cause a non-point source discharge of pollutants into those waters;
and
      (3)   As used in this section, POLLUTANT means any concentration of a
substance that is 100 times higher than:
         (a)   Any water quality criterion established for that substance by
the United States Environmental Protection Agency (§ 304 of the Clean Water
Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1314); or
         (b)   Any water quality standard established by the State of Indiana.
   (E)   Ground water.
      (1)   A landfill shall not contaminate ground water beyond the boundary
specified herein.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified, the outermost perimeter of the ground
water boundary for a landfill shall be defined by existing monitoring wells at
the landfill. The Board may, upon request, extend the boundary to the outermost
perimeter of the solid waste as it would exist at completion of the disposal
activity if the owner and operator of the landfill agree to relocate the ground
water monitoring wells to that location.
      (3)   CONTAMINATE, as used in this section, means introducing a substance
that would cause the concentration of that substance in the ground water to
exceed any drinking water standard established by the State of Indiana or any
National Interim Primary Drinking Water Standard (40 C.F.R. part 141, subpart
B) and National Secondary Drinking Water Standard (40 C.F.R. part 143)
established by the United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   (F)   Disease.
      (1)   The landfill shall minimize the on-site population of rodents,
flies and mosquitoes capable of transmitting disease to humans through periodic
application of cover materials or other techniques as determined by the Board
to be appropriate to protect the public health.
      (2)   A landfill shall not receive sludge from a municipal sewage
treatment plant unless that sludge:
         (a)   Is treated by a process determined by the Board to reduce the
pathogens significantly prior to disposal; and
         (b)   Is placed in a trench or other natural or man-made depression
and covered with soil or other suitable material at the end of each operating
day so that the wastes do not migrate to the surface.
      (3)   Upon request, the Board may issue a variance, not to exceed one
year, from the requirements hereof if it is demonstrated that; because of
quantity, quality and other characteristics of the sludge, disposal would not
pose any unreasonable public health risk.
   (G)   Air. The landfill shall not engage in open burning of waste.
   (H)   Safety. A landfill shall not:
      (1)   Pose a hazard to the safety of persons or property from fire;
      (2)   Pose a bird hazard to aircraft; or
      (3)   Allow uncontrolled public access so as to expose the public to
potential health and safety hazards at the disposal site.
   (I)   Operating times. A landfill shall only operate from 6:00 a.m. to 8:00
p.m. It shall not receive any waste on Sunday. Upon request, the Board may
issue a variance, not to exceed one year, from these operating time limitations
if it is established that the variance would not pose any unreasonable health
risk.
   (J)   Special requirements for liquid waste.
      (1)   Bulk or non-containerized liquid waste or waste containing free
liquids must not be placed in a landfill unless:
         (a)   The landfill has a liner which is chemically and physically
resistant to the added liquid, and a functioning leachate collection and
removal system with a capacity sufficient to remove all leachate produced; and
         (b)   Before disposal, the liquid waste or waste containing free
liquids is treated or stabilized, chemically or physically, so that free
liquids are no longer present.
      (2)   A container holding liquid waste or waste containing free liquids
must not be placed in a landfill unless:
         (a)   The container is designed to hold liquids or free liquids for a
use other than storage, such as a battery or capacitor; or
         (b)   The container is very small, such as an ampule.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.26 FACILITY PERMITS.
   (A)   Facility permit required. No person shall cause or allow the operation
of a landfill or hazardous waste facility within the boundaries of Boone
County, Indiana, without first obtaining a permit from the Board. Provided,
however, that any person who operates any such facility on the effective date
of this subchapter may continue to operate that facility if he or she submits
an application to the Board within 30 days from the effective date of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Permit application.
      (1)   Within 30 days after receiving an application for a permit, the
Board shall determine whether the application is complete and, if incomplete,
request the additional information needed to complete the application. The
applicant shall then complete the application within 30 days of the Board’s
request for additional information and, if the application is not completed as
requested, the permit shall be deemed denied. Completed applications shall be
considered pursuant to the provisions hereof.
      (2)   Each completed application to the Board must include:
         (a)   The applicant’s name and address;
         (b)   A brief description of the affected facility and the treatment,
storage or disposal activities at the facility;
         (c)   A complete copy of each application for a permit or license for
the facility filed with federal, state or local authorities in the five years
prior to the date of application hereunder;
         (d)   A copy of all permits issued to the facility by federal, state
or local authorities in the five years prior to the date of application
hereunder;
         (e)   The data, information and any representations of the owner and
operator required to demonstrate that the applicant's facility complies with
all applicable standards under this subchapter;
         (f)   Any other data or information requested by the Board in
reviewing the permit application; and
         (g)   The following statement signed by the owner and operator of the
facility or his, her or its authorized representative:
            “We certify under penalty of law that we have personally examined
and are familiar with the information submitted in this demonstration and all
attached documents, and that, based on inquiry of those individuals immediately
responsible for obtaining this information, we believe that the submitted
information is true, accurate and complete. We further acknowledge and
recognize responsibility for the operation of the facility in accordance with
the plans, specifications and descriptions of the project filed as support for
the issuance of any permit or license for the facility.”
   (C)   Other information. Any data and other information required under this
subchapter may be filed in the form used to obtain other necessary permits and
certificates so as to minimize duplication in the development and presentation
of the documentation.
   (D)   Issuance of permit.
      (1)   All permit applications shall be reviewed pursuant to the notice
comment and hearing procedures set forth herein.
      (2)   A permit for a hazardous waste facility shall be issued to an
applicant upon presentation of evidence of:
         (a)   Compliance with the provisions hereof;
         (b)   Compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and
regulations concerning hazardous waste; and
         (c)   Construction of the facility in accordance with all applicable
federal and state construction permits.
      (3)   A permit for a solid waste landfill shall be issued to an applicant
upon presentation of evidence of:
         (a)   Compliance with the provisions hereof;
         (b)   Compliance with all applicable federal and state laws and
regulations concerning solid waste; and
         (c)   Construction of the landfill in accordance with all applicable
federal and state construction permits.
      (4)   A permit issued under this section shall contain such terms and
conditions as are deemed necessary by the Board to protect the public health
and the environment. In issuing permits under this section, the Board may
require a solid waste landfill or hazardous waste facility to install and
operate leachate and run-off control systems or pollution control devices or
systems in accordance with a schedule of compliance set forth in the permit, or
to take such other action as the Board shall deem necessary to protect the
public health and environment in accordance with a schedule of compliance;
provided, however, that the failure or refusal of a permittee to comply with
the provisions of such a schedule of compliance shall be deemed a violation of
the permit and shall subject the permit to revocation and provided, further,
that any schedule of compliance set forth in any permit shall specify the
shortest reasonable time for completing the actions set forth in the schedule
of compliance.
   (E)   Denial of permit. In the event a permit application is denied, the
Board shall send written notice by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the applicant and shall set forth in the notice the reasons for the action.
   (F)   Amendment, modification, revocation or suspension of a permit.
      (1)   The Board may amend, modify, revoke or suspend any issued permit
for cause, including, but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Violation of any condition or provision of said permit or
failure to comply with any final order of the Board;
         (b)   Failure to comply with any applicable provision of this
subchapter;
         (c)   Obtaining a permit by misrepresentation or failure to disclose
fully all relevant facts; or
         (d)   Where the permitted facility poses a threat to the public health
or the environment.
      (2)   In the event of amendment, modification, revocation or suspension
of any permit, the Board shall serve written notice by certified mail, return
receipt requested, on the permit holder and shall set forth in such notice the
reasons for the actions.
   (G)   Transfer of permit. No person shall cause or allow any change in the
ownership, including partial changes in ownership, or operational control of
any permitted facility without obtaining the approval of the Board. An
application for transfer shall be submitted to the Board jointly by the
existing owner(s) and operator(s) and the prospective owner(s) and operator(s),
and the application shall be signed by all parties. The existing permittee
shall be subject to these rules and conditions of the permit until the Board
approves the transfer. For the purposes of this section, the Board may effect
the transfer by nullifying the existing permit and issuing a new permit.
   (H)   Duration of and reissuance of permit. Permits issued by the Board
pursuant to this section shall be effective for a fixed term not to exceed two
years. Application for re-issuance of the permit shall be submitted to the
Board no later than 120 days prior to the expiration date specified in the
permit.
   (I)   Recording and reporting.
      (1)   Any person treating, storing or disposing of waste at a hazardous
waste facility shall make a record of the following information as it becomes
available:
         (a)   A description and the quantity of each hazardous waste received,
and the method and date of its treatment, storage or disposal at the facility;
and
         (b)   The location of each hazardous waste within the facility and the
quantity at each location.
      (2)   This information shall be submitted in the form of reports to the
Board once per month and shall be submitted prior to the fifteenth day of the
following month and shall be furnished to the Board upon request.
   (J)   Fees.
      (1)   A fee of $2,500 will be charged in connection with each permit
application for a hazardous waste facility. A fee of $1,000 will be charged in
connection with each permit application for a solid waste landfill. No
application fee shall be refunded if a permit application is denied. A fee of
$500 and $250 shall be charged for each permit issued to a hazardous waste
facility and solid waste landfill, respectively.
      (2)   A fee of $0.10 shall be charged for each cubic yard of waste
treated, stored or disposed of at a hazardous waste facility. This fee shall be
collected by the operator of the hazardous waste facility upon receiving the
waste and remitted at the end of each month to the Board together with the
reports required hereby. The fees assessed in this section are in addition to
any other fees assessed under this subchapter.
      (3)   Agencies or instrumentalities of federal, state or local
governments will not be required to pay any fee in connection with a facility
permit, and the fee in division (J)(2) above shall not be charged for any waste
disposed of at any state, county or municipally owned and operated facility in
Boone County, Indiana.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.27 PUBLIC NOTICE, COMMENT AND HEARING.
   (A)   Public notice. The Board shall give public notice of every completed
permit application within 30 days after the application is complete. Public
notice shall be circulated in a manner designed to inform interested and
potentially interested persons of the application by at least the following
means:
      (1)   Notice shall be circulated within the geographical area of the
affected facility by publishing in local newspapers and periodicals, or, if
appropriate, in a daily newspaper of general circulation; except that in all
cases public notice of hearings shall be published in at least one newspaper of
general circulation within the geographical area of any affected facility; and
      (2)   Notice shall be mailed to the applicant, all property owners within
1/4 mile of any affected facility and any person or group upon request. For
purposes of giving notice to property owners, the most recent records of the
township assessors shall be deemed to disclose those entitled to receive
notice.
   (B)   Public notice contents. The contents of public notice of an
application shall include at least the following:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of Board office;
      (2)   Name and address of each applicant;
      (3)   Brief description of each applicant's activities or operations;
      (4)   Name of waterways near any affected facility;
      (5)   A brief description of the procedures for the formulation of final
determinations, including the 30-day comment period required hereby and any
other means by which interested persons may influence or comment upon those
determinations; and
      (6)   Address and phone number of premises at which interested persons
may obtain further information.
   (C)   Public comment. After notice is given of a completed application for a
permit, the Board shall provide a period of not less than 30 days following the
date of the public notice during which time interested persons may submit their
written views concerning the application or request that a hearing be held. All
written comments submitted during the 30-day comment period shall be retained
by the Board and considered in the formulation of a final determination with
respect to the application. Extensions of time for the receipt of comment
following the end of the comment period may be granted by the Board when the
public interest warrants.
   (D)   Public hearings.
      (1)   The Board shall provide an opportunity for the applicant or any
interested agency, person or group of persons to request or petition for a
public hearing with respect to permit applications. Any such request or
petition for public hearing shall be filed within a 30-day period, following
issuance of public notice in accordance with this subchapter, and shall
indicate the interest of the party filing the request and the reasons why a
hearing is warranted. The Board shall hold a hearing with respect to any permit
application for a hazardous waste facility, and for any other permit
application if there is a significant public interest (including the filing of
requests or petitions for the hearing) in holding such a hearing. Instances of
doubt will be resolved in favor of holding the hearing.
      (2)   A hearing shall be scheduled not less than five, nor more than
eight, weeks after the agency determines the necessity of the hearing, and
shall be noticed at least 30 days prior to the hearing in the same manner as
the public notice on an application.
   (E)   Contents of notice of public hearing. The contents of public notice of
any hearing shall include at least the following:
      (1)   Name, address and phone number of the Board;
      (2)   Name and address of each applicant whose application will be
considered at the hearing;
      (3)   Names of waterways near the affected facility;
      (4)   A brief reference to the public notice issued for each application,
including the date of issuance;
      (5)   Information regarding the time and location for the hearing;
      (6)   The purpose of the hearing;
      (7)   A concise statement of the issues raised by the persons requesting
the hearing;
      (8)   Address and phone number of premises at which interested persons
may obtain further information, request when applicable a copy of each draft
permit, and inspect and copy forms and related documents; and
      (9)   A brief description of the nature of the hearing, including the
rules and procedures to be followed.
   (F)   Combined notice. The Board may include in any notice of application
for a permit hereunder a notice of hearing in accordance herewith whether or
not any request for the hearing shall have been submitted to it.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.28 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Right of entry. The Board or its authorized representative, upon
presentation of credentials, or by directive of the Board, shall have a right
to enter upon, to or through premises, public or private, subject to this
subchapter, or premises whereon violation of this subchapter is reasonably
believed to be occurring or is reasonably believed to be about to occur, to
investigate, take samples, copy all records related to waste, and inspect for
compliance with the requirements imposed under this subchapter, or to determine
whether such a violation or threatened violation exists, in accordance with the
following purposes:
      (1)   For the purposes of determining whether any person is subject to
the requirements of this subchapter, or whether any person subject to the
requirements of this subchapter is in compliance with this subchapter;
      (2)   For the purpose of investigating conditions relating to waste
management practices where the Board is in possession of information sufficient
to form a reasonable belief that a violation of this subchapter is occurring or
is about to occur; or
      (3)   For the purpose of determining whether there has been a violation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter or any permit or order issued
pursuant to this subchapter.
   (B)   Conduct of inspection and sampling.
      (1)   Each such investigation or inspection shall be completed with
reasonable promptness.
      (2)   If the Board or its authorized representative obtains any sample
prior to leaving the premises, he or she shall give to the owner, operator or
agent in charge a receipt identifying the sample obtained and, if requested, a
portion of the sample equal in volume or weight to the portion retained. If any
analysis is made of the sample, a copy of the results of the analysis shall be
furnished promptly to the owner, operator or agent in charge.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.29 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Board shall administer and enforce this subchapter. This
subchapter shall be enforced by injunction of the Circuit Court upon proof of
its violation by a mere preponderance of the evidence.
   (B)   The Board shall report any alleged violation of this subchapter to the
Prosecuting Attorney for Boone County, Indiana, who shall promptly cause
proceedings to be commenced against the alleged violator of this subchapter and
to prosecute the matter to final determination.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.30 TRANSPORTATION AND FACILITY SPECIAL FUND.
   The fees collected hereunder shall be used to help defray the cost of
administering the regulatory provisions set forth in this subchapter. All such
fees shall be remitted by the officials collecting the same to the County
Treasurer, and credited to a special account of Boone County, Indiana, to be
created by the County Auditor and to be known as the Transportation and
Facility Special Fund.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.31 DELEGATION OF FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Delegation of functions. The Board may, by resolution, delegate the
performances of particular functions, such as the issuance of permits, to the
Health Department or an authorized representative thereof.
   (B)   Transfer of powers. The Board may, by resolution, transfer any powers
or duties vested in it under this subchapter to the Health Department or an
authorized representative thereof.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.32 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   Any federal or state statute, regulation or document referenced or cited in
this subchapter is incorporated by reference as it existed on the effective
date of this subchapter. Two copies of all such materials are on file for
public inspection in the office of the Clerk of the Board.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982)
§ 17.50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
17.50.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
17.50.20 et seq., or violates any determination or order of the Board, shall be
liable for a penalty not to exceed $2,500 per day of violation, which may be
recovered in a civil action commenced in any court of competent jurisdiction by
the Board.
      (2)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
17.50.20 et seq. shall be deemed to have committed a misdemeanor and, on
conviction thereof, shall be subject to a penalty of fine of not more than
$2,500 for each violation.
(Ord. 81-3, passed 3-1-1982
CHAPTER 17.51: SEWERS
Section
Sewage Disposal
   
17.51.01   Purpose
   
17.51.02   Definitions
   
17.51.03   Private sewage disposal systems
   
17.51.04   Requirements for permits
   
17.51.05   Drainage requirements
   
17.51.06   Powers of inspection
   
17.51.07   Registration of engineers, land surveyors, installers and builders
 
   
17.51.99   Penalty
SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 17.51.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter regulates sewage disposal and associated drainage systems
and provides for penalties for violations.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 5-16-1994)
§ 17.51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership or corporation.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any sewage disposal facility owned by a
municipality or sanitary district and shall include septic tanks, aeration
treatment tanks, finger systems or private utilities charging fees or
assessments, a sewage disposal system operated by a municipality or a sanitary
district.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sewer that is connected to a sewage disposal system
operated by a municipality or a sanitary district.
   SEVERE SOIL LIMITATIONS. Those soils defined by the National Cooperative
Soil Survey of Boone County, that are unsuitable for septic tank and absorption
field installation unless a method of correcting the limitation can be
implemented.
   SEWAGE. Any combination of human excretion, waste water and refuse liquids
from water closets, laundries, sinks, bathing facilities and other sources.
   SEWER. A pipe for carrying sewage.
   SOIL PROFILE ANALYSIS. The observation and evaluation of the physical
characteristics of the soil horizons or layers to a depth of at least five feet
or, if shallower, to a layer which cannot be readily penetrated.
   SOIL SCIENTIST. An individual with a baccalaureate degree with a major in
agronomy, soils or closely allied field of science who is proficient in the
application of the principles of pedology to soil classification,
investigation, education and consultation and on the effect of measured,
observed and inferred soil properties and their use.
   SUB-SURFACE DRAINAGE. A planned system of drainage designed to lower the
watertable of the soil. The system shall consist of field tile either of clay,
concrete, perforated plastic or other material which allows ground water to
enter the system. This tile shall be not less than 24 inches below ground level
at any point and should be at least 30 inches below ground levels or more in
areas of the septic absorption field.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 5-16-1994)
§ 17.51.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   (A)   All persons constructing private sewage disposal systems, whether as
owner or lessee shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter for private
sewage disposal systems.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
County of Boone, State of Indiana, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
county, any sewage.
   (C)   All business buildings situated within Boone County not connected to a
public sewer shall be served with a private sewage disposal system which
complies with the standards of the Indiana State Board of Health as contained
in 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1. Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1 is attached hereto and made a part
hereof.
   (D)   No privies shall be permitted except on a temporary basis and then
only by special permit. All such privies shall comply with Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-
8.1, a copy of which is attached hereto and made a part hereof.
   (E)   All residential buildings not connected to a public sewer shall have
private sewage disposal systems built according to the standards set out in
Rule 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1, a copy of which is attached hereto and made a part
hereof.
   (F)   All business and residential buildings shall connect to a public sewer
located within 100 feet within 180 days after it is first available, unless the
building is connected to a package treatment plant using aeration and activated
sludge if the system has been approved by the Indiana State Board of Health.
The private sewage disposal system shall be filled in a safe and sanitary
manner.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 5-16-1994)
§ 17.51.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   General. Before the commencement of construction of a new
building or of a private sewage disposal system for an existing building, the
owner or his or her agent must submit, in writing, an application and other
information outlined in this section. Fees for services as out lined in the fee
schedule shall be paid at the time of application. The permit fee only shall be
returned if the permit for construction is not granted. No private sewage
disposal system permit shall be given final approval until the drainage
required by this subchapter, as shown on the site development plan, is
installed unless the owner or his or her agent can show cause why the drainage
cannot be installed at that time due to weather conditions or crop planting and
growing conditions. In this case, a maximum of 90 days will be granted for the
installation of the drainage required by this subchapter and shown on the site
development plan after final approval of the improvements on the site is
granted by the Health Officer.
      (2)   Procedures for obtaining on-site sewage disposal permits for new
construction.
         (a)   The owner or his or her agent must obtain a soil report from the
Soil Conservation Service to determine the soil types on the property. After
receiving the Soil Conservation Service soil and water conservation plan, the
Health Department should be contacted for an on-site soil evaluation. The
Health Department will make its best effort to schedule the evaluation within
the next five business days, weather permitting. If qualified staff members are
available, the Boone County Health Department will provide soil profile
analysis information required under Indiana State Board of Health Rule 410
I.A.C. 6-8.1 for a fee as outlined in the fee schedule. If the Health
Department does not have qualified staff to preform the analysis or the
sanitarian determines that a professional report is necessary, the owner must
have a soil scientist submit a written report concerning the soil profile
analysis in the area of the proposed absorption field. Soil analysis work will
not be preformed when the temperature or wind chill factor is 20 degrees or
below. In case of rain, the Health Department should be contacted to confirm or
reschedule the on-site analysis. This will be up to the Sanitarian's
discretion. The owner or his representative should be on-site for the
evaluation.
         (b)   If the system is to be located on soils that are rated severe
due to a seasonally high water table, a sub-surface drain will be required
around the perimeter of the absorption field. The drain must outlet into an
existing, working tile, open drain, pond or natural waterway. If an adequate
outlet is not available on the property, a drainage easement from the property
line to an adequate outlet must be obtained, recorded and a copy submitted with
the plot plan.
         (c)   Once it is determined the site can support a septic system, a
plot plan should be obtained. The Health Department will mail to the owner or
their representative a letter which will outline the requirements for the
system. The plan must be certified (stamped and signed) by a registered
engineer, land surveyor, architect or qualified persons registered hereunder.
         (d)   Finally, the applicant should submit the plot plan, drainage
easement (if applicable), completed application and fee to the Health
Department.
      (3)   Procedures for obtaining septic system repair permits.
         (a)   The owner or his or her agent must submit a drawing including
the following:
            1.   Scale arrow north;
            2.   Dimensions of lot;
            3.   Location of all existing/proposed structures;
            4.   Location of all existing driveways and the like;
            5.   Location of any legal drains;
            6.   Location of well;
            7.   Location of proposed septic system; and
            8.   Distance from septic system to:
               a.   House;
               b.   Well;
               c.   Tile, drain, stream (if applicable); and
               d.   Property lines.
         (b)   System repairs shall be made in accordance with the best
judgement of the Boone County Health Department except that the alterations
shall not be contrary to 410 I.A.C. 6-8.1, § 31(a), and no portion of a soil
absorption system shall be constructed to a depth greater than 48 inches below
the ground surface.
   (B)   The county’s Health Officer or his or her agent may inspect the work
at any stage of construction. The owner or his or her agent shall notify the
county’s Health Officer when the work is ready for inspection. If the county’s
Health Officer or his or her agent find that the sewage system has not been
constructed in accordance with the standards established by this subchapter, he
or she shall order the corrections as are necessary to bring the system into
compliance.
   (C)   No private sewage disposal system shall serve more than one single
structure, unless the county’s Health Officer finds that the system is of
sufficient capacity.
   (D)   All components of a private sewage disposal system shall be maintained
in good working order at all times.
   (E)   No part of a private sewage disposal system shall be located closer
than ten feet to a drain tile, legal ditch or drain.
   (F)   After the specified date upon which this subchapter takes effect, the
Health Officer shall not issue permits for the installation of private sewage
disposal systems in those areas designated “severe soil one imitations” unless
methods for correcting the limitations, such as sub-surface drainage, can be
implemented.
   (G)   The soil type shall be determined by the National Cooperative Soil
Survey of Boone County as prepared by the United States Department of
Agriculture Soil Conservation Service in cooperation with Purdue University.
   (H)   If soils are rated severe by the United States Department of
Agriculture Soil Conservation Service, the septic tank size must be at least
1,250 gallons for any home with under five bedrooms.
   (I)   All plastic sewer pipe used in septic systems shell meet the standards
set forth in 410 I.A.C. 68.1, § 42.
   (J)   A permit for the installation of a private sewage disposal system,
whether issued prior to or after the adoption of this subchapter, shall lapse
and be void if work has not started within 180 days and completed within one
year after its issuance.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 5-16-1994)
§ 17.51.05 DRAINAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   A site development plan and area drainage map, which may include
one or more lots, containing the information required in this section shall be
submitted to the Boone County Drainage Board, or its designated appointee
hereinafter called appointee, for approval to the issuance of an improvement
location permit.
      (2)   The site development plan shall show the following:
         (a)   Location of all existing and proposed buildings or mobile homes
on the site or adjacent thereto;
         (b)   All existing or proposed roads, rights-of-way, building set-
backs, drainage easements or utility easements;
         (c)   Legal description;
         (d)   Existing and proposed elevations, referenced to a semi-permanent
bench mark with an assumed elevation of 100 feet. The low point for surface
drainage on the property shall be let out;
         (e)   Cross sections or open ditch outlets and invert elevations of
tile outlets, shall be shown;
         (f)   Proposed location of tile, as required in division (C) below;
and
         (g)   Scale and north arrow.
   (B)   The area drainage map shall show the following:
      (1)   Drainage area;
      (2)   Size and location of any legal court drain which will be affected
by the proposed building. No permanent structure shall be erected within 75
feet of any legal drain without the consent of the Boone County Drainage Board.
The 75 feet shall be measured at right angles from the existing top edge of
each bank of a legal open ditch, as determined by the County Surveyor;
      (3)   Size and location of an outlet, as defined herein, to which the
water from the proposed building sites will be taken;
      (4)   Location of existing or proposed septic tank and disposal field;
      (5)   Cross sections of open ditch outlets and invert elevations of tile
outlets, shall be shown;
      (6)   Proposed location of tile, as required herein; and
      (7)   Scale and north arrow.
   (C)   The appointee must inspect and approve all proposed or actual
connections into any outlet. The seller, developer or applicant for an
improvement location permit shall uncover necessary tile-lines showing proposed
connections and outfall, before the appointee makes his or her initial
inspection; and all actual connections, into an outlet, as defined herein,
shall be left uncovered until approved by the appointee, or a minimum of two
working days has elapsed after written notice has been received by the
appointee’s office. A working day is calendar day exclusive of Saturday, Sunday
and county recognized legal holidays.
   (D)   (1)   All lots requiring sub-surface drainage will be connected into a
working drain, hereinafter called an outlet, of the following type:
         (a)   Existing tile drain;
         (b)   Legal court drain;
         (c)   Natural watercourse;
         (d)   Storm sewers; and
         (e)   Existing open ditch.
      (2)   Whenever a tile drain is required to reach an outlet, the size of
the tile shall be determined by the Yarnell-Woodard formula based on 3/4-inch
drainage coefficient as defined in the United States Department of Agriculture
Bulletin Number 654, a copy of which is attached hereto and made a part hereof,
and is on file in the office of the county’s Auditor and the county’s Health
Board for public inspection.
   (E)   If, and when, lateral tile is installed to drain an individual lot, it
shall be installed no closer than ten feet to any septic finger system.
   (F)   Any tile in working condition that is cut through or otherwise
disturbed will be reconstructed around the construction area, subject to the
approval by the appointee.
   (G)   Houses will not be constructed in natural drainageways unless measures
satisfactory to the Boone County Drainage Board are used to by-pass the water
around the building site by means of an artificial channel or a suitable outlet
to prevent water from ponding around the home site during run-off periods.
Detailed drawings of the diversion channel are to be included with the drainage
plan.
   (H)   A surface vent or catch basin may be required if deemed necessary by
the appointee.
   (I)   It shall be the responsibility of the person who is subdividing for
the purpose of residential development on one or more lots, sites or parcels of
land to provide an approved sub-surface drainage outlet to the property line of
the parcel to be used as a residential lot. For the purposes of this division,
the term SUBDIVIDING shall mean the division of any parcel of land into two or
more parcels, sites or lots.
   (J)   Any decision of the appointee in the enforcement of this section may
be appealed to the Boone County Drainage Board by any person claiming to be
adversely affected by the decision.
   (K)   Any parcel of land to which a plat, deed or contract for purchase has
been officially recorded by the Recorder of Boone County prior to the enactment
of this subchapter shall be excluded from the requirements hereof.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 5-16-1994) Penalty, see §
17.51.99 
§ 17.51.06 POWERS OF INSPECTION.
   The Boone County Health Officer, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing necessary to carry out the
provisions of §§
17.51.02 and
17.51.03. The appointee of the Boone County Drainage Board, bearing proper
credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing necessary to carry
out the provisions of §
17.51.05.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 5-16-1994)
§ 17.51.07 REGISTRATION OF ENGINEERS, LAND SURVEYORS, INSTALLERS AND BUILDERS.
   (A)   The Boone County Health Officer shall maintain a list of registered
engineers, land surveyors and architects or other persons who are qualified by
experience and/or educational background to provide plot plans for septic
system approval. Any registered engineer or land surveyor, or qualified persons
may be placed on this list upon approval by the Health Board of Boone County by
filing with the Board his or her name, address, telephone number and a listing
of his or her educational and/or experience qualifications.
   (B)   The Boone County Health Officer shall maintain a list of qualified
septic system installers. Any person, partnership or corporation shall be
placed upon this list by the Health Officer of Boone County by filing his or
her name, address and telephone number with the office of the Health Officer.
   (C)   The person, partnership or corporation shall be notified not less than
30 days in advance by registered mail of any hearing regarding his or her
removal from the respective lists by the Board of Health of Boone County.
   (D)   No persons, except registered engineers and land surveyors shall
perform any surveying or engineering duties under this subchapter unless he or
she is properly registered hereunder. No person shall install private sewage
disposal systems unless he or she is properly registered hereunder.
(Ord. 94-7, passed 5-16-1994)
§ 17.51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
17.10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provision of §§
17.51.03 or
17.51.04 shall be served by the Health Officer of Boone County with a written
order stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time, but
no exceeding 90 days, for its correction, which written order shall be duly
served either by certified mail or personal service by the Health Officer of
Boone County. Any person found to be violating any provision of §
17.51.05 shall be served by the appointee with a written order stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time, but not exceeding 90
days, for its correction, which written order shall be duly served either by
certified mail or personal service by appointee.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation of this subchapter
beyond the time limit provided for in division (B)(1) above shall, for the
first offense, be fined not more than $100; for the second offense, be fined
not more than $500; and for the third and each subsequent offense of not more
than $1,000. As an additional remedy, the Boone County Health Board may bring
suit to enjoin the violation of §§
17.51.03 or
17.51.04 and the Boone County Drainage Board may bring suit to enjoin the
violation of §
17.51.05.
CHAPTER 17.52: WELLS, PUMPS AND GEOTHERMAL HEAT PUMP SYSTEMS
Section
   
17.52.01   Adoption by reference
§ 17.52.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   Ordinance 94-12, regulating the installation, construction, and maintenance
of wells, pumps and geothermal heat pumps systems, copies of which are on file
in the office of the county board of commissioners, is adopted and incorporated
as part of this code of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 94-12, passed 9-19-1994)
CHAPTER 17.53: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
17.53.001   Authority and title
   
17.53.002   Applicability and exemptions
   
17.53.003   Background
   
17.53.004   Findings
   
17.53.005   Purpose
   
17.53.006   Abbreviations
   
17.53.007   Definitions
   
17.53.008   Responsibility for administration
   
17.53.009   Conflicting ordinances
   
17.53.010   Interpretation
   
17.53.011   Disclaimer of liability
Prohibited Discharges and Connections
   
17.53.020   Applicability and exemptions
   
17.53.021   Prohibited discharges and connections
   
17.53.022   Exempted discharges and connections
   
17.53.023   Storage of hazardous or toxic material
   
17.53.024   Private property maintenance duties
   
17.53.025   Spill reporting
   
17.53.026   Inspection and monitoring
Stormwater Quantity Management
   
17.53.035   Applicability and exemptions
   
17.53.036   Policy on stormwater quantity management
   
17.53.037   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
17.53.038   Drainage easement requirements
   
17.53.039   Placement of utilities
   
17.53.040   Structures near county-regulated drains
   
17.53.041   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Pollution Prevention for Construction Sites
   
17.53.050   Applicability and exemptions
   
17.53.051   Policy on stormwater pollution prevention
   
17.53.052   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
17.53.053   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Stormwater Quality Management for Post-Construction
   
17.53.065   Applicability and exemptions
   
17.53.066   Policy on stormwater quality management
   
17.53.067   Calculations and design standards and specifications
   
17.53.068   Easement requirements
   
17.53.069   Inspection, maintenance, record keeping, and reporting
Permit Requirements and Procedures
   
17.53.080   Conceptual drainage plan review
   
17.53.081   Permit procedures
   
17.53.082   Information requirements
   
17.53.083   Review of individual lots within a permitted project
   
17.53.084   Changes to plans
   
17.53.085   Fee structure
   
17.53.086   Required assurances
   
17.53.087   Terms and conditions of permits
   
17.53.088   Certification of as-built plans
Enforcement
   
17.53.100   Compliance with this chapter
   
17.53.101   Stop work order
   
17.53.102   Failure to comply or complete
   
17.53.103   Suspension of access to the storm drain system
   
17.53.104   Corrective action
   
17.53.105   Appeals
 
   
17.53.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Permit approval process
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 17.53.001 AUTHORITY AND TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted in accordance with statutory authority granted
under I.C. 36-9-27.29, and further is required by Phase II of the National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System program (FR Doc. 99-29181) authorized by
the 1972 amendments to the Clean Water Act, the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management’s Rule 13 (327 I.A.C. 15-13), and the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management’s Rule 5 (327 I.A.C. 15-5). Based on
this authority and these requirements, this chapter regulates:
      (1)   Discharges of prohibited non-stormwater flows into the storm drain
system.
      (2)   Stormwater drainage improvements related to development of lands
located within Boone County.
      (3)   Drainage control systems installed during new construction and
grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (4)   Erosion and sediment control systems installed during new
construction and grading of lots and other parcels of land.
      (5)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater drainage
facilities and systems.
      (6)   The design, construction, and maintenance of stormwater quality
facilities and systems.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Boone County
Stormwater Management Ordinance.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.002 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall regulate all development and redevelopment
occurring within Boone County. No building permit shall be issued and no land
disturbance started for any construction in a development, as defined in §
17.53.007, until the plans required by this chapter for such construction have
been accepted in writing by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor. With the exception of the requirements of §§
17.53.020 through
17.53.026 and §
17.53.083 of this chapter, single-family dwelling houses in accepted
subdivisions, new buildings (or building additions) with less than 500 square
feet of area, and land-disturbing activities affecting less than 10,000 square
feet of area shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter. Also exempt
from this chapter shall be the agricultural land-disturbing activities.
   (B)   Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor Projects
shall be exempt from obtaining permit, but are expected to meet all applicable
technical requirements of this chapter and the Boone County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   Any construction project which has had its final drainage plan
accepted by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor within
a two-year period prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be exempt
from all requirements of this chapter that are in excess of the requirements of
ordinances in effect at the time of acceptance. Such an exemption is not
applicable to the requirements detailed in §§
17.53.020 through
17.53.026 of this chapter.
   (D)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor has the
authority to modify, grant exemptions, and/or waive any and all the
requirements of this chapter and its associated technical standards document. A
pre-submittal meeting with the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor may be requested by the applicant to discuss the applicability of
various provisions of the chapter and its associated technical standards
document with regards to unique or unusual circumstances relating to a project.
However, any initial determination of such applicability shall not be binding
on future determinations of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor that may be based on the review of more detailed information and
plans.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.003 BACKGROUND.
   (A)   The Board of Commissioners of Boone County, State of Indiana, on April
21, 1997 adopted Ordinance No. 97-6 which established “Boone County Ordinance
#97-6: Storm Drainage, Erosion and Sediment Control”, commonly known as the
“Boone County Drainage Code”, in order to govern the control of runoff of
stormwater and to protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of the
land in Boone County and its water resources. This code was primarily targeted
at stormwater discharge quantity, and erosion and sediment control.
   (B)   On December 8, 1999, Phase II of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit program, was published in the Federal
Register. The NPDES program, as authorized by the 1972 amendments to the Clean
Water Act, controls water pollution by regulating point sources that discharge
pollutants into waters of the United States. Phase II of NPDES requires permit
coverage for stormwater discharges from regulated small municipal separate
storm sewer systems (MS4s) and for small construction activity that results in
the disturbance of equal to or greater than one acre. This federal regulation
went into affect March 10, 2003. In response to Phase II of NPDES, the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management enacted Rule 13 (327 I.A.C. 15-13) and
revised Rule 5 (327 I.A.C. 15-5).
   (C)   Under these new state and federal regulations, Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor is required to establish a regulatory
mechanism for regulating stormwater quality management. Therefore, the “Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor Drainage Code” was replaced
with this chapter to include stormwater quality in addition to quantity.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.004 FINDINGS.
   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor finds that:
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within, and
downstream of Boone County are at times subjected to flooding;
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the region;
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, increased flooding,
increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport and
deposition;
   (D)   Soil erosion resulting from land-disturbing activities causes a
significant amount of sediment and other pollutants to be transported off-site
and deposited in ditches, streams, wetlands, lakes, and reservoirs;
   (E)   Increased stormwater runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff from future development projects
within Boone County will, absent reasonable regulation and control, adversely
affect Boone County's water bodies and water resources;
   (F)   Pollutant contributions from illicit discharges within Boone County
will, absent reasonable regulation, monitoring, and enforcement, adversely
affect Boone County's water bodies and water resources;
   (G)   Stormwater runoff, soil erosion, non-point source pollution, and
illicit sources of pollution can be controlled and minimized by the regulation
of stormwater management;
   (H)   Adopting the standards, criteria, and procedures contained and
referenced in this chapter and implementing the same will address many of the
deleterious effects of stormwater runoff and illicit discharges;
   (I)   Adopting this chapter is necessary for the preservation of the public
health, safety, and welfare, for the conservation of our natural resources, and
for compliance with state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.005 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of Boone County through the regulation of
stormwater and non-stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system and to
protect, conserve and promote the orderly development of land and water
resources within Boone County. This chapter establishes methods for managing
the quantity and quality of stormwater entering into the storm drain system in
order to comply with state and federal requirements. The objectives of this
chapter are:
   (A)   To reduce the hazard to public health and safety caused by excessive
stormwater runoff;
   (B)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from construction site runoff;
   (C)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drain system
from runoff from new development and redevelopment;
   (D)   To prohibit illicit discharges into the storm drain system; and
   (E)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, monitoring,
and enforcement procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.006 ABBREVIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall apply.
   (A)   BMP. Best management practice.
   (B)   COE. United States Army Corps of Engineers.
   (C)   CWA. Clean Water Act.
   (D)   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   (E)   GIS. Geographical Information System.
   (F)   IDEM. Indiana Department of Environmental Management.
   (G)   MS4. Municipal separate storm sewers.
   (H)   NRCS. USDA-Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   (I)   NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System.
   (J)   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   (K)   SWCD. Soil and Water Conservation District.
   (L)   SWPPP. Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.
   (M)   USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
   (N)   USFWS. United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGRICULTURAL LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Tillage, planting, cultivation, or
harvesting operations for the production of agricultural or nursery vegetative
crops. The term also includes pasture renovation and establishment, the
construction of agricultural conservation practices, and the installation and
maintenance of agricultural drainage tile. For purposes of this chapter, the
term does not include land disturbing activities for the construction of
agricultural related facilities, such as barns, buildings to house livestock,
roads associated with infrastructure, agricultural waste lagoons and
facilities, lakes and ponds, wetlands, and other infrastructure.
   BASE FLOW. Stream discharge derived from groundwater sources as
differentiated from surface runoff. Sometimes considered to include flows from
regulated lakes or reservoirs.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. Design, construction, and maintenance practices
and criteria for stormwater facilities that minimize the impact of stormwater
runoff rates and volumes, prevent erosion, and capture pollutants.
   BUFFER STRIP. An existing, variable width strip of vegetated land intended
to protect water quality and habitat.
   CAPACITY (OF A STORM DRAINAGE FACILITY). The maximum flow that can be
conveyed or stored by a storm drainage facility without causing damage to
public or private property.
   CATCH BASIN. A chamber usually built at the curb line of a street for the
admission of surface water to a storm drain or subdrain, having at its base a
sediment sump designed to retain grit and detritus below the point of overflow.
   CHANNEL. A portion of a natural or artificial watercourse which periodically
or continuously contains moving water, or which forms a connecting link between
two bodies of water. It has a defined bed and banks which serve to confine the
water.
   COMPREHENSIVE STORMWATER MANAGEMENT. A comprehensive stormwater program for
effective management of stormwater quantity and quality throughout the
community.
   CONSTRUCTED WETLAND. A man-made shallow pool that creates growing conditions
suitable for wetland vegetation and is designed to maximize pollutant removal.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Land disturbing activities, and land disturbing
activities associated with the construction of infrastructure and structures.
This term does not include routine ditch or road maintenance or minor
landscaping projects.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE ACCESS. A stabilized stone surface at all points of
ingress or egress to a project site, for the purpose of capturing and detaining
sediment carried by tires of vehicles or other equipment entering or exiting
the project site.
   CONTIGUOUS. Adjoining or in actual contact with.
   CONTOUR. An imaginary line on the surface of the earth connecting points of
the same elevation.
   CONTOUR LINE. Line on a map which represents a contour or points of equal
elevation.
   CONTRACTOR OR SUBCONTRACTOR. An individual or company hired by the project
site or individual lot owner, their agent, or the individual lot operator to
perform services on the project site.
   CONVEYANCE. Any structural method for transferring stormwater between at
least two points. The term includes piping, ditches, swales, curbs, gutters,
catch basins, channels, storm drains, and roadways.
   CROSS SECTION. A graph or plot of ground elevation across a stream valley or
a portion of it, usually along a line perpendicular to the stream or direction
of flow.
   CULVERT. A closed conduit used for the conveyance of surface drainage water
under a roadway, railroad, canal or other impediment.
   DECHLORINATED SWIMMING POOL DISCHARGE. Chlorinated water that has either sat
idle for seven days following chlorination prior to discharge to the MS4
conveyance, or, by analysis, does not contain detectable concentrations (less
than 0.05 milligram per liter) of chlorinated residual.
   DESIGN STORM. A selected storm event, described in terms of the probability
of occurring once within a given number of years, for which drainage or flood
control improvements are designed and built.
   DETENTION. Managing stormwater runoff by temporary holding and controlled
release.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the flow of
stormwater to a prescribed maximum rate, and to detain concurrently the excess
waters that accumulate behind the outlet.
   DETENTION STORAGE. The temporary detaining or storage of stormwater in
storage facilities, on rooftops, in streets, parking lots, school yards, parks,
open spaces or other areas under predetermined and controlled conditions, with
the rate of release regulated by appropriately installed devices.
   DETENTION TIME. The theoretical time required to displace the contents of a
tank or unit at a given rate of discharge (volume divided by rate of
discharge).
   DETRITUS. Dead or decaying organic matter; generally contributed to
stormwater as fallen leaves and sticks or as dead aquatic organisms.
   DEVELOPER. Any person financially responsible for construction activity, or
an owner of property who sells or leases, or offers for sale or lease, any lots
in a subdivision.
   DISCHARGE. Usually the rate of water flow. A volume of fluid passing a point
per unit time commonly expressed as cubic feet per second, cubic meters per
second, gallons per minute, or millions of gallons per day.
   DISPOSAL. The discharge, deposit, injection, spilling, leaking, or placing
of any solid waste or hazardous waste into or on any land/or water so that the
solid waste or hazardous waste, or any constituent of the waste, may enter the
environment, be emitted into the air, or be discharged into any waters,
including ground waters.
   DITCH. A man-made, open watercourse in or into which excess surface water or
groundwater drained from land, stormwater runoff, or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
   DRAIN. A buried slotted or perforated pipe or other conduit (subsurface
drain) or a ditch (open drain) for carrying off surplus groundwater or surface
water.
   DRAINAGE. The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land by
means of ditches or subsurface drains. Also see NATURAL DRAINAGE.
   DRAINAGE AREA. The area draining into a stream at a given point. It may be
of different sizes for surface runoff, subsurface flow and base flow, but
generally the surface runoff area is considered as the drainage area.
   DRY WELL. A type of infiltration practice that allows stormwater runoff to
flow directly into the ground via a bored or otherwise excavated opening in the
ground surface.
   DURATION. The time period of a rainfall event.
   ENVIRONMENT. The sum total of all the external conditions that may act upon
a living organism or community to influence its development or existence.
   ERODIBILITY INDEX (EI). The soil erodibility index (EI) provides a numerical
expression of the potential for a soil to erode considering the physical and
chemical properties of the soil and the climatic conditions where it is
located. The higher the index, the greater the investment needed to maintain
the sustainability of the soil resource base if intensively cropped. It is
defined to be the maximum of (RxKxLS)/T (from the Universal Soil Loss Equation)
and (CxI)/T (from the Wind Erosion Equation), where R is a measure of rainfall
and runoff, K is a factor of the susceptibility of the soil to water erosion,
LS is a measure of the combined effects of slope length and steepness, C is a
climatic characterization of windspeed and surface soil moisture and I is a
measure of the susceptability of the soil to wind erosion. Erodibility index
scores equal to or greater than eight are considered highly erodible land.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice, gravity,
or other geological agents. The following terms are used to describe different
types of water erosion:
      (1)   ACCELERATED EROSION. Erosion much more rapid than normal or
geologic erosion, primarily as a result of the activities of man.
      (2)   CHANNEL EROSION. An erosion process whereby the volume and velocity
of flow wears away the bed and/or banks of a well-defined channel.
      (3)   GULLY EROSION. An erosion process whereby runoff water accumulates
in narrow channels and, over relatively short periods, removes the soil to
considerable depths, ranging from one to two feet to as much as 75 to 100 feet.
      (4)   RILL EROSION. An erosion process in which numerous small channels
only several inches deep are formed; occurs mainly on recently disturbed and
exposed soils (see RILL).
      (5)   SPLASH EROSION. The spattering of small soil particles caused by
the impact of raindrops on wet soils; the loosened and spattered particles may
or may not be subsequently removed by surface runoff.
      (6)   SHEET EROSION. The gradual removal of a fairly uniform layer of
soil from the land surface by runoff water.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
minimize sedimentation by first reducing or eliminating erosion at the source
and then as necessary, trapping sediment to prevent it from being discharged
from or within a project site.
   FILTER STRIP. Usually a long, relatively narrow area (usually, 20 to 75 feet
wide) of undisturbed or planted vegetation used near disturbed or impervious
surfaces to filter stormwater pollutants for the protection of watercourses,
reservoirs, or adjacent properties.
   FLOATABLE. Any solid waste that will float on the surface of the water.
   FLOOD (OR FLOOD WATERS). A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual
and rapid accumulation, or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining the channel which
have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory or 100-year flood. Any
normally dry land area that is susceptible to being inundated by water from any
natural source. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the floodway
fringe districts.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FLOODWAY FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain lying outside the floodway,
which is inundated by the regulatory flood.
   FOOTING DRAIN. A drain pipe installed around the exterior of a basement wall
foundation to relieve water pressure caused by high groundwater elevation.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal solid, vegetable solid, and semisolid wastes
resulting from the processing, handling, preparation, cooking, serving, or
consumption of food or food materials.
   GASOLINE OUTLET. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling facility whose
primary function is the resale of fuels. The term applies to facilities that
create 5,000 or more square feet of impervious surfaces, or generate an average
daily traffic count of 100 vehicles per 1,000 square feet of land area.
   GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SYSTEM. A computer system capable of assembling,
storing, manipulating, and displaying geographically referenced information.
This technology can be used for resource management and development planning.
   GRADE.
      (1)   The inclination or slope of a channel, canal, conduit, and the
like, or natural ground surface usually expressed in terms of the percentage
the vertical rise (or fall) bears to the corresponding horizontal distance.
      (2)   The finished surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment, or
bottom of excavation; any surface prepared to a design elevation for the
support of construction, such as paving or the laying of a conduit.
      (3)   To finish the surface of a canal bed, roadbed, top of embankment,
or bottom of excavation, or other land area to a smooth, even condition.
   GRADING. The cutting and filling of the land surface to a desired slope or
elevation.
   GRASS. A member of the botanical family Graminae, characterized by blade-
like leaves that originate as a sheath wrapped around the stem.
   GROUNDWATER. Accumulation of underground water, natural or artificial. The
term does not include man-made underground storage or conveyance structures.
   HABITAT. The environment in which the life needs of a plant or animal are
supplied.
   HIGHLY ERODIBLE LAND (HEL). Land that has an erodibility index of eight or
more.
   HYDROLOGIC UNIT CODE. A numeric United States Geologic Survey code that
corresponds to a watershed area. Each area also has a text description
associated with the numeric code.
   HYDROLOGY. The science of the behavior of water in the atmosphere, on the
surface of the earth, and underground. A typical hydrologic study is undertaken
to compute flow rates associated with specified flood events.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to a conveyance that is not composed
entirely of stormwater except naturally occurring floatables, such as leaves or
tree limbs.
   IMPAIRED WATERS. Waters that do not or are not expected to meet applicable
water quality standards, as included on IDEM’s CWA Section 303(d) List of
Impaired Waters.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surfaces, such as pavement and rooftops, which prevent
the infiltration of stormwater into the soil.
   INDIVIDUAL BUILDING LOT. A single parcel of land within a multi-parcel
development.
   INDIVIDUAL LOT OPERATOR. A contractor or subcontractor working on an
individual lot.
   INDIVIDUAL LOT OWNER. A person who has financial control of construction
activities for an individual lot.
   INFILTRATION. Passage or movement of water into the soil. Infiltration
practices include any structural BMP designed to facilitate the percolation of
run-off through the soil to groundwater. Examples include infiltration basins
or trenches, dry wells, and porous pavement.
   INLET. An opening into a storm drain system for the entrance of surface
stormwater runoff, more completely described as a storm drain inlet.
   LAND-DISTURBING ACTIVITY. Any man-made change of the land surface, including
removing vegetative cover that exposes the underlying soil, excavating,
filling, transporting and grading.
   LAND SURVEYOR. A person licensed under the laws of the State of Indiana to
practice land surveying.
   LARGER COMMON PLAN OF DEVELOPMENT OR SALE. A plan, undertaken by a single
project site owner or a group of project site owners acting in concert, to
offer lots for sale or lease; where such land is contiguous, or is known,
designated, purchased or advertised as a common unit or by a common name, such
land shall be presumed as being offered for sale or lease as part of a larger
common plan. The term also includes phased or other construction activity by a
single entity for its own use.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The elevation of the lowest grade adjacent to a
structure, where the soil meets the foundation around the outside of the
structure (including structural members such as basement walkout, patios,
decks, porches, support posts or piers, and rim of the window well).
   LOWEST FLOOR. Refers to the lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the basement floor;
      (2)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the building;
      (3)   The top of the first floor of buildings constructed on a slab or of
buildings elevated on pilings or constructed on a crawl space with permanent
openings; or
      (4)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provide any resistance to the flow of
flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters,
by providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows)
having a total area of one square foot for every two square feet of enclosed
area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade.
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable only for the parking of
vehicles or building access.
   MANHOLE. Storm drain structure through which a person may enter to gain
access to an underground storm drain or enclosed structure.
   MEASURABLE STORM EVENT. A precipitation event that results in a total
measured precipitation accumulation equal to, or greater than, 0.5 inch of
rainfall.
   MULCH. A natural or artificial layer of plant residue or other materials
covering the land surface which conserves moisture, holds soil in place, aids
in establishing plant cover, and minimizes temperature fluctuations.
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWERS. An MS4 meets all the following criteria:
      (1)   Is a conveyance or system of conveyances owned by the state,
county, city, town, or other public entity;
      (2)   Discharges to waters of the U.S.;
      (3)   Is designed or used for collecting or conveying stormwater;
      (4)   Is not a combined sewer; and
      (5)   Is not part of a publicly owned treatment works (POTW).
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM. A permit developed by the
U.S. EPA through the Clean Water Act. In Indiana, the permitting process has
been delegated to IDEM. This permit covers aspects of municipal stormwater
quality.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE. The flow patterns of stormwater runoff over the land in
its predevelopment state.
   NUTRIENT(S).
      (1)   A substance necessary for the growth and reproduction of organisms.
      (2)   In water, those substances (chiefly nitrates and phosphates) that
promote growth of algae and bacteria.
   OPEN DRAIN. A natural watercourse or constructed open channel that conveys
drainage water.
   OPEN SPACE. Any land area devoid of any disturbed or impervious surfaces
created by industrial, commercial, residential, agricultural, or other man-made
activities.
   OUTFALL. The point, location, or structure where a pipe or open drain
discharges to a receiving body of water.
   OUTLET. The point of water disposal from a stream, river, lake, tidewater or
artificial drain.
   PEAK DISCHARGE or PEAK FLOW. The maximum instantaneous flow from a given
storm condition at a specific location.
   PERCOLATION. The movement of water through soil.
   PERMANENT STABILIZATION. The establishment, at a uniform density of 70%
across the disturbed area, of vegetative cover or permanent non-erosive
material that will ensure the resistance of the soil to erosion, sliding, or
other movement.
   PERVIOUS. Allowing movement of water.
   POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance including
but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete
fissure, or container from which pollutants are or maybe discharged (P.L. 92-
500, Section 502[14]).
   POROUS PAVEMENT. A type of infiltration practice to improve the quality and
reduce the quantity of stormwater runoff via the use of man-made, pervious
pavement which allows runoff to percolate through the pavement and into
underlying soils.
   PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER. A person licensed under the laws of the State of
Indiana to practice professional engineering.
   PROJECT SITE. The entire area on which construction activity is to be
performed.
   PROJECT SITE OWNER. The person required to submit a stormwater permit
application, and required to comply with the terms of this chapter, including a
developer or a person who has financial and operational control of construction
activities, and project plans and specifications, including the ability to make
modifications to those plans and specifications.
   RAIN GARDEN. A vegetative practice used to alter impervious surfaces, such
as roofs, into pervious surfaces for absorption and treatment of rainfall.
   RECEIVING STREAM, RECEIVING CHANNEL, or RECEIVING WATER. The body of water
into which runoff or effluent is discharged. The term does not include private
drains, unnamed conveyances, retention and detention basins, or constructed
wetlands used as treatment.
   RECHARGE. Replenishment of groundwater reservoirs by infiltration and
transmission from the outcrop of an aquifer or from permeable soils.
   REDEVELOPMENT. Alterations of a property that change a site or building in
such a way that there is disturbance of one acre or more of land. The term does
not include such activities as exterior remodeling.
   REFUELING AREA. An operating gasoline or diesel fueling area whose primary
function is to provide fuel to equipment or vehicles.
   REGIONAL POND. A detention/retention basin sized to detain/retain the runoff
from the entire watershed, on-site and off-site, tributary to the pond's
outlet.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The discharge or elevation associated with the 100-year
flood as calculated by a method and procedure which is acceptable to and
approved by the Indiana Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known as the BASE
FLOOD.
   REGULATORY FLOODWAY. See FLOODWAY.
   RELEASE RATE. The amount of stormwater release from a stormwater control
facility per unit of time.
   RESERVOIR. A natural or artificially created pond, lake or other space used
for storage, regulation or control of water. May be either permanent or
temporary. The term is also used in the hydrologic modeling of storage
facilities.
   RETENTION. The storage of stormwater to prevent it from leaving the
development site. May be temporary or permanent.
   RETENTION BASIN. A type of storage practice, that has no positive outlet,
used to retain stormwater runoff for an indefinite amount of time. Runoff from
this type of basin is removed only by infiltration through a porous bottom or
by evaporation.
   RETURN PERIOD. The average interval of time within which a given rainfall
event will be equaled or exceeded once. A flood having a return period of 100
years has a 1% probability of being equaled or exceeded in any one year.
   RIPARIAN ZONE. Of, on, or pertaining to the banks of a stream, river, or
pond.
   RIPARIAN HABITAT. A land area adjacent to a water body that supports animal
and plant life associated with that water body.
   RUNOFF. That portion of precipitation that flows from a drainage area on the
land surface, in open channels, or in stormwater conveyance systems.
   RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. A decimal fraction relating the amount of rain which
appears as runoff and reaches the storm drain system to the total amount of
rain falling. A coefficient of 0.5 implies that 50% of the rain falling on a
given surface appears as stormwater runoff.
   SEDIMENT. Solid material (both mineral and/organic) that is in suspension,
is being transported, or has been moved from its site of origin by air, water,
gravity, or ice and has come to rest on the earth’s surface.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process that deposits soils, debris and other
unconsolidated materials either on the ground surfaces or in bodies of water or
watercourses.
   SENSITIVE WATER. A water body in need of priority protection or remediation
base on its:
      (1)   Providing habitat for threatened or endangered species;
      (2)   Usage as a public water supply intake;
      (3)   Relevant community value;
      (4)   Usage for full body contact recreation;
      (5)   Exceptional use classification as found in 327 I.A.C. 2-1-11(b);
and/or
      (6)   Outstanding state resource water classification as found in 327
I.A.C. 2-1-2(3) and 327 I.A.C. 2-1.5-19(b).
   SITE. The entire area included in the legal description of the land on which
land-disturbing activity is to be performed.
   SLOPE. Degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, measured as a
numerical ratio or percent. Expressed as a ratio, the first number is commonly
the horizontal distance (run) and the second is the vertical distance (rise),
such as 2:1. However, the preferred method for designation of slopes is to
clearly identify the horizontal (H) and vertical (V) components (length (L) and
Width (W) components for horizontal angles). Also note that according to
international standards (metric), the slopes are presented as the vertical or
width component shown on the numerator, such as 1V:2H. Slope expressions in
this chapter follow the common presentation of slopes, 2:1, with the metric
presentation shown in parenthesis, (1V:2H). Slopes can also be expressed in
“percents”. Slopes given in percents are always expressed as (100*V/H); a 2:1
(1V:2H) slope is a 50% slope.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and/organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth that serves as a natural medium for the growth of land
plants.
   SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION DISTRICT. A public organization created under
state law as a special-purpose district to develop and carry out a program of
soil, water, and related resource conservation, use, and development within its
boundaries. A subdivision of state government with a local governing body,
established under I.C. 14-32.
   SOLID WASTE. Any garbage, refuse, debris, or other discarded material.
   SPILL. The unexpected, unintended, abnormal, or unapproved dumping, leakage,
drainage, seepage, discharge, or other loss of petroleum, hazardous substances,
extremely hazardous substances, or objectionable substances. The term does not
include releases to impervious surfaces when the substance does not migrate off
the surface or penetrate the surface and enter the soil.
   STORM DURATION. The length of time that water may be stored in any
stormwater control facility, computed from the time water first begins to be
stored.
   STORM EVENT. An estimate of the expected amount of precipitation within a
given period of time. For example, a ten-year frequency, 24-hour duration storm
event is a storm that has a 10% probability of occurring in any one year.
Precipitation is measured over a 24-hour period.
   STORM SEWER. A closed conduit for conveying collected stormwater, while
excluding sewage and industrial wastes. Also called a STORM DRAIN.
   STORMWATER. Water resulting from rain, melting or melted snow, hail, or
sleet.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan developed to minimize the
impact of stormwater pollutants resulting from construction activities.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The water derived from rains falling within a tributary
basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels or
conduits.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLAN. A comprehensive written document that
addresses stormwater runoff quality.
   STORMWATER QUALITY MEASURE. A practice, or a combination of practices, to
control or minimize pollutants associated with storm water runoff.
   STORMWATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All means, natural or man-made, used for
conducting storm water to, through or from a drainage area to any of the
following: conduits and appurtenant features, canals, channels, ditches,
storage facilities, swales, streams, culverts, streets and pumping stations.
   STRIP DEVELOPMENT. A multi-lot project where building lots front on an
existing road.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land that is divided or proposed to be divided into lots,
whether contiguous or subject to zoning requirements, for the purpose of sale
or lease as part of a larger common plan of development or sale.
   SUBSURFACE DRAIN. A pervious backfield trench, usually containing stone and
perforated pipe, for intercepting groundwater or seepage.
   SURFACE RUNOFF. Precipitation that flows onto the surfaces of roofs,
streets, the ground, and the like, and is not absorbed or retained by that
surface but collects and runs off.
   SWALE. An elongated depression in the land surface that is at least
seasonally wet, is usually heavily vegetated, and is normally without flowing
water. Swales conduct stormwater into primary drainage channels and may provide
some groundwater recharge.
   TEMPORARY STABILIZATION. The covering of soil to ensure its resistance to
erosion, sliding, or other movement. The term includes vegetative cover,
anchored mulch, or other non-erosive material applied at a uniform density of
70% across the disturbed area.
   TILE DRAIN. Pipe made of perforated plastic, burned clay, concrete, or
similar material, laid to a designed grade and depth, to collect and carry
excess water from the soil.
   TOPOGRAPHIC MAP. Graphical portrayal of the topographic features of a land
area, showing both the horizontal distances between the features and their
elevations above a given datum.
   TOPOGRAPHY. The representation of a portion of the earth’s surface showing
natural and manmade features of a give locality, such as rivers, streams,
ditches, lakes, roads, buildings and, most importantly, variations in ground
elevations for the terrain of the area.
   TRAINED INDIVIDUAL. An individual who is trained and experienced in the
principles of stormwater quality, including erosion and sediment control as may
be demonstrated by state registration, professional certification, experience,
or completion of coursework that enable the individual to make judgments
regarding stormwater control or treatment and monitoring.
   URBAN DRAIN. A drain defined as URBAN DRAIN in Indiana Drainage Code.
   URBANIZATION. The development, change or improvement of any parcel of land
consisting of one or more lots for residential, commercial, industrial,
institutional, recreational or public utility purposes.
   VEGETATED SWALE. A type of vegetative practice used to filter stormwater
runoff via a vegetated, shallow-channel conveyance.
   WATER QUALITY. A term used to describe the chemical, physical, and
biological characteristics of water, usually in respect to its suitability for
a particular purpose.
   WATER RESOURCES. The supply of groundwater and surface water in a given
area.
   WATER BODY. Any accumulation of water, surface, or underground, natural or
artificial, excluding water features designed and designated as water pollution
control facilities.
   WATERCOURSE. Any river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or man-made
drainageway in or into which stormwater runoff or floodwaters flow either
continuously or intermittently.
   WATERSHED. The region drained by or contributing water to a specific point
that could be along a stream, lake or other stormwater facilities. Watersheds
are often broken down into subareas for the purpose of hydrologic modeling.
   WATERSHED AREA. All land and water within the confines of a drainage divide.
See also WATERSHED.
   WETLANDS. Areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.008 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this chapter. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in
writing by Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor to
qualified persons or entities acting in the beneficial interest of or in the
employ of Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.009 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as additional requirements to
minimum standards required by other Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor ordinances, and as supplemental requirements to Indiana’s Rule
5 regarding Stormwater Discharge Associated with Construction Activity, (327
I.A.C. 15-5), and Indiana’s Rule 13 regarding Stormwater Runoff Associated with
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System Conveyances (327 I.A.C. 15-13). In case
of conflicting requirements, the most restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.010 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in §§
17.53.006 and
17.53.007 shall be construed according to the respective definitions given in
those sections. Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in
this chapter, but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in
technical usage, shall be construed according to such meanings.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.011 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable
for regulatory purposes and is based on historical records, engineering, and
scientific methods of study. Larger storms may occur or stormwater runoff
amounts may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land uses permitted will be free from stormwater damage. This
chapter shall not create liability on the part of Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor or any officer, representative, or employee
thereof, for any damage which may result from reliance on this chapter or on
any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS
§ 17.53.020 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall apply to all discharges, including illegal
dumping, entering the storm drain system under the control of Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, regardless of whether the
discharge originates from developed or undeveloped lands, and regardless of
whether the discharge is generated from an active construction site or a
stabilized site. These discharges include flows from direct connections to the
storm drain system, illegal dumping, and contaminated runoff.
   (B)   Stormwater runoff from agricultural, timber harvesting, and mining
activities is exempted from the requirements of this chapter unless determined
to contain pollutants not associated with such activities or in excess of
standard practices. Farm residences are not included in this exemption.
   (C)   Any non-stormwater discharge permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver,
or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the
authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for the subject discharge to the storm drain system,
is also exempted from this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.021 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to a MS4 conveyance, watercourse, or water
body, directly or indirectly, any substance other than stormwater or an
exempted discharge. Any person discharging stormwater shall effectively
minimize pollutants from also being discharged with the stormwater, through the
use of best management practices (BMPs).
   (B)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor is
authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution prevention measures,
utilizing BMPs, necessary to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants into
the Boone County stormwater drainage system.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004) Penalty, see §
17.53.999
§ 17.53.022 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES AND CONNECTIONS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements in this subchapter, the following
categories of non-stormwater discharges or flows are exempted from the
requirements of this chapter:
   (A)   Water line flushing;
   (B)   Landscape irrigation;
   (C)   Diverted streamflows;
   (D)   Rising ground waters;
   (E)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
   (G)   Discharges from potable water sources;
   (H)   Foundation drains;
   (I)   Air conditioning condensation;
   (J)   Irrigation water;
   (K)   Springs;
   (L)   Water from crawl space pumps;
   (M)   Footing drains;
   (N)   Lawn watering;
   (O)   Individual residential car washing;
   (P)   Flows from riparian habitats and wetlands;
   (Q)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
   (R)   Street wash water;
   (S)   Discharges from firefighting activities;
   (T)   Naturally introduced detritus (such as leaves and twigs).
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.023 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIAL.
   Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material within any
watercourse, or in its associated floodway or floodplain, is strictly
prohibited. Storage or stockpiling of hazardous or toxic material, including
sewage treatment plant stockpiles, on active construction sites must include
adequate protection and/or containment so as to prevent any such materials from
entering any temporary or permanent stormwater conveyance or watercourse.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004) Penalty, see §
17.53.999
§ 17.53.024 PRIVATE PROPERTY MAINTENANCE DUTIES.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse located
within their property boundaries, free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation,
and other obstacles that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard
the flow of water through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee
shall maintain existing, privately owned structures within or adjacent to a
watercourse, so that such structures will not become a hazard to the use,
function, or physical integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004) Penalty, see §
17.53.999
§ 17.53.025 SPILL REPORTING.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a water body any
substance other than stormwater or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the Boone County Health Department concerning the discharge. A written
report concerning the discharge shall be filed with the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and IDEM, by the dischargers, within five
days. The written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
      (2)   The date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to prevent any recurrence;
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name and telephone number of a person who may be contacted for additional
information on the matter.
   (B)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief because of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of this section. This requirement does not relieve the
discharger from notifying other entities as required by state or federal
regulations.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.026 INSPECTIONS AND MONITORING.
   (A)   Storm drainage system. The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor has the authority to periodically inspect the portion of the
storm drainage system under the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor’s control, in an effort to detect and eliminate illicit connections
and discharges into the system. This inspection will include a screening of
discharges from outfalls connected to the system in order to determine if
prohibited flows are being conveyed into the storm drainage system. It could
also include spot testing of waters contained in the storm drainage system
itself to detect the introduction of pollutants into the system by means other
than a defined outfall, such as dumping or contaminated sheet runoff.
   (B)   Potential polluters. If, as a result of the storm drainage system
inspection, a discharger is suspected of an illicit discharge, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may inspect and/or obtain
stormwater samples from stormwater runoff facilities of the subject discharger,
to determine compliance with the requirements of this subchapter. Upon request,
the discharger shall allow the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor’s properly identified representative to enter upon the premises of the
discharger at all hours necessary for the purposes of such inspection or
sampling. The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor or its
properly identified representative may place on the discharger's property the
equipment or devices used for such sampling or inspection. Identified illicit
connections or discharges shall be subject to enforcement action as described
in §§
17.53.100 through
17.53.105 and §
17.53.999.
   (C)   New development and redevelopment. Following the final completion of
construction and the receipt of as-built drawings by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor has the authority to inspect new development and
redevelopment sites to verify that all on-site stormwater conveyances and
connections to the storm drainage system are in compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT
§ 17.53.035 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   The storage and controlled release rate of excess stormwater runoff shall be
required for all new business, commercial and industrial developments,
residential subdivisions, planned development, rural estate subdivisions, and
any redevelopment or other new construction located within Boone County. The
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, after thorough
investigation and evaluation, may waive the requirement of controlled runoff
for minor subdivisions and parcelization.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.036 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUANTITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Detention policy. It is recognized that most streams and drainage
channels serving Boone County do not have sufficient capacity to receive and
convey stormwater runoff resulting from continued urbanization. Accordingly,
the storage and controlled release of excess stormwater runoff shall be
required for all developments and redevelopments (as defined in §
17.53.007) located within Boone County.
      (1)   General release rates.
         (a)   In general, the post-development release rates for developments
up to and including the ten-year return period storm may not exceed 0.3 cfs per
acre of development. The post-development release rate for developments for the
11 to 100-year return period storms shall not exceed 0.5 cfs per acre of
development. The above fixed general release rates may be set at a lower value
by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor for certain
watersheds if more detailed data becomes available as a result of comprehensive
watershed studies conducted and/or formally approved and adopted by the Boone
County Drainage Board. The applicant shall confirm the applicable release rates
with the Boone County Surveyor’s Office prior to initiating the design
calculations to determine whether a basin-specific rate has been established
for the watershed.
         (b)   For sites where the pre-developed area has more than one outlet,
the release rate should be computed based on pre-developed discharge to each
outlet point. The computed release rate for each outlet point shall not be
exceeded at the respective outlet point even if the post developed conditions
would involve a different arrangement of outlet points. For above-ground
facilities, if an outlet control structure includes an orifice to restrict the
flow rate, such orifice shall be no less than six inches in diameter, even if
the six-inch diameter orifice results in a discharge that exceeds the above-
noted general release rates. However, note that the detention pond size would
still need to be based on the actual calculated release rate.
      (2)   Site-specific release rates for sites with depressional storage.
         (a)   For sites where depressional storage exists, the general release
rates provided above may have to be further reduced. If depressional storage
exists at the site, site-specific release rates must be calculated according to
methodology described in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual, accounting for the depressional storage by modeling it as a pond whose
outlet is a weir at an elevation that stormwater can currently overflow the
depressional storage area. Post developed release rate for sites with
depressional storage shall be the two-year, pre-developed peak runoff rate for
the postdeveloped ten-year storm and ten-year pre-developed peak runoff rate
for the post-developed 100-year storm. In no case shall the calculated site-
specific release rates be larger than general release rates provided above.
         (b)   Also note that for determining the post-developed peak runoff
rate, the depressional storage must be assumed to be filled unless the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor can be assured, through
dedicated easement, that the noted storage will be preserved in perpetuity.
      (3)   Management of off-site runoff.
         (a)   Runoff from all upstream tributary areas (off-site land areas)
may be bypassed around the detention/retention facility without attenuation.
Such runoff may also be bypassed through the detention/retention facility
without attenuation, provided that a separate outlet system or channel is
incorporated for the safe passage of such flows, that is not through the
primary outlet of a detention facility. Unless the pond is being designed as a
regional detention facility and therefore all off-site runoff to the pond
detained, the primary outlet structure shall be sized and the invert elevation
of the emergency overflow weir determined according to the on-site runoff only.
To accomplish this, the 100-year, on-site runoff must be determined by
temporarily ignoring the off-site runoff and routed through the pond and
through the primary outlet pipe. The resulting pond elevation would be the
invert elevation of the emergency overflow weir. Once the size and location of
primary outlet structure and the invert elevation of the emergency overflow
weir are determined by considering on-site runoff only, the 100-year pond
elevation is determined by routing the entire inflow, on-site and off-site,
through the pond.
         (b)   Note that the efficiency of the detention/retention facility in
controlling the on-site runoff may be severely affected if the off-site area is
considerably larger than the on-site area. As a general guidance, on-line
detention may not be effective in controlling on-site runoff where the ratio of
off-site area to on-site area is larger than 5:1. Additional detention (above
and beyond that required for on-site area) may be required by the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor when the ratio of off-site area to
on-site area is larger than 5:1.
      (4)   Downstream restrictions.
         (a)   In the event the downstream receiving channel or storm sewer
system is inadequate to accommodate the post-developed release rate provided
above, then the allowable release rate shall be reduced to that rate permitted
by the capacity of the receiving downstream channel or storm sewer system.
Additional detention, as determined by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor, shall be required to store that portion of the runoff
exceeding the capacity of the receiving sewers or watercourses. When such
downstream restrictions are suspected, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor may require additional analysis to determine the
receiving system’s limiting downstream capacity.
         (b)   If the proposed development makes up only a portion of the
undeveloped watershed upstream of the limiting restriction, the allowable
release rate for the development shall be in direct proportion to the ratio of
its drainage area to the drainage area of the entire watershed upstream of the
restriction.
   (B)   Grading and building pad elevations.
      (1)   Maximum yard slopes are 3:1 where soil has been disturbed during
construction processes. Finished floor elevation must be no less than six
inches above finished grade around the building. Also, the building’s lowest
entry elevation that is adjacent to and facing a road shall be a minimum of 15
inches above the road centerline elevation unless a written variance is granted
by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
      (2)   All buildings shall have a minimum flood protection grade shown on
the secondary plat. Minimum flood protection grade of all structures fronting a
pond or open ditch shall be no less than two feet above any adjacent 100-year
local or regional flood elevations, whichever is greater, for all windows,
doors, unsealed pipe entrances, window well rim elevations, and any other
structure member where floodwaters can enter a building.
      (3)   For all structures located in the special flood hazards area (SFHA)
as shown on the FEMA maps, the lowest floor elevations of all residential,
commercial, or industrial buildings shall be such that lowest floor elevation,
including basement, shall be at the flood protection grade and therefore have
two feet of freeboard above the 100-year flood elevation.
      (4)   The lowest adjacent grade for residential, commercial, or
industrial buildings outside a FEMA or IDNR designated floodplain shall have
two feet of freeboard above the flooding source’s 100year flood elevation under
proposed conditions, unless the flooding source is a rear-yard swale. When the
flooding source is a rear-yard swale, the lowest adjacent grade for
residential, commercial, or industrial buildings shall have two feet of
freeboard above the 100-year flood elevation under proposed conditions.
      (5)   For areas outside a FEMA or IDNR designated floodplain, the lowest
adjacent grade (including walkout basement floor elevation) for all
residential, commercial, or industrial buildings adjacent to ponds shall be set
a minimum of two feet above the 100-year pond elevation or two feet above the
emergency overflow weir elevation, whichever is higher. In addition to the
lowest adjacent grade requirements, any basement floor must be at least a foot
above the permanent water level (normal pool elevation).
      (6)   The centerline of the 100-year flow paths throughout the
development must be shown by a distinctive line symbol on the plans and 30 feet
along this centerline designated as permanent drainage easements. No fences or
landscaping can be constructed within the easement areas. These areas are
easements that are to be maintained by the property owners or be designated as
common areas that are to be maintained by the homeowners association. The
lowest adjacent grade of all residential, commercial, or industrial buildings
shall be set a minimum of one foot above the noted overflow path/ponding
elevation, calculated based on all contributing drainage areas, on-site and
off-site, in their proposed or reasonably anticipated land use and with storm
pipe system assumed completely plugged.
      (7)   The emergency overflow route from the pond to the receiving system
must be sized to accommodate the design flow of the pond’s emergency overflow
weir and shown on the plans. Thirty feet along the centerline of this emergency
overflow route shall be designated as permanent drainage easement. No fences or
landscaping can be constructed within the easement areas. The lowest adjacent
grade of all residential, commercial, or industrial buildings along this
emergency overflow route shall be set a minimum of two feet above the flood
elevation along the route, calculated based on the pond’s emergency overflow
weir design discharge.
      (8)   It shall be the property owners’ responsibility to maintain the
natural features on their lots and to take preventive measures against any and
all erosion and/or deterioration of natural or man-made features on their lots.
   (C)   Acceptable outlet and adjoining property impacts policies.
      (1)   Design and construction of the stormwater facility shall provide
for the discharge of the stormwater runoff from off-site land areas as well as
the stormwater from the area being developed (onsite land areas) to an
acceptable outlet(s) (as determined by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor) having capacity to receive upstream (off-site) and on-
site drainage. A roadside ditch is generally not considered an adequate outlet.
The flow path from the development outfall(s) to a regulated drain or natural
watercourse (as determined or approved by the Boone County Drainage Board and/
or Boone County Surveyor) shall be provided on an exhibit that includes
topographic information. Any existing field tile encountered during the
construction shall also be incorporated into the proposed stormwater drainage
system or tied to an acceptable outlet.
      (2)   Where the outfall from the stormwater drainage system of any
development flows through real estate owned by others prior to reaching a
regulated drain or watercourse, no approval shall be granted for such drainage
system until all owners of real estate and/or tenants crossed by the outfall
either consent in writing to the use of their real estate or are notified of a
hearing relevant to the proposed use. Notification of the time and place of the
hearing shall be made in person or by certified mail at least five to ten days
prior to the hearing. Proof of notice to each landowner shall be filed by
affidavit with the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor
prior to the hearing. In addition, no activities conducted as part of the
development shall be allowed to obstruct the free flow of flood waters from an
upstream property.
      (3)   If an adequate outlet is not located on site, then off-site
drainage improvements may be required. Those improvements may include, but are
not limited to, extending storm sewers, clearing, dredging and/or removal of
obstructions to open drains or natural water courses, and the removal or
replacement of undersized culvert pipes as required by the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
   (D)   No net loss floodplain storage policy.
      (1)   Floodplains exist adjacent to all natural and man-made streams,
regardless of contributing drainage area or whether they have been previously
identified or mapped. Due to potential impacts of floodplain loss on peak flows
in streams and on the environment, disturbance to floodplains should be
avoided. When the avoidance of floodplain disturbance is not practical, the
natural functions of floodplain should be preserved to the extent possible.
      (2)   In an attempt to strike a balance between the legitimate need for
economic development within Boone County and the need to preserve the natural
functions of floodplains to the extent possible, compensatory excavation
equivalent to the floodplain storage lost shall be required for all activities
within floodplain of streams located in Boone County where drainage area of the
stream is equal or larger than one square mile. This requirement shall be
considered to be above and beyond the minimum requirements provided in the
applicable flood hazard areas ordinance currently in effect in Boone County.
The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may alter the
compensation ratio, based on extenuating circumstances, for a specific project.
      (3)   Note that by definition, compensatory storage is the replacement of
the existing floodplain and, in rare exceptions, the floodway storage lost due
to fill. Compensatory storage is required when a portion of the floodplain is
filled, occupied by a structure, or when as a result of a project a change in
the channel hydraulics occurs that reduces the existing available floodplain
storage. The compensatory storage should be located adjacent or opposite the
placement of the fill and maintain an unimpeded connection to an adjoining
floodplain area.
      (4)   Computations must show no net loss of floodplain storage for two-
year, ten-year, 50-year, and 100-year storm events. That is, the post-
development two-year floodplain storage along a stream shall be the same as
two-year pre-development floodplain storage along the stream within the
property limits, the post-development ten-year floodplain storage along a
stream shall be the same as ten-year pre-development floodplain storage along
the stream within the property limits, and so on.
      (5)   Calculations for floodplain volume shall be submitted in tabular
form showing calculations by cross-section. The volume of floodplain storage
under the without-project conditions and the with- project conditions should be
determined using the average-end-area method with plotted cross-sections at a
horizontal to vertical ratio of between 5:1 and 10:1, with two- through 100-
year flood elevations noted on each cross section. The scale chosen should be
large enough to show the intent of proposed grading. Cross-sections should
reflect both the existing and proposed conditions on the same plot. The
location and extent of the compensatory storage area as well as the location
and/orientation of cross- sections should be shown on the grading plan.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.037 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of all
stormwater facilities shall meet the design criteria, standards, and
specifications outlined in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The methods and procedures in the Stormwater Technical Standards Manual
are consistent with the policy stated above.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.038 DRAINAGE EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be no trees or shrubs planted, nor any structures or
fences erected in any drainage easement. All stormwater systems, including
detention or retention basins, conveyance systems, structures and
appurtenances, located outside of the right-of-way may be incorporated into the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor’s system at the
discretion of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor. The
developer shall petition to incorporate the storm system into the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor’s system. The stormwater management
permit shall not be approved until such petition is submitted in a form
accepted by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
   (B)   The following specific areas shall be included in a petition:
      (1)   Subdivisions.
         (a)   All new channels, drain tiles equal to or greater than 12 inches
in diameter, six-inch or larger subsurface drains in rear yard swales, inlet
and outlet structures of detention and retention ponds, and appurtenances
thereto as required by this chapter, that are installed in subdivisions
requiring a stormwater management permit from the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor shall be petitioned to become incorporated into
the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor’s system upon
completion, proper inspection, and acceptance by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor. New drain tiles refer to all sub-surface
stormwater piping, tubing, tiles, manholes, inlets, catch basins, risers, and
the like.
         (b)   New drain tile shall be placed in a minimum 30-foot (15 feet
from centerline on each side) regulated drain easement (RDE) and shall be
designated on the record plat as 30-foot regulated drain easement.
         (c)   A minimum of 25 feet from top of the bank on each side of a new
channel shall be designated on the record plat as a drain easement.
         (d)   Rear-yard swales, 100-year emergency overflow paths, and
emergency overflow routes associated with detention ponds shall not be included
in petition for incorporation. However, a minimum of 30 feet width (15 feet
from centerline on each side) needs to be designated as drainage easement.
         (e)   A minimum of 15 feet beyond the actual footprint (top of the
bank) of stormwater detention facilities shall be designated as drainage
easement. A minimum 25-foot width easement shall also be required as access
easement, unless the pond is immediately next to a public right-of-way.
         (f)   The statutory 75-foot (each side) drainage easement for
regulated drains already within the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor’s system may be reduced if the drain is re-classified by the
County Surveyor as an urban drain.
         (g)   An annual maintenance assessment shall be set up on each new
regulated drain established in a new subdivision. The amount of the assessment
will be determined by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor and so certified.
         (h)   If the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor
accepts the petition for incorporation into their system, the following
statement shall become part of the restrictive covenants of every platted
subdivision and shown on recorded plat: “Channels, tile drains 12-inch or
larger, six-inch or larger subsurface drains in rear yard swales and under
curbs where no street trees are allowed, inlets and outlets of detention and
retention ponds, and appurtenances thereto within designated drain easements
are extensions of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor’s stormwater drainage system and are the responsibility of the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor. Drainage swales shall be
the responsibility of owner or homeowner association.”
         (i)   The following statement shall be put on each subdivision plat:
“A petition addressed to the Boone County Drainage Board has been filed in
duplicate with the County Surveyor, requesting that the subdivision’s storm
drainage system and its easements be accepted into the county’s regulated
drainage system. The storm drainage system and its easements that are accepted
into the county’s regulated drainage system are delineated on the plat as
regulated drainage easements (RDEs). These drainage easements are established
under authority of the Indiana Drainage Code and the said Board may exercise
powers and duties as provided in said code (annual drainage assessment per
lot). All other storm drainage easements have not been accepted into the
county’s system. All drainage improvements performed relative to the conveyance
of Stormwater runoff and the perpetual maintenance thereof, within the latter
easements, shall be the responsibility of the owner or homeowner association.
The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor Drainage Board
assumes no responsibility relative to said improvements or the maintenance
thereof. This subdivision contains ______ linear feet of open ditches and
______ linear feet of subsurface drains that will be included in the county's
regulated drainage system.”
         (j)   No driveways shall be allowed in drainage easements except for
the purpose of crossing a front yard drainage easement to provide access to the
property. Any crossing and/or encroachment of a regulated drainage easement
requires application and acceptance from the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor.
      (2)   Non-subdivisions. Where the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor is responsible for maintenance of the drainage system,
regulated drainage easements of 75 feet from the top of bank on each side of
the channel or each side of the tile centerline must be dedicated to the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
      (3)   Establishment of new regulated drain. When the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor determines it is necessary to
establish a new regulated drain, each developer shall provide the necessary
information and meet the requirements of the 1965 Indiana Drainage Code, as
amended, for the establishment of a new regulated drain. Necessary easements
for adequate maintenance of any new regulated drain shall be determined by the
Boone County Surveyor if not already established in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.039 PLACEMENT OF UTILITIES.
   No utility company may disturb existing storm drainage facilities without
the consent of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor,
whose decision may be appealed to the Boone County Board of Commissioners, All
existing drainage facilities shall have senior rights and damage to said
facilities shall result in penalties as prescribed in §§
17.53.100 through
17.53.105 and §
17.53.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.040 STRUCTURES NEAR COUNTY-REGULATED DRAINS.
   For regulated drains not located in platted subdivisions, unless otherwise
accepted by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, no
permanent structure (including fences) shall be erected within 75 feet measured
at right angles from:
   (A)   The existing top edge of each bank of a regulated open drain, as
determined by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor; or
   (B)   The center line of a tiled regulated drain. The Indiana Drainage Code
may be consulted for further details.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.041 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and the commencement of
construction activities, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to
ensure full compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit.
   (B)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor also has
the authority to perform long-term, post-construction inspection of all public
or privately owned stormwater quantity facilities. The inspection will cover
physical conditions, available storage capacity, and the operational condition
of key facility elements. Stormwater quantity facilities shall be maintained in
good condition, in accordance with the terms and conditions of the approved
stormwater management permit, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised or
replaced except in accordance with the approved stormwater permit, or in
accordance with accepted amendments or revisions to the permit. If deficiencies
are found during the inspection, the owner of the facility will be notified by
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and will be required
to take all necessary measures to correct such deficiencies. If the owner fails
to correct the deficiencies within the allowed time period, as specified in the
notification letter, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor will undertake the work and collect from the owner using lien rights
if necessary.
   (C)   Assignment of responsibility for maintaining facilities serving more
than one lot or holding shall be documented by appropriate covenants to
property deeds, unless responsibility is formally accepted by a public body,
and determined before the final stormwater permit is approved. Stormwater
detention/retention basins may be donated to the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor or other unit of government designated by the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, for ownership and
permanent maintenance providing the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor or other governmental unit is willing to accept responsibility.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION FOR CONSTRUCTION SITES
§ 17.53.050 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor will
require a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP), which includes erosion
and sediment control measures and materials handling procedures, to be
submitted as part of the construction plans and specifications. Any project
located within Boone County that includes clearing, grading, excavation, and
other land disturbing activities, resulting in the disturbance of one acre or
more of total land area, is subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
This includes both new development and redevelopment. This subchapter also
applies to disturbances of less than one acre of land that are part of a larger
common plan of development or sale if the larger common plan will ultimately
disturb one or more acres of land, within the MS4 area. Section
17.53.052 of this subchapter provides guidelines for calculating land
disturbance. Projects meeting the coverage requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-5
(Rule 5) shall also be in compliance with 327 I.A.C. 15-5.
   (B)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities.
   (C)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   For an individual lot where land disturbance is expected to be one
acre or more, the individual lot owner must complete their own notice of intent
letter, apply for a stormwater permit from the Boone County Drainage Board and/
or Boone County Surveyor, and ensure that a sufficient construction and
Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan is completed and submitted in accordance
with §§
17.53.080 through
17.53.088 of this chapter; regardless of whether the individual lot is part of
a larger permitted project site.
   (E)   An individual lot with land disturbance less than one acre, located
within a larger permitted project site, is considered part of the larger
permitted project site, and the individual lot operator must comply with the
terms and conditions of the stormwater permit approved for the larger project
site. The stormwater permit application for the larger project site must
include detailed erosion and sediment control measures for individual lots. In
addition, these individual lots are required to submit Individual lot plot plan
permit applications prior to receiving a building permit. Details of the
permitting process are contained in §§
17.53.080 through
17.53.088.
   (F)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor in accordance with §§
17.53.080 through
17.53.088 of this chapter. It will be the responsibility of the project site
owner to ensure compliance with this subchapter during the construction
activity and implementation of the construction plan, and to notify the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor with a sufficient notice of
termination letter upon completion of the project and stabilization of the
site. However, all persons engaging in construction and land disturbing
activities on a permitted project site meeting the applicability requirements
must comply with the requirements of this subchapter and this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.051 POLICY ON STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION.
   Effective stormwater pollution prevention on construction sites is dependent
on a combination of preventing movement of soil from its original position
(erosion control), intercepting displaced soil prior to entering a water body
(sediment control), and proper on-site materials handling. The developer must
submit to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, a SWPPP
with detailed erosion and sediment control plans as well as a narrative
describing materials handling and storage, and construction sequencing. The
following principles apply to all land-disturbing activities and should be
considered in the preparation of a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan within
Boone County.
   (A)   Minimize the potential for soil erosion by designing a development
that fits the topography and soils of the site. Deep cuts and fills in areas
with steep slopes should be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible.
   (B)   Existing natural vegetation should be retained and protected wherever
possible. Areas immediately adjacent (within 35 feet of top of bank) to
watercourses and lakes also should be left undisturbed wherever possible.
Unvegetated or vegetated areas with less than 70% cover that are scheduled or
likely to be left inactive for 15 days or more must be temporarily or
permanently stabilized with measures appropriate for the season to reduce
erosion potential. Alternative measures to site stabilization may be acceptable
if the project site owner or their representative can demonstrate they have
implemented and maintained erosion and sediment control measures adequate to
prevent sediment discharge from the inactive area.
   (C)   All activities on a site should be conducted in a logical sequence so
that the smallest practical area of land will be exposed for the shortest
practical period of time during development.
   (D)   The length and steepness of designed slopes should be minimized to
reduce erosion potential. Drainage channels and swales must be designed and
adequately protected so that their final gradients and resultant velocities
will not cause erosion in the receiving channel or at the outlet. Methods for
determining acceptable velocities are included in the Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual.
   (E)   Sediment-laden water which otherwise would flow from the project site
shall be treated by erosion and sediment control measures appropriate to
minimize sedimentation. A stable construction site access shall be provided at
all points of construction traffic ingress and egress to the project site.
   (F)   Appropriate measures shall be implemented to prevent wastes or unused
building materials, including, garbage, debris, packaging material, fuels and
petroleum products, hazardous materials or wastes, cleaning wastes, wastewater,
concrete truck washout, and other substances from being carried from a project
site by runoff or wind. Identification of areas where concrete truck washout is
permissible must be clearly posted at appropriate areas of the site. Wastes and
unused building materials shall be managed and disposed of in accordance with
all applicable state statutes and regulations. Proper storage and handling of
materials such as fuels or hazardous wastes, and spill prevention and cleanup
measures shall be implemented to minimize the potential for pollutants to
contaminate surface or ground water or degrade soil quality.
   (G)   Public or private roadways shall be kept cleared of accumulated
sediment that is a result of runoff or tracking. Bulk clearing of accumulated
sediment shall not include flushing the area with water. Cleared sediment shall
be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that is in accordance with all
applicable statutes and regulations.
   (H)   Collected runoff leaving a project site must be either discharged
directly into a well-defined, stable receiving channel, or diffused and
released to adjacent property without causing an erosion or pollutant problem
to the adjacent property owner.
   (I)   Natural features, including wetlands, shall be protected from
pollutants associated with stormwater runoff.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004) Penalty, see §
17.53.999
§ 17.53.052 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   In calculating the total area of land disturbance, for the purposes of
determining applicability of this subchapter to the project, the following
guidelines should be used:
      (1)   Off-site construction activities that provide services (for
example, road extensions, sewer, water, offsite stockpiles, and other
utilities) to a land disturbing project site, must be considered as a part of
the total land disturbance calculation for the project site, when the activity
is under the control of the project site owner.
      (2)   Strip developments will be considered as one project site and must
comply with this subchapter unless the total combined disturbance on all
individual lots is less than one acre and is not part of a larger common plan
of development or sale.
      (3)   To determine if multi-lot project sites are regulated by this rule,
the area of land disturbance shall be calculated by adding the total area of
land disturbance for improvements, such as roads, utilities, or common areas,
and the expected total disturbance on each individual lot, as determined by the
following:
         (a)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
0.5 acre or more, 0.5 acre of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot
disturbance.
         (b)   For a single-family residential project site where the lots are
less than 0.5 acre in size, the total lot must be calculated as being
disturbed.
         (c)   To calculate lot disturbance on all other types of projects
sites, such as industrial and commercial projects project sites, a minimum of
one acre of land disturbance must be used as the expected lot disturbance,
unless the lots are less than one acre in size, in which case the total lot
must be calculated as being disturbed.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater pollution prevention measures for construction sites shall meet
the design criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana
Stormwater Quality Manual or the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual. The methods and procedures included in these two references are in
keeping with the above stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM’s Rule
5. A Copy of the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual may be obtained through
IDEM.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.053 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Following approval of the stormwater management permit by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and commencement of
construction activities, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor has the authority to conduct inspections of the site to ensure full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Indiana Stormwater Quality
Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved permit.
   (B)   A self-monitoring program must be implemented by the project site
owner to ensure the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan is working
effectively. A trained individual, acceptable to Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor, shall perform a written evaluation of the project
site by the end of the next business day following each measurable storm event.
If there are no measurable storm events within a given week, the site should be
monitored at least once in that week. Weekly inspections by the trained
individual shall continue until the entire site has been stabilized and a
notice of termination has been issued. The trained individual should look at
the maintenance of existing stormwater pollution prevention measures, including
erosion and sediment control measures, drainage structures, and construction
materials storage/containment facilities, to ensure they are functioning
properly. The trained individual should also identify additional measures,
beyond those originally identified in the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan,
necessary to remain in compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations.
   (C)   The resulting evaluation reports must include the name of the
individual performing the evaluation, the date of the evaluation, problems
identified at the project site, and details of maintenance, additional
measures, and corrective actions recommended and completed.
   (D)   The Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan shall serve as a guideline
for stormwater quality, but should not be interpreted to be the only basis for
implementation of stormwater quality measures for a project site. The project
site owner is responsible for implementing, in accordance with this chapter,
all measures necessary to adequately prevent polluted stormwater runoff.
Recommendations by the trained individual for modified stormwater quality
measures should be implemented.
   (E)   Although self-monitoring reports do not need to be submitted to Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor has the right to request complete records of
maintenance and monitoring activities involving stormwater pollution prevention
measures. All evaluation reports for the project site must be made available to
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, in an organized
fashion, within 48 hours upon request.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT FOR POST-CONSTRUCTION
§ 17.53.065 APPLICABILITY AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements of Chapter 4, the Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan, which is to be submitted to the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor as part of the stormwater management permit
application, must also include post-construction stormwater quality measures.
These measures are incorporated as a permanent feature into the site plan and
are left in place following completion of construction activities to
continuously treat stormwater runoff from the stabilized site. Any project
located within Boone County that includes clearing, grading, excavation, and
other land disturbing activities, resulting in the disturbance of one acre or
more of total land area, is subject to the requirements of this subchapter.
This includes both new development and redevelopment, and disturbances of less
than one acre of land that are part of a larger common plan of development or
sale if the larger common plan will ultimately disturb one or more acres of
land, within the MS4 area.
   (B)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities:
      (1)   Agricultural land disturbing activities; or
      (2)   Forest harvesting activities; or
      (3)   Construction activities associated with a single-family residential
dwelling disturbing less than five acres, when the dwelling is not part of a
larger common plan of development or sale; or
      (4)   Single-family residential developments consisting of four or less
lots; or
      (5)   A single-family residential strip development where the developer
offers for sale or lease without land improvements and the project is not part
of a larger common plan of development of sale; or
      (6)   Individual building lots within a larger permitted project.
   (C)   The requirements under this subchapter do not apply to the following
activities, provided other applicable state permits contain provisions
requiring immediate implementation of soil erosion control measures:
      (1)   Landfills that have been issued a certification of closure under
329 I.A.C. 10.
      (2)   Coal mining activities permitted under I.C. 14-34.
      (3)   Municipal solid waste landfills that are accepting waste pursuant
to a permit issued by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management under
329 I.A.C. 10 that contains equivalent stormwater requirements, including the
expansion of landfill boundaries and construction of new cells either within or
outside the original solid waste permit boundary.
   (D)   It will be the responsibility of the project site owner to complete a
stormwater permit application and ensure that a sufficient construction plan is
completed and submitted to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor in accordance with §§
17.53.080 through
17.53.088 of this chapter. It will be the responsibility of the project site
owner to ensure proper construction and installation of all stormwater BMPs in
compliance with this chapter and with the approved stormwater management
permit, and to notify the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor with a sufficient notice of termination letter upon completion of the
project and stabilization of the site. However, all eventual property owners of
stormwater quality facilities meeting the applicability requirements must
comply with the requirements of this subchapter and this chapter.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.066 POLICY ON STORMWATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   It is recognized that developed areas, as compared to undeveloped
areas, generally have increased imperviousness, decreased infiltration rates,
increased runoff rates, and increased concentrations of pollutants such as
fertilizers, herbicides, greases, oil, salts and other pollutants. As new
development and redevelopment continues in Boone County, measures must be taken
to intercept and filter pollutants from stormwater runoff prior to reaching
regional creeks, streams, and rivers. Through the use of best management
practices (BMP), stormwater runoff will be filtered and harmful amounts of
sediment, nutrients, and contaminants will be removed. Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor has established a minimum standard that the
measurement of the effectiveness of the control of stormwater quality will be
based on the management of total suspended solids (TSS).
   (B)   The project site owner must submit to the Boone County Drainage Board
and/or Boone County Surveyor, a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP)
that would show placement of appropriate BMP(s) from a pre-approved list of
BMPs specified in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
noted BMPs must be designed, constructed, and maintained according to
guidelines provided or referenced in the Boone County Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual. Practices other than those specified in the pre-approved list
may be utilized. However, the burden of proof, as to whether the performance
(minimum 80% TSS removal) and ease of maintenance of such practices will be
according to guidelines provided in the Boone County Stormwater Technical
Standards Manual, would be placed with the applicant. Details regarding the
procedures and criteria for consideration of acceptance of such BMPs are
provided in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual.
   (C)   Gasoline outlets and refueling areas must install appropriate
practices to reduce lead, copper, zinc, and hydrocarbons in stormwater runoff.
These requirements will apply to all new facilities and existing facilities
that replace their tanks.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.067 CALCULATIONS AND DESIGN STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Calculation of land disturbance should follow the guidelines discussed
in §
17.53.052.
   (B)   The calculation methods as well as the type, sizing, and placement of
all stormwater quality management measures, or BMPs, shall meet the design
criteria, standards, and specifications outlined in the Indiana Stormwater
Quality Manual or the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. The
methods and procedures included in these two references are in keeping with the
above stated policy and meet the requirements of IDEM’s Rule 13.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.068 EASEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   All stormwater quality management systems, including detention or retention
basins, filter strips, pocket wetlands, in-line filters, infiltration systems,
conveyance systems, structures and appurtenances located outside of the right-
of-way shall be incorporated into permanent easements. For developments
occurring within the county’s unincorporated areas and/or at the discretion of
the Boone County Surveyor and/or Drainage Board, the developer shall petition
to establish the noted system as a portion of regulated drain pursuant to the
provisions of I.C. 36-9-27-54, and the drainage plan shall not be accepted
until such petition is submitted in a form accepted by the County Surveyor and
the County Drainage Board. For the purposes of monitoring, inspection, and
general maintenance activities, adequate easement width, as detailed in the
Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual, beyond the actual footprint
of the stormwater quality management facility as well as a 20-foot wide access
easement from a public right-of-way to each BMP shall be provided.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.069 INSPECTION, MAINTENANCE, RECORD KEEPING, AND REPORTING.
   (A)   After the approval of the stormwater management permit by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and the commencement of
construction activities, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor has the authority to conduct inspections of the work being done to
ensure full compliance with the provisions of this chapter, the Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit.
   (B)   Stormwater quality facilities shall be maintained in good condition,
in accordance with the operation and maintenance procedures and schedules
listed in the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual or the Boone County Stormwater
Technical Standards Manual, and the terms and conditions of the approved
stormwater permit, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised, or replaced
except in accordance with the approved stormwater permit, or in accordance with
accepted amendments or revisions in the permit. Following construction
completion, inspection and maintenance of stormwater quality facilities shall
be the long-term responsibility of the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor. Stormwater detention/retention basins may be donated to the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor or other unit of
government designated by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor, for ownership and permanent maintenance providing the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor or other governmental unit is
willing to accept responsibility.
   (C)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor also has
the authority to perform long-term, post-construction inspection of all public
or privately owned stormwater quality facilities. The inspection will cover
physical conditions, available water quality storage capacity and the
operational condition of key facility elements. Noted deficiencies and
recommended corrective action will be included in an inspection report.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
§ 17.53.080 CONCEPTUAL DRAINAGE PLAN REVIEW.
   In order to gain an understanding of the drainage requirements for a
specific project, a developer may submit conceptual drainage plans and
calculations for review by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor. The direction provided by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor during such a review is based on preliminary data and
shall not be construed as an acceptance or binding on either party. The
following is a general listing of minimum data requirements for the review of
conceptual drainage plans:
   (A)   Two complete sets of conceptual plans showing general project layout,
including existing and proposed drainage systems (plan sheets must be larger
than 11 inches by 17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches).
   (B)   General description of the existing and proposed drainage systems in
narrative form.
   (C)   Watershed boundaries with USGS contours or best information possible.
   (D)   Existing watercourse or regulated drains.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.081 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   This section applies to all development or redevelopment of land
within unincorporated Boone County that are subject to this chapter as
specified in §
17.53.002 of this chapter. Individual lots with land disturbance less than one
acre that are developed within a larger permitted project site should refer to
§§
17.53.050 through
17.53.053 for plan review requirements and procedures.
   (B)   
Appendix A is a flowchart summarizing the plan review/permit approval process
and can be found at the end of this chapter. The project site owner shall
submit an application for a stormwater management permit to the Boone County
Surveyor’s Office. The application will include a draft notice of intent letter
(NOI) that would also act as permit application form, construction plan sheets,
stormwater drainage technical report, a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
for construction sites (if the total disturbance is one acre or more), Post-
Construction Pollution Prevention Plan (if the total disturbance is one acre or
more), and any other necessary support information. Specific information to be
included in the application can be found in division (C) below and in the Boone
County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual. Adequate number of copies of each
application material, as noted in the “Stormwater Permit Application Check-In
Checklist” contained in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual,
must be submitted to the Boone County Surveyor’s Office. Additionally, a
digital copy of the construction plans is required in a format accepted by the
Boone County Surveyor.
   (C)   After the Boone County Surveyor's Office receipt of the application,
the applicant will be notified as to whether their application was complete or
insufficient. The applicant will be asked for additional information if the
application is insufficient. The information provided will be reviewed in
detail by the Boone County Surveyor and/or its plan review consultant(s). Once
all comments have been received and review completed, the Boone County Surveyor
will either approve the project or request modifications.
   (D)   Once a permit has been issued, the project site owner must file a
notice of intent a minimum of 48 hours prior to the commencement of
construction activities. Notification shall be in the form of an updated NOI
form. The submittal of the NOI must be provided to the Boone County Surveyor’s
Office and, if the total disturbance is one acre or more, to IDEM as well. The
IDEM submittal must include a proof of publication, verification that the
jurisdictional entity approved the plan, and a $100 fee. For Boone County
Surveyor’s Office, copies of the final, approved construction plans, stormwater
drainage technical report, Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan for
construction sites (if the total disturbance is one acre or more), and Post-
Construction Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan shall also accompany the
above-noted written notification and proof of publication. The number of
required copies varies from case to case and additional copies may be requested
by the Boone County Surveyor’s Office. A preconstruction meeting is required to
be held with the participation of the Boone County Surveyor’s Office and other
entities involved prior to any grading activity to ensure that appropriate
perimeter control measures have been implemented on the site and the location
of any existing tiles has been properly marked.
   (E)   Once construction starts, the project owner shall monitor construction
activities and inspect all stormwater pollution prevention measures to verify
compliance with this chapter and the terms and conditions of the approved
permit. Upon completion of construction activities, as-built plans must be
submitted to the Boone County Surveyor’s Office. A notice of termination (NOT)
shall be sent to the Boone County Surveyor’s Office once the construction site
has been stabilized and all temporary erosion and sediment control measures
have been removed. The Boone County Surveyor, or a representative, shall
inspect the construction site to verify the requirements for an NOT have been
met. Once the applicant receives a “verified” copy of the NOT, they must
forward a copy to IDEM if the total disturbance is one acre or more. Permits
issued under this scenario will expire five years from the date of issuance. If
construction is not completed within five years, the NOI must be resubmitted at
least 90 days prior to expiration.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.082 INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Specific projects or activities may be exempt from all or part of the
informational requirements listed below. Exemptions are detailed in the §§
17.53.020,
17.53.035,
17.53.050, and
17.53.065. If a project or activity is exempt from any or all requirements of
this chapter, an application should be filed listing the exemption criteria
met, in lieu of the information requirements listed below. This level of
detailed information is not required from individual lots, disturbing less than
one acre of land, developed within a larger permitted project site. Review and
acceptance of such lots is covered under §
17.53.083 of this subchapter.
   (B)   The different elements of a permit submittal include a draft notice of
intent (NOI), proof of publication of a public notice, construction plans, a
stormwater drainage technical report, a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
for active construction sites, a Post-Construction Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan, and any other necessary supporting information. All plans,
reports, calculations, and narratives shall be signed and sealed by a
professional engineer or a licensed surveyor, registered in the State of
Indiana.
   (C)   Draft notice of intent.
      (1)   The NOI is a standard form developed by the Indiana Department of
Environmental Management which requires general project information. As part of
the Boone County stormwater management permit application package, the NOI form
should be completed in full based on data and information available at the time
of application.
      (2)   An updated version of this form, accompanied by proof of
publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the affected area that
notified the public that a construction activity is to commence, will need to
be resubmitted later after the stormwater management permit is granted and at
least 48 hours prior to commencement of construction. The publication must
include the following language:
         “(Company name, address) is submitting an NOI letter to notify the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and the Indiana
Department of Environmental Management of our intent to comply with the
requirements of the Boone County Stormwater Management Ordinance, as well as
the requirements of 327 I.A.C. 15-5 and 327 I.A.C. 15-13, to discharge
stormwater from construction activities for the following project: (name of the
construction project, address of the location of the construction project, and
Parcel Identification Number). Run-off from the project site will discharge to
(stream(s) receiving the discharge(s)).”
   (D)   Construction plans. Construction plan sheets (larger than 11 inches by
17 inches, but not to exceed 24 inches by 36 inches in size) and an
accompanying narrative report shall describe and depict the existing and
proposed conditions. Note that in order to gain an understanding of and to
evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a specific
project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall multi-
section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for the
first section/phase being permitted must be accompanied by an overall project
plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of all
detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. Construction plans need to include the following detailed items:
      (1)   Project narrative and supporting documents, including the following
information:
         (a)   An index indicating the location, in the construction plans, of
all information required by this subsection.
         (b)   Description of the nature and purpose of the project.
         (c)   A copy of a legal boundary survey for the site, performed in
accordance with Rule 12 of Title 865 of the Indiana Administrative Code or any
applicable and subsequently adopted rule or regulation for the subdivision
limits, including all drainage easements and wetlands.
         (d)   Soil properties, characteristics, limitations, and hazards
associated with the project site and the measures that will be integrated into
the project to overcome or minimize adverse soil conditions.
         (e)   General construction sequence of how the project site will be
built, including phases of construction.
         (f)   Fourteen-digit watershed hydrologic unit code.
         (g)   A reduced plat or project site map showing the lot numbers, lot
boundaries, easements, and road layout and names. The reduced map must be
legible and submitted on a sheet or sheets no larger than 11 inches by 17
inches for all phases or sections of the project site.
         (h)   A topographic map of the land to be developed and such adjoining
land whose topography may affect the layout or drainage of the development. The
contour intervals shall be one foot when slopes are less than or equal to 2%
and shall be two feet when slopes exceed 2%. All elevations shall be given in
either National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929 (NGVD) or North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD). The horizontal datum of topographic map shall be
based on Indiana State Plane Coordinates, NAD83. The map will contain a
notation indicating these datum information. The names of adjoining property
owners must be labeled on the map.
            1.   If the project site is less than or equal to two acres in
total land area, the topographic map shall include all topography of land
surrounding the site to a distance of at least 100 feet.
            2.   If the project site is greater than two acres in total land
area, the topographic map shall include all topography of land surrounding the
site to a distance of at least 200 feet.
         (i)   Identification of any other state or federal water quality
permits that are required for construction activities associated with the
owner’s project site.
         (j)   Proof of errors and omissions insurance for the registered
professional engineer or licensed surveyor showing a minimum amount of
$1,000,000 in coverage.
      (2)   Vicinity map depicting the project site location in relationship to
recognizable local landmarks, towns, and major roads, such as a USGS
topographic quadrangle map, or county or municipal road map.
      (3)   An existing project site layout that must include the following
information:
         (a)   Location, name, and normal water level of all wetlands, lakes,
ponds, and water courses on, or adjacent to, the project site.
         (b)   Location of all existing structures on the project site.
         (c)   One hundred-year floodplains, floodway fringes, and floodways.
Please note if none exists.
         (d)   Soil map of the predominant soil types, as determined by the
United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Natural Resources Conservation
Service (NRCS) Soil Survey, or as determined by a soil scientist. Hydrologic
classification for soils should be shown when hydrologic methods requiring
soils information are used. A soil legend must be included with the soil map.
         (e)   Identification and delineation of vegetative cover such as
grass, weeds, brush, and trees on the project site.
         (f)   Location of storm, sanitary, combined sewer, and septic tank
systems and outfalls.
         (g)   Land use of all adjacent properties.
         (h)   Identification and delineation of sensitive areas.
         (i)   Existing topography at a contour interval appropriate to
indicate drainage patterns.
         (j)   The location of regulated drains, farm drains, inlets and
outfalls, if any of record.
         (k)   Location of all existing cornerstones within the proposed
development and a plan to protect and preserve them.
      (4)   Final project site layout, including the following information:
         (a)   All information from the existing site layout items listed
above.
         (b)   Location of all proposed site improvements, including roads,
utilities, lot delineation and identification, proposed structures, and common
areas.
         (c)   One hundred-year floodplains, floodway fringes, and floodways.
Please note if none exists.
         (d)   Proposed final topography, at a contour interval appropriate to
indicate drainage patterns.
      (5)   A grading plan, including the following information:
         (a)   Delineation of all proposed land disturbing activities,
including off-site activities that will provide services to the project site.
         (b)   Location of all soil stockpiles and borrow areas.
         (c)   Information regarding any off-site borrow, stockpile, or
disposal areas that are associated with a project site, and under the control
of the project site owner.
         (d)   Existing and proposed topographic information.
      (6)   A drainage plan, including the following information:
         (a)   An estimate of the peak discharge, based on the ten-year storm
24-hour event, of the project site for post-construction conditions.
         (b)   The proposed 100-year and ten-year release rates determined for
the site, showing the methodology used to calculate them and detailing
considerations given to downstream restrictions (if any) that may affect the
calculated allowable release rates.
         (c)   Calculation showing peak runoff rate after development for the
ten-year and 100-year return period 24-hour storms do not exceed the respective
allowable release runoff rates.
         (d)   Location, size, and dimensions of all existing streams to be
maintained, and new drainage systems such as culverts, bridges, storm sewers,
conveyance channels, and 100-year overflow paths/ponding areas shown as hatched
areas, along with all associated easements.
         (e)   Locations where stormwater may be directly discharged into
groundwater, such as abandoned wells or sinkholes. Please note if none exists.
         (f)   Locations of specific points where stormwater discharge will
leave the project site.
         (g)   Name of all receiving waters. If the discharge is to a separate
municipal storm sewer, identify the name of the municipal operator and the
ultimate receiving water.
         (h)   Location, size, and dimensions of features such as permanent
retention or detention facilities, including natural or constructed wetlands,
used for the purpose of stormwater management. Include existing retention or
detention facilities that will be maintained, enlarged, or otherwise altered
and new ponds or basins to be built and the basis of their design.
         (i)   Emergency flood routing path(s) and their invert elevations from
detention facilities to the receiving system.
         (j)   The estimated depth and amount of storage required by design of
the new ponds or basins.
         (k)   One or more typical cross sections of all existing and proposed
channels or other open drainage facilities carried to a point above the 100-
year high water and showing the elevation of the existing land and the proposed
changes, together with the high water elevations expected from the 100- year
storm under the controlled conditions called for by this chapter, and the
relationship of structures, streets, and other facilities.
         (l)   A drainage summary, which summarizes the basic conditions of the
drainage design, including site acreage, off-site/upstream acreage, allowable
release rates, post-developed 10-year, and 100-year flows leaving the site,
volume of detention required, volume of detention provided, and any release
rate restrictions.
         (m)   Arrows designating the direction of stormwater runoff.
         (n)   Spot elevations appropriate to define elevations.
      (7)   Any other information required by Boone County Drainage Board and/
or Boone County Surveyor in order to thoroughly evaluate the submitted
material.
   (E)   Stormwater drainage technical report. A written stormwater drainage
technical report must contain a discussion of the steps taken in the design of
the stormwater drainage system. Note that in order to gain an understanding of
and to evaluate the relationship between the proposed improvements for a
specific project section/phase and the proposed improvements for an overall
multi-section (phased) project, the detailed information requested herein for
the first section/phase being permitted must be accompanied by an overall
project plan that includes the location, dimensions, and supporting analyses of
all detention/retention facilities, primary conveyance facilities, and outlet
conditions. The technical report needs to include the following detailed items:
      (1)   A summary report, including the following information:
         (a)   The significant drainage problems associated with the project;
         (b)   The analysis procedure used to evaluate these problems and to
propose solutions;
         (c)   Any assumptions or special conditions associated with the use of
these procedures, especially the hydrologic or hydraulic methods;
         (d)   The proposed design of the drainage control system; and
         (e)   The results of the analysis of the proposed drainage control
system showing that it does solve the project’s drainage problems and that it
meets the requirements of this chapter and these standards. This must include a
table summarizing, for each eventual site outlet, the pre-developed acreage
tributary to each eventual site outlet, the unit discharge allowable release
rate used, the resulting allowable release rate in cfs for the post-developed
ten-year and 100-year events, pre-developed two-year flow rates in cfs as well
as pre- and post-developed flow rates for ten- and 100-year events. The
worksheet provided in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards Manual as
Table 6-1 should be filled and submitted as part of the report. Any hydrologic
or hydraulic calculations or modeling results must be adequately cited and
described in the summary description. If hydrologic or hydraulic models are
used, the input and output files for all necessary runs must be included in the
appendices. A map showing any drainage area subdivisions used in the analysis
must accompany the report.
         (f)   A narrative and photographic record of the condition of the
downstream receiving system.
         (g)   Identification of any other state or federal water quality
permits that are required for construction activities associated with the
owner’s project site.
      (2)   A hydrologic/hydraulic analysis, consistent with the methodologies
and calculation included in the Boone County Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual, and including the following information:
         (a)   A hydraulic report detailing existing and proposed drainage
patterns on the subject site. The report should include a description of
present land use and proposed land use. Any off-site drainage entering the site
should be addressed as well. This report should be comprehensive and detail all
of the steps the engineer took during the design process.
         (b)   All hydrologic and hydraulic computations should be included in
the submittal. These calculations should include, but are not limited to:
runoff curve numbers and runoff coefficients, runoff calculations, stage-
discharge relationships, times-of-concentration and storage volumes.
         (c)   Copies of all computer runs. These computer runs should include
both the input and the outputs. Electronic copies of the computer runs with
input files must also be included.
         (d)   A set of exhibits should be included showing the drainage sub-
areas and a schematic detailing of how the computer models were set up.
         (e)   A conclusion which summarizes the hydraulic design and details
how this design satisfies this chapter.
   (F)   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan for construction sites.
      (1)   For sites with total disturbance of one acre or more, a Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) associated with construction activities must
be designed to, at least, meet the requirements of this chapter. For land
disturbances totaling less than one acre but greater than 10,000 square feet,
appropriate erosion and sediment control measures that are consistent with the
Boone County Technical Standards must be designed and shown on the plans.
      (2)   The SWPPP must include the following:
         (a)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all temporary and permanent stormwater quality measures.
         (b)   Temporary stabilization plans and sequence of implementation.
         (c)   Permanent stabilization plans and sequence of implementation.
         (d)   Temporary and permanent stabilization plans shall include the
following:
            1.   Specifications and application rates for soil amendments and
seed mixtures.
            2.   The type and application rate for anchored mulch.
         (e)   Construction sequence describing the relationship between
implementation of stormwater quality measures and stages of construction
activities.
         (f)   A typical erosion and sediment control plan for individual lot
development.
         (g)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
         (h)   A description of potential pollutant sources associated with the
construction activities, which may reasonably be expected to add a significant
amount of pollutants to stormwater discharges.
         (i)   Material handling and storage associated with construction
activity shall meet the spill prevention and spill response requirements in 327
I.A.C. 2-6.1.
         (j)   Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications of
the trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution
prevention self-monitoring program for the project site.
   (G)   Post-Construction Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan. Sites with
total disturbance of one acre or more, a Post-Construction Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan must be designed to, at least, meet the requirements of this
chapter and must include the information provided in the Boone County Technical
Standards Manual. The Post-Construction Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan
must include the following information:
      (1)   A description of potential pollutant sources from the proposed land
use, which may reasonably be expected to add a significant amount of pollutants
to stormwater discharges.
      (2)   Location, dimensions, detailed specifications, and construction
details of all post- construction stormwater quality measures.
      (3)   A description of measures that will be installed to control
pollutants in stormwater discharges that will occur after construction
activities have been completed. Such practices include infiltration of runoff,
flow reduction by use of open, vegetated swales and natural depressions, buffer
strip and riparian zone preservation, filter strip creation, minimization of
land disturbance and surface imperviousness, maximization of open space, and
stormwater retention and detention ponds.
      (4)   A sequence describing when each post-construction stormwater
quality measure will be installed.
      (5)   Stormwater quality measures that will remove or minimize pollutants
from stormwater runoff.
      (6)   Stormwater quality measures that will be implemented to prevent or
minimize adverse impacts to stream and riparian habitat.
      (7)   A narrative description of the maintenance guidelines for all post-
construction stormwater quality measures to facilitate their proper, long-term
function. This narrative description shall be made available to future parties
who will assume responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the post-
construction stormwater quality measures.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.083 REVIEW OF INDIVIDUAL LOTS WITHIN A PERMITTED PROJECT.
   (A)   For individual lots disturbing less than one acre, developed within a
larger permitted project, a formal review and issuance of an individual lot
plot plan permit will be required before a building permit can be issued. All
stormwater management measures necessary to comply with this chapter must be
implemented in accordance with permitted plan for the larger project.
   (B)   The following information must be submitted to the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, for review and acceptance, by the
individual lot operator, whether owning the property or acting as the agent of
the property owner, as part of a request for review and issuance of an
individual lot plot plan permit that must be obtained prior to the issuance of
a building permit.
      (1)   A site layout for the subject lot and all adjacent lots showing
building pad location, dimensions, and elevations, and the drainage patterns
and swales.
      (2)   Erosion and sediment control plan that, at a minimum, includes the
following measures:
         (a)   Installation and maintenance of a stable construction site
access.
         (b)   Installation and maintenance of appropriate perimeter erosion
and sediment control measures prior to land disturbance.
         (c)   Minimization of sediment discharge and tracking from the lot.
         (d)   Clean-up of sediment that is either tracked or washed onto
roads. Bulk clearing of sediment shall not include flushing the area with
water. Cleared sediment must be redistributed or disposed of in a manner that
is in compliance with all applicable statutes and rules.
         (e)   Adjacent lots disturbed by an individual lot operator must be
repaired and stabilized with temporary or permanent surface stabilization.
         (f)   Self-monitoring program including plan and procedures.
      (3)   Certification of compliance stating that the individual lot plan is
consistent with the stormwater management permit, as approved by the Boone
County Drainage Board for the larger project.
      (4)   Name, address, telephone number, and list of qualifications of the
trained individual in charge of the mandatory stormwater pollution prevention
self-monitoring program for the project site.
   (C)   The individual lot operator is responsible for installation and
maintenance of all erosion and sediment control measures until the site is
stabilized.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.084 CHANGES TO PLANS.
   Any changes or deviations in the detailed plans and specifications after
approval of the applicable stormwater management permit shall be filed with,
and accepted by, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor
prior to the land development involving the change. Copies of the changes, if
accepted, shall be attached to the original plans and specifications.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.085 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Fee amount. As a condition of the submittal and the review of
development plans by Boone County, the applicant shall agree to pay the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor the applicable fee, as set
by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor with respect to
the review of all drainage submittals, preliminary plans, final plans,
construction plans and accompanying information and data, as well as pre-paid
inspection fees.
   (B)   Time of payment.
      (1)   After the meeting at which the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor is scheduled to consider acceptance of the applicant’s
final stormwater management plan, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor will furnish a written statement to the applicant specifying
the total amount due the Boone County Drainage Board in connection with the
review of the applicant’s submittals, plans and accompanying information and
data, including the amount required to be paid by applicant for review and pre-
paid inspection fees.
      (2)   As a condition of acceptance of final drainage plans by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, applicant shall pay to the
Boone County Drainage Board the sum set forth in said statement. The Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may issue such a billing
statement before the project advances to the final acceptance stage, and such
payment is due by applicant upon receipt of said billing statement regardless
of whether the project is advanced to the final acceptance stage.
      (3)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall
have the right to not accept the drainage improvements or to not approve the
advancement of any project for which the applicable fees have not been paid.
   (C)   Method of payment.
      (1)   Fees shall be paid by one of the following methods:
         (a)   Certified check;
         (b)   Cashier’s check;
         (c)   Money order.
      (2)   All checks shall be made payable to the: Boone County Surveyor’s
Office 116 West Washington Street Lebanon, IN 46052
   (D)   Refund of payment. Fees are refundable only if the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor determines that compliance by the
development to this chapter is not necessary.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.086 REQUIRED ASSURANCES.
   As a condition of approval and issuance of the permit, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall require the applicant to
provide assurance in form of an irrevocable letter of credit or a bond when the
stormwater management plan has been accepted and before construction begins.
Said assurance will guarantee a good faith execution of the stormwater drainage
plan, the Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan, the stormwater quality
management plan, and any permit conditions. The assurance shall be for an
amount equal to 110% of the total costs of all stormwater management measures
for the entire project. The above mentioned costs shall be based on an estimate
as prepared by a registered engineer or land surveyor. Said costs shall be for
the installation and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of erosion control
measures and the construction and ongoing monitoring and maintenance of storm
drainage infrastructure, detention/retention facilities, and stormwater quality
BMPs, as regulated under this chapter, until the construction is completed,
site is stabilized, and as-built plans are accepted by the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor. Assurances shall be for a minimum
of $5,000. Local governmental jurisdictions may require additional performance
and/or maintenance assurances. The intent of this assurance is not only to
complete the installation of storm drain infrastructure for the project, but
also to assure that adequate stormwater pollution prevention measures are
properly installed and maintained. If adequate assurances are set aside by the
project site owner for the overall project, proof of total assurance can be
submitted in place of an individual stormwater assurance.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.087 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   (A)   In granting a stormwater management permit, the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may impose such terms and conditions as are
reasonably necessary to meet the purposes of this chapter. The project site
owner shall ensure compliance with such terms and conditions. Noncompliance
with the terms and conditions of permits will be subject to enforcement as
described in §§
17.53.100 through
17.53.105 and §
17.53.999.
   (B)   The project site owner shall inform all general contractor,
construction management firms, grading or excavating contractors, utility
contractors, and the contractors that have primary oversight on individual
building lots of the terms and conditions of the stormwater management permit
and the schedule for proposed implementation.
   (C)   In the event that a project site is determined to impact or discharge
to a sensitive area or is located in an impact drainage area, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may require more stringent
stormwater quantity and quality measures than detailed in this chapter or in
the Indiana Stormwater Quality Manual.
   (D)   Determination of sensitive areas. Sensitive areas include highly
erodible soils, wetlands, threatened or endangered species habitat, outstanding
waters, impaired waters, recreational waters, and surface drinking water
sources. A listing of highly erodible soils, outstanding water, impaired water,
recreation water and surface drinking water sources can be found in the Boone
County Storm Water Quality Management Plan – Part B. Any discharge from a
stormwater practice that is a Class V injection well shall meet the Indiana
groundwater quality standards. If wetlands are suspected on a site, a wetland
delineation should be completed in accordance with the methodology established
by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (COE). The presence of threatened or
endangered species habitat will be determined by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor during the permit review process. Special
terms and conditions for development determined to impact or discharge to any
sensitive area shall be included in the stormwater management permit.
   (E)   Determination of impact drainage areas.
      (1)   The following areas shall be designated as impact drainage areas,
unless good reason for not including them is presented to the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
         (a)   A floodway or floodplain as designated by the most updated Boone
County Code dealing with floodplain regulation.
         (b)   Land within 75 feet of each bank of any ditch within the Boone
County’s system.
         (c)   Land within 75 feet of the centerline of any drain tile or
enclosed conduit within the Boone County’s system.
      (2)   The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor is
authorized, but is not required, to classify certain geographical areas as
impact drainage areas. In determining impact drainage areas, the Boone County
Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor shall consider such factors as
topography, soil type, capacity of existing drains, and distance from adequate
drainage facility.
      (3)   Land that does not have an adequate outlet, taking into
consideration the capacity and depth of the outlet, may be designated as an
impact drainage area by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor. Special terms and conditions for development within any impact
drainage area shall be included in the stormwater management permit.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.088 CERTIFICATION OF AS-BUILT PLANS.
   (A)   After completion of construction of the project and before final
acceptance of the stormwater management plan (the issuance of a “verified”
NOT), a professionally prepared and certified “as-built” set of plans (record
drawings) shall be submitted to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor for review. These as-built plans/record drawings must be
prepared and certified by the Engineer of Record, that is the company/engineer
who originally prepared the construction plans. Additionally, a digital copy of
the “as-built” plans (record drawings) as well as finalized digital versions of
all analyses, models, manuals, and reports that are consistent with the as-
built conditions is required in a format accepted by the Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor that they can be electronically filed for
any future reference. These plans shall include all pertinent data relevant to
the completed storm drainage system and stormwater management facilities, and
shall include:
      (1)   Pipe size and pipe material;
      (2)   Invert elevations;
      (3)   Top rim elevations;
      (4)   Elevation of the emergency overflow (spillway) for ponds;
      (5)   Grades along the emergency flood routing path(s);
      (6)   Pipe structure lengths;
      (7)   BMP types, dimensions, and boundaries/easements;
      (8)   “As-planted” plans for BMPs, as applicable;
      (9)   Data and calculations showing detention basin storage volume;
      (10)   Data and calculations showing BMP treatment capacity;
      (11)   Certified statement on plans stating the completed storm drainage
system and stormwater management facilities substantially comply with
construction plans and the stormwater management permit as approved by the
Boone County Drainage Board. (See certificate in Stormwater Technical Standards
Manual.)
   (B)   The property owner, developer, or contractor shall be required to file
a three-year maintenance bond or other acceptable guarantee with the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor, prior to acceptance, in an
amount not to exceed 25% of the cost of the stormwater drainage system located
outside the public road rights-of-way, and in a form satisfactory to the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor’s attorney in order to
assure that such stormwater system installation was done according to standards
of good workmanship, that the materials used in the construction and
installation were of good quality and construction, and that such project was
done in accordance with the accepted plans, and this chapter. The bond or other
acceptable guarantee shall be in effect for a period of three years after the
date of the final project acceptance (issuance of a “verified” NOT) by the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
   (C)   To verify that all regulated drain tiles are functioning properly,
visual recordings (via closed circuit television) of such tile drains shall be
required, once following the completion of installation (including the
installation of all utility mains) and the second time before release of
maintenance bonds. These visual recordings will be scheduled by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and paid for by the
developer. Notices shall be provided to the Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor within 72 hours following the completion of installation
and again at least 60 days prior to the expiration date of the maintenance bond
so that the noted recordings may be scheduled. Reports summarizing the results
of the noted visual recordings shall be reviewed and accepted by the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor before the plat is
recommended for recording and again before maintenance bond would be
recommended to be released.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 17.53.100 COMPLIANCE WITH THIS CHAPTER.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, compliance with the
requirements set forth in the local Zoning Ordinances is also necessary.
Compliance with all applicable ordinances of Boone County Drainage Board and/or
Boone County Surveyor as well as with applicable State of Indiana statues and
regulations shall also be required. Unless otherwise stated, all other
specifications referred to in this chapter shall be the most recent edition
available. Violations of the requirements of this chapter are subject to the
penalties listed in §
17.53.999.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.101 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties listed in §
17.53.999, if land disturbance activities are conducted contrary to the
provisions of this chapter or accepted final stormwater management plans, the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may order the work
stopped by notice in writing served on any person engaged in the doing or
causing of such work to be done, and any such persons shall forthwith stop such
work until authorized by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor to proceed with the work. The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor may also undertake or cause to be undertaken, any necessary or
advisable protective measures to prevent violations of this chapter or to avoid
or reduce the effects of noncompliance herewith. The cost of any such
protective measures shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property
upon which the work is being done and the responsibility of any person carrying
out or participating in the work.
   (B)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order
shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not
less than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 3 months, or both such fine
and imprisonment, and such person shall also pay such costs as may be imposed
in the discretion of the court. A permit reinstatement fee may also be assessed
by the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.102 FAILURE TO COMPLY OR COMPLETE.
   In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County
Surveyor may, after giving notice and opportunity for compliance, have the
necessary work done, and the owner shall be required to promptly reimburse the
Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor for all costs of such
work.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.103 SUSPENSION OF ACCESS TO THE STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.
   (A)   Suspension due to emergency situations. The Boone County Drainage
Board and/or Boone County Surveyor may, without prior notice, suspend storm
drain system discharge access to a person when such suspension is necessary to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent
and substantial danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of
persons, or to the storm drain system or waters of the United States. If the
violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency, the
Boone County Drainage Board may take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent
or minimize damage to the storm drain system or waters of the United States, or
to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the storm drain system in violation of this chapter may have
their storm drain system access terminated if such termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge. The Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor will notify a violator of the proposed termination of its MS4
access. The violator may petition the Boone County Drainage Board and/or Boone
County Surveyor for a reconsideration and hearing.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004) Penalty, see §
17.53.999
§ 17.53.104 CORRECTIVE ACTION.
   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Boone County Drainage Board and/
or Boone County Surveyor from taking such other lawful action as may be
necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. All costs connected therewith
shall accrue to the person or persons responsible. Costs include, but are not
limited to, repairs to the storm drain system made necessary by the violation,
as well as those penalties levied by the EPA or IDEM for violation of the Boone
County NPDES permit, attorney fees, and other costs and expenses.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.105 APPEALS.
   Any person to whom any provision of this chapter has been applied may appeal
in writing, not later than 30 days after the action or decision being appealed
from, to the Boone County Board of Commissioners the action or decision whereby
any such provision was so applied. Such appeal shall identify the matter being
appealed, and the basis for the appeal. The Boone County Board of Commissioners
shall consider the appeal and make a decision whereby it affirms, rejects or
modifies the action being appealed. In considering any such appeal, the Boone
County Board of Commissioners may consider the recommendations of the Boone
County Drainage Board and/or Boone County Surveyor and the comments of other
persons having knowledge of the matter. In considering any such appeal, the
Boone County Board of Commissioners may grant a variance from the terms of this
chapter to provide relief, in whole or in part, from the action being appealed,
but only upon finding that the following requirements are satisfied:
   (A)   The application of the chapter provisions being appealed will present
or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
this chapter; and
   (B)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes of this chapter, nor result in less effective management
of stormwater runoff.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
§ 17.53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall
be responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a maximum fine of $5,000
for a first offense, and a maximum of $10,000 for a subsequent offense, plus
costs, damages, and expenses. Each day such violation occurs or continues shall
be deemed a separate offense and shall make the violator liable for the
imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for in this
section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
An admission or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this chapter
shall be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of
the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within 12 months of
a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for which said
person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
(Ord. 2004-20, passed 12-13-2004)
APPENDIX A: PERMIT APPROVAL PROCESS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/193fb1f5c2977a45cab4a8302a82f0205a06d833/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1570.jpg]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
17.70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
17.71.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
17.72.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 17.70: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
17.70.01   Skateboards, in-line skates and roller skates
   
17.70.02   Load limits on county roads
   
17.70.03   Commercial truck traffic prohibited
 
   
17.70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 17.70.01 SKATEBOARDS, IN-LINE SKATES AND ROLLER SKATES.
   Skateboards, in-line skates and roller skates, and other such modes of
transportation or leisure activity of a comparable nature, are expressly banned
and prohibited upon the Courthouse Square.
(Ord. 98-11, passed 5-18-1998) Penalty, see §
17.70.99
§ 17.70.02 LOAD LIMITS ON COUNTY ROADS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section provides for the preservation of county roads
and highways by limiting the gross weight of vehicles operated on Boone County
Highways during certain periods of the calendar year. This section also
provides exceptions on the award of a written permit by the County Highway
Supervisor.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Any vehicle or combination of vehicles shall not have a total gross
weight, with load, in excess of 24,000 pounds, except and unless a written
permit has been obtained from the Boone County Highway Supervisor.
      (2)   This regulation applies to any public road or public highway of the
county system of Boone County, except roads ro highways in the state highway
system of the state of Indiana and highways in the federal highway system.
   (C)   Time period. For and at all times during the period of 120 days
commencing on and following the first day of January, 1973 and for all calendar
years, thereafter.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Exceptions to these regulations may be made by the County Highway
Supervisor. Applications must be made in writing.
      (2)   Permittees shall operate and move said specially permitted weight
load only upon the roads and highways of said county system on the route and as
directed in writing by the County Highway Supervisor.
(Ord. passed 12-6-1965) Penalty, see §
17.70.99
§ 17.70.03 COMMERCIAL TRUCK TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Commercial truck traffic is hereby prohibited on County Road 200 West
from State Road 32 to Mount Zion Road and on Mount Zion Road from County Road
200 West to the Lebanon city limits.
   (B)   A COMMERCIAL TRUCK is defined as any non-agricultural vehicle with a
gross vehicle weight of 20,000 pounds or more.
(Ord. 2008-06, passed 6-2-2008) Penalty, see §
17.70.99
§ 17.70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
17.70.99.
   (B)   Any individual who is found to violate §
17.70.01 shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $100. In addition, any
individual who affirmatively or passively allows a minor to violate §
17.70.01 shall be fined an amount of $100.
(Ord. 98-11, passed 5-18-1998)
CHAPTER 17.71: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Speed limits
      
II.   No passing zones
      
III.   Limited access highways
      
IV.   Stop intersections
      
V.   Yield intersections
SCHEDULE I. SPEED LIMITS.
Location Speed Limit Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                                                      Speed Ord.  Date
                                                                              Limit No.   Passed
All subdivision roads                                                         20    92-3  3-2-
                                                                              mph         1992
CR 1100 East, from its intersection with CR 700 North to its terminus at SR   40    96-11 10-7-
47                                                                            mph         1996
CR 300 South, approximately 1 mile east of US 421 at the New Union School     30    2007- 8-20-
                                                                              mph   19    2007
CR 650 South                                                                  30    2004- 12-6-
                                                                              mph   19    2004
CR 700 East                                                                   30    2004- 12-6-
                                                                              mph   19    2004
CR 700 East, approximately ½ mile north of SR 334 at the location of the new 25    2007- 10-1-
Zionsville West Middle School                                                       22    2007
CR 950 East from Whitestown Road to SR 334                                    30    98-10 5-11-
                                                                              mph         1998
CR 975 East, from the north side boundary line of Zionsville town limits to   30    92-3  3-2-
the Whitestown-Zionsville Road on the west half of CR 975 East                mph         1992
Elizaville Road from County Road 500 East to a point 1600 feet west and south 30    2008- 5-19-
of County Road 500 East                                                       mph   5     2008
Ford Road, from the south side boundary line of the Zionsville town limits on 30          3-2-
the west half of Ford Road north to the intersection of Starkey Road and Ford mph   92-3  1992
Road on the southeast corner on the east side of Ford Road
Greenfield Road (CR 550 South), from its intersection with U.S. 421 to the    40    97-15 8-18-
Boone, Hamilton County boundary line                                          mph         1997
Haffner Trailer Park on Haffner Drive                                         15    96-6  5-20-
                                                                              mph         1996
Hunt Club Road                                                                30    94-5  4-4-
                                                                              mph         1994
Royal Run Boulevard                                                           30    2004- 12-6-
                                                                              mph   19    2004
School zone on Pleasant View Church Road (CR 975 East)                        25    95-7  11-6-
                                                                              mph         1995
Zionsville-Whitestown Road                                                    40    10-77 8-8-
                                                                              mph         1977
 
SCHEDULE II. NO PASSING ZONES.
 
Location     Ord. No. Date Passed
CR 300 South 2002-12  9-9-2002
 
SCHEDULE III. LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAYS.
 
Street        Location                        Ord. No. Date Passed
Willow Avenue East of U.S. 421 to Eagle Creek 92-7     12-14-1992
 
SCHEDULE IV. STOP INTERSECTIONS.
Location Stop Type Ord. No. Date Passed
Location                                         Stop Type Ord. No. Date Passed
Along Fox Hollow Ridge, where Ford Valley lane   Two-way   2004-12  9-13-2004
enters into Fox Hollow Ridge
CR 950 East at its intersection with CR 600      Two-way   82-7     8-9-1982
South
Intersection of CR 700 East and CR 525 South     Three-way 2002-11  9-9-2002
Intersection of CR 875 East and CR 500 South     Four-way  2001-18  11-14-2001
Intersection of CR 800 East and CR 400 South     Four-way  2003-15  7-14-2003
Intersection of CR 800 East and CR 500 South     Four-way  2003-16  7-14-2003
Intersection of CR 300 South and CR 975 East     Four-way  92-4     3-2-1992
Intersection of CR 650 South, CR 650 East and    Four-way  99-10-A  12-20-1999
Royal Run Boulevard
Intersection of CR 950 East and CR 200 South     Four-way  2003-11  6-23-2003
Intersection of CR 600 South and CR 25 West      Four-way  2002-10  8-5-2002
Intersection of CR 350 West and CR 400 North     Four-way  97-20    12-1-1997
Intersection of CR 900 East and CR 200 South     Four-way  97-21    12-1-1997
Intersection of CR 300 South and CR 400 East     Four-way  98-19    7-20-1998
Intersection of CR 700 East and CR 550 South     Three-way 98-22    11-2-1998
Intersection of CR 875 East and CR 550 South     Three-way 98-21    11-2-1998
Intersection of Mulberry Street (Whitestown
Road) and CR 975 East (Pleasant View Church      Three-way 97-14    8-18-1997
Road)
Intersection of Whitestown Road, North Ford Road Four-way  2001-16  10-22-2001
and CR 975 East
 
Editor's note:
   Ord. 97-11, passed - -1997, is adopted by reference and incorporated herein
as if set out in full. The ordinance sets out stop intersections in the towns
and cities of the county.
   Two copies of Ord. 97-11, passed - -1997 are available for public inspection
at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer during regular business hours.
SCHEDULE V. YIELD INTERSECTIONS.
Editor's note:
   Ord. 97-11, passed - -1997, is adopted by reference and incorporated herein
as if set out in full. The ordinance sets out yield intersections in the towns
and cities of the county. Two copies of Ord. 97-11, passed - -1997 are
available for public inspection at the office of the Clerk-Treasurer during
regular business hours.
CHAPTER 17.72: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Parking restrictions
SCHEDULE I. PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
 
Location               Restriction Type Ord. No.          Date Passed
Diane Lane             No parking zone  2005-01           1-18-2005
                       established
Indianapolis Road
beginning at the
intersection of State  No parking zone  2007-05; Am. Ord.
Road 334 and 650 South established      2007-09           2-12-2007; 312-2007
and proceeding north
for 300 feet along
Indianapolis Road
 
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
17.90.   LITTER CONTROL
      
17.91.   WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
      
17.92.   NOISE
      
17.93.   ANIMAL CONTROL GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
17.94.   HOUSING PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 17.90: LITTER CONTROL
Section
   
17.90.01   Purpose
   
17.90.02   Definitions
   
17.90.03   Enforcement
   
17.90.04   Prohibited acts and regulated activities
   
17.90.05   Litter Enforcement Fund
   
17.90.06   Authority of County Counsel
 
   
17.90.99   Penalty
§ 17.90.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish requirements to control
littering in the county, to prescribe penalties for the failure to comply and
to provide for recovery by the county of the expenses of litter removal.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 17.90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and
their derivations shall have the meanings stated herein unless their use in the
text of this chapter clearly demonstrates a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future, words used in the plural number include the singular number, and words
used in the singular number include the plural number. The word SHALL is always
mandatory and not merely directory.
   AUTOMOBILE LITTER. Automotive vehicles or trailers of any type without
plates in an inoperable condition so as to be deemed dead storage.
   COUNTY. The County of Boone.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE. Any private or public property upon which repairs to an
existing building, construction of a new building or demolition of an existing
structure is taking place.
   ELEMENTS. Any element or mechanism, animate or inanimate, which is a
reasonably foreseeable means of carrying litter from one place to another.
ELEMENTS shall include, but not limited to, wind, rain, water current and
animals.
   HEARING BOARD. The board members of the enforcement authority issuing any
citation according to the terms established in this chapter.
   LITTER.
      (1)   Any uncontainerized man-made or man-used waste, which, if deposited
within the county in any manner or location other than in a litter receptacle,
tends to create a public nuisance or a danger to public health, safety and
welfare, or to impair the environment of the people of the county.
      (2)   LITTER may include, but is not limited to, any garbage, trash,
refuse, confetti, debris, rubbish, grass clippings or other lawn or garden
waste, newspaper, magazine, glass, metal, plastic or paper container or other
construction material, motor vehicle part, furniture, oil, carcass of a dead
animal, obnoxious or offensive matter of any kind, or any object likely to
injure any person or create a nuisance condition or a traffic hazard.
   LOADING OR UNLOADING DOCK. Any dock space or area used by any moving vehicle
for the purpose of receiving, shipping and transporting goods, wares,
commodities and persons.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation, as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the United States Postal Service in accordance
with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and recorded with
any recording officer, as provided by general law; and, in addition thereto,
shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine regularly published
with not less than four issues per year and sold or distributed to the public.
   PERSON. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
company, not-for-profit organization or any governmental entity.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling house, building or other structure designed
to be used, either wholly or in part, for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule, mailbox or
other structure belonging or appurtenant to the dwelling house, building or
other structure.
   PUBLIC WAY OR PLACE. Any and all streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes, alleys
or other public ways, and parks, squares, plazas, grounds and buildings
frequented by the general public, whether publicly or privately owned.
   VIOLATIONS CLERK. The Clerk of Boone County.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 17.90.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the authorized employee(s) of the
following (hereinafter collectively referred to as Enforcement Personnel):
   (A)   Boone County Health Department; and
   (B)   Boone County Area Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 17.90.04 PROHIBITED ACTS AND REGULATED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Littering the premises of another.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cast, place or deposit any
litter upon real property owned by another, without the consent of the owner or
lessee of the real property.
      (2)   Whenever any person shall be charged with a violation of this
section, it shall be a sufficient allegation of an ordinance violation to state
that the person deposited litter upon property of which he or she was not then
the owner or lessee. It shall be an affirmative defense to such an alleged
violation for the person to show that he or she had permission of the owner or
lessee to so deposit the litter.
   (B)   Maintenance of property.
      (1)   Every owner, lessee or occupant of a residential, business or
commercial building or real estate shall maintain litter collection and storage
areas in a clean condition and ensure that all litter is containerized. Failure
to so maintain clean litter collection and storage areas shall constitute a
violation of this section.
      (2)   All litter that is subject to movement by the elements shall be
secured by the owner, lessee or occupant of a residential, business or
commercial building where it is found before the same is removed or carried by
the elements to adjoining premises.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of any person owning, leasing or occupying a
house or other building or premises, including vacant lots visible from any
public place or private premises, to maintain the house, building or premises
in a reasonably clean and orderly manner. It shall be unlawful to abandon,
neglect or disregard the condition or appearance of any premises so as to
permit the accumulation of litter thereon or the dispersion of litter
therefrom.
      (4)   The owner or person in control of any public place, including, but
not limited to, restaurants, shopping centers, fast-food outlets, stores,
hotels, motels, industrial establishments, office buildings, apartment
buildings, housing projects, gas stations and hospitals and clinics, shall, at
all times, keep the premises clean of all litter and shall take measures,
including daily cleanup of the premises, to prevent litter from being carried
by the elements to adjoining premises. It shall be unlawful to abandon, neglect
or disregard the condition or appearance of the premises so as to permit the
accumulation of litter thereon or the dispersion of litter therefrom.
      (5)   The owner or operator of any public establishment which provides
off-street customer parking and dispenses food or beverages intended for human
consumption outside the establishment or off its premises shall maintain litter
receptacles in the off-street parking area as follows: a minimum of one
receptacle shall be provided for nine or fewer parking spaces and one
additional receptacle for each additional nine parking spaces.
      (6)   The person owning, operating or in control of a loading or
unloading dock shall, at all times, maintain the dock area free of litter in
such a manner that littler will be prevented from being carried by the elements
to adjoining premises.
      (7)   The property owners and the prime contractors in charge of any
construction site shall maintain the construction site in such a manner that
litter will be prevented from being carried by the elements to adjoining
premises. All litter from construction activities or any related activities
shall be picked up at the end of each workday and placed in containers which
will prevent litter from being carried by the elements to adjoining premises.
      (8)   Persons owning, occupying or in control of any premises shall keep
the sidewalks and alleys adjacent thereto free of litter. In residential areas,
owners or occupants shall sweep or rinse off the sidewalks abutting their
premises as often as may be required to keep the walk reasonably free from
dirt, paper and waste.
      (9)   It shall be unlawful for any person who is in control of the
premises upon which is located or on whose behalf there is maintained any
container of refuse, water or garbage to allow that refuse, waste or garbage to
remain uncollected or to allow that container to remain unemptied:
         (a)   More than 15 days; or
         (b)   Until the refuse, waste or garbage creates any condition whish
is offensive to persons upon any private premises or public place.
      (10)   (a)   It shall be unlawful for any person who has contracted to
collect and remove refuse, waste or garbage from any residential, business or
commercial building to allow that refuse, waste or garbage to remain
uncollected or to allow a refuse container to remain unemptied:
            1.   More than 15 days; or
            2.   Until that refuse, waste or garbage creates any condition
which is offensive to persons upon any private premises or public place.
         (b)   A violation of this division may be abated by the county in
accordance with this chapter; provided also, however, that the container in
question may be impounded and a lien may be executed against any property held
in connection with the business of collecting refuse, waste or garbage by the
person alleged to be in violation of this division.
      (11)   Automobile litter shall be prohibited unless the automotive
vehicle or trailer is in a completely enclosed building.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004) Penalty, see §
17.90.99
§ 17.90.05 LITTER ENFORCEMENT FUND.
   (A)   There is hereby created a special fund to be designated as the Litter
Ordinance Enforcement Fund of Boone County, Indiana.
   (B)   This Fund shall be a continuing fund, with all balances remaining
therein at the end of each fiscal year, and no balances shall lapse into the
county general funds or ever be diverted, directly or indirectly, in any
manner, to any other uses than for the purpose of enforcement and
administration in connection with the Boone County Litter Ordinance.
   (C)   This Fund shall be comprised of revenue derived from the collection of
fines and penalties levied pursuant hereto.
   (D)   Moneys from this Fund shall be appropriate in accordance with
procedures for expenditures of public funds.
   (E)   The fund shall be administered by the Auditor of Boone County,
Indiana.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 17.90.06 AUTHORITY OF COUNTY COUNSEL.
   The county may use such attorney(s), including but not limited to the
designated County Attorney, as it deems fit, in its sole discretion, for the
prosecution of any claim hereunder, whether appearing before the court or
otherwise.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
§ 17.90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Littering the premises of another and/or litter from transport or
travel on public ways.
      (1)   Any person found to violate §
17.90.04(A) of this chapter in any manner shall be subject to a fine in the
following amounts:
         (a)   Fifty dollars for first violation;
         (b)   One hundred dollars for second violation; and
         (c)   Two hundred fifty dollars for third or greater violation within
a 12-month time period.
      (2)   The enforcement personnel citing the violation shall issue a
citation in the form set forth in Attachment “A” of the ordinance codified
herein. The citation shall include notice that the recipient may admit or deny
the alleged violation subject to the provisions in divisions (A)(2)(a) and (A)
(2)(b) of this section. Any person receiving such a citation shall appear in
person before the Violation Clerk to either admit or deny the violation within
seven days of the date of the issuance of the citation.
         (a)   If the recipient admits the violation, he or she shall be
subject to payment of the penalty as provided above. All such payments shall be
made within seven days of the date of the citation.
         (b)   If the recipient denies the violation, he or she shall request a
hearing in front of the Hearing Board. The hearing shall be conducted at the
next regular meeting of the Board. Notice of the date and time of the hearing
shall be provided to recipient.
         (c)   The Hearing Board conducting a hearing under this section shall
determine whether a violation of this chapter has been proven by a
preponderance of the evidence. Upon a finding that a violation of this chapter
has been committed, the Board shall enter an order requiring the alleged
violator to pay the fine provided in division (A)(1) above.
      (3)   A citation issued under this section shall be provided to the
recipient and a copy of the citation shall be forwarded to all other
enforcement authorities. The issuing enforcement authority shall notify the
remaining enforcement authority as to all actions taken with regard to the
cited violation.
   (B)   Maintenance of property.
      (1)   Any person found to violate §
17.90.04(B) of this chapter in any manner shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $2,500. Each day any such violation is committed or permitted to
continue may constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereafter.
      (2)   In addition to the penalties described in division (B)(1) above of
this section, the county, by appropriate action, may seek injunctive relief,
requesting the court to enjoin or order the abatement of any violation of this
chapter.
      (3)   The enforcement personnel citing a violation under §
17.90.04(B) of this chapter shall issue a notice in the form set forth in
Attachment “B” of the ordinance codified herein. The notice shall include a
description of the alleged violation and notice to the recipient that failure
to abate the violation within 15 days may result in the pursuit of an action by
the county in a court of appropriate jurisdiction as well as the imposition of
additional fines up to $2,500 for each violation.
      (4)   The notice shall also include notice that the recipient may deny
the alleged violation. Any person receiving such a notice shall appear in
person before the Violation Clerk to deny the violation within seven days of
the date of the issuance of the citation.
         (a)   If the recipient denies the violation, he or she shall request a
hearing in front of the Hearing Board. The hearing shall be conducted at the
next regular meeting of the Board. Notice of the date and time of the hearing
shall be provided to recipient.
         (b)   The Hearing Board conducting a hearing under this section shall
determine whether a violation of this chapter has been proven by a
preponderance of the evidence. Upon a finding that a violation of this chapter
has been committed, the Board shall enter an order requiring the alleged
violator to abate the violation within 15 days of the issuance of the Board’s
order and shall impose a fine in an amount to be determined by the Board, but
not to exceed $2,500, for each day a violation is found to have occurred.
      (5)   A notice issued under this section shall be provided to the
recipient and a copy of the notice shall be forwarded to all other enforcement
authorities. The issuing enforcement authority shall notify the remaining
enforcement authority as to all actions taken with regard to the cited
violation.
      (6)   Should any individual fail to comply with the Board’s order to
remove the violation within the time period provided, the county, in its sole
discretion, may undertake the work necessary to abate the violation, and may
either seek reimbursement for the cost of work performed by filing an action in
a court of appropriate jurisdiction or file a lien against the subject real
estate for the cost of the work performed, until the cost is paid by the party
on whose behalf the abatement work was performed.
      (7)   Failure by the recipient to abate the violation or pay the assessed
fine may result in the pursuit of an action by the county in a court of
appropriate jurisdiction. The county may recover the cost of removal of the
item(s) constituting the violation, the amount of penalty imposed, attorney
fees and costs of bringing the action.
(Ord. 2004-16, passed 11-8-2004)
CHAPTER 17.91: WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Section
   
17.91.01   Interlocal agreement
   
17.91.02   Definitions
   
17.91.03   Compliance with state standards required
   
17.91.04   Inspection of mobile instruments
   
17.91.05   Instrument repair and installation
   
17.91.06   Numbering of instruments
   
17.91.07   Security seals
   
17.91.08   Commodity regulations
   
17.91.09   Creation of Weights and Measures Fund
   
17.91.10   Enforcement procedures
 
   
17.91.99   Penalty
§ 17.91.01 INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT.
   Boone County has entered into an interlocal agreement with the Hamilton
County Weights and Measures Department to enforce state and local weights and
measures standards, to carry out the Indiana state and local weights and
measures program and to inspect, test, try and ascertain if they are correct,
all weights, scales, beams, measures of any kind, instruments or mechanical
devices for measurement and the tools, appliances or accessories, connected
with any or all such instruments or measurements used or employed within the
county by any proprietor, agent, lessee or employee in determining the size,
quantity, extent or measurement of quantities, things, produce, articles for
distribution of higher award. The provisions of this section are intended to
supplement the state and local weights and measures standards and the state and
local weights and measures program and are in no way intended or designed to
restrict, repeal or abrogate the standards or program.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 17.91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNTY INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized to inspect weighing
or measuring instruments in Boone County.
   INSTRUMENT. Any scale, weight, beam, measure or weighing or measuring device
of every kind, or instrument or parts thereof subject to regulation by the
Division of Weights and Measures of the state’s Department of Health.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 17.91.03 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE STANDARDS REQUIRED.
   No person engaged in the business of selling, buying, exchanging goods or
commodities by weight, measurement or volume shall use an instrument in his or
her business operations for such purpose if the instrument does not meet the
standards established by the State of Indiana or the Division of Weights and
Measures of the state’s Department of Health.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-2006) Penalty, see §
17.91.99
§ 17.91.04 INSPECTION OF MOBILE INSTRUMENTS.
   If an instrument is mobile or otherwise operated at more than one location
and is not made available to be inspected by the County Inspector at a
permanent business location during regular business hours of the county, the
County Inspector shall have the authority to order the owner or operator to
present the instrument for inspection by the County Inspector at a time and
location designated by the County Inspector.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 17.91.05 INSTRUMENT REPAIR AND INSTALLATION.
   All owners or operators of instruments shall inform the County Inspector
that an instrument has been repaired or installed and provide the County
Inspector with the location of the instrument prior to that instrument being
placed into service.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 17.91.06 NUMBERING OF INSTRUMENTS.
   Any person who owns or operates more than one instrument of a particular
type at a business location shall serially number each instrument in such a
manner that each instrument shall be readily distinguishable from all other
such instruments of that type present at that location.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 17.91.07 SECURITY SEALS.
   (A)   When a weighing or measuring device is security sealed by a County
Inspector, the security seal shall not be cut, severed or removed without
permission of the County Inspector. Any weighing or measuring device designed
to be security sealed shall be sealed by a County Inspector.
   (B)   Repairpersons, whose equipment is certified by the State of Indiana
under §
17.91.05, may remove a security seal for the purpose of making repairs without
prior approval of the County Inspector. Repairpersons who cut, sever or remove
a security seal shall immediately notify the County Inspector within 24 hours.
   (C)   No security seal shall be valid in the county except a seal approved
by the state's Inspector of Indiana.
   (D)   No weighing or measuring device shall be used in the business of
selling, buying, bartering or exchanging of goods or commodities if the
security seal has been cut, severed or removed until it is resealed by the
County Inspector or permission is given by the County Inspector if immediate
resealing is impracticable.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 17.91.08 COMMODITY REGULATIONS.
   All persons engaged in the selling, buying, bartering or exchanging goods or
commodities must sell, buy, barter or exchange the goods or commodities using
the legal method of selling, buying, bartering or exchanging the goods or
commodities as required by the National Conference on Weights and Measures Sale
of Commodities Regulations, as provided by I.C. 24-6-3-2.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 17.91.09 CREATION OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES FUND.
   There is hereby established a Boone County Weights and Measures Fund (the
Fund). All minimum fines and fines imposed by the courts of Boone County shall
be deposited into the Fund. The Fund shall not revert at the end of the year,
but shall be maintained by the Boone County Auditor. Any amount in the Fund may
be appropriated by the Boone County Council to be appropriated into a line item
for the partial payment of funds paid to Hamilton County for their operation of
the weights and measures program in Boone County.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 17.91.10 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   The County Inspector for weights and measures, shall maintain duplicate
ticket books and shall cause to be recorded in his or her records the payment
of all minimum fines. All minimum fines shall be mailed directly to the Boone
County Auditor, attention weights and measures fines, 201 Courthouse Square,
Lebanon, Indiana 46052. The Hamilton County Weights and Measures Office shall
be responsible for maintaining records of the minimum fines that are paid and
assessed, causing minimum fines to be deposited and filing additional tickets
in the appropriate court of Boone County.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 17.91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The County Inspector or his or her designated assistant may issue to
the violator a citation which shall be written on a citation ticket.
   (B)   The owner or operator of an establishment who violates this chapter
shall be guilty of a Class C infraction and may be fined up to $500, plus
statutory court costs.
   (C)   Any person who commits a second or subsequent violation of this
chapter in any one calendar year, shall be guilty of a Class B infraction, and
may be fined up to $1,000, plus statutory court costs.
   (D)   Any person who receives a citation and pays the following fines (the
minimum fine) within 15 days of the citation, shall not be cited into court for
an infraction violation as set out above. The minimum fine for the first
violation of this chapter within a one-year period shall be $100. The minimum
fine for any second or subsequent violation shall be $200.
   (E)   The County Inspector or his or her designated assistant may issue a
citation as a warning. If a warning is issued, the person or operator who
receives the warning, shall correct the violation of this chapter within 15
days, or they may receive a citation, a minimum fine and/or be guilty of an
infraction as set out above.
   (F)   Each day of any violation shall be deemed as a separate offense.
(Ord. 2006-13, passed 9-18-2006)
CHAPTER 17.92: NOISE
Section
   
17.92.01   Purpose
   
17.92.02   Definitions
   
17.92.03   Unlawful noise
   
17.92.04   Unlawful noise from a building or structure
   
17.92.05   Exemptions
   
17.92.06   Entry onto private property
 
   
17.92.99   Penalty
§ 17.92.01 PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared, as a matter of public policy of Boone County, that:
   (A)   The making, creation or maintenance of noise of various kinds and by
various means that is unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent,
offensive or an obstruction to the free use of property within the county has
so increased as to constitute a public nuisance; and
   (B)   The making, creation or maintenance of noise of various kinds and by
various means that is unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent,
offensive or an obstruction to the free use of property and is prolonged in its
time, place and use, adversely affects and is a detriment to the comfort,
repose, health, peace and safety of the residents of and visitors to the
county; and
   (C)   The necessity, in the public interest, for the declaration of this
public policy as set forth in the provisions of this chapter is declared as a
matter of legislative determination and is designed to secure and promote the
comfort, repose, health, peace and safety of the residents of and visitors to
the county.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 17.92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on or in the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed
location on or in the ground. Structures include buildings, mobile homes,
walls, parking areas and public and private infrastructure.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 17.92.03 UNLAWFUL NOISE.
   (A)   Generally. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be
unlawful for any person to make, create or maintain any noise that is:
      (1)   Unreasonably loud, injurious to health, indecent, offensive or an
obstruction to the free use of property within the county; or
      (2)   Adversely or substantially affects, annoys, disturbs, injures or
endangers the comfort, repose, health and peace and safety of others within the
county.
   (B)   Violations. Accordingly, the following acts, among others, are
declared to be unlawful noises in violation of this chapter:
      (1)   Construction or repair of buildings or structures. The erection,
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, or the excavation therefor,
at any times other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., Monday
through Sunday. There shall be an exception to this constituting unlawful noise
in the case of an emergency or urgent necessity in the interest of public
health and safety, but then only with a permit from the County Building
Inspector which permit may be granted for a period not to exceed three days
while the emergency or urgent necessity continues and which permit may be
renewed for an additional period up to three additional days while the
emergency or urgent necessity continues.
      (2)   Music and electronic devices. Playing, using or operating, or
permitting to be played, used or operated, any radio or television set, musical
instrument, or other machine or electronic device for producing or reproducing
sound in such a manner as to make, create or maintain an unlawful noise, or at
any time with volume louder than is necessary for convenient hearing of the
person or persons who are in the room, vehicle or chamber in which such machine
or electronic device is operation. The operation of such set, instrument,
machine or electronic device between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. in
such a manner as to be plainly audible in the immediate vicinity of the
building, structure or vehicle in which it is located shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this division.
      (3)   Exhaust. The discharge into the open air of any unlawful noise
created by the exhaust of any internal combustion engine, or any type of engine
or power unit on a motorcycle or other motor vehicle or craft of any kind,
except through a muffler or other device that will effectively reduce and
prevent unlawful noise therefrom except for farm vehicles. A motor vehicle must
be equipped with a muffler or other noise dissipation device that is in good
working order and is in constant operation to prevent unlawful noise.
      (4)   Special use vehicles and equipment. The operation of off-road
vehicles, ATVs, snowmobile and other special use vehicles shall be prohibited
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 17.92.04 UNLAWFUL NOISE FROM A BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit persons creating unlawful
noise or persons of disorderly character to assemble in any Building or
Structure owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her. A person who
recklessly, knowingly, or intentionally engages in conduct which makes unlawful
noise and continues to do so after being directed or requested to stop commits
disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 17.92.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exempted from the provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Noise or sounds emitted from any authorized emergency vehicle.
   (B)   Parades, festivals, carnivals, fairs, celebrations, concerts, artistic
performances or any other event authorized by the county.
   (C)   Noise arising from or created by athletic or sporting practices or
events.
   (D)   Sounds associated with the normal conduct of legally established non-
transient businesses when such sounds are customary and within the normal range
appropriate for such use and do not constitute unlawful noise. Noises
ordinarily associated with agricultural uses. Noises ordinarily associated with
aircrafts, airports and trains.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 17.92.06 ENTRY ONTO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any duly authorized law enforcement officers or representatives in the
course of their duties in enforcing this chapter shall have the right to enter
onto private property, provided that they have probable cause that a violation
of this chapter is occurring or has occurred, but they shall not enter into any
structure or building without permission or authorization to do so.
   (B)   For the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this
chapter the Boone County Sheriff or its authorized representatives are hereby
authorized to make inspections of all sources of noise whenever necessary to
determine the quantity and character of such noise. If any person refuses or
restricts entry and free access to any part of a building or structure, or
refuses inspection of any activity, device, facility, motor vehicle, or process
where inspection is sought, such officer or their authorized representatives
may seek from the county court a warrant for inspection requiring that such
person permit entry and free access without interference, restriction or
obstruction, at a reasonable time, for the purpose of inspecting, testing or
measuring noise. The county court shall have power, jurisdiction and authority
to enforce all orders issued under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
§ 17.92.99 PENALTY.
   If any duly authorized law enforcement officer or representative has
probable cause that a violation of this chapter is occurring or has occurred,
the officer or representative shall first give a verbal warning to the person
believed to be violating this chapter. After issuance of the verbal warning
from the officer or representative, the officer or representative may write a
ticket for a subsequent or continuing violation of the provisions or this
chapter. A person violating the provision of this chapter or an order issued
under authority of this chapter after receipt of a verbal warning shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a violation. A violation of this chapter shall carry a
fine, which fine shall be an amount, fixed by the court in its discretion, not
greater than $250 per violation, or $100 if paid at least seven days in advance
of the scheduled hearing or appearance date in court for such violation.
(Ord. 2007-14, passed 7-16-2007)
CHAPTER 17.93:  ANIMAL CONTROL GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
17.93.01   Definitions
   
17.93.02   Responsibilities and prohibitions
 
   
17.93.99   Penalty
   Editor’s Note: This chapter does not apply to livestock as defined in I.C.
15-15-2-47 
§ 17.93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter in any
tense, plurality, or other, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section, except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. Placed or left upon public property or upon the private property
of another without the express permission of the owner, custodian, or tenant of
the property or is unattended or uncared for.
   ANIMAL. A member of the animal kingdom, except humans, dead or alive,
domestic or not. (I.C.15-17-2-3)
   ANIMAL CARE FACILITY. An animal control center, an animal shelter, a humane
society, or another animal impounding facility that has as its purpose the
humane care and treatment of animals.
(I.C. 6-9-39-1)
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ACO). A person who is authorized to implement and
enforce county animal ordinances and state statutes and as defined in state
statutes and is a sworn law enforcement officer, as defined under Indiana law.
   ANIMAL FIGHTING CONTEST. Any event or activity facilitated by a person or
persons in which animals engage in violent, aggressive, or otherwise harmful
conduct with another animal in a form that is not generally associated with the
species under normal circumstances.
   AT LARGE. Leaving or straying away from the land owned, rented, or leased by
the owner or custodian of the animal or not being kept in direct control of an
owner or possessor of the animal. AT LARGE does not include the use of a dog
under the supervision of a person to hunt, chase or tree predatory animals or
game birds, or the use of a dog to control or protect livestock or in other
related agricultural activities.
   BEAT. An intentional or knowing act of applying unnecessary physical force
or contact in a manner which has as its main objective inducing pain,
inflicting harm, or causing discomfort in a manner that could not reasonably be
described as an appropriate means of discipline.
   BITE. A wound inflicted by an animal tooth causing a tear, puncture,
abrasion, or other marking on the skin in which blood is visible or the skin is
damaged.
   CAT. All domestic members of the feline family.
   CATTERY. Any place in which three cats or more are kept for the purpose of
breeding or boarding for financial compensation.
   COLONY. A group of one or more feral cats, whether unmanaged or managed.
   CRUELTY. Means and includes any intentional or knowing act or omission
whereby unnecessary or unjustifiable pain, suffering, or death is caused,
permitted, or allowed to continue where there is reasonable remedy or relief.
   CUSTODIAN. A person who is in temporary direct control of an animal as
authorized by the owner of the animal, or is a law enforcement officer acting
within his/her scope of duties to impound or possess an animal. This may
include, but is not limited to, a veterinarian, an animal grooming facility, a
law enforcement officer or Animal Control Officer.
   DIRECT CONTROL. Under the immediate physical restraint of the owner or
custodian of the animal or within the confines of land owned, rented, or leased
by the owner or custodian of the animal.
   DOG. All domestic members of the canine family.
   DOMESTIC. Generally and commonly known to live in or about the habitation of
humans.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  An animal kept as a pet or used for service, protection,
comfort, companionship, hobby or similar purpose.
   FERAL CAT. Any cat that has no apparent owner or identification and is wild,
untamed, unsocialized, unmanageable, or unable to be approached or handled.
   HARBOR. Performing acts of providing care, shelter, protection, restraint,
refuge, food or nourishment.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Boone County Health Department.
   HUMANE TRAP. A device or procedure to contain or dispose of an unwanted
animal, as permitted by law, in a way that provides minimal discomfort or
unnecessary pain to the animal.
   IMPOUNDMENT.  The act of taking physical possession and control of an animal
by an Animal Control Officer or other person whom is empowered to act by law
and transporting it to an animal care facility or Humane Society.
   KENNEL. Any place in which three dogs or more are kept for the purpose of
breeding or boarding for financial compensation.
   LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. An appointed officer or employee hired by and on
the patrol of the state, or any of the state's political subdivisions, as
defined under Indiana law, who is granted lawful authority to enforce all or
some of the penal laws of the State of Indiana, and who possesses, with respect
to those laws, the power to effect arrests for offenses committed in the
officer's or employee's presence.
   LIVESTOCK. Cattle, sheep, swine, goats, bison, horses, mules, poultry, or
other animals, that are commonly associated with activities associated with
farming or food production.
(I.C. 15-17-2-47)
   MANAGED COLONY. A colony of feral cats that are registered with a humane
society or designee and is maintained by a colony caretaker using trap, neuter,
and return methodology.
   MUTILATE. An intentional or knowing act of applying unnecessary physical
force or contact in a manner which has as its main objective creating changes
to the physical appearance of the animal in a manner that could not reasonably
be described as an appropriate and common modification for the animal species
involved. Spaying or neutering or any other procedure that changes an animal
does not constitute mutilation if the procedure is done in a certified facility
by a person certified to perform the procedure or is a common or accepted
practice in the industry specific to the animal.
   NEGLECT.  An intentional or knowing act or omission whereby an animal is
deprived of adequate and reasonable food, water, shelter, exercise, air, or any
other resource commonly associated with the health and wellbeing of the
particular animal species involved.
   OFFICE. The Boone County Sheriff’s Office.
   OWNER.  Any person who owns, harbors, keeps, feeds, maintains, or has lawful
possession of an animal; however, this shall not include a person hired or
acting as custodian of the animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, firm, association,
partnership, or corporation.
   QUARANTINE. A place or period of isolation as to prevent cross
contamination, infection, or other hazardous events as determined by a Law
Enforcement Officer, Animal Control Officer, Health Department, the Humane
Society, or any other agent permitted by law.
   SECURE RESTRAINT. A structure or device that maintains physical control of
the animal; this can include, but is not limited to, a fence of adequate design
and strength, a tethering device which is securely attached to the animal at
one end and a fixed object at the other end, or a cage. An "invisible fence," a
fence of inadequate design and strength, or other structures or devices that
cannot maintain physical control of the animal under normal circumstances are
not considered a SECURE RESTRAINT.
   SPAY/NEUTER. An operation done to a female or male animal to prevent the
conception of offspring.
   STRAY. Any animal that does not appear, upon reasonable inquiry, to have an
owner, or has escaped restraint and is running at large.
   VICIOUS. Known to bite, attack, or injure human beings, domestic animals,
companion animals, or livestock without provocation. No animal may be declared
VICIOUS if a threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a human being who, at
the time, was committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner or keeper of the animal or was teasing, tormenting,
abusing, assaulting, or otherwise provoking the animal, or has, in the past,
been observed or reported to have teased, tormented, abused, assaulted, or
otherwise provoked the animal involved, or was committing or attempting to
commit a crime.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 17.93.02 RESPONSIBILITIES AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. The Boone County Board of Commissioners finds that the
terms and conditions of this chapter are in the best interests of all citizens
and animals of Boone County. Therefore, this chapter shall be in full force and
effect in both the incorporated and unincorporated part of the county unless or
until a municipality within the county adopts an ordinance prohibiting
enforcement of this chapter within the boundaries of the municipality. For
purposes of this chapter, if a municipality (city or town) has reorganized with
a township, pursuant to I.C. 36-1.5.1.1 et seq., the term “incorporated” means
areas within the former city or town limits and any platted subdivision.
   (B)   Basic responsibilities and duties of animal owners.
      (1)   Every owner of every domestic animal kept in the county, whether in
the care of the owner or a custodian, shall see that such animal:
         (a)   Is kept in a clean, sanitary, and healthy manner and is not
confined so as to be forced to stand, sit, or lie in its own excrement. The
owner or custodian of the animal shall regularly and as often as needed
maintain all animal areas to prevent odor or health and sanitation problems;
         (b)   Shall be provided with proper amounts of food that is
nutritionally appropriate for the species to maintain good health;
         (c)   Shall have fresh drinking water;
         (d)   Shall have ventilation and appropriate shelter from the
elements;
         (e)   Is able to exercise and move about freely, as needed by the
species;
         (f)   Shall not be tethered by use of a choke or pronged collar nor by
any rope, chain, or cord directly attached to the animal’s neck in lieu of an
appropriate collar, nor by a leash less than 12 feet in length or of such
unreasonable weight as to prevent the animal from moving about freely;
         (g)   Is protected against abuse, cruelty, neglect, torment, overload,
overwork, or any other mistreatment;
         (h)   Is provided with reasonable necessary medical care or attention
and maintains current on inoculations outlined by this chapter or by state law;
and
         (i)   Is maintained in compliance with all applicable federal, state,
and local laws and regulations regarding animal care and control.
      (2)   Any person who witnesses a violation of this section shall notify
the Animal Control Officer or local law enforcement within 24 hours.
   (C)   Cruelty, abuse, and neglect.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to commit, or otherwise
participate in, acts of animal cruelty. Acts of cruelty shall include, but are
not limited to, the following:
         (a)   An act of maliciously killing, abusing, maiming, or disfiguring
any animal or willfully or maliciously administering poison to any animal or
exposing any poisonous substance with the intent that the poisonous substance
shall be taken and consumed by such animal (does not include the killing of
animals for the protection of persons or property);
         (b)   An act of overloading, torturing, tormenting, depriving an
animal of its necessary sustenance or shelter, beating, mutilating, killing, or
carrying an animal in or upon a vehicle in a cruel or inhumane manner;
         (c)   An act of failing to supply an animal with wholesome food and
water, keeping an animal in an enclosure without wholesome exercise and
ventilation, or abandoning any animal to die;
         (d)   An act of owning, possessing, keeping, or training an animal
with the intent that such animal shall be engaged in an animal fighting
contest;
         (e)   Building, maintaining, making, or keeping a pit on premises
owned or occupied by the person for the purpose of an exhibition of an animal
fighting contest;
         (f)   Encouraging, instigating, promoting, or assisting in an
exhibition of an animal fighting contest; or
         (g)   Charging admission, being an assistant, or promoting in an
exhibition of an animal fighting contest.
      (2)   Any Animal Control Officer or other officer empowered to act by law
may impound any animal pursuant to or during an investigation under this
chapter.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing as
permitted by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the use of commercially sold
poisons or humane traps for the control of rats, mice, groundhogs, moles, or
other similar rodents, raccoons, possums or other pests, as long as the person
using the poisons uses reasonable care to ensure that neither domestic animals
nor livestock are exposed to the poisons.
      (5)   If the number of domestic animals being kept or harbored by an
owner or custodian jeopardizes the health or welfare of the animals, some or
all of the animals may be impounded, and the Animal Control Officer may pursue
any remedies provided under this chapter.
   (D)   Restraint of animals.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any domestic
animal to allow such animal to run at large, whether wearing a collar and tags
or not, within any incorporated area of the county. Any and all such domestic
animals found at large may be immediately impounded by the Animal Control
Officer or any law enforcement officer and the officers may pursue the animal
onto private property to effect capture of the animal.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every owner or custodian of any domestic
animal that typically resides within any incorporated area of the county to
ensure that the animal is kept under secure restraint and that reasonable care
and precautions are taken to prevent the animal from leaving the real property
limits of its owner or custodian and ensure that the animal cannot easily dig,
climb, jump, or otherwise escape the secure restraint.
      (3)   Chaining of a domestic dog is discouraged, but if it is done, the
following are required:
         (a)   All basic responsibilities and duties described in this chapter
are met at all times;
         (b)   The chain must be at least 12 feet in length, regardless of the
size of the dog;
         (c)   The chain must be not of a weight heavy enough to cause physical
damage to the dog's neck or body; and
         (d)   The chain must be able to move freely in all directions.
         (e)   These restrictions do not apply to owners and their animals that
are participating in sanctioned dog shows or similar events.
      (4)   The owner or custodian of any guard dog or watchdog must confine
such animal within a perimeter fence and meet the following conditions:
         (a)   The fence shall be sufficient to prevent the dog's escape with
all points of ingress and egress securely locked at all times.
         (b)   A beware of dog, or similar wordage, sign shall be conspicuously
displayed on each exterior side of the enclosure for each 50 feet of enclosure,
with a minimum of two, as well as a sign on each ingress or egress point to the
enclosure. Signs shall be a minimum of ten inches high and 14 inches wide.
   (E)   Restraint of female domestic animals in estrus. The owner or custodian
of any female domestic animal in estrus (commonly referred to as heat) shall
confine the animal within a secure enclosure and in such a manner as to prevent
the animal from becoming a nuisance and to prevent conception except during
planned breeding.
   (F)   Permanent identification of a domestic animal required (Effective 06/
01/2019).
      (1)   A person who owns a domestic animal which is six months or older
which permanently resides in the county with an owner whose legal address falls
within the county limits shall ensure that at all times the animal bears a
permanent means of identification such that the owner can be ascertained
accurately, quickly, and easily.
      (2)   The means of identifications required by this section shall be in
addition to any tags required to be worn by state law of other provisions of
this chapter, and shall be either by means of:
         (a)   A microchip implanted in the animal that bears a registered
identification number and can be read by a standard microchip scanner; or
         (b)   A permanent tag attached to a durable collar worn at all times
by the animal and the tag bears the owner's current name, address, and
telephone number.
      (3)   The identifying chip or tag may only be removed by the animal’s
owner, custodian, or veterinarian acting on behalf of the owner, and can only
be temporarily removed for reasonably short periods of times for the ability to
maintain the animal’s health and hygiene.
      (4)   Each veterinarian or other person in the county who implants a
microchip shall make available upon request to the Animal Control Officer the
names, addresses, and phone numbers of the owner(s) of the animal and the
corresponding microchip identification number. Such records shall be available
to the Animal Control Officer without court order.
   (G)   Vaccinations and proof of vaccination.
      (1)   The owners of all domestic animals within Boone County must comply
with vaccination requirements as set forth in state law, local ordinance and
the rules and regulations for the State Board of Health and the Boone County
Health Department.
      (2)   All dogs, cats, and ferrets three months of age and older must be
vaccinated against rabies. The rabies vaccination of a dog, cat, and ferret
shall be maintained by ongoing revaccination of the animal as follows:
         (a)   Ferrets shall be revaccinated within 12 months of the prior
vaccination.
         (b)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine whose
label recommends annual boosters shall be revaccinated within 12 months of the
prior vaccination.
         (c)   Dogs and cats that are vaccinated with a rabies vaccine whose
label recommends a booster one year later and biennially thereafter shall be
revaccinated within 12 months of the first vaccination and shall be
revaccinated within 36 months of each vaccination thereafter.
      (3)   The owner of the animal is responsible for procuring the
vaccinations required by this section.
      (4)   All dogs shall have a rabies vaccination tag securely affixed to
their collar or harness at all times and owners of dogs, cats, and ferrets must
be able to provide documentation of rabies vaccination within 24 hours of being
asked by the Animal Control Officer or local law enforcement agency.
      (5)   Vaccinations records must be supplied by the owner to the Animal
Control Officer upon request if the animal has bitten, or is suspected of
biting, a person or other domestic animal.
   (H)   Abandonment.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly, intentionally, or
recklessly abandon a domestic animal or livestock as described by this chapter.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to abandon an animal upon private
property which the person owns, leases, rents, or otherwise has a contractual
interest in unless the animal is checked on routinely and all basic
responsibilities and duties of animal owners are met.
      (3)   A defense to this division (H) may include an unforeseen medical
emergency of the owner or custodian of the animal.
      (4)   Colonies and feral cats are excluded from this division.
   (I)   Vicious animals. It shall be unlawful for a person to cause, permit,
accompany, or be responsible for the presence of any vicious animal on the
streets or public places of the county or allow the animal to run on the
premises of another at any time, unless, in addition to the other requirements
of this chapter, the animal is securely muzzled to effectively prevent it from
biting any person or other animal.
   (J)   Animal bites and quarantine.
      (1)   In the event of human being bit by a domestic animal, the animal
shall be quarantined in conformity with state law and the rules and regulations
of the State Board of Health and the Health Department.
      (2)   Every incident involving a human being bit by an animal shall be
reported within 24 hours to a local healthcare establishment, a law enforcement
agency, or the Animal Control Officer. It is the duty of the person bitten or
the person's parent or guardian to make the report in conformance with title
410 IAC 1-2.3-52 as amended.
      (3)   If the animal involved is located and able to be detained, the
animal shall be quarantined as determined by the Health Department and state
law.
      (4)   Law enforcement animals maintaining current certification are
exempt from this division (J).
   (K)   Public nuisance animals.
      (1)   A public nuisance animal shall mean and include, but is not limited
to, a domestic animal that:
         (a)   Is found at large (stray);
         (b)   Damages the property of anyone other than the owner;
         (c)   Is vicious;
         (d)   Attacks without provocation;
         (e)   Excessively makes disturbing noises, including, but not limited
to, continued and repeated howling, barking, whining, or other utterances
causing unreasonable disturbance or discomfort to neighbors or others in close
proximity to the premises where the animal is kept; or
         (f)   Is not being kept in conformity with county ordinances and
regulations pertaining to land, animals, and ownership.
      (2)   A public nuisance animal may be impounded by the Animal Control
Officer, without a court order, and the owner or custodian of the animal cited
for a violation of this chapter. The animal may be returned to the owner upon
proof of ownership, proof of payment of damages (if any), and proof of
reasonable attempts to mitigate the cause of nuisance determination.
   (L)   Animal sacrifice.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for a person to engage in, participate in,
assist in, or perform animal sacrifice. No person shall own, keep, possess, or
harbor any animal with the purpose or intention of using such animal for animal
sacrifice.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for a person to knowingly sell, offer for
sale, give away, or transfer any animal to any person when he knows or believes
that person intends to use such animal for animal sacrifice.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit hunting or fishing as
permitted by the law of the state and the rules and regulations of the Indiana
Department of Natural Resources.
   (M)   Vehicles and animals.
      (1)   A person who is in operation of a vehicle which causes injury or
death to a domestic animal shall immediately notify the animal’s owner, if
known, or the local law enforcement agency or Animal Control Officer. The
person must provide the location of the incident, a description of the animal,
and the condition of the animal. Such person is not required to provide his
name or identifying information, i.e. an address, as the only purpose of this
requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its owner.
      (2)   A person who is in operation of a vehicle which causes injury or
death to a non-domestic animal shall immediately notify the local law
enforcement agency or Animal Control Officer if any of the following exists:
         (a)   The collision leaves debris or carnage which constitutes a road
hazard.
         (b)   The collision causes damage to a secondary vehicle or injury to
a pedestrian.
         (c)   The collision causes damage to private property if the driver of
the involved vehicle does not have a contractual interest with the property.
      (3)   No animal shall be left unattended in a vehicle, whether on private
or public property, in which the conditions of the vehicle would constitute a
health hazard to the animal.
      (4)   No animal shall be transported in the trunk of a vehicle, a small
storage compartment of a vehicle (i.e. glove box), or in any other fashion
which restricts the animal from reasonable mobility and access to air during
transport.
      (5)   An animal in a vehicle involved in a motor vehicle collision should
be:
         (a)   Released to the owner or custodian of the animal if possible;
         (b)   Be held by the law enforcement agency and released to a person
named by the owner or the custodian of the animal if that person can be to the
scene in a reasonable time period; or
         (c)   Transported to an animal care facility for a temporary holding
period.
   (N)   Stray animals.
      (1)   A person who finds a stray animal should notify the local law
enforcement agency or the Animal Control Officer within 24 hours.
      (2)   A person possessing the lost or stray animal must comply with all
rules and regulations of this chapter pertaining to humane care and treatment
of animals while the animal is in custody awaiting the return to the owner or
intervention of an animal care facility, the local law enforcement agency, or
the Animal Control Officer.
   (O)   Injured animals.
      (1)   A person who discovers an injured domestic animal or accidentally
causes injury to a domestic animal shall immediately notify the animal’s owner,
if known, the local law enforcement agency, or the Animal Control Officer.
      (2)   The person must provide the location of the incident, a description
of the animal, and the condition of the animal. Such person is not required to
provide his name or identifying information, i.e. an address, as the only
purpose of this requirement is to aid the stricken animal and notify its owner.
   (P)   Deceased animals.
      (1)   A person finding a dead domestic animal, large undomesticated
animal that constitutes a road or biohazard, or the surviving offspring of
either, shall call the local law enforcement agency or the Animal Control
Officer immediately.
      (2)   If the local law enforcement agency is called, the agency shall:
         (a)   Notify the Animal Control Officer if foul play is suspected or
the death appears to be caused by factors other than an accident, such as a
vehicular collision, or natural causes if the animal is a domestic animal; or
         (b)   Contact the appropriate agency to properly dispose of the
animal's remains, i.e. the County Highway Department.
      (3)   Any deceased animal located on private property must be disposed of
within 24 hours in accordance with Indiana law, the Policy and/or Rules of the
State Board of Animal Health, or industry standards as the case may dictate.
The property owner is responsible for the disposal even if a third party was
responsible for the death of the animal.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 17.93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The owner of a domestic animal found to be roaming at large or stray
may be fined $50 for the first offense and $100 for each subsequent offense
involving the same animal occurring within one year.
   (B)   The owner of any animal, or person in whose care an animal is
entrusted, or other individual found to in violation of any provision of this
chapter relating to cruelty, abuse, mutilation, sacrifice or willful neglect of
an animal maybe fined up to $1,000 for each offense or animal.
   (C)   For any other violation of this chapter, the owner may be fined up to
$100.
   (D)   In addition to any fines imposed, the owner may be responsible for any
and all court costs imposed and may be responsible to reimburse the county for
any and all legal costs associated with the enforcement proceeding.
   (E)   An Animal Control Officer may enter private property and investigate
any violation of the chapter and impound any animal where there is reasonable
suspicion that the animal is a public nuisance, or is subject to, or in danger
of, cruelty, abuse, or neglect.
   (F)   All violations of this chapter or any action seeking enforcement by
fine or injunction shall be filed and prosecuted by the Boone County Attorney
or his or her designee in Boone Superior Court.
(Ord. 2018-02, passed 6-4-2018)
CHAPTER 17.94: HOUSING PROVISIONS
Section
 
   
17.94.01   Interpretation and enforcement
   
17.94.02   Legislative finding
   
17.94.03   Purposes
   
17.94.04   Scope
   
17.94.05   Title
   
17.94.06   Definitions
   
17.94.07   Responsibilities of owners and occupants
§ 17.94.01 INTERPRETATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   The following general provisions shall apply in the interpretation and
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 17.94.02 LEGISLATIVE FINDING.
   It is hereby found that there exist and may in the future exist, within
Boone County, Indiana, premises, dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units or
parts thereof, which by reason of their structure, equipment, sanitation,
maintenance, use or occupancy affect or are likely to affect adversely the
public health (including the physical, mental and social well-being of persons
and families), safety and general welfare. To correct and prevent the existence
of such adverse conditions, and to achieve and maintain the levels of
residential environmental quality as will protect and promote public health,
safety and general welfare, it is further found that the establishment and
enforcement of minimum housing standards are required.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 17.94.03 PURPOSES.
   It is hereby declared that the purpose of this chapter is to protect,
preserve and promote the physical and mental health and social well-being of
the people, to prevent and control the incidence of communicable diseases, to
reduce environmental hazards to health, to regulate privately- and publicly-
owned dwellings for the purpose of maintaining adequate sanitation and public
health and to protect the safety of the people and to promote the general
welfare by legislation which shall be applicable to all dwellings now in
existence or hereafter constructed. It is hereby further declared that the
purpose of this chapter is to insure that the quality of housing is adequate
for protection of public health, safety and general welfare, including:
establishment of minimum standards for basic equipment and facilities for
light, ventilation and thermal conditions, for safety from fire and accidents,
for the use and location and amount of space for human occupancy and for an
adequate level of maintenance; determination of the responsibilities of owners,
operators and occupants of dwellings; and provision for the administration and
enforcement thereof.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 17.94.04 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply uniformly to the construction,
maintenance, use and occupancy of all residential buildings and structures
where applicable, and shall apply uniformly to the alteration, repair,
equipment, use, occupancy and maintenance of all existing residential buildings
and structures, within the jurisdiction of Boone County, Indiana, irrespective
of when or under what code or codes such buildings or structures were
originally constructed or rehabilitated.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 17.94.05 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Housing and
Environmental Standards Ordinance of Boone County, Indiana hereinafter referred
to as this chapter.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 17.94.06 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this chapter. Words not specifically defined in this chapter shall have the
common definition set forth in a standard dictionary.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A detached building or structure in a
secondary or subordinate capacity from the main or principal building or
structure on the same premises.
   APPROVED. Approved by the local or state authority having the administrative
authority.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of combustible materials.
   ATTIC. Any story situated wholly or partly within the roof, and so designed,
arranged or built as to be used for business, storage or habitation.
   BASEMENT. A portion of the building located partly underground, but having
not more than one-half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average
grade of the adjoining ground.
   BUILDING. A fixed construction with walls, foundation and roof, such as a
house, factory, garage and the like.
   BULK CONTAINER. Any garbage, rubbish and/or refuse container having a
capacity of two cubic yards or greater and which is equipped with fittings for
hydraulic and/or mechanical emptying, unloading and/or removal.
   CELLAR.  A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground, and
having more than one-half of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the
average grade of the adjoining ground.
   CENTRAL HEATING SYSTEM.  A single system supplying heat to one or more
dwelling unit(s) or more than one rooming unit.
   CHIMNEY. A vertical masonry shaft of reinforced concrete, or other approved
non-combustible, heat-resisting material enclosing one or more flues, for the
purpose of removing products of combustion from solid, liquid or gaseous fuel.
   DILAPIDATED. A decayed or deteriorated state which shall render the
structure inadequate for the purpose or use for which it was originally
intended.
   DORMITORY. A building or any part thereof used for institutional living and
sleeping purposes by four or more persons.
   DWELLING. Any enclosed space wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking and eating; provided that, temporary housing, as
hereinafter defined, shall not be classified as a dwelling. Industrialized
housing and modular construction which conform to nationally accepted industry
standards and used or intended for use for living, sleeping, cooking and eating
purposes shall be classified as DWELLINGS. A mobile home, as hereinafter
defined, shall be classified as a DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms located within a dwelling forming a
single habitable unit with facilities used or intended to be used for living,
sleeping, cooking and eating purposes.
   EGRESS. An arrangement of exit facilities to assure a safe means of exit
from buildings.
   EXTERMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved
by the Health Officer.
   FLUSH WATER CLOSET. A toilet bowl which is flushed with water which has been
supplied under pressure and equipped with a water sealed trap above the floor
level.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, serving and non-consumption of food.
   GRADE. The finished ground level.
   HABITABLE ROOM. A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, furnace rooms, pantries, kitchenettes and
utility rooms of less than 50 square feet of floor space, foyers or connecting
corridors, stairways, closets, storage spaces and workshops, hobby and
recreation areas.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The Boone County Public Health Officer or his or her
authorized representative.
   HEATED WATER. Water heated to a temperature of not less than 120°F at the
outlet.
   HEATING DEVICE. All furnaces, unit heaters, domestic incinerators, cooking
and heating stoves and ranges and other similar devices.
   INFESTATION. The presence within or around a dwelling of any insects,
rodents or other pests.
   JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is no longer operable or which does not
display a current license.
   LEAD-BASED PAINT. Any paint containing more lead than the level established
by the U.S. Consumer Product Safety Commission as being the safe level of lead
in residential paint and paint products.
   MEANING OF CERTAIN WORDS. Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling unit”,
“rooming units”, “premises”, “structure” are used herein, they shall be
construed as though they were followed by the words “or any part thereof. Words
used in the singular include the plural, and the plural the singular, the
masculine gender includes the feminine and the feminine the masculine.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle which is constructed to permit its being used as a
conveyance, either self-propelled or non-self-propelled, upon the public
streets and highways, and which is designed and constructed to permit its
occupancy as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons and which has
no foundation other than wheels, jacks, skirting or other temporary support.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any dwelling containing more than two dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual, over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in or having possession of a dwelling unit or a rooming unit.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care, control or management of a
building, or part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
   ORDINARY SUMMER CONDITIONS. A temperature 10°F. below the highest recorded
temperature in Boone County for the prior ten-year period.
   ORDINARY WINTER CONDITIONS. A temperature 15°F. above the lowest recorded
temperature in Boone County for the prior ten-year period.
   OWNER. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   The owner or owners in fee simple or parcel of real estate
including the life tenant or tenants if any;
      (2)   The record owner or owners as reflected by the Boone County
Recorder's Office;
      (3)   The purchaser or purchasers of the real estate under any contract
for the conditional sale thereof;
      (4)   The person or persons in control of the property as executor,
executrix, trustee, receiver or guardian of the owner; or
      (5)   Any person acting as agent, or property manager, for the owner
shall not be construed to be an owner within the terms of this chapter, but
shall be bound to notify the owner, by means of registered letter addressed to
the owner at his or her last known address, of any order or notice issued by
the Health Officer relating to the property of the owner.
   PERMISSIBLE OCCUPANCY. The maximum number of individuals permitted to reside
in a dwelling unit, rooming unit or dormitory.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership,
cooperative or governmental agency.
   PLUMBING. All of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas pipes,
gas burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water
closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower baths,
installed clothes washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents and any other
similar supplied fixtures, and the installation thereof, together with all
connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
   PREMISES. A platted lot or part thereof or unplatted lot or parcel of land
or plot of land, either occupied or unoccupied by any dwelling or non-dwelling
structure, and includes any such building, accessory structure, adjoining alley
easement or drainage way.
   PRIVACY. The existence of conditions which will permit an individual or
individuals to carry out an activity commenced without interruption or
interference, either by sight or sound by unwanted individuals.
   PROPERLY CONNECTED. Connected in accordance with all applicable codes and
ordinances of Boone County or the State of Indiana.
   RAT HARBORAGE. Any conditions or place where rats can live, nest or seek
shelter.
   RATPROOFING. A form of construction which will prevent the ingress or egress
of rats to or from a given space or building, or from gaining access to food,
water or harborage. It consists of the closing and keeping closed of every
opening in foundations, basements, cellars, exterior and interior walls, ground
or first floors, roofs, sidewalk gratings, sidewalk openings and other places
that may be reached and entered by rats by climbing, burrowing or other
methods, by the use of materials impervious to rat gnawing and other methods
approved by the Health Officer.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and non-putrescible solids including garbage,
rubbish, ashes and dead animals.
   REFUSE CONTAINER. A watertight container that is constructed of metal, or
other durable material impervious to rodents, that is capable of being serviced
without creating insanitary conditions; or such other containers as have been
approved by the Health Officer. Openings into the container such as covers and
doors shall be tight fitting.
   ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling or that part or any dwelling, containing one or
more rooming units and/or one or more dormitory rooms and in which persons
either individually or as families are housed with or without meals being
provided.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of either:
      (1)   Combustible wastes such as paper, cardboard, plastic containers,
yard clippings and wood; or
      (2)   Non-combustible wastes such as tin cans, glass and crockery.
   SAFETY. The condition of being reasonably free from danger and hazards which
may cause accidents or disease.
   SPACE HEATER. A self-contained heating appliance of either the convection
type or the radiant type and intended primarily to heat only a limited space or
area such as one room or two adjoining rooms.
   SUPPLIED. Paid for, furnished by, provided by or under the control of the
owner, operator or agent.
   TEMPORARY HOUSING. Any tent, trailer or any other structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure or to any utility system on the same premises for
more than 30 consecutive days.
   TOXIC SUBSTANCE. Any chemical product applied on the surface of or
incorporated into any structural or decorative material which constitutes a
potential hazard to human health at acute or chronic exposure levels.
   WEEDS. Vegetation which has attained a height of 12 inches or more and which
constitutes a potential rat harborage or any other health or safety hazard.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
§ 17.94.07 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   No owner or other person shall occupy or let to another person any
dwelling or dwelling unit unless it and the premises are clean, sanitary and
fit for human occupancy.
   (B)   Every owner of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units
shall maintain in a clean and sanitary condition the shared or public area of
the dwelling and premises thereof.
   (C)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall maintain in a
clean and sanitary condition that part or those parts of the dwelling, dwelling
unit and premises thereof that he or she occupies and controls.
   (D)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store and dispose
of all his or her rubbish in a clean, sanitary and safe manner.
   (E)   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store and dispose
of all his or her garbage, refuse and any other organic waste which might
provide food for insects and/or rodents in a clean, sanitary, safe manner. All
garbage cans and refuse containers shall be rat-proof, insect-proof, water-
tight, structurally strong with tight-fitting covers or similar closures; and
shall be maintained at all times in a clean sanitary condition.
   (F)   The total capacity of all provided garbage and/or refuse cans and bulk
storage containers shall be sufficient to meet the needs of the occupants of
the dwelling.
   (G)   Every owner of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units
shall supply facilities or refuse containers for the sanitary and safe storage
and/or disposal of rubbish and garbage. In the case of single- or two-family
dwellings, it shall be the responsibility of each occupant to furnish such
facilities or refuse containers.
   (H)   The owners of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for providing and
hanging all screens whenever the same are required under the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto. Maintenance or
replacement of screens once installed in any one season becomes the
responsibility of the occupant. The occupant’s responsibility shall be
exclusive to his or her dwelling unit.
   (I)   Every occupant of a dwelling containing a single dwelling unit shall
be responsible for the extermination of insects, and/or rats, on the premises;
and every occupant of a dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than one
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the extermination whenever his or her
dwelling unit is the only one infested. Notwithstanding, the foregoing
provisions of this division, whenever infestation is caused by failure of the
owner to maintain dwelling in a ratproof or reasonable insect-proof condition,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation
exists in two or more of the dwelling units in any dwelling, or in the shared
or public parts of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units,
extermination thereof shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (J)   No buildings, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premises, or
part thereof, shall be construed, made, used, maintained or operated in any
manner causing or producing any health or safety hazard or permitted to become
a rat harborage or to become conducive to rat harborage.
   (K)   No buildings, vehicle, structure, receptacle, yard, lot, premises, or
part thereof, shall be construed, made, used, maintained or operated in any
manner causing or producing any health or safety hazard, or permitted to become
a mosquito harborage or to become conducive to mosquito harborage.
   (L)   No occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall accumulate rubbish,
boxes, lumber, scrap metal, junk vehicles or any other materials in such a
manner that may provide a rat harborage in or about any dwelling, dwelling unit
or its premises. Usable stored materials shall be stacked neatly and elevated
at least 18 inches above the ground or floor.
   (M)   No owner of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units shall
accumulate or permit the accumulation of rubbish, boxes, lumber, scrap metal,
junk vehicles or any other materials in such a manner that may provide a rat
harborage in or about the shared or public areas of a dwelling or its premises.
Materials stored by the owner or permitted to be stored by the owner shall be
stacked neatly and elevated at least 18 inches above the ground or floor.
   (N)   No owner or occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall store, place
or allow to accumulate any materials which may serve as food for rats in a site
accessible to rats.
   (O)   Every owner of a dwelling containing three or more dwelling units
shall be responsible for cutting and removing all weeds on the premises. In the
case of single or two-family dwellings, it shall be the responsibility of each
occupant to cut and remove all weeds on the premises.
   (P)   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all supplied fixtures and
facilities therein in a clean, sanitary condition and shall be responsible for
the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation thereof.
   (Q)   It shall be unlawful for any occupant of any dwelling unit, building
or structure of any kind whatever, to vacate the premises without his causing
to be removed therefrom and properly disposed of, all garbage or rubbish or
other objectionable waste of any kind.
   (R)   Every owner of a premises which does not include a vacant structure
shall maintain the premises in a safe and sanitary condition and shall remove
therefrom, and property dispose of, all garbage, rubbish and weeds.
   (S)   Every owner of a premises which does not include a structure shall
maintain the premises in a safe and sanitary condition and shall remove
therefrom, and properly dispose of, all garbage, rubbish and weeds.
   (T)   No person shall deposit or place any refuse or other hazardous
materials in or adjacent to any road, street, alley or other public place
unless it is in proper containers for collection.
   (U)   No person shall deposit or place any refuse, junk vehicles or other
hazardous materials upon property owned by another without the approval of the
owner of the property.
   (V)   In every dwelling unit and/or rooming unit when the control of the
supplied heat is the responsibility of a person other than the occupant, a
temperature of at least 68°F shall be maintained in all habitable rooms,
bathroom and water closet compartments at a distance of 36 inches above the
floor level.
   (W)   Every owner of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall provide and maintain
the dwelling or dwelling unit, free from hazards to health due to the presence
of toxic substance, e.g. lead-based paint, as determined by the Health Officer.
   (X)   No owner or occupant shall apply a lead-based paint to any surface in
any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house and/or rooming house and/or rooming
unit.
   (Y)   If, upon reinspection, the Health Officer or his or her designee
determines that abatement has not occurred so that the environmental public
nuisance continues to constitute a menace to the health and safety of the
people of Boone County, then the Health Officer or his or her designee may
enter upon the premises and abate the offending condition.
   (Z)   Any person who has been issued and received notice of an order
concerning code violations, substandard or hazardous health conditions on or
about real property subject to jurisdiction of health and housing standards
herein, pursuant to this chapter, shall:
      (1)   Disclose the order from Boone County Department of Public Health to
any person who may take or agrees to take a substantial property interest in
the property which is the subject of the order or orders written on the
conditions of subject property. This information shall be supplied to any
prospective transferee prior to the effective date of any transfer or agreement
to transfer a substantial property interest in the subject property; and
      (2)   Supply the following information to the Boone County Public Health
Department within five calendar days after there is any transfer or agreement
to transfer a substantial property interest in the subject property;
         (a)   The full name, address and telephone number of the person taking
a substantial interest in the subject property; and
         (b)   A true and exact copy of the legal instrument under which the
transfer or agreement to transfer the substantial property interest is
accomplished.
(Ord. 91-4, passed 7-15-1991)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
17.110.     GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
17.111.    FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
      
17.112.    MASSAGE PARLORS, BATH HOUSES AND THE LIKE
CHAPTER 17.110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Ephedrine, Pseudoephedrine, Phenylpropanolamine; Limits on Sales
   
17.110.01   Purpose
   
17.110.02   Definitions
   
17.110.03   Permits
   
17.110.04   Limitations on sale or purchase
   
17.110.05   Exclusions
 
   
17.110.99   Penalty
EPHEDRINE, PSEUDOEPHEDRINE, PHENYLPROPANOLAMINE; LIMITS ON SALES
§ 17.110.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine
hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate and phenylpropanolamine are active
ingredients in over-the-counter products for allergy and congestion, and in
addition to their legal uses, ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine
hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate and
phenylpropanolamine are being purchased and misused by some segments of the
community to manufacture the illegal substance of methamphetamine.
   (B)   Boone County, not unlike many, if not all counties in Indiana, has
become known to narcotics officers and drug enforcement agents for having had
incidents of illicit manufacture, sale and use of methamphetamine.
   (C)   There is a current and immediate threat to the public health, safety
and welfare in that the manufacture, processing, transportation, possession and
sales of illicit narcotics and drugs are inherently dangerous, and that the
chemicals, compounds, substances, byproducts and waste associated with the
manufacture of illicit narcotics and drugs are both dangerous and injurious to
the health, welfare and safety of the residents of Boone County, Indiana.
   (D)   Products commonly associated with the manufacture of methamphetamine
are sold in Boone County and law enforcement agencies in Boone County continue
to report incidents of thefts and the illegal possession of over-the-counter
products that contain as an ingredient ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine
hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate and
phenylpropanolamine, as well as other products associated with the manufacturer
of methamphetamine.
   (E)   Placing restrictions and controls on the purchase of products
containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine
hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate and phenylpropanolamine will facilitate
the tracking and eventual capture of methamphetamine manufacturers and improve
the effectiveness of law enforcement and the prevention of drug abuse and the
crime that results therefrom.
   (F)   The county shall require any person, as hereinafter defined, who sells
any product, on a retail level, containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine,
ephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate
and phenylpropanolamine to apply for a permit, on an annual basis, with the
Boone County Sheriff’s Department (hereinafter referred to as the permittee).
   (G)   The reasonable limitations found in this subchapter on the quantity of
products containing ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine hydrochloride,
pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate and phenylpropanolamine
that may be sold to or purchased by a customer on a single day will assist the
county in its effort to combat the insidious criminal methods of illegal
methamphetamine manufacturers in the county, and will not unduly restrict
legitimate businesses or customers from selling or buying these products.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 17.110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any person who purchases or acquires products from any retail
store.
   EPHEDRINE. Any drug, substance or compound, whether legal or illegal, that
contains ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine
hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine sulfate or phenylpropanolamine.
   PACKAGE. Any bottle, box, blister pack or other container in which products
containing ephedrine are sold.
   PERMITTEE. A person who has obtained a permit to sell ephedrine to
customers.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   RETAIL STORE. Any single geographic location of any business, company,
corporation, person, employee or associate that sells ephedrine to any
customer. It does not include any wholesaler engaged in a wholesale
transaction.
   SELL. To furnish, give away, exchange, transfer, deliver, surrender,
distribute or supply, whether or not for monetary gain or other consideration.
   WHOLESALER. One whose business is the selling of goods in gross to retail
stores for purposes of resale.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 17.110.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a retail store in Boone
County that does not possess a valid permit issued by the Boone County
Sheriff’s Office. The permit shall be posted in the establishment in a place
conspicuous to the public.
   (B)   No permit is required for a prescription written by a licensed
physician and/or a pharmacist providing the drugs for a prescription.
   (C)   An applicant may apply for a permit by submitting a completed
application form to the Boone County Sheriff’s Office.
   (D)   All permits issued by the Boone County Sheriff's Office shall contain
the name of the retail store; name of the person to whom the permit is granted;
the address of the retail store for which the permit is issued; and the
inclusive dates the permit is valid, if other than for a calendar year.
   (E)   A permit issued to a retail store shall not be sold, assigned or
transferred.
   (F)   Should any person fail to obtain a permit, the person shall be charged
a $250 penalty fee in addition to the set permit fee.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
17.110.99
§ 17.110.04 LIMITATIONS ON SALE OR PURCHASE.
   (A)   Each permittee shall require from its customer a picture form of
identification that maintains the customer’s current address and evidences he
or she is of age. All information obtained on the customer shall be recorded in
an appropriate manner and a copy of the report shall be forwarded to the Boone
County Prosecutor’s Office at the end of each calendar month by the permittee.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person or permittee during a single transaction
to sell to a customer more than two packages of products containing ephedrine.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any customer to purchase or acquire more than two
packages of products containing ephedrine within a seven-day period.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005) Penalty, see §
17.110.99
§ 17.110.05 EXCLUSIONS.
   This subchapter excludes any prescription written by a licensed physician
and a pharmacist providing the drugs for a prescription.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005)
§ 17.110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
17.110.99.
   (B)   (1)   Each offense shall be considered a separate offense and subject
to a fine. Each 24 hours that a violation occurs will be considered a separate
offense and can be cited as such.
      (2)   Whoever violates any provisions of §§
17.110.01 et seq. shall be fined not more than $2,500. Each day a violation is
committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2005-07, passed 4-11-2005)
CHAPTER 17.111: FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
17.111.01   Purpose
   
17.111.02   Definitions
   
17.111.03   Permits
   
17.111.04   Permit fees
   
17.111.05   Inspections
   
17.111.06   Compliance and enforcement
   
17.111.07   Appeals
   
17.111.08   Conflict of interest
§ 17.111.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to safeguard public health and assure
that food provided to consumers is safe, unadulterated and honestly presented.
It establishes definitions; sets standards for management and personnel; food
operations and equipment and facilities; and provides for food establishment
and/or bed and breakfast establishment plan reviews, permits, inspections and
employee restrictions.
   (B)   This chapter defines bed and breakfast establishment, conflict of
interest, Boone County Health Department, local official, hazard analysis
critical control point, Health Officer, Hearing Officer, imminent health
hazard, inspection report, operator, order, permit, person, food establishment;
and temporary food establishment; requires construction and/or alteration
plans; requires a permit and payment of permit fees for the operation of bed
and breakfast establishment, food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment; prohibits sale of adulterated, unwholesome or misbranded food;
regulates inspection of the establishments; provides for compliance and the
enforcement of this chapter; provides penalties for violations of the chapter;
and incorporates by reference I.C. 16-42-1, 16-42-2, 16-42-5, 1642-5.2; Indiana
State Department of Health Rule(s); 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-24, 410
I.A.C. 721-47, 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and 410 I.A.C. 7-23.
   (C)   The Boone County Health Department is hereby authorized to issue bed
and breakfast establishment, food establishment and/or temporary food
establishment permits, collect permit fees and penalties, perform inspections,
hold hearings, order or otherwise compel correction of violations of this
chapter, and is otherwise authorized to perform all actions necessary for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 12-4-2006)
Editor's note:
   Two copies of the provisions adopted by reference in this section are
available for public inspection at the office of the Town Clerk-Treasurer
during regular business hours.
§ 17.111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5-2, an
operator occupied residence that:
      (1)   Provides sleeping accommodations to the public for a fee;
      (2)   Has no more than 14 guest rooms;
      (3)   Provides breakfast to its guests as part of the fee; and
      (4)   Provides sleeping accommodations for no more than 30 consecutive
days to a particular guest.
   BOONE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The local health department in Boone County
or authorized representative having jurisdiction over a bed and breakfast
establishment, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST. Derived from 68 I.A.C. 9-1-1(b)(2), a situation in
which the private financial interest of local official, local official's
spouse, ex-spouse, siblings, in-laws, children and/or unemancipated child, may
influence the local official's judgment in the performance of a public duty.
   FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in I.C. 16-18-2-137, any building, room,
basement, vehicle of transportation, cellar or open or enclosed area occupied
or used for handling food. This definition also includes a RETAIL FOOD
ESTABLISHMENT, as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-24-79: however, it does not include a
bed and breakfast establishment.
   HAZARD ANALYSIS CRITICAL CONTROL POINT (HACCP) PLAN. As defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24-43, a written document that delineates the formal procedures for
following the hazard analysis critical control point principles developed by
the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The person, appointed as specified in I.C. 16-20-2-16, or
his or her duly authorized representative, as specified in I.C. 16-2-1-14, who
may conduct inspections and make a final decision on an enforcement action.
   HEARING OFFICER. An individual or panel of individuals acting in the
capacity of a hearing officer in proceedings. The HEARING OFFICER is not the
Health Officer or any other employee of the Boone County Health Department.
   IMMINENT HEALTH HAZARD. A significant threat or danger to health that is
considered to exist when there is evidence sufficient to show that a product,
practice, circumstance or event creates a situation that requires immediate
correction or cessation of operation to prevent injury or illness based on the
number of potential injuries and illnesses and the nature, severity and
duration of the anticipated injury or illness (e.g., sewage backing up in a
food preparation area or contamination of food products with toxic materials).
   INSPECTION REPORT. The document prepared by the Boone County Health
Department that is completed as the result of the inspection and provided to
the operator.
   LOCAL OFFICIAL. Any official of Boone County, Indiana.
   OPERATOR. The person who has a primary oversight responsibility for
operation of the establishment through ownership, or lease or contractual
agreement, and who is responsible for the storage, preparation, display,
transportation or serving of food to the public.
   ORDER. Derived from I.C. 4-21.5-1-9, a Boone County Health Department action
of particular applicability that determines the legal rights, duties,
privileges, immunities or other legal interests of one or more specific
persons. The term includes a PERMIT.
   PERMIT. The document issued by the Boone County Health Department that
authorizes a person to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
   PERSON. An association; a corporation; an individual; partnership; or other
legal entity, government or governmental subdivision or agency.
   TEMPORARY FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A food establishment that operates for a
period of at least four, but not more than 14, consecutive days in conjunction
with a single event or celebration.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 17.111.03 PERMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person to operate any bed and breakfast
establishment, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in Boone
County, without first obtaining a valid permit from the Health Officer. The
valid permit must be posted in a conspicuous location in the bed and breakfast
establishment, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment.
      (2)   Only persons who comply with the applicable requirements of 410
I.A.C. 7-15.5 and /or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 will be entitled to obtain and keep a
permit.
      (3)   A separate permit shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment operated
or to be operated by any person.
      (4)   A permit issued under this chapter is not transferable.
      (5)   A bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment
permitted by Boone County Health Department shall be considered registered as
required in I.C.16-42-1-6.
   (B)   Permit period.
      (1)   A permit for a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment shall be issued for a term beginning January 1, and/or before
commencement of operation, and expiring December 31, of the same year and shall
be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
      (2)   A permit for a temporary food establishment shall be for the term
of one continuous operation.
   (C)   Permit content. Any permit issued by the Health Officer shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the person and/or owner to whom the permit
is granted;
      (2)   The location of the establishment for which the permit is issued;
      (3)   The issuance and expiration date(s); and
      (4)   Other such pertinent data as may be required by the Boone County
Health Officer.
   (D)   Application. A person desiring to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment shall
submit to the Boone County Health Department a written application for a permit
on a form provided by the Boone County Health Department.
   (E)   Content of the application. The application may include:
      (1)   The name, mailing address, telephone number and original signature
of the person and/or operator applying for the permit and the name, mailing
address and location of the bed and breakfast establishment, food establishment
and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Information specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment,
food establishment and/or temporary food establishment is owned by an
association, corporation, individual, partnership or other legal entity;
      (3)   A statement specifying whether the bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment:
         (a)   If not permanent, is mobile and/or temporary; and
         (b)   The operation includes one or more of the following:
            1.   Prepares, offers for sale or serves potentially hazardous
food:
               a.   Only to order upon a consumer’s request;
               b.   In advance in quantities based on projected consumer demand
and discards food that is not sold or served at an approved frequency;
               c.   Using time, rather than temperature, as the public health
control, as specified under 410 I.A.C. 7-24; and
               d.   Prepares acidified foods, as defined in 410 I.A.C. 7-21-3.
            2.   Prepares potentially hazardous food in advance, using a food
preparation method that involves two or more steps which may include combining
potentially hazardous ingredients; cooking; cooling; reheating; hot or cold
holding; freezing; or thawing;
            3.   Prepares food as specified under division (E)(3)(b)2. of this
section for delivery to and consumption at a location off the premises of the
bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment where it is prepared;
            4.   Prepares food as specified under division (E)(3)(b)2. of this
section for service to a highly susceptible population, as defined in 410
I.A.C. 7-24-46;
            5.   Prepares only food that is not potentially hazardous; or
            6.   Does not prepare, but offers for sale only prepackaged food
that is not potentially hazardous.
      (4)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the operator
directly responsible for the bed and breakfast establishment, food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (5)   The name, title, address and telephone number of the person who
functions as the immediate supervisor of the person specified under division
(E)(4) of this section such as the zone, district or regional supervisor;
      (6)   The names, titles and addresses of:
         (a)   The persons comprising the legal ownership as specified under
division (E)(2) of this section including the owners and operators; and
         (b)   The local resident agent if one is required based on the type of
legal ownership.
      (7)   A statement signed by the applicant that:
         (a)   Attests to the accuracy of the information provided in the
application; and
         (b)   Affirms that the applicant will:
            1.   Comply with this chapter; and
            2.   Allow the Boone County Health Department access to the bed and
breakfast establishment, food establishment and/ or temporary food
establishment and records as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5 and 410 I.A.C. 7-
24.
      (8)   Other information required by the Boone County Health Department.
   (F)   Qualification. To qualify for a permit, an applicant must:
      (1)   Be an owner and/or operator of the bed and breakfast establishment,
food establishment and/or temporary food establishment;
      (2)   Comply with the requirements of this chapter;
      (3)   Agree to allow access to the bed and breakfast establishment, food
establishment and/or temporary food establishment and provide required
information; and
      (4)   Pay the applicable permit fees at the time the application is
submitted.
   (G)   Plans requirements.
      (1)   The owner or other authorized agent of an existing or proposed bed
and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment shall submit to the Boone
County Health Department properly prepared plans and specifications for review
and approval before:
         (a)   The construction of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing structure for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment; or
         (c)   The remodeling of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment or a change of type of bed and breakfast establishment and/or
food establishment or food operation if the Boone County Health Department
determines that plans and specifications are necessary to ensure compliance
with this section.
      (2)   The plans and specifications for a bed and breakfast establishment
and/or food establishment shall include, the type of operation, type of food
preparation (as specified in Appendix B of the published version of 410 I.A.C.
7-24, and the menu.
      (3)   The plans and specifications shall be deemed satisfactory and
approved by the Boone County Health Department before a Permit can be issued.
      (4)   A pre-operational inspection shows that the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment is built or remodeled in accordance
with the approved plans and specifications and that the establishment is in
compliance with this ordinance, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5.
   (H)   Responsibilities of the operator. Upon acceptance of the permit issued
by the Boone County Health Department, the operator in order to retain the
permit shall:
      (1)   Comply with the provisions of this chapter and all laws and rules
adopted by reference herein and the conditions of any variances granted by the
Indiana State Department of Health;
      (2)   Immediately discontinue affected operations and notify the Boone
County Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist;
      (3)   Allow representatives of the Boone County Health Department access
to the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment at all
reasonable times;
      (4)   Comply with directives of the Boone County Health Department
including time frames for corrective actions specified in inspection reports,
notices, orders, warnings and other directives issued by the Boone County
Health Department in regard to the operator’s of a bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment or in response to community
emergencies;
      (5)   Accept notices issued and served by the Boone County Health
Department;
      (6)   Be subject to the administrative, civil, injunctive and criminal
remedies authorized in law for failure to comply with this chapter or a
directive of the Boone County Health Department; and
      (7)   Post the permit in a location in the bed and breakfast
establishment and/or food establishment that is conspicuous to consumers.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 12-4-2006)
§ 17.111.04 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
establishment, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment in Boone
County, who has not paid the permit fee required to be paid for the operation
of the establishment as set forth herein.
   (B)   The fee shall be paid for a term of one year and shall be renewed
annually, on or before January 10 and expiring on December 31 of the same year
and shall be applied for by the person and/or operator annually.
   (C)   Permit fees for the issuance of a permit under this chapter to a bed
and breakfast establishment, food establishment and/or a temporary food
establishment shall be set by the Boone County Health Department, as provided
by the statutes of the State of Indiana.
   (D)   A receipt for the payment of the fee shall be provided by the Boone
County Health Department.
   (E)   The payment of the fees shall be required for each bed and breakfast
establishment, food establishment and/or temporary food establishment operated
or to be operated by any person.
   (F)   An organization that is exempt from the Indiana Gross Income Tax and
offers food for sale to the final consumer at an event held for the benefit of
the organization is exempt from the payment of fees. This exemption only
applies to organization(s) that meet the criteria addressed in state law. The
Health Officer shall be provided, upon request, proof of an organization's tax
exemption.
   (G)   A late fee for failure to pay the permit fee prior to the operation of
the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment or the late fee
for failure to renew a permit after the expiration of the permit to operate bed
and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment shall be assessed as set
forth herein.
   (H)   The payment of fees under this chapter is not transferable or
refundable.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 12-4-2006) Penalty, see §
17.110.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 16-20-1-27
§ 17.111.05 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The Boone County Health Department shall inspect a bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment at least once every six
months unless a system of risk based inspections is utilized as stated below.
      (2)   The Boone County Health Department may modify the interval between
inspections beyond six months if:
         (a)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment
are fully operating under an approved and validated hazard analysis critical
control point (HACCP) plan(s);
         (b)   The bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment is
assigned a less frequent inspection frequency based on a written risk-based
inspection schedule that is being uniformly applied throughout the
jurisdiction.
         (c)   The Boone county health department may contact the operator to
determine that the nature of the food operation has not changed.
   (B)   Temporary food establishment. The Boone County Health Department shall
periodically inspect throughout its permit period a temporary food
establishment that prepares, sells or serves potentially hazardous food and may
inspect a temporary food establishment that prepares, sells or serves
unpackaged, non-potentially hazardous food that:
      (1)   Has improvised rather than permanent facilities or equipment for
accomplishing functions such as hand-washing, food preparation and protection,
food temperature control, ware-washing, providing drinking water, waste
retention and disposal and insect and rodent control; or
      (2)   Has untrained food employees.
   (C)   Performance and risk-based inspections. Within the parameters
specified in the above divisions (A) and (B) of this section, the Boone County
Health Department shall prioritize, and conduct more frequent inspections based
upon its assessment of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment’s history of compliance with this ordinance and the bed and
breakfast establishment and/or food establishment’s potential as a vector of
food-borne illness by evaluating:
      (1)   Past performance, for violations of 410 I.A.C. 7-15.5, 410 I.A.C.
7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 722 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are critical or
non-critical;
      (2)   Past performance, for numerous or repeat violations of 410 I.A.C.
7-15.5 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or HACCP plan requirements that are non-
critical;
      (3)   Past performance, for complaints investigated and found to be
valid;
      (4)   The hazards associated with the particular foods that are prepared,
stored or served;
      (5)   The type of operation including the methods and extent of food
storage, preparation and service;
      (6)   The number of people served; and
      (7)   Whether the population served is a highly susceptible population.
   (D)   Access allowed at reasonable times after due notice.
      (1)   After the Boone County Health Department presents official
credentials and provides notice of the purpose of and the intent to conduct an
inspection, the operator shall allow the Boone County Health Department to
determine if the bed and breakfast establishment, food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment is in compliance with this chapter by allowing
access to the establishment, allowing inspection and providing information and
records specified in this chapter. The Boone County Health Department is
entitled the information and records according to I.C. 16-42-1-13 and I.C. 16-
425-23, during the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment's
hours of operation and other reasonable times.
      (2)   Access is a condition of the acceptance and retention of a food
establishment permit to operate.
      (3)   If access is denied, an order issued by the appropriate authority
allowing access may be obtained according to law.
   (E)   Inspection reports. At the conclusion of the inspection, the Boone
County Health Department shall provide a copy of the completed inspection
report and the notice to correct violations to the operator or to the person-
in-charge, as required under I.C. 16-20-8.
   (F)   Timely correction of critical violations.
      (1)   Except as specified in the division (F)(2) below, an operator
shall, at the time of inspection, correct a critical violation of 410 I.A.C. 7-
15.5, 410 I.A.C. 7-24 and/or 410 I.A.C. 7-22 and implement corrective actions
for a HACCP plan provision that is not in compliance with its critical limit.
      (2)   Considering the nature of the potential hazard involved and the
complexity of the corrective action needed, the Boone County Health Department
may agree to or specify a longer time frame after the inspection, for the
operator to correct critical code violations or HACCP plan deviations.
      (3)   After receiving notification that the operator has corrected a
critical violation or HACCP plan deviation, or at the end of the specified
period of time, the Boone County Health Department shall verify correction of
the violation, document the information on an inspection report, and enter the
report in the Boone County Health Department’s records.
      (4)   Refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt will not affect the
operator’s obligation to correct the violations noted in the inspection report
within the time frames specified.
      (5)   A refusal to sign an acknowledgment of receipt is noted in the
inspection report and conveyed to the Boone County Health Department historical
record for the bed and breakfast establishment, food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment.
      (6)   The operator is not necessarily in agreement with the findings of
the Boone County Health Department inspection by acknowledgment of receipt.
   (G)   Public information. Except as specified in 410 I.A.C. 7-24-194, the
Boone County Health Department shall treat the inspection report as a public
document and shall make it available for disclosure to a person who requests it
as provided in law.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 12-4-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 16-20-1-26 and I.C. 16-20-8
§ 17.111.06 COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Application denial. If an application for a plan review and/or permit
to operate a bed and breakfast establishment, food establishment and/or
temporary food establishment is denied, the Boone County Health Department
shall provide the applicant with a notice that includes:
      (1)   The specific reasons and rule citations for the application and/or
permit denial;
      (2)   The actions, if any, that the applicant must take to qualify for
the application and/or permit; and
      (3)   Advisement of the applicant’s right of appeal and the process and
time frames for appeal that are provided in law.
   (B)   Permit revocation. The Boone County Health Department may revoke a
permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment
for a time period not to exceed 90 calendar days. If the permit has been
revoked in the past and a clear demonstration of non-compliance is demonstrated
by the permit holder then the permit may be revoked for a longer period of time
as determined by the Health Officer.
   (C)   Permit suspension. The Boone County Health Department may suspend a
permit to operate a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment
if it determines through inspection or examination of employee, food, records
or other means as specified in this chapter, that an imminent health hazard
exists. A suspension shall not exceed 30 calendar days. The permit may be
suspended for a longer period of time as determined by the Health Officer.
   (D)   Ceasing operation and contacting the Boone County Health Department.
      (1)   An operator of a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment shall immediately discontinue operations and notify the Boone
County Health Department if an imminent health hazard may exist because of an
emergency such as a fire, flood, extended interruption of electrical or water
service, sewage backup, misuse of poisonous or toxic materials, onset of an
apparent food- borne illness outbreak, gross unsanitary occurrence or condition
or other circumstance that may endanger public health.
      (2)   An operator need not discontinue operations in an area of an
establishment that is unaffected by the imminent health hazard.
   (E)   Resuming operation. If a bed and breakfast establishment and/or food
establishment have discontinued operations for the reasons stated above or
otherwise according to law, the operator must obtain approval from the Boone
County Health Department before resuming operations.
   (F)   Outstanding fees. Any outstanding fees may be a condition upon which a
permit may not be issued.
   (G)   Enforcement. The Boone County Health Department may:
      (1)   Conduct administrative proceeding for suspension and/or revocation
of the bed and breakfast establishment and/or food establishment permit in
front of the Health Officer;
      (2)   The Boone County Health Officer may issue an “order to abate” based
on a condition that may transmit, generate or promote disease. Failure on the
part of the operator to comply with the order could result in the enforcement
of the order in the court of jurisdiction by the initiation of an action by the
County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney;
      (3)   If the action concerning public health is an ordinance violation,
request the County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for the enforcement of the ordinance violation; and
      (4)   If the action concerning public health is a criminal offense,
request the County Attorney or County Prosecuting Attorney to institute a
proceeding in the courts for enforcement.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 12-4-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 16-20-1-25 and 34-28-5-1
§ 17.111.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person(s) aggrieved by orders issued under enforcement of §
17.111.06 shall be entitled to a review of the final order before a Hearing
Officer by filing an administrative written request therefore with the Health
Officer (Secretary of the Boone County Board of Health). The written request
must be mailed or hand delivered to Health Officer, 116 W. Washington St.
Lebanon, IN 46052 and must be received within 15 days after the final order is
issued.
   (B)   Upon the Health Officer receipt of the request, the Hearing Officer
shall hear the matter again in an open hearing after at least five-days written
notice of the time, place and nature thereof. The time shall be measured
pursuant to the rules of court of the jurisdiction. (A shorter period of time
may be granted, if requested by either party and agreed upon.)
   (C)   The notice of the hearing shall be served upon the person requesting
the review by hand delivering or mailing by certified mail the notice to the
address listed on the permit application as the person’s mailing address or
such other address, as the person shall designate in the letter of request to
the Health Officer.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer establishes the rules of procedure and advises the
parties prior to the start of the proceedings.
   (E)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of facts and shall
enter its final administrative order or determination of this matter in
writing.
   (F)   The administrative order completes the administrative appeals
procedure.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 12-4-2006)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see I.C. 16-20-1-10
§ 17.111.08 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No local official shall conduct himself or herself in a manner that is or
could have the appearance of a conflict of interest.
(Ord. 2006-15, passed 12-4-2006)
CHAPTER 17.112: MASSAGE PARLORS, BATH HOUSES AND THE LIKE
Section
   
17.112.01   Definitions
   
17.112.02   License required
   
17.112.03   Applications for licenses
   
17.112.04   License fees
   
17.112.05   Operations
   
17.112.06   Issuance and rejection of application; qualifications
   
17.112.07   Signs and advertising
   
17.112.08   Pre-existing operations
   
17.112.09   Complaints
 
   
17.112.99   Penalty
§ 17.112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BATH HOUSE. Any building, room, place or establishment other than a
regularly licensed hospital, dispensary, hotel, rooming house or public lodging
house, where members of the public are provided with baths, regardless whether
steam, vapor, water, sauna or otherwise.
   MASSAGE. Any method of treating the superficial soft parts of the body for
remedial or hygienic purposes, consisting of rubbing, stroking, kneading or
tapping with the hands or instruments.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any building, room, place or establishment other than a
regularly licensed hospital or dispensary where non-medical and non-surgical
manipulative exercises are practiced upon the human body with or without the
use of mechanical or bath devices, by anyone not a physician, osteopath,
chiropractor, podiatrist or physical therapist duly registered with and
licensed by the State of Indiana.
   MASSAGE SCHOOL. Any bath house or massage parlor, defined herein, where the
act of massage, as defined herein, is either taught or practiced.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. Any person who practices, administers or teaches all or
any of the subjects or methods of treatment, defined herein as massage therapy.
   MASSAGE THERAPY. The act of body massage, either by mechanical or electrical
apparatus for the purpose of reducing or contouring the body by the use of oil
rub, salt, hot and cold packs, cold showers and cabinet baths.
   MASSAGE THERAPY CLINIC. Any shop, establishment or place of business where
any or all of the methods of massage therapy are administered or used.
   MASSAGE THERAPY SCHOOL. Any duly registered massage therapy establishment
where a tuition is charged for the instruction of massage therapy techniques.
   PRIVATE HEALTH CLUB. Facility for exercise and physical training, excluding
the use of massage, which is operated for, and open only to members of a
private club and their invited guests.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An organization or association maintaining club rooms or other
recreation of social facilities used primarily for purposes other than a bath
house or massage parlor, membership in which is limited to persons paying a
regular dues or assessment.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 17.112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person or firm to operate, conduct or maintain
a massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath house without
a license to operate the massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic
or bath house issued by the County Auditor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm licensed to operate a
massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath house to employ
or permit any person to perform a massage unless the person be licensed as a
massage therapist by the County Auditor.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be employed as a massage
therapist or to perform massages for a fee unless the person be licensed as a
massage therapist by the County Auditor.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980) Penalty, see §
17.112.99
§ 17.112.03 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES.
   (A)   The application for a license to operate a massage school, massage
parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath house shall contain the following
information and shall be individually signed by the applicant:
      (1)   Name of applicant and aliases;
      (2)   Resident address of applicant and former addresses for the past
three years;
      (3)   Business address of applicant;
      (4)   Number of massage tables, shower stalls or other such individual
units;
      (5)   The age, date of birth and citizenship of the applicant, in the
case of individuals, and of the manager and officers in the case of a
corporation;
      (6)   The names, addresses, ages, citizenship and designations of each
person connected with the applicant’s establishments;
      (7)   Whether the applicant or its manager or officers have ever been
previously engaged in operating a massage school, massage parlor, massage
therapy clinic or bath house;
      (8)   Whether any applicant, or in the case of a corporation, its
managers, officers, directors or stockholders have ever been convicted of a
felony, or of a prior violation of this chapter; and
      (9)   The application shall state thereon that:
         “It is unlawful for any person to make a false statement on this
application and discovery of a false statement shall constitute grounds for
denial of an application or for revocation of a permit.”
   (B)   Along with the operators application for a license, there shall be
filed a verified application for a massage therapist license by each individual
who is employed in the establishment who is required by the chapter to be
licensed. The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and aliases;
      (2)   Age, date of birth and Social Security number;
      (3)   Address and former addresses for past three years;
      (4)   Citizenship;
      (5)   Nature of work performed;
      (6)   Whether convicted of any public offense concerning an act of
violence, moral turpitude, sex offense or prior violation of this chapter; and
      (7)   The application shall state thereon that:
         “It is unlawful for any person to make a false statement on this
application and discovery of a false statement shall constitute grounds for
denial of an application or for revocation of a permit.”
   (C)   Along with aforesaid applications for license, there shall be filed a
certificate from a duly licensed physician on a form prescribed by the County
Health Officer of Boone County, certifying that the applicant is free from
communicable diseases and that the examination has been made within 30 days
prior to the application for the license or permit herein sought.
   (D)   All applicants for license to engage in the practice of massage
therapy must submit with the application a certificate of affidavit of their
respective qualifications as to schooling, training and experience and where
and how obtained.
   (E)   Each applicant shall be photographed and have his or her fingerprints
taken by the Boone County Sheriff, which fingerprints and photograph shall
constitute a part of the application.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 17.112.04 LICENSE FEES.
   The annual license fee for each person who operates or is employed by a
massage parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath house or any combination thereof
shall be determined in accordance with the following scale:
   (A)   Class A licenses shall be required for all private health, clubs. The
fee for the license to be $50 annually.
   (B)   Class B licenses shall be required for a massage school, massage
parlor, massage therapy clinic, bath house or massage therapy school, the fee
for the license to be $500 annually.
   (C)   Class C licenses shall be required for massage therapists, the fee for
the license to be $50 annually for each therapist.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 17.112.05 OPERATIONS.
   (A)   No massage school, massage parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath
house shall be operated or conducted in, or without a separate opening to
living quarters. There must be a separate opening to living quarters and a
separate entrance to the place of business. No one shall use the business
quarters for a place of habitation.
   (B)   All licensed operators or permit holders under this chapter shall
display their license or permits in a visible location in their establishment.
   (C)   All licenses or permit holders shall be subject to all other town or
city ordinances, county ordinances and State of Indiana statutes and the
regulations of various administrative bodies of the town, city, county and
state, and violation of the regulations, ordinances or statutes shall be
grounds for revocation of licenses or permits.
   (D)   No person shall be employed by any licensee under this chapter or
reside on the premises or be within the view of any of the services rendered by
a massage parlor, massage therapy clinic or bath house who has not reached the
age of 21 years.
   (E)   Any establishment licensed under this chapter as a private health club
shall maintain a current list of members as the case may be, along with the
dates the club was used by the members; the lists and rosters shall be
available to the County Auditor upon request.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980) Penalty, see §
17.112.99
§ 17.112.06 ISSUANCE AND REJECTION OF APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application and license fee as set out in §
17.112.04 as provided for in the preceding section, the Auditor of Boone County
shall make or cause to be made a thorough investigation relative to the
application. The Auditor shall deny any application for a license under this
chapter after notice and hearing if the Auditor finds that the applicant has
been during the previous five years convicted, pleaded nolo contendere, or
suffered a forfeiture on any felony charge or a charge of violating any
provision included in the following: I.C. 35-45-4-1 through 35-45-4-4; I.C. 35-
45-2-2; 35-46-1-3; which laws relate to sexual offenses, or on a charge of
violating a similar law, or on a charge of violating any similar law of any
jurisdiction, or on a charge of violating any provision of this chapter or
similar ordinance in any other jurisdiction. The making of a false statement on
the application as provided for herein shall also be grounds for denial of this
license. Notice of the hearing before the Auditor of Boone County of this
application shall be given in writing, setting forth the grounds of the
proposed denial of a license and the time and place of the hearing. The notice
shall be mailed by certified mail to the applicant’s last known address at
least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing. The Auditor shall submit
a decision to the applicant within five days of the decision or within 30 days
of his or her receipt of the application, whichever date is the sooner.
   (B)   The Auditor shall revoke the license of any person after notice and
hearing if the Auditor finds that the person has been within the previous five
years convicted, pleaded nolo contendere or suffered a forfeiture on any felony
charge or on a charge of violating any provision included in those sections of
the Indiana Code set forth in the immediate preceding sections of this chapter,
which laws relate to sexual offenses, or on a charge of violating a similar law
of any other jurisdiction or on a charge of violating any provisions of this
chapter or a similar ordinance in any other jurisdiction. The license shall
also be revoked by the Auditor if he or she finds, after notice and hearing,
that any license holder has made a false statement on the application provided
for herein. Notice of the hearing before the Auditor for revocation of the
license shall be given in writing, setting forth the grounds of the proposed
revocation and the time and place of the hearing. The notice shall be mailed by
certified mail to the license holder’s last known address at least ten days
prior to the date set for the hearing.
   (C)   Any person who purports to hold a valid license shall display upon
request to any police officer corroborating identifying evidence that he or she
is, in fact, the person displaying the license, and shall display the license
upon request by a police officer. It shall likewise be an automatic case for
revocation of the license of any owner or manager of a massage parlor should
they have two or more violations of these provisions in their establishment
within a 12-month period.
   (D)   A PERSON applying for a license hereunder shall include a partnership
or association and any partner or member thereof or if the applicant is a
corporation it shall include any officer, director or manager thereof or
shareholder owning 10% or more of its stock and shall likewise include members
of both sexes.
   (E)   In the event the Auditor should deny or revoke any license hereunder,
the applicant shall have an automatic right to appeal the denial or revocation
to the Board of Commissioners of the County of Boone. The Board of
Commissioners shall hold a hearing with same procedural guidelines as set out
above for the Auditor within 30 days of the date of the denial or revocation.
The Board of Commissioners shall submit their decision to the applicant or
license holder within five days of its decision or within 30 days of the
hearing whichever date is sooner.
   (F)   The license shall be valid for one year and may be renewed on an
annual basis upon the filling of a new application and payment of the license
fee as set out in §
17.112.04. The application for renewal must be filed in the Office of the Boone
County Auditor not less than 30 days prior to the expiration of the existing
license.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 17.112.07 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   (A)   Any persons, firms or corporations, whose business operations are
covered in whole or in part by this chapter, shall limit their signs to only
one sign, the sign shall only be allowed to be placed flush or flat on the
building and shall be made of wood.
   (B)   The sign shall be externally luminated with one non-flashing light and
no further signs such as window signs and the like shall be permitted on or in
the premises; further, that the sign shall not exceed six square feet and shall
only set forth the name, business hours and the professional services offered
to be performed by the business.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 17.112.08 PRE-EXISTING OPERATIONS.
   All persons, firms or corporations to which this chapter is applicable, who
are presently operating within the jurisdiction of the Board of Commissioners
of Boone County shall make application for license as required herein within 30
days of the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 17.112.09 COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   All complaints of alleged violations of the provisions of this chapter
shall be made in writing to the Boone County Auditor. Upon learning of
violations of the provisions of this chapter and/or related ordinances or laws,
the Auditor shall utilize the enforcement remedies as provided herein.
   (B)   After a hearing thereon, if the Auditor should determine that the
license shall be revoked, no refund of license or permit fee shall be due.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
§ 17.112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties. All persons, firms or corporations violating the provisions
of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B infraction punishable by a fine of
not more than $1,000. Every day any violation of this chapter shall continue
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Remedies. The Board of Commissioners, the Boone County Prosecutor, the
Boone County Auditor or any designated enforcement official, may institute a
suit for injunction in the Circuit or Superior Courts of Boone County, Indiana,
to restrain an individual, firm or corporation from violating the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 80-2, passed 2-19-1980)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to 1996 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Section Code Section
I.C. Section                Code Section
1-1-1-5                     10.04
1-1-1-7                     10.12
1-1-1-8                     10.06
1-1-4-5                     10.05
1-1-5-1                     10.11
1-1-6-1                     10.08
3-5-10-9                    30.01
3-5-10-10                   30.01
3-5-10-11                   30.01
5-1-14-4                    34.53
5-3-1                       34.18
5-4-1                       31.02,
                            31.03
5-13 et seq.                34.70
5-13-6-1 et seq.            34.65
5-13-6-1(d)                 34.68
5-13-9 et seq.              34.65
5-13-9                      34.71
5-13-9-2                    34.71
5-13-9-2.5                  34.71
5-13-9-3                    34.71
5-13-9-4                    34.71,
                            34.74
5-13-9-5                    34.71,
                            34.81
5-13-9-5.3                  34.71
5-13-9-5.6                  34.73
5-13-9-5.7                  34.73,
                            34.81
5-13-9-11                   34.71
5-22                        34.20
5-22-14                     34.17
6-1.1-18.5                  34.53
6-1.1-41                    34.38,
                            34.39
6-2-2.5                     34.51
6-9-35                      34.50
6-9-35-14                   34.53
8-1-2-125                   52.050
8-1.5-3-8.1                 52.051
8-1.5-5                     31.21
9-13-2                      96.01
9-13-2-69.7                 76.01
9-13-2-73                   76.01
9-18-2-1                    96.01
9-18-2-7                    96.01
9-21-1-3(10)                71.02
9-21-1-3.3(c)(2)            76.03
9-21-5 et seq.              71.01
9-21-9-2                    76.04
9-22-1-11 through 9-22-1-14 96.04
9-24-1-1                    76.03
9-29-11                     34.02
13-18-27                    50.112
14-32                       50.006
14-34                       50.060,
                            50.075
22-9-1-2                    103.06
22-9-1-12.1                 103.01,
                            103.04
22-9-1-12.1(c)              103.06
22-12-1-4                   51.008
22-12-1-5                   51.008
23-14-33 through 23-14-73   31.19
25-25-2-1                   110.09
31-6-4-15.7                 131.03
31-37-19-27                 131.03
33-35-1-1                   32.01
33-35-2-8                   92.06
34-28-5                     131.05
Title 35                    91.01
35-44.1-1-4                 33.04,
                            33.07
35-47-1 et seq.             132.01
35-47-11.1                  91.01
36-1-3                      97.01,
                            Ch. 99
36-1-3-8(a)(10)             10.99
36-1-5-4                    30.01,
                            33.07
36-1-6                      131.05
36-1-7                      34.72
36-1-8-11 et seq.           34.05
36-1-8-11(b)                34.05
36-1-8-18                   53.36,
                            98.16
36-1-12-4                   54.01
                            33.01—
36-1-20.2                   33.03,
                            33.07
36-1-20.2-8                 33.03,
                            33.04
                            33.01—
36-1-21                     33.03,
                            33.07
36-4-9-7                    31.03
36-5-2-4.1                  30.01
36-5-2-4.1(d)               30.01
36-5-2-4.1(k)               30.01
36-5-2-8                    31.06
36-5-2-9.4                  33.02
36-5-5-5                    31.02
36-5-5-8(3)                 31.02
36-5-6 et seq.              31.04
36-5-7                      31.23
36-7-4-136                  53.43
36-7-4-400                  33.02
36-7-4-500 et seq.          98.17
36-7-4-1105                 98.02
                            53.49,
36-7-4-1300 et seq.         98.15,
                            98.27
36-7-4-1313                 98.19
36-7-4-1316                 53.36,
                            98.16
36-7-4-1317                 53.47,
                            98.26
36-7-4-1318                 53.37
36-7-4-1320                 53.44,
                            98.23
36-7-4-1321                 53.44,
                            98.23
36-7-4-1322                 53.44,
                            98.23
36-7-4-1322(g)              53.36,
                            98.16
36-7-4-1323                 53.40,
                            98.20
36-7-4-1324                 53.40
36-7-4-1324(a) through (d)  98.20
                            53.41,
36-7-4-1325                 98.21,
                            98.22
36-7-4-1332                 53.46
36-7-4-1332(a)              53.45
36-7-4-1332(e)              98.25
36-7-4-1335                 98.19
36-7-4-1335(a)              53.39
36-7-4-1338                 53.43
36-7-4-1338(c)              53.43,
                            98.24
                            53.35,
36-7-4-1340                 98.15,
                            98.29
36-7-9-1 et seq.            97.02
36-7-9-1 through 36-7-9-29  97.02,
                            97.99
36-7-9-1                    97.01
36-7-9-4                    97.06
36-7-9-14                   97.08
36-7-12                     31.15
36-7-14-6.1                 31.16
36-8-3 et seq.              31.24
36-8-3-2                    31.24
36-8-3-4                    31.23
36-8-3-4.1                  31.23
36-8-3.5-1 et seq.          31.28
36-8-3.5-4                  31.28
36-8-3.5-7                  31.28
36-8-9                      31.23
36-8-14                     34.38
36-8-17                     51.003
36-8-17-7                   51.125
36-9-15.5                   34.39
36-9-30                     54.01
36-9-30-5                   54.01
36-9-30-5.3                 54.01
36-10-3                     33.02
36-10-3-1 et seq.           31.19
36-10-3-4.1                 31.19
36-10-3-8                   31.19
36-10-3-8(d)                31.19
36-10-3-11(a)(5)            31.19
36-10-3-13                  31.19
36-10-3-14                  31.19
36-10-3-20                  34.36
36-10-3-22                  34.37
                            
 
REFERENCES TO 1996 CODE
1996 Code Section 2015 Code Section
1996 Code Section 2015 Code Section
1-1               30.01
3-1               32.01
3-10              31.01
3-11              31.15
3-12              31.16
3-13              31.17
3-14              31.02
3-20              34.35
3-21              34.36
3-24              34.15—
                  34.20
3-25              34.37
3-40              31.18
3-50              34.02
                  131.01—
3-60              131.05,
                  131.99
5-1               52.065—
                  52.074
5-6               52.015
5-7               52.016
5-8               52.017
5-9               52.018
5-10              52.019
5-11              52.020
5-12              52.021
5-13              52.022
5-14              52.023
5-15              52.024
5-16              52.025
5-17              52.026
5-18              52.027
5-19              52.028
5-20              52.029
5-21              52.030
5-22              52.999
                  52.045—
5-30              52.051,
                  52.999
5-31              52.001
5-50              52.002
5-60              54.99
7-11              72.01—
                  72.05
7-12              73.01
                  73.02—
7-13              73.09,
                  73.99
7-14              73.25—
                  73.28
7-15              73.10
7-16              73.11
                  Ch. 74 Schd. I,
                  Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                  Ch. 74 Schd. III,
                  Ch. 74 Schd. IV,
7-19              Ch. 74 Schd. V,
                  Ch. 74 Schd. VI,
                  Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                  Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                  Ch. 75 Schd. III,
                  Ch. 75 Schd. IV
7-20              Ch. 74 Schd. VII
7-30              73.40
7-31              73.41
7-32              73.42
7-33              73.43
7-34              73.99
7-35              73.44
7-40              73.55,
                  73.99
7-41              73.56,
                  73.99
7-42              73.57
7-60              53.02,
                  53.99
7-61              53.15—
                  53.19
9-1               90.01,
                  90.99
                  94.01—
9-6               94.06,
                  94.99
9-7               95.01—
                  95.07
9-8               95.20,
                  95.21
9-9               96.01—
                  96.05
9-10              95.99,
                  96.99
                  97.01—
9-20              97.08,
                  97.99
9-30              31.19
9-31              98.01,
                  98.99
9-32              98.02
9-40              99.01,
                  99.99
9-41              99.02,
                  99.99
9-42              99.03
9-43              99.04
9-44              99.20—
                  99.28
9-50              113.01
9-51              113.02
9-52              113.03
9-53              113.04
9-54              113.05
9-55              113.06
9-56              113.07
9-57              113.99
9-60              130.01
9-61              130.02,
                  130.99
9-62              130.03
9-63              130.04
9-70              101.01
9-72              102.01
9-73              53.01,
                  53.99
                  100.01—
9-74              100.10,
                  100.25—
                  100.34
9-75              92.01
9-76              92.02
9-77              92.03
9-78              92.04
9-79              92.05
9-80              92.06
9-81              92.99
9-82              93.01
9-83              93.02
9-84              93.03
9-85              93.04
9-86              93.05
9-87              93.06
9-88              93.07
9-89              93.08
9-90              93.09
9-91              93.99
9-92              93.10
9-93              93.11
9-94              93.12
11-20             111.01—
                  111.15
11-21             112.01
11-22             112.02
11-23             112.03
11-24             112.04
11-25             112.05
11-26             112.06
11-27             112.07
11-28             112.08
11-29             112.09
Art. VIII, § 1   34.50
Art. VIII, § 2   34.51
Art. VIII, § 8   34.54
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         52.072
1962-2   - -         98.02
66-5     - -         32.01
68-7     - -         31.01
71-5     - -         53.15—
                     53.19
                     52.045—
72-5     - -         52.051,
                     52.999
10-1976  - -         34.36
77-2     - -         99.99
79-6     - -         31.16
                     72.01—
                     72.05,
                     73.01—
                     73.11,
                     73.25—
                     73.28,
                     73.99,
8-1979   - -         Ch. 74 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. III,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. IV,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. V,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. III
79-10    - -         30.01
                     52.045—
80-5     - -         52.051,
                     52.999
80-11    - -         31.18
80-15    - -         90.01,
                     90.99
81-12    - -         95.99,
                     96.99
                     97.01—
82-2     - -         97.08,
                     97.99
82-3     - -         111.01—
                     111.15
82-10    - -         98.01,
                     98.99
82-17    - -         34.35
                     73.55,
83-15    - -         73.56,
                     73.99
                     73.55,
83-19    - -         73.56,
                     73.99
83-20    - -         101.01
84-3     - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II
                     113.01—
84-4     - -         113.07,
                     113.99
84-9     - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
                     130.01—
84-20    - -         130.04,
                     130.99
85-1     - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II
                     52.065—
86-15    - -         52.071,
                     52.073,
                     52.074
86-16    - -         52.001
                     52.015—
86-17    - -         52.030,
                     52.999
                     Ch. 74 Schd. II,
87-1     - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. III
1987-16  - -         34.36
88-15    - -         52.002
                     73.40—
89-14    - -         73.44,
                     73.99
                     94.01—
90-2     - -         94.06,
                     94.99
90-4     - -         98.01,
                     98.99
                     52.045—
90-26    - -         52.051,
                     52.999
91-1     - -         95.99,
                     96.99
                     94.01—
91-8     - -         94.06,
                     94.99
91-11    7-8-1991    54.99
                     52.015—
91-26    - -         52.030,
                     52.999
92-03    - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. III
93-07    - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II
94-02    - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
94-08    - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. II
95-02    - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II
95-03    - -         99.02,
                     99.99
1995-03  - -         99.03
95-11    - -         Ch. 74 Schd. V
95-14    - -         Ch. 74 Schd. V
96-02    - -         52.065—
                     52.074
                     73.55—
96-04    - -         73.57,
                     73.99
96-08    - -         Ch. 74 Schd. V
96-13    - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. III
97-1     - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. III
97-2     - -         Ch. 75 Schd. III
97-3     - -         Ch. 75 Schd. III
97-7     - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II
97-9     - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
98-04    - -         52.065—
                     52.074
98-7     - -         Ch. 75 Schd. III
98-12    - -         34.15—
                     34.20
98-16    - -         Ch. 74 Schd. V
98-17    - -         98.01,
                     98.99
98-18    - -         53.15—
                     53.19
                     73.02—
98-30    - -         73.09,
                     73.99
99-3     - -         52.065—
                     52.074
99-5     - -         Ch. 74 Schd. III,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. II
                     52.065—
99-7     - -         52.071,
                     52.073,
                     52.074
99-14    - -         31.16
99-16    - -         Ch. 75 Schd. III
                     53.01,
99-18    - -         53.99,
                     99.02,
                     99.04
99-20    - -         52.065—
                     52.074
99-51    - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II
2000-15  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. V
2000-22  - -         131.01
2000-23  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. V
2000-26  - -         30.01
2000-27  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. I
2001-03  - -         34.37
                     99.20—
2001-7   - -         99.28,
                     99.99
2001-12  - -         53.02,
                     53.99
                     100.01—
2001-13  - -         100.10,
                     100.25—
                     100.34
2001-16  - -         52.065—
                     52.074
2001-17  - -         53.15—
                     53.19
                     52.045—
2001-21  - -         52.051,
                     52.999
                     73.02—
2001-32  - -         73.09,
                     73.99
2002-5   - -         95.99,
                     96.99
2002-09  - -         52.065—
                     52.074
2002-19  - -         30.01
2003-01  - -         31.17
                     52.045—
2003-05  - -         52.051,
                     52.999
                     94.01—
2003-7   - -         94.06,
                     94.99
2003-11  - -         52.065—
                     52.074
2003-12  - -         112.01—
                     112.09
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. III,
2003-15  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. VI,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. III,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. IV
2003-16  - -         31.02
2003-21  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. V
2004-01  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II
2004-02  - -         52.065—
                     52.074
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I,
2004-12  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. III
                     99.20—
2004-14  - -         99.28,
                     99.99
2004-21  - -         Ch. 75 Schd. II
                     92.01—
2005-09  - -         92.06,
                     92.99
                     34.50,
2005-14  - -         34.51,
                     34.54
                     73.02—
2005-17  - -         73.09,
                     73.99
                     34.50,
2005-19  - -         34.51,
                     34.54
2005-22  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. V
2006-03  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. V
2006-04  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. II
2006-05  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. V
2006-07  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. V
                     93.01—
2006-11  - -         93.12,
                     93.99
2006-15  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II
2006-16  - -         30.01
2007-02  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II
                     131.01—
2007-08  - -         131.06,
                     131.99
2007-10  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. II
                     34.50,
2007-11  - -         34.51,
                     34.54
2007-13  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. II
                     90.01,
2007-14  - -         90.99,
                     98.01,
                     98.99
                     99.20—
2007-18  - -         99.28,
                     99.99
2008-07  6-16-2008   Title XVII
2008-21  9-2-2008    31.23
2009-05  5-4-2009    34.02
2009-12  - -         Ch. 74 Schd. V
2009-15  12-17-2009  31.19
2009-16  12-17-2009  31.20
2010-01  1-4-2010    150.02
2010-02  4-5-2010    Ch. 74 Schd. III
2010-06  9-7-2010    52.065—
                     52.074
2010-08  9-7-2010    31.21
2010-12  10-4-2010   52.065—
                     52.074
                     51.001—
                     51.019,
                     51.030,
                     51.031,
                     51.045—
                     51.051,
2010-16  12-6-2010   51.065—
                     51.069,
                     51.080—
                     51.091,
                     51.105,
                     51.106,
                     51.120—
                     51.126
2011-01  4-4-2011    Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. III
2011-03  6-6-2011    34.39
2011-04  7-5-2011    Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. V
2011-05  8-1-2011    Ch. 74 Schd. II
2011-06  8-1-2011    91.01
2011-07  10-3-2011   30.01
2011-12  11-7-2011   Ch. 74 Schd. VII
2011-14  12-5-2011   98.15—
                     98.29
2012-02  2-6-2012    Ch. 74 Schd. V
2012-03  3-5-2012    31.02
2012-04  3-5-2012    150.01
                     150.03;
2012-09  8-6-2012    Ch. 150 Exhs. A,
                     B
2012-11  9-4-2012    30.01
2012-14  10-2-2012   Ch. 74 Schd. V
                     Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. III,
2013-01  1-7-2013    Ch. 74 Schd. V,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. VI,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. VII
2013-02  3-4-2013    52.048
2013-04  4-8-2013    Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. V
2013-07  6-18-2013   34.38
2013-06  7-1-2013    Ch. 74 Schd. V
                     99.05,
2013-14  10-7-2013   99.20—
                     99.28,
                     99.99
2013-16  11-4-2013   31.19
                     50.001—
                     50.007,
                     50.009,
                     50.010, 50.020—50.026, 50.040—
                     50.046, 50.060—50.063, 50.075—50.079,
2013-17  12-2-2013   50.110,
                     50.111,
                     50.113—
                     50.118,
                     50.120,
                     50.130—
                     50.133, 50.999
                     Ch. 74 Schd. II,
2014-02  3-3-2014    Ch. 74 Schd. III,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. V
                     72.01—
                     72.05,
                     73.01—
                     73.11,
                     73.25—
                     73.28,
                     73.40—
                     73.44,
                     73.55—
                     73.57,
-        3-3-2014    73.99,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. III,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. IV,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. V,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. VI,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. VII,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. III,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. IV
2014-05  7-7-2014    Ch. 74 Schd. II
                     99.01—
                     99.04,
2015-02  3-2-2015    99.20,
                     99.21,
                     99.24,
                     99.99
2015-09  7-7-2015    103.01—
                     103.08
                     53.16,
2015-15  10-5-2015   53.17,
                     53.99
                     Ch. 75 Schd. I,
2015-16  10-5-2015   Ch. 75 Schd. II,
                     Ch. 75 Schd. III
                     Ch. 74 Sch. II,
2015-17  10-5-2015   Ch. 74 Schd. III,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. VII
2015-20  11-2-2015   34.40
2015-21  11-2-2015   Ch. 75 Schd. I
2016-06  5-2-2016    34.41
2016-07  5-2-2016    31.03
2016-10  6-6-2016    34.39
2016-11  6-6-2016    34.38
2016-13  6-6-2016    34.42
2016-14  7-25-2016   34.43
2016-16  7-25-2016   90.01
2016-20  11-28-2016  34.03
2016-21  12-19-2016  Ch. 74 Schd. I,
                     Ch. 74 Schd. II
2016-22  12-19-2016  34.44
2017-03  3-20-2017   34.35
2017-04  3-20-2017   Ch. 75 Schd. II
2017-05  4-10-2017   34.45
2017-07  8-7-2017    Ch. 74 Schd. I
2017-08  8-7-2017    Ch. 74 Schd. II
2017-09  10-23-2017  Ch. 75 Schd. III
2017-12  10-23-2017  34.41
2017-16  12- -2017   53.02
                     93.01 -
2018-01  4-9-2018    93.12,
                     93.99
2019-04  3-18-2019   34.39
2019-05  3-18-2019   34.38
2019-06  3-18-2019   10.05,
                     10.15
2019-07  3-18-2019   30.01
                     132.01—
2019-08  4-15-2019   132.03,
                     132.99
2019-09  4-15-2019   Ch. 75, Schd. I
                     76.01—
2019-19  9-16-2019   76.06,
                     76.99
2020-07  8-17-2020   34.01
2020-09  10-5-2020   31.22
2020-21  1-19-2021   34.04
2021-02  2-1-2021    31.24
2021-03  3-15-2021   34.04
2021-14  12-20-2021  34.04
2022-01  2-7-2022    31.25
2022-02  3-7-2022    98.15—
                     98.29
2022-13  8-16-2022   Ch. 74, Schd. VI
2022-31  12-19-2022  34.04
2022-32  12-7-2022   30.01
2023-02  2-13-2023   Ch. 75, Schd. I
2023-03  2-13-2023   Ch. 75, Schd. III
2023-04  2-13-2023   76.05,
                     76.06
                     31.04—
2023-05  2-13-2023   31.06,
                     34.01
2023-08  4-10-2023   54.01
                     110.01—
2023-15  9-5-2023    110.14,
                     110.99
2023-16  9-5-2023    34.04
                     150.04, Ch. 150, Exhs.
2023-18  10-2-2023   C,
                     D
2023-22  11-6-2023   Ch. 75, Schd. II
2023-23  11-6-2023   53.35—
                     53.50
2023-26  11-20-2023  34.52,
                     34.53
                     33.01—
2023-30  12-4-2023   33.03,
                     33.05—
                     33.08
                     70.01—
                     70.10,
2023-32  12-4-2023   70.25—
                     70.31,
                     70.99
2023-35  12-4-2023   71.01—
                     71.11
2023-49  12-18-2023  34.65—
                     34.81
2023-50  12-18-2023  34.05
2024-02  2-5-2024    31.26
2024-03  2-5-2024    31.27
2024-13  5-20-2024   34.65—
                     34.81
2024-14  5-20-2024   34.04
                     50.001—
                     50.010,
                     50.020—
                     50.026,
                     50.040—
                     50.046,
                     50.060—
                     50.063,
2024-15  7-15-2024   50.075—
                     50.079,
                     50.090—
                     50.092,
                     50.110—
                     50.120,
                     50.130—
                     50.133,
                     50.999
2024-16  7-1-2024    Ch. 74, Schd. II
2024-29  11-18-2024  31.28
2024-30  11-4-2024   31.24
2024-41  12-16-2024  31.25
2024-43  12-16-2024  52.067
2024-44  12-16-2024  31.29
2024-46  12-16-2024  33.01—
                     33.08
2024-47  12-2-2024   31.30
2024-48  12-16-2024  31.26
2025-02  3-3-2025    31.03
2025-05  3-3-2025    93.02,
                     93.06
2025-07  3-17-2025   90.01,
                     98.01
2025-08  3-17-2025   70.29
                    
 
 
ZIONSVILLE, INDIANA
PLANNING AND ZONING
VOLUME II
Contains 2025 S-10 Supplement, current through:
Ordinance 2025-01, passed 2-3-2025; and
State law current through Indiana Legislative Service, 2024 Acts, Pamphlet No.
3
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE XIX: PLANNING AND ZONING
   Chapter
      
190.   GOVERNING BODIES
      
191.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
192.   FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
      
193.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
194.   ZONING
      
195.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 190: GOVERNING BODIES
Section
Board of Zoning Appeals; Rules of Procedure
   
190.01   Meetings
   
190.02   Filing petitions; administrative appeal, variance of use, variance of
development standards or special exception
   
190.03   Docketing petitions; order of hearings; investigation of petitions
   
190.04   Notice requirements for petitions; administrative appeal, variance of
use, variance of development standards or special exception
   
190.05   Conduct of public hearings
   
190.06   Final disposition of petitions
   
190.07   Waiver of rules
   
190.08   Amendments
   
190.09   Definitions
Plan Commission; Rules of Procedure
   
190.20   Meetings
   
190.21   Proposals; replacement, amendment and repeal of subdivision or zoning
text
   
190.22   Filing petitions; zone map changes, modifications of commitment,
subdivision plans or vacations of land
   
190.23   Docketing of petitions; order of hearings; investigation of petitions
   
190.24   Notice requirements for petitions; zone map changes, modifications of
commitment, subdivision plats, development plans or vacations of land
   
190.25   Conduct of public hearings
   
190.26   Final disposition of petitions
   
190.27   Waiver of rules
   
190.28   Amendments
   
190.29   Definitions
   
Appendix A: Board of Zoning Appeals Commitment Form
   
Appendix B: Plan Commission Commitment Form
Cross-reference:
   Building Commissioner and Town Engineer, see § 31.01
   Plan Commission; Board of Zoning Appeals, see § 31.20
   Redevelopment Authority, see § 31.17
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 190.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The Board shall hold its regular monthly meeting on
the second Tuesday of the month at 6:30 p.m. in the Zionsville Town Hall (1100
West Oak Street, Zionsville, Indiana). If the second Tuesday of the month is a
holiday as recognized by the town, or if it is impossible to conduct the
meeting at that time or place, the regular monthly meeting shall be scheduled
for the first Wednesday following the second Tuesday of the month.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairperson or
by two members of the Board upon written request to the Secretary. The
Secretary shall send to all members, at least three days before the special
meeting, a written notice fixing the time and place of the meeting.
      (2)   Written notice of a special meeting shall not be required if:
         (a)   The date, time and place of a special meeting is fixed at a
regular meeting; and
         (b)   All members of the Board are present at the regular meeting.
   (C)   Executive session. The Board may meet in executive session pursuant to
I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1.
   (D)   Public meetings. All meetings of the Board, except legally constituted
executive sessions, shall be open to the public who shall have the right to
give testimony during the public hearing portion of the meeting, in accordance
with these rules of procedure.
   (E)   Minutes. The Board shall maintain minutes of all meetings, including
the record of the vote on all actions taken.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2013)
§ 190.02 FILING PETITIONS; ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL, VARIANCE OF USE, VARIANCE OF
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS OR SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Who may file.
      (1)   Petitions for an administrative appeal, variance of use, variance
of development standards or special exception may be initiated by a petition
signed by all of the owners of the land involved in the petition.
      (2)   An owner may be represented by an authorized agent. An authorized
agent shall file a written statement with the Department, signed by the owner
on a form acceptable to the Department, at the time of filing a petition.
   (B)   Filing deadline. Petitions for public hearing before the Board shall
be filed with the Secretary no later than 3:00 p.m. on a date which is at least
30 days prior to the initial hearing before the Board at which the petition is
to be considered.
   (C)   Form of filing. All petitions to the Board shall be on forms provided
by the Board. In addition, site plans, surveys, legal descriptions, building
elevations, sign details, proposed commitments and any other relevant
supporting documentation shall be of a usable scale and quality.
   (D)   Findings of fact. The Board shall, in all cases heard by the Board,
make written findings of fact in support of the Board’s decision. The
petitioner shall, at the time of filing of the petition, file proposed detailed
written findings of fact.
   (E)   Specifying of request. All petitions shall specify the appeals,
variances or exceptions requested. Any items, even if indicated on the proposed
plans, shall not be considered a part of the request presented to the Board for
its consideration unless such items are specified in the petition.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2013)
§ 190.03 DOCKETING PETITIONS; ORDER OF HEARINGS; INVESTIGATION OF PETITIONS.
   (A)   Docketing by Secretary. Each petition filed in proper form pursuant to
the guidelines established by the Board shall, within ten days of filing, be
numbered and docketed by the Secretary for an initial hearing by the Board.
Such petitions shall be numbered consecutively in the order of their filing
according to the type of petition.
   (B)   Order of hearings.
      (1)   On the date of the public hearing, the Board shall hear petitions
in the order of their numbers as follows:
         (a)   Continued petitions.
            1.   Special exceptions;
            2.   Variance of development standards;
            3.   Variance of use; and
            4.   Administrative appeals.
         (b)   Initial hearing petitions.
            1.   Special exceptions;
            2.   Variance of development standards;
            3.   Variance of use; and
            4.   Administrative appeals.
      (2)   The Board may, in its discretion and at a public hearing, change
the order in which petitions shall be heard at the public hearing.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2013)
§ 190.04 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR PETITIONS; ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL, VARIANCE OF
USE, VARIANCE OF DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS OR SPECIAL EXCEPTION.
   Notice of all petitions for administrative appeal, variance of use, variance
of development standards or special exception for public hearing before the
Board, or before any hearing officer, shall be given to all interested parties
or property owners in the following manner.
   (A)   Notice by publication. Notice, in a form approved by the Secretary,
shall be published by the petitioner in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 at least ten
days prior to the date of the public hearing.
   (B)   Notice by mailing.
      (1)   Notice, in a form approved by the Secretary, shall be mailed to
each interested party.
      (2)   Notice by mailing shall be given by certified mail, return receipt
requested, at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (C)   Interested parties.
      (1)   (a)   Interested parties for a petition for administrative appeal,
variance of use, variance of development standards or special exception shall
include:
            1.   All owners of property within the area included in the
petition who are not petitioners; and
            2.   All owners of adjoining parcels to a depth of one ownership
surrounding the perimeter of the area included in the petition.
         (b)   In the case of property which has been submitted to the
Horizontal Property Law (I.C. 36-1-6), designated common areas shall be deemed
one ownership and notice to the co-owners of such common area may be given to
the association of co-owners.
         (c)   For the purpose of notice requirements contained in this
division (C)(1), where any immediately adjoining parcel owned by the
petitioner, subject property of the petition shall be deemed to include the
immediately adjoining parcel owned by the petitioner.
         (d)   For the purpose of notice requirements contained in this
division (C)(1), where any immediately adjoining parcel is a dedicated right-
of-way, railroad right-of-way or private alley or street, the subject property
of the petitioner shall be deemed to include the portion of the right-of-way or
private street that is contiguous and adjacent to the parcel owned by the
petitioner.
      (2)   In determining the name and address of legal title owners, the
records of the County Auditor, or the appropriate office designated in an
adjoining county, at a point in time within 14 days of the date of filing,
shall be deemed to be the true names and addresses of all persons entitled to
receive notice.
   (D)   Affidavit of notice. The petitioner shall file an affidavit of notice
with the Secretary, in a form as specified by the Board, indicating compliance
with all notice requirements of these rules, prior to the public hearing.
Copies of all “receipt for certified mail” (white slips) shall be filed with
the affidavit of notice. The originals of the “domestic return receipts” (green
cards) shall be filed with the Secretary upon the later of:
      (1)   The public hearing; or
      (2)   Receipt by the petitioner.
   (E)   Defective notice. If proper notice has not been given, a petition may
be continued until a later date to allow time for un-notified persons to
prepare for the public hearing. Personal appearance shall waive any defect in
notice unless the defect in notice is timely raised at the beginning of the
public hearing on the petitioner’s petition.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2013)
§ 190.05 CONDUCT OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Time allowed and procedure for hearing of petitions.
      (1)   In order to provide all interested parties with a fair hearing,
petitioners and remonstrators shall be afforded a reasonable amount of time for
the presentation of evidence, statements and argument at the public hearing of
every petition before the Board. The order of the presentation of evidence,
statements and arguments shall be as follows.
         (a)   Petitioners and persons appearing in support of a petition shall
be allotted a total of 15 minutes to present evidence, statements and arguments
in support of the matter being considered.
         (b)   Remonstrators and persons appearing in opposition to a petition
shall then be allotted a total of 15 minutes to present evidence, statements
and arguments in opposition to the matter being considered.
         (c)   The petitioner shall then have a total of five minutes for
rebuttal, which shall include only evidence, statements and argument in
rebuttal of remonstrators’ evidence and a brief closing statement.
         (d)   Remonstrators shall then have a total of five minutes for
rebuttal, which shall include only evidence, statements and argument in
response to the petitioner’s rebuttal of remonstrators’ evidence and a brief
closing statement.
      (2)   At the conclusion of remarks by any party, the Board shall have the
right to ask questions pertaining to the evidence, statements and argument
presented. Time involved in responding to questions by the Board by either the
petitioners or remonstrators shall not be considered for purposes of
calculating equal time for presentation.
      (3)   The presiding officer shall have authority to cut off repetitious
and irrelevant testimony and to extend the time allotted to petitioners and
remonstrators, but shall make reasonable efforts to allow equal time for
petitioners and remonstrators.
   (B)   Testimony. All persons giving testimony to the Board regarding any
pending petition shall be deemed to have been given under oath. A person giving
testimony shall state his or her name and address for the record prior to
beginning testimony.
   (C)   Orderly conduct. All persons appearing at a public hearing shall act
in an orderly and courteous manner. Discourteous, disorderly or contemptuous
conduct shall be regarded as a breach of the privileges extended by the Board
and shall be dealt with by the presiding officer as is deemed fair and proper.
   (D)   Continuances.
      (1)   Requests for continuances by petitioners or remonstrators shall be
considered at the beginning of each public hearing agenda prior to calling the
first petition for public hearing listed on the agenda.
      (2)   A continuance request may be made in person or in writing and
shall:
         (a)   Specify the date to which the continuance is requested; and
         (b)   Indicate whether it is the first request made by the party for a
continuance of the hearing on the subject petition.
      (3)   If a first request for a continuance is requested in writing and
filed with the Secretary, at least one week prior to the date of the public
hearing, with a copy of the request being sent to the petitioner (in the case
of a remonstrator’s request) or to all those entitled to receive notice (in the
case of a petitioner’s request), the petition shall be considered continued to
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board. Such written request shall
include the date of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board.
      (4)   Continuances may be granted by motion of the Board at the hearing
upon a showing of good cause (e.g., the need for additional time for
negotiation between petitioners and remonstrators which will reasonably
increase the likelihood of agreement between the parties; the unforeseeable
need for additional information; or the unforeseeable absence of a key
witness); and, provided that, the non- requesting party does not suffer a
significant hardship because of the grant of a continuance (e.g., presence of
remonstrators at the hearing who would be inconvenienced by having to reappear;
or additional expense incurred by petitioner as a result of time delay).
      (5)   The Board may, at any time, in its discretion, continue the hearing
of any petition.
      (6)   On its own motion, Board may determine re-notification of
interested property owners shall be required for any continued hearing.
      (7)   Neither petitioners, nor remonstrators, shall be granted more than
two requests for continuance of a petition unless, in the determination of the
Board of Zoning Appeals, a significant hardship can be demonstrated by the
requesting party. If a significant hardship cannot be demonstrated, the
petition shall be heard as scheduled.
   (E)   No hearing after 10:00 p.m.
      (1)   The Board may elect to not begin the hearing on any matter after
10:00 p.m., local time. If a hearing on a petition has not been called for by
the presiding officer prior to 10:00 p.m., local time, such petition may be
continued until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board.
      (2)   Any hearing which has been called for by the presiding officer
prior to 10:00 p.m., local time, may be completed.
   (F)   Contacting Board members regarding pending petition prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall contact any member of the Board in advance of a
public hearing on any pending petition with intent to influence the Board
member’s action on such petition.
      (2)   A written request for continuance as provided for by these rules
shall not be construed to be a prohibited contact of a Board member.
      (3)   A contact with a Board member who is also a member of the Town
Council shall not be construed to be a prohibited contact; provided that:
         (a)   All contact is limited to that member’s official duties as a
Town Council member; and
         (b)   The Board member who is also a member of the Town Council
reports on the substance of such contacts to the other members of the Board
during the public hearing.
   (G)   Points of order. The presiding officer of the Board shall, subject to
these rules of procedure, decide all points of order or procedure, unless
otherwise directed by a majority of the members of the Board present.
   (H)   Secretary’s written report. Nothing in these rules of procedure shall
be deemed to prohibit the Secretary from submitting a written report, stating
any facts concerning the physical characteristics of the area involved in the
petition, together with a recital of surrounding land use and public facilities
available to service the area, or other pertinent facts. A copy of such
statement shall be made available to the petitioner and all remonstrators of
record, if any.
   (I)   Disqualification of Board member in case of personal or financial
interest.
      (1)   A member of the Board who has some personal, direct or indirect
financial interest in any petition presented shall: disqualify himself or
herself insofar as the particular petition is concerned; not sit as a member of
the Board during the hearing of the particular petition; and not participate as
a member in the Board’s hearing or decision in such petition.
      (2)   In the case of a conflict of interest, the Board shall enter into
its records the fact that a regular member has such a disqualification and the
name of the alternate member, if any, who participates in the decision or
hearing in place of the regular member.
   (J)   Amendments.
      (1)   Requests to amend any petition may be filed in writing prior to, or
at the beginning of, any hearing or may be made orally at the hearing. Any
remonstrators present shall have the right to be heard on any objections they
may have to such proposed amendment and may request a continuance of the
hearing to allow time to study the proposed amendments.
      (2)   It shall be within the discretion of the Board to grant or deny
requests for such continuances and to require re-notification.
      (3)   In making this determination, consideration shall be given to
whether or not the remonstrators have had sufficient time to adequately review
these new amendments or supporting documents; provided, however, any proposed
amendment to change the use or to include more development standards variances
shall be redocketed and readvertised.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2013)
§ 190.06 FINAL DISPOSITION OF PETITIONS.
   (A)   Quorum and official vote.
      (1)   A majority of the entire membership of the Board constitutes a
quorum.
      (2)   Action of the Board is not official unless it is authorized at a
regular or properly called special meeting by a majority of the entire
membership of the Board.
   (B)   Indecisive vote. When a vote of the Board does not result in an
official action of the Board as set forth in division (A) above, the petition
shall be automatically redocketed and heard at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the Board.
   (C)   Compliance with Indiana Code. In the event that divisions (A) and (B)
above are in contravention with I.C. 36-7-4-910 and I.C. 36-7-4-911, the
Indiana Code provisions, as amended from time to time, shall prevail.
   (D)   Dismissal of petitions.
      (1)   The Board may dismiss a petition for lack of prosecution when the
petitioner has failed to appear at two meetings. The Board may dismiss a
petition for lack of jurisdiction.
      (2)   Any petition which has been dismissed by the Board for lack of
prosecution shall not again be filed for consideration within a period of three
months from the date of the dismissal, except upon motion to permit re-filing
adopted by a majority vote of all members of the Board at a regular or special
meeting, for good cause shown.
   (E)   Withdrawal of petitions. Prior to the issuance or publication of
notice for any public hearing to be conducted by the Board, a petition may be
withdrawn by the petitioner upon request made in writing. If the request for
the withdrawal is received prior to the issuance or publication of notice, the
staff shall not place the item on the agenda for the public hearing at which it
was to be considered.
      (1)   If a petitioner wishes to withdraw a petition after notice of the
public hearing has been published, the petitioner shall submit a written
request to the Board or its staff prior to the public hearing, or at the public
hearing prior to the receipt of evidence or testimony on the petition. The
decision to accept the withdrawal shall be made at the public hearing when the
petition was to be considered and shall be at the discretion of the Board. If
the withdrawal of the petition is approved by the Board, the petitioner shall
not re-file a substantially similar request within a period of six months from
the date of said withdrawal.
      (2)   No petition may be withdrawn by the petitioner after the Board has
received any evidence or testimony regarding the petition at the public hearing
scheduled on the petition.
   (F)   Re-filing following adverse decision.
      (1)   No parcel of ground, or part of a parcel, which has been the
subject of an adverse decision of a petition for variance of use, variance of
development standards, special exception by the Board, zone map change by the
Town Council, or development plan approval by the Plan Commission, shall again
be included in a petition for either a variance of use, variance of development
standards or special exception for a substantially similar request, absent a
substantial change in circumstances involving the development, within one year
from the date of the adverse decision, unless the body making the adverse
decision, by an official vote at a public hearing, decides for good cause
shown, to allow the re-filing.
      (2)   Written notice of a special request to include a parcel subject to
an adverse decision in another petition, as noted above, shall be provided to:
         (a)   Adjoining property owners; and
         (b)   The applicable of either the Secretary of the Board or the Plan
Commission at least ten days prior to the date of consideration of the special
request by the Town Council, Plan Commission or the Board.
   (G)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   The Board is required to enter written findings of fact in support
of its determinations.
      (2)   Such findings of fact may be entered at the initial public hearing
or, at the Board’s discretion, the hearing on the petition may be continued
until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Board for the adoption of the
findings of fact.
      (3)   If a petition is continued for the adoption of findings of fact, no
further testimony need be taken by the Board prior to adoption of the findings
of fact.
   (H)   Notification of grant or denial.
      (1)   Following final action on a petition by the Board, the Secretary,
within 30 days after such action, shall notify the petitioner of the final
decision by sending the petitioner:
         (a)   A letter of grant or denial; and
         (b)   A copy of the approved findings of fact.
      (2)   If the petition was granted, the letter shall include all
commitments or conditions imposed and shall incorporate the approved findings
of fact into the grant.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2013)
§ 190.07 WAIVER OF RULES.
   The Board shall have the right to waive any portion of these rules of
procedure upon its own motion, or upon request of any interested party, for
good cause shown; provided, however, the Board may not waive any portion of
these rules beyond the minimum requirements established by statute.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2013)
§ 190.08 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to these rules of procedure may be made by the Board upon the
affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Board.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2013)
§ 190.09 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. Any party duly authorized in writing by the owner of a
subject parcel to act on the owner’s behalf with respect to a petition for
administrative appeal, variance of use, variance of development standards or
special exception.
   BOARD. The Town of Zionsville Board of Zoning Appeals established pursuant
to the Advisory Planning Law of the state.
   BUSINESS DAY. A day when the offices of the town are open to the public for
the transaction of business for the entire period of its normal operating
hours.
   FINDINGS OF FACT. A written statement, based upon the evidence presented at
a public hearing and the requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-900 et seq., Ch. 194 of
this code of ordinances or these rules of procedure, in support of a decision
made by the Board.
   PETITION. An application for administrative appeal, variance of use,
variance of development standards or special exception filed with the for
public hearing before the Board in compliance with all applicable state laws,
local ordinances and rules of procedure.
   PETITIONER. The owner of a parcel or the owner’s duly authorized agent,
attorney or representative who makes an application for an administrative
appeal, variance of use, variance of development standards or special exception
filed for public hearing before the Board.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The Town of Zionsville Plan Commission established pursuant
to the Advisory Planning Law of the state.
   SECRETARY. The Secretary of the Board as duly appointed by the Board is
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-913.
(Ord. passed 1-8-2013)
PLAN COMMISSION; RULES OF PROCEDURE
§ 190.20 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The Plan Commission shall hold its regular meeting
on the third Monday of each month at 7:00 p.m. in the Town Hall (1100 West Oak
Street, Zionsville, Indiana). If the third Monday of the month is a holiday as
recognized by the town, or if it is impossible to conduct the meeting at that
time or place, the regular monthly meeting shall be scheduled for the first
Tuesday following the third Monday of the month.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   Special meetings of the Plan Commission may be called by the
President or by two members of the Plan Commission upon written request to the
Secretary. The Secretary shall send to all members, at least three days before
the special meeting, a written notice fixing the time and place of the meeting.
      (2)   Written notice of a special meeting shall not be required if:
         (a)   The date, time and place of a special meeting is fixed at a
regular meeting; and
         (b)   All members of the Plan Commission are present at the regular
meeting.
   (C)   Executive session. The Plan Commission may meet in executive session
pursuant to I.C. 5-14-1.5-6.1.
   (D)   Public meetings. All meetings of the Plan Commission, except legally
constituted executive sessions, shall be open to the public who shall have the
right to give testimony during the public hearing portion of the meeting, in
accordance with these rules of procedure.
   (E)   Minutes. The Plan Commission shall maintain minutes of all meetings.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1998; Amended 6-19-2000; Amended 10-15-2001)
§ 190.21 PROPOSALS; REPLACEMENT, AMENDMENT AND REPEAL OF SUBDIVISION OR ZONING
TEXT.
   (A)   Who may initiate. A proposal to adopt a replacement zoning ordinance
after repealing the entire Town of Zionsville Zoning Ordinance, including
amendments and zone maps, (
Ch. 194 of Volume 2 of this code of ordinances) or Town of Zionsville
Subdivision Control Ordinance, including amendments, (
Ch. 193 of Volume 2 of this code of ordinances) or to amend or partially repeal
the text of Ch. 193 or 194 of this code of ordinances may be initiated by the
Plan Commission or the Town Council.
   (B)   Preparation of a proposal. The Plan Commission shall prepare the
proposal consistent with the requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-601. The Plan
Commission may engage other professionals to assist in the actual writing of
the proposal consistent with the policies and directives of the Plan Commission
or the Town Council.
   (C)   Considerations. In preparing and considering a proposal, the Plan
Commission and Town Council shall pay reasonable regard to:
      (1)   The Comprehensive Plan for the town (
Ch. 191 of Volume 2 of this code of ordinances);
      (2)   Current conditions and the character of current structures and uses
in each district;
      (3)   The most desirable use for which the land in each district is
adapted;
      (4)   The conservation of property values throughout the town; and
      (5)   Responsible development and growth.
   (D)   Public hearings. The Plan Commission must hold at least one public
hearing on a proposal prior to certification of the proposal to the Town
Council.
   (E)   Notice. The Plan Commission hereby declares that all property owners
in the town are interested parties in relation to a proposal to adopt a
replacement zoning ordinance after repealing the entire Town of Zionsville
Zoning Ordinance, including amendments and zone maps, ((
Ch. 194 of Volume 2 of this code of ordinances) or Town of Zionsville
Subdivision Control Ordinance, including amendments, (
Ch. 193 of Volume 2 of this code of ordinances) or to amend or partially repeal
the text of Ch. 193 or 194 of this code of ordinances. The Plan Commission
shall provide notice to all such interested parties by publication in
accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 at least ten days prior to the date set for a public
hearing. Published notice shall comply with the provisions of I.C. 36-7-4-604.
No further notice by the Plan Commission shall be required.
   (F)   Certification of proposals.
      (1)   A proposal to adopt a replacement zoning ordinance after repealing
the entire Town of Zionsville Zoning Ordinance, including amendments and zone
maps, ((
Ch. 194 of Volume 2 of this code of ordinances) or Town of Zionsville
Subdivision Control Ordinance, including amendments, (
Ch. 193 of Volume 2 of this code of ordinances) shall only be certified by the
Plan Commission to the Town Council if the proposal receives a favorable
recommendation from the Plan Commission.
      (2)   A proposal to amend or partially repeal the text of Ch. 193 or 194
of this code of ordinances may be certified by the Plan Commission to the Town
Council with a favorable recommendation, an unfavorable recommendation or with
no recommendation from the Plan Commission.
   (G)   Publication of notice of adoption of proposals.
      (1)   After adoption of a proposal to adopt a replacement zoning
ordinance after repealing the entire Town of Zionsville Zoning Ordinance,
including amendments and zone maps, ((
Ch. 194 of Volume 2 of this code of ordinances) or Town of Zionsville
Subdivision Control Ordinance, including amendments, (
Ch. 193 of Volume 2 of this code of ordinances), the Plan Commission shall
publish a notice of adoption in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1. Notice of adoption
shall:
         (a)   Summarize the subject matter of the ordinance;
         (b)   Give the date of adoption;
         (c)   Specify the places or area that would be directly affected by
the ordinance (this does not require identification of real property by metes
and bounds);
         (d)   Specify the penalty or forfeiture prescribed for a violation of
the ordinance; and
         (e)   Give two locations open to the public where the entire text of
the ordinance is available for inspection.
      (2)   After adoption of a proposal to amend or partially repeal the text
of Ch. 193 or 194 of this code of ordinances, the Plan Commission shall print
the text of the ordinance in book or pamphlet form. No other printing or
publication of any zoning ordinance is required.
   (H)   Public inspection. If Ch. 193 or 194 of this code of ordinances is not
included in the code of ordinances for the town, two copies of the book or
pamphlet (and supplement, if any) shall be filed in the office of the Clerk and
shall be kept on file in that office for public inspection.
   (I)   Effective date. Unless the proposal specifies a later effective date,
the ordinance takes effect when it is adopted unless the ordinance contains a
penalty or forfeiture for a violation, in which case the ordinance may not take
effect until 14 days after the later of the following:
      (1)   The final day on which notice of its adoption is published; or
      (2)   The day on which the ordinance is filed with the Clerk’s office.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1998; Amended 6-19-2000; Amended 10-15-2001)
§ 190.22 FILING PETITIONS; ZONE MAP CHANGES, MODIFICATIONS OF COMMITMENT,
SUBDIVISION PLANS OR VACATIONS OF LAND.
   (A)   Who may file.
      (1)   Zone map changes shall be initiated by the Plan Commission or by a
petition signed by property owners of at least 50% of the land involved in the
petition.
      (2)   Modification of commitments, subdivision plats and development
plans shall be initiated by a petition signed by all of the owners of the land
involved in the petition.
      (3)   Vacations of land in a plat shall be initiated by a petition signed
by the owner(s) of all or part of the plat pertaining to the land contained in
the petition.
      (4)   An owner may be represented by an authorized agent. An authorized
agent shall file a written statement with the Plan Commission, signed by the
owner on a form acceptable to the Plan Commission, at the time of filing a
petition.
   (B)   Filing deadline. Petitions for public hearing before the Plan
Commission shall be filed with the Plan Commission no later than 3:00 p.m. on a
date which is at least 31 days prior to the initial hearing before the Plan
Commission at which the petition is to be considered.
   (C)   Form of filing. All petitions to the Plan Commission shall be on forms
provided by the Plan Commission and shall include all materials requested on
said forms. In addition, site plans, surveys, legal descriptions, building
elevations, sign details, proposed commitments and any other relevant
supporting documentation shall be of a usable scale and quality.
   (D)   Findings of fact. When findings of fact are required by applicable
law,
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances,
Ch. 194 of this code of ordinances or these rules of procedure, the petitioner
shall, at the time of filing of the petition, file proposed detailed written
findings of fact.
   (E)   Specifying of request.
      (1)   All petitions shall specify the approvals requested. Any items,
including proposed waivers of development requirements in connection with a
development plan approval or waivers of the standards set forth in
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances, even if indicated on the proposed plans,
shall not be considered a part of the request presented to the Plan Commission
for its consideration unless such waivers are specified in the petition.
      (2)   A petition for the vacation of land must:
         (a)   State the reasons for and circumstances prompting the request;
         (b)   Specifically describe the property in the plat proposed to be
vacated; and
         (c)   Give the name and address of each owner of land in the plat.
      (3)   A petition for the vacation of land may include a request to vacate
any recorded covenant or commitments filed as part of the plat.
   (F)   Primary and secondary plats. The procedures related to the filing for
and obtaining approval of primary and secondary plats contained in these rules
of procedure are provided for convenience purposes only. The complete outline
of procedures to be followed in the filing for and obtaining approval of
primary and secondary plats is set forth in
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances. In case of conflict between any portion of
these rules of procedure and Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances related to the
filing for and obtaining approval of primary and secondary plats,
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances shall control.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1998; Amended 6-19-2000; Amended 10-15-2001)
§ 190.23 DOCKETING OF PETITIONS; ORDER OF HEARINGS; INVESTIGATION OF PETITIONS.
   (A)   Docketing by Secretary. Each petition filed in proper form pursuant to
the guidelines established by the Plan Commission shall, within ten days of
submitting a complete filing, be numbered and docketed by the Secretary for an
initial hearing by the Plan Commission. Such petitions shall be numbered
consecutively in the order of their filing according to the type of petition.
   (B)   Order of hearings.
      (1)   On the date of the public hearing, the Plan Commission shall hear
petitions in the order of their numbers as follows.
         (a)   Continued petitions.
            1.   Zone map changes;
            2.   Modification of commitments;
            3.   Subdivision plats;
            4.   Development plan approvals; and
            5.   Vacation of land.
         (b)   Initial hearing petitions.
            1.   Zone map changes;
            2.   Modification of commitments;
            3.   Subdivision plats;
            4.   Development plan approvals; and
            5.   Vacation of land.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may, in its discretion and at a public hearing,
change the order in which petitions shall be heard at the public hearing.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1998; Amended 6-19-2000; Amended 10-15-2001)
§ 190.24 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR PETITIONS; ZONE MAP CHANGES, MODIFICATIONS OF
COMMITMENT, SUBDIVISION PLATS, DEVELOPMENT PLANS OR VACATIONS OF LAND.
   Notice of all petitions for zone map change, modification of commitments,
subdivision plats, development plans or vacation of land for public hearing
before the Plan Commission shall be given to all interested parties or property
owners in the following manner.
   (A)   Notice by publication.
      (1)   Notice, in a form approved by the Secretary, shall be published by
the petitioner in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 at least ten days prior to the
date of the public hearing.
      (2)   The petitioner shall be responsible for the cost of such
publication.
   (B)   Notice by mailing.
      (1)   Notice, in a form approved by the Secretary in accordance with the
requirements of I.C. 36-7-4-604, shall be mailed to each interested party.
      (2)   Notice by mailing shall be given by certified mail, return receipt
requested, at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
      (3)   The requirements of mailing notice shall not be applicable to
petitions initiated by the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Interested parties.
      (1)   Interested parties for a petition for zone map change, modification
of commitments, subdivision plat and development plan approval shall include:
         (a)   All owners of property within the area included in the petition
who are not petitioners; and
         (b)   All owners of adjoining parcels to a depth of one ownership
surrounding the perimeter of the area included in the petition.
            1.   In the case of property which has been submitted to the
Horizontal Property Law (I.C. 36-1-6), notice shall be given only to the
association of co-owners.
            2.   For the purpose of notice requirements contained in this
division (C)(1), where any immediately adjoining parcel is owned by the
petitioner, the subject property of the petition shall be deemed to include the
immediately adjoining parcel owned by the petitioner.
            3.   For the purpose of notice requirements contained in this
division (C)(1), where any immediately adjoining parcel is a dedicated right-
of-way, railroad right-of-way or private alley or street, the subject property
of the petitioner shall be deemed to include the portion of the right-of-way or
private street that is contiguous and adjacent to the parcel owned by the
petitioner.
      (2)   Interested parties for a petition for the vacation of land in a
plat shall include all property owners within said plat.
      (3)   In determining the name and address of legal title owners, the
records of the County Auditor, or the appropriate office designated in an
adjoining county, at a point in time within 14 days of the date of filing,
shall be deemed to be the true names and addresses of all persons entitled to
receive notice.
   (D)   Affidavit of notice. The petitioner shall file an affidavit of notice
with the Secretary, in a form as specified by the Plan Commission, indicating
compliance with all notice requirements of these rules, at least three business
days prior to the public hearing. Copies of all “receipt for certified mail”
(white slips) shall be filed with the affidavit of notice. The originals of the
“domestic return receipts” (green cards) shall be filed with the Secretary upon
the later of:
      (1)   The public hearing; or
      (2)   Receipt by the petitioner.
   (E)   Defective notice. If proper notice has not been given, a petition may
be continued until a later date to allow time for un-notified persons to
prepare for the public hearing. Personal appearance shall waive any defect in
notice unless the defect in notice is timely raised at the beginning of the
public hearing on the petitioner’s petition.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1998; Amended 6-19-2000; Amended 10-15-2001)
§ 190.25 CONDUCT OF PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Time allowed and procedure for hearing of petitions.
      (1)   In order to provide all interested parties with a fair hearing,
petitioners and remonstrators shall be afforded a reasonable amount of time for
the presentation of evidence, statements and argument at the public hearing of
every petition before the Plan Commission. The order of the presentation of
evidence, statements and arguments shall be as follows.
         (a)   Petitioners and persons appearing in support of a petition shall
be allotted a total of 15 minutes to present evidence, statements and arguments
in support of the matter being considered.
         (b)   Remonstrators and persons appearing in opposition to a petition
shall then be allotted a total of 15 minutes to present evidence, statements
and arguments in opposition to the matter being considered.
         (c)   The petitioner shall then have a total of five minutes for
rebuttal, which shall include only evidence, statements and argument in
rebuttal of remonstrators’ evidence and a brief closing statement.
         (d)   Remonstrators shall then have a total of five minutes for
rebuttal, which shall include only evidence, statements and argument in
rebuttal of remonstrators’ evidence and a brief closing statement.
      (2)   At the conclusion of remarks by any party, the Plan Commission
shall have the right to ask questions pertaining to the evidence, statements
and argument presented. Time involved in responding to questions by the Plan
Commission by either the petitioners or remonstrators shall not be considered
for purposes of calculating equal time for presentation.
      (3)   The presiding officer shall have authority to cut off repetitious
and irrelevant testimony and to extend the time allotted to petitioners and
remonstrators, but shall make reasonable efforts to allow equal time for
petitioners and remonstrators.
   (B)   Testimony. All persons giving testimony to the Plan Commission
regarding any pending petition shall be deemed to have been given under oath. A
person giving testimony shall state his or her name and address for the record
prior to beginning testimony.
   (C)   Orderly conduct. All persons appearing at a public hearing shall act
in an orderly and courteous manner. Discourteous, disorderly or contemptuous
conduct shall be regarded as a breach of the privileges extended by the Plan
Commission and shall be dealt with by the presiding officer as is deemed fair
and proper.
   (D)   Continuances.
      (1)   Requests for continuances by petitioners or remonstrators shall be
considered at the beginning of each public hearing agenda prior to calling the
first petition for public hearing listed on the agenda.
      (2)   A continuance request may be made in person or in writing and
shall:
         (a)   Specify the date to which the continuance is requested; and
         (b)   Indicate whether it is the first request made by the party for a
continuance of the hearing on the subject petition.
      (3)   If a first request for a continuance is requested in writing and
filed with the Secretary, at least one week prior to the date of the public
hearing, with a copy of the request being sent to the petitioner (in the case
of a remonstrator’s request) or to all those entitled to receive notice (in the
case of a petitioner’s request), the petition shall be considered continued to
the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Plan Commission. Such written
request shall include the date of the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Plan Commission. However, the matter shall not be considered continued if it is
a petition for zone map change and the Plan Commission is required to conduct a
public hearing within 60 days of its submission according to I.C. 36-7-4-608
(b). Once a public hearing on a rezoning is held, it may be continued from time
to time as may be found necessary by the Plan Commission pursuant to I.C. 36-7-
4-604(b)(8).
      (4)   Continuances may be granted by motion of the Plan Commission at the
hearing upon a showing of good cause (e.g., the need for additional time for
negotiation between petitioners and remonstrators which will reasonably
increase the likelihood of agreement between the parties; the unforeseeable
need for additional information; or the unforeseeable absence of a key
witness); and, provided that, the non-requesting party does not suffer a
significant hardship because of the grant of a continuance (e.g., presence of
remonstrators at the hearing who would be inconvenienced by having to reappear;
or additional expense incurred by petitioner as a result of time delay).
      (5)   The Plan Commission may, at any time, in its discretion, continue
the hearing of any petition.
      (6)   This discretion shall include the ability to continue a hearing if
additional documentation, amendments or revisions to a petition were not
received by 4:00 p.m. on the Monday prior to the scheduled hearing of a
petition, and the late receipt of such items did not allow for adequate review
by the Plan Commission, Secretary or staff.
      (7)   On its own motion, Plan Commission may determine if re-notification
of interested property owners shall be required for any continued hearing.
      (8)   Neither petitioners nor remonstrators shall be granted more than
two requests for continuance of a petition unless, in the determination of the
Plan Commission, a significant hardship can be demonstrated by the requesting
party. If a significant hardship cannot be demonstrated, the petition shall be
heard as scheduled.
   (E)   No hearing after 10:00 p.m.
      (1)   The Plan Commission may elect to not begin the hearing on any
matter after 10:00 p.m., local time. If a hearing on a petition has not been
called for by the presiding officer prior to 10:00 p.m., local time, such
petition may be continued until the next regularly scheduled or special meeting
of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Any hearing which has been called for by the presiding officer
prior to 10:00 p.m., local time, may be completed.
   (F)   Contacting Plan Commission members regarding pending petition
prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall contact any member of the Plan Commission in
advance of a public hearing on any pending petition with intent to influence
the Plan Commission member’s action on such petition.
      (2)   A written request for continuance as provided for by these rules
shall not be construed to be a prohibited contact of a Plan Commission member.
      (3)   A contact with a Plan Commission member who is also a member of the
Town Council shall not be construed to be a prohibited contact; provided that:
         (a)   All contact is limited to that member’s official duties as a
Town Council member; and
         (b)   The Plan Commission member who is also a member of the Town
Council reports on the substance of such contacts to the other members of the
Plan Commission during the public hearing.
   (G)   Points of order. The presiding officer of the Plan Commission shall,
subject to these rules of procedure, decide all points of order or procedure,
unless otherwise directed by a majority of the members of the Plan Commission
present.
   (H)   Secretary’s written report. Nothing in these rules of procedures shall
be deemed to prohibit the Secretary from submitting a written report, stating
any facts concerning the physical characteristics of the area involved in the
petition, together with a recital of surrounding land use and public facilities
available to service the area, or other pertinent facts. A copy of such
statement shall be made available to the petitioner and all remonstrators of
record, if any.
   (I)   Disqualification of Plan Commission member in case of personal or
financial interest. A member of the Plan Commission who has a direct or
indirect personal or financial interest in any petition presented shall:
      (1)   Disqualify himself or herself insofar as the particular petition is
concerned;
      (2)   Not sit as a member of the Plan Commission during the hearing of
the particular petition; and
      (3)   Not participate as a member in the Plan Commission’s hearing or
decision in such petition.
   (J)   Amendments. Requests to amend any petition may be filed in writing
prior to or at the beginning of any hearing, or may be made orally at the
hearing. Any remonstrators present shall have the right to be heard on any
objections they may have to such proposed amendment and may request a
continuance of the hearing to allow time to study the proposed amendments. It
shall be within the discretion of the Plan Commission to grant or deny requests
for such continuances and to require re-notification. In making this
determination, consideration shall be given to whether or not the Plan
Commission, Secretary, petitioner or any remonstrators have had sufficient time
to adequately review these new amendments or supporting documents; provided,
however, any proposed amendment to change the zoning classification to a higher
or more inclusive zoning classification shall be redocketed and readvertised.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1998; Amended 6-19-2000; Amended 10-15-2001)
§ 190.26 FINAL DISPOSITION OF PETITIONS.
   (A)   Quorum and official vote. A majority of the entire membership of the
Plan Commission constitutes a quorum. Action of the Plan Commission is not
official unless it is authorized at a regular or properly called special
meeting by a majority of the entire membership of the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Indecisive vote. When a vote of the Plan Commission does not result in
an official action of the Plan Commission as set forth in division (A) above,
the petition shall be automatically redocketed and heard at the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Plan Commission.
   (C)   Compliance with Indiana Code. In the event that divisions (A) and (B)
above are in contravention with I.C. 36-7-4-301 and I.C. 36-7-4-302, the
Indiana Code provisions, as amended from time to time, shall prevail.
   (D)   Dismissal of petitions.
      (1)   The Plan Commission may dismiss a petition for lack of prosecution
when the petitioner has failed to appear at two meetings. The Plan Commission
may dismiss a petition for lack of jurisdiction.
      (2)   Any petition which has been dismissed by the Plan Commission for
lack of prosecution shall not again be filed for consideration within a period
of three months from the date of the dismissal, except upon motion to permit
re-filing adopted by a majority vote of all members of the Plan Commission at a
regular or special meeting, for good cause shown.
   (E)   Withdrawal of petitions.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance or publication of notice for any public
hearing to be conducted by the Plan Commission, a petition may be withdrawn by
the petitioner upon request made in writing. If the request for the withdrawal
is received prior to the issuance or publication of notice, the staff shall not
place the item on the agenda for the public hearing at which it was to be
considered.
      (2)   If a petitioner wishes to withdraw a petition after notice of the
public hearing has been published, the petitioner shall submit a written
request to the Plan Commission or its staff prior to the public hearing, or at
the public hearing prior to the receipt of evidence or testimony on the
petition. The decision to accept the withdrawal shall be made at the public
hearing when the petition was to be considered, and shall be at the discretion
of the Plan Commission. If the withdrawal of the petition is approved by the
Plan Commission, the petitioner shall not re-file a substantially similar
request within a period of six months from the date of said withdrawal.
      (3)   No petition may be withdrawn by the petitioner after the Plan
Commission has received any evidence or testimony regarding the petition at the
public hearing scheduled on the petition.
   (F)   Re-filing following adverse decision.
      (1)   Petitions for zone map change, modification of commitments,
subdivision plat or development plan approval.
         (a)   No parcel of ground, or part of a parcel, which has been the
subject of an adverse decision of a petition for zone map change by the Town
Council, an adverse decision of a petition for modification of commitments,
subdivision plat or development plan approval by the Plan Commission, or an
adverse decision of a petition for variance of use, variance of development
standards or special exception by the Board of Zoning Appeals, shall again be
included in a petition for either a zone map change, modification of
commitments, subdivision plat or development plan approval for a substantially
similar request, absent a substantial change in circumstances involving the
development within one year from the date of the adverse decision, unless the
body making the adverse decision, by an official vote at a public hearing,
decides for good cause shown, to allow the re-filing.
         (b)   Written notice of a special request to include a parcel subject
to an adverse decision in another petition, as noted above, shall be provided
to the following at least ten days prior to the date of consideration of the
special request by the Town Council, the Plan Commission or the Board of Zoning
Appeals:
            1.   Adjoining property owners; and
            2.   The applicable of either the Secretary of the Plan Commission
or Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Petitions for the vacation of land.
         (a)   After the termination of a vacation proceeding, a subsequent
vacation proceeding affecting the same property and asking for the same relief
may not be initiated for two years.
         (b)   The Plan Commission only has jurisdiction regarding the vacation
of a plat per I.C. 36-7-3-10 and 36-7-3-11. A vacation of any public way is
strictly the function of the Town Council, per I.C. 36-7-3-12. Platted
easements are considered public ways and, therefore, may only be vacated by the
Town Council, per I.C. 36-7-3-16(a).
   (G)   Certification of Plan Commission’s recommendation. Within ten days
after making a favorable recommendation, an unfavorable recommendation, or no
recommendation on a petition for zone map change the Plan Commission shall
certify such recommendation to the Town Council.
   (H)   Findings of fact.
      (1)   When the Plan Commission is required by applicable law, Ch. 193 or
194 of this code of ordinances or these rules of procedure to enter written
findings of fact in support of its determination, such findings of fact may be
entered at the initial public hearing or, at the Plan Commission’s discretion,
the public hearing on the petition may be continued until the next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Plan Commission for the adoption of the findings of
fact.
      (2)   If a petition is continued for the adoption of findings of fact, no
further testimony need be taken by the Plan Commission prior to adoption of the
findings of fact.
   (I)   Notification of grant or denial; petition for modification of
commitments, subdivision plat, development plan approval or vacation of land.
      (1)   Following final action on a modification of commitments,
subdivision plat, development plan approval or vacation petition by the Plan
Commission, the Secretary, within 30 days after the final action, shall notify
the petitioner of the final decision by sending the petitioner.
         (a)   A letter of grant or denial; and
         (b)   A copy of the Plan Commission’s written findings of fact, which
shall be incorporated into the letter of grant or denial.
      (2)   If the petition was granted, the letter shall include all
commitments or conditions imposed, and shall incorporate the approved findings
of fact into the grant.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1998; Amended 6-19-2000; Amended 10-15-2001)
§ 190.27 WAIVER OF RULES.
   The Plan Commission shall have the right to waive any portion of these rules
of procedure upon their own motion, or upon request of any interested party,
for good cause shown, provided, however, the Plan Commission may not waive any
portion of these rules beyond the minimum requirements established by statute.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1998; Amended 6-19-2000; Amended 10-15-2001)
§ 190.28 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to these rules of procedure may be made by the Plan Commission
upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the Plan Commission.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1998; Amended 6-19-2000; Amended 10-15-2001)
§ 190.29 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED AGENT. Any party duly authorized in writing by the owner of a
subject parcel to act on the owner’s behalf with respect to a petition for zone
map change, modification of commitments, subdivision plat, development plan
approval or vacation of land.
   BUSINESS DAY. A day when the offices of the town are open to the public for
the transaction of business for the entire period of its normal operating
hours.
   FINDINGS OF FACT. A written statement, based upon the evidence presented at
a public hearing and the requirements of applicable law, Ch. 193 or 194 of this
code of ordinances or these rules of procedure, in support of a decision made
by the Plan Commission.
   PLAN COMMISSION. The Town of Zionsville Plan Commission established pursuant
to the Advisory Planning Law of the state.
   PETITION. An application for zone map change, modification of commitments,
subdivision plat, development plan approval or vacation of land filed for
public hearing before the Plan Commission in compliance with applicable state
laws, local ordinances and rules or procedure.
   PETITIONER. The owner of a parcel or the owner’s duly authorized agent,
attorney or representative who makes application for a zone map change,
modification of commitments, subdivision plat, development plan approval or
vacation of land filed for public hearing before the Plan Commission.
   PROPOSAL. A draft of an ordinance to adopt a replacement zoning ordinance
after repealing Ch. 193 or 194 of this code of ordinances, or a draft of an
ordinance to amend or partially repeal the text of Ch. 193 or 194 of this code
of ordinances.
   SECRETARY. The Secretary of the Plan Commission as duly appointed by the
Plan Commission is accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-304.
(Ord. passed 9-28-1998; Amended 6-19-2000; Amended 10-15-2001)
APPENDIX A: BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS COMMITMENT FORM
CLICK_TO_VIEW_FILE_IN_PDF_FORMAT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-641.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-643.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-645.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-647.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-649.jpg]
 
APPENDIX B: PLAN COMMISSION COMMITMENT FORM
CLICK_TO_VIEW_FILE_IN_PDF_FORMAT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-655.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-657.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-659.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-661.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-663.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 191: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
191.01   Adopted by reference
§ 191.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The town’s 2020 Comprehensive Plan is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed 10-6-2003; Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-4-2010; Res. 2011-10, passed 7-
5-2011; Res. 2011-08-CPA, passed 9-6-2011; Res. 2012-21, passed 9-4-2012; Res.
2014-22, passed 8-4-2014; Res. 2015-02, passed 1-5-2015; Res. 2015-24, passed
11-15-2015; Res. 2016-19, passed 7-11-2016; Res. 2018-08, passed 6-5-2018; Res.
2021-19, passed 1-19-2022; Res. 2021-20, passed 12-29-2021; Res. 2022-01,
passed 2-8-2022)
CHAPTER 192: FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
192.001   Statutory authorization
   
192.002   Findings of fact
   
192.003   Statement of purpose
   
192.004   Objectives
   
192.005   Definitions
   
192.006   Lands to which chapter applies
   
192.007   Basis for establishing regulatory flood data
   
192.008   Establishment of floodplain development permit
   
192.009   Compliance
   
192.010   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
192.011   Discrepancy between mapped floodplain and actual ground elevations
   
192.012   Interpretation
   
192.013   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
192.014   Increased cost of compliance
   
192.015   Effective date
   
192.016   Severability
Administration
   
192.030   Administrator; designation; duties and responsibilities
   
192.031   Permit procedures
Variances
   
192.045   Variance and Appeals Board; duties
   
192.046   Variance procedures
   
192.047   Conditions for variances
   
192.048   Variance notification
   
192.049   Historic structures
   
192.050   Special conditions
Flood Hazard Reduction
   
192.065   General standards
   
192.066   Specific standards
   
192.067   Subdivision proposal standards
   
192.068   Critical facilities
   
192.069   Identified floodway standards
   
192.070   Identified fringe standards
   
192.071   SFHAs without established base flood elevation and/or floodways/
fringes
   
192.072   Flood-prone area standards
 
   
192.999   Penalty
   Appendix A: Flood Maps
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 192.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The state legislature has, in I.C. 36-7-4 and I.C. 14-28-4 granted the
power to local government units to control land use within their jurisdictions.
   (B)   Therefore, the Town Council does hereby adopt the following floodplain
management regulations.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the town are subject to periodic inundation
which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   These flood losses are caused by the cumulative effect of obstructions
in floodplains causing increases in flood heights and velocities, and by the
occupancy in flood hazard areas by uses vulnerable to floods or hazardous to
other lands which are inadequately elevated, flood-proofed or otherwise
unprotected from flood damages.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas by provisions designed to:
   (A)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety and
property due to water or erosion hazards, which result in damaging increases in
erosion or in flood heights or velocities;
   (B)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which
serve such uses, be protected against flood damage at the time of initial
construction;
   (C)   Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and
natural protective barriers which are involved in the accommodation of flood
waters;
   (D)   Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may
increase erosion or flood damage;
   (E)   Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will
unnaturally divert flood waters or which may increase flood hazards to other
lands; and
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available for structures and
their contents in the town by fulfilling the requirements of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.004 OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are:
   (A)   To protect human life and health;
   (B)   To minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control
projects;
   (C)   To minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with
flooding and generally undertaken at the expense of the general public;
   (D)   To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
   (E)   To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water
and gas mains, electric, telephone, and sewer lines, streets and bridges
located in floodplains;
   (F)   To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and
development of flood- prone areas in such a manner as to minimize flood blight
areas; and
   (G)   To ensure that potential homebuyers are notified that property is in a
flood area.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A ZONE. Portions of the SFHA in which the principal source of flooding is
runoff from rainfall, snowmelt or a combination of both. In A ZONES, flood
waters may move slowly or rapidly, but waves are usually not a significant
threat to buildings. These areas are labeled as Zone A, Zone AE, Zones A1-A30,
Zone AO, Zone AH, Zone AR and Zone A99 on a FIRM or FHBM. The definitions are
presented below.
      (1)   ZONE A. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event. Because detailed hydraulic analyses have not been performed, no base
flood elevation or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase
requirements apply.
      (2)   ZONE AE AND A1-A30. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual
chance flood event determined by detailed methods. Base flood elevations are
shown within these zones. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply. (Zone AE is on new and revised maps in place of Zones A1-A30.)
      (3)   ZONE AO. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually sheet flow on sloping terrain) where average depths are
between one and three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed
hydraulic analyses are shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (4)   ZONE AH. Areas subject to inundation by 1% annual chance shallow
flooding (usually areas of ponding) where average depths are between one and
three feet. Average flood depths derived from detailed hydraulic analyses are
shown within this zone. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements apply.
      (5)   ZONE AR. Areas that result from the decertification of a previously
accredited flood protection system that is determined to be in the process of
being restored to provide base flood protection. Mandatory flood insurance
purchase requirements apply.
      (6)   ZONE A99. Areas subject to inundation by the 1% annual chance flood
event, but which will ultimately be protected upon completion of an under-
construction federal flood protection system. These are areas of special flood
hazard where enough progress has been made on the construction of a protection
system, such as dikes, dams and levees, to consider it complete for insurance
rating purposes. ZONE A99 may only be used when the flood protection system has
reached specified statutory progress toward completion. No base flood
elevations or depths are shown. Mandatory flood insurance purchase requirements
apply.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE (APPURTENANT STRUCTURE). A structure that is located on
the same parcel of property as the principal structure and the use of which is
incidental to the use of the principal structure. ACCESSORY STRUCTURES should
constitute a minimal initial investment, may not be used for human habitation
and be designed to have minimal flood damage potential. Examples of ACCESSORY
STRUCTURES are detached garages, carports, storage sheds, pole barns and hay
sheds.
   ADDITION (TO AN EXISTING STRUCTURE). Any walled and roofed expansion to the
perimeter of a structure in which the addition is connected by a common load-
bearing wall other than a firewall. Any walled and roofed addition, which is
connected by a firewall or is separated by independent perimeter load-bearing
walls, is new construction.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the Floodplain Administrator’s
interpretation of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING. A designated AO or AH Zone on the community’s
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from one to three feet
where a clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident. Such
flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the 1% annual chance flood.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a structure having its floor sub-grade (below
ground level) on all sides.
   BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
   COMMUNITY. A political entity that has the authority to adopt and enforce
floodplain ordinances for the area under its jurisdiction.
   COMMUNITY RATING SYSTEM (CRS). A program developed by the Federal Insurance
Administration to provide incentives for those communities in the regular
program that have gone beyond the minimum floodplain management requirements to
develop extra measures to provide protection from flooding.
   CRITICAL FACILITY. A facility for which even a slight chance of flooding
might be too great. CRITICAL FACILITIES include, but are not limited to,
schools, nursing homes, hospitals, police, fire and emergency response
installations, installations which produce, use or store hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a structure or any
addition to a structure;
         (b)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a recreational vehicle on a site for more than
180 days;
         (c)   Installing utilities, erection of walls and fences, construction
of roads or similar projects;
         (d)   Construction of flood-control structures such as levees, dikes,
dams, channel improvements and the like;
         (e)   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
         (f)   Construction and/or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
         (g)   Storage of materials; or
         (h)   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of flood or surface waters.
      (2)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance of
existing structures and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
structures.
   ELEVATED STRUCTURE. A non-basement structure built to have the lowest floor
elevated above the ground level by means of fill, solid foundation perimeter
walls, filled stem wall foundations (also called chain walls), pilings or
columns (posts and piers).
   ELEVATION CERTIFICATE. A certified statement that verifies a structure’s
elevation information.
   EMERGENCY PROGRAM. The first phase under which a community participates in
the NFIP. It is intended to provide a first layer amount of insurance at
subsidized rates on all insurable structures in that community before the
effective date of the initial FIRM.
   ENCROACHMENT. The advance or infringement of uses, fill, excavation,
buildings, permanent structures or development into a floodplain, which may
impede or alter the flow capacity of a floodplain.
   EXISTING CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced before the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date
of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
   FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   FIVE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (500-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 0.2% chance
of being equaled or exceeded in any year.
   FLOOD. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation
of normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid
accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any source.
   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP (FBFM). An official map on which the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) or Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)
has delineated the areas of flood hazards and regulatory floodway.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM). An official map of a community, issued by
FEMA, where the boundaries of the areas of special flood hazard have been
identified as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
FEMA has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The official hydraulic and hydrologic report
provided by FEMA. The report contains flood profiles, as well as the FIRM,
FBFM, (where applicable), and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOOD-PRONE AREA. Any land area acknowledged by a community as being
susceptible to inundation by water from any source. (See FLOOD.)
   FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE (FPG). The elevation of the regulatory flood, plus
two feet at any given location in the SFHA. (See FREEBOARD.)
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel proper and the areas adjoining any wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regulatory
flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the floodway and the fringe districts.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT. The operation of an overall program of corrective and
preventive measures for reducing flood damage and preserving and enhancing,
where possible, natural resources in the floodplain, including, but not limited
to, emergency preparedness plans, flood-control works, floodplain management
regulations and open space plans.
   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS. This chapter and other zoning ordinances,
subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose
ordinances and other applications of police power which control development in
flood-prone areas. This term describes federal, state or local regulations in
any combination thereof, which provide standards for preventing and reducing
flood loss and damage. FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS are also referred to
as FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS, FLOODPLAIN ORDINANCE, FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
ORDINANCE, FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS and THIS CHAPTER.
   FLOOD-PROOFING (DRY FLOOD-PROOFING). A method of protecting a structure that
ensures that the structure, together with attendant utilities and sanitary
facilities, is water-tight to the flood- proofed design elevation with walls
that are substantially impermeable to the passage of water. All structural
components of these walls are capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
flood forces, including the effects of buoyancy, and anticipated debris impact
forces.
   FLOOD-PROOFING CERTIFICATE. A form used to certify compliance for non-
residential structures as an alternative to elevating structures to or above
the FPG. This certification must be by a registered professional engineer or
architect.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and those portions of the
floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably required to efficiently
carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the regulatory flood of any river or
stream.
   FREEBOARD. A factor of safety, usually expressed in feet above the BFE,
which is applied for the purposes of floodplain management. It is used to
compensate for the many unknown factors that could contribute to flood heights
greater than those calculated for the base flood.
   FRINGE. Those portions of the floodplain lying outside the floodway.
   FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT FACILITY. A facility which cannot be used for its
intended purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to
water, such as a docking or port facility necessary for the loading and
unloading of cargo or passengers, shipbuilding, ship repair or seafood
processing facilities. The term does not include long-term storage,
manufacture, sales or service facilities.
   HARDSHIP. As related to variances, the exceptional hardship that would
result from a failure to grant the requested variance. The Town Council
requires that the variance is exceptional, unusual and peculiar to the property
involved. Mere economic or financial hardship alone is not exceptional.
Inconvenience, aesthetic considerations, physical handicaps, personal
preferences or the disapproval of one’s neighbors likewise cannot, as a rule,
qualify as an exceptional HARDSHIP. All of these problems can be resolved
through other means without granting a variance, even if the alternative is
more expensive, or requires the property owner to build elsewhere or put the
parcel to a different use than originally intended.
   HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE. The highest natural elevation of the ground surface,
prior to the start of construction, next to the proposed walls of a structure.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Any structure individually listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and
Structures.
   INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE (ICC). The cost to repair a substantially
damaged structure that exceeds the minimal repair cost and that is required to
bring a substantially damaged structure into compliance with the local flood
damage prevention ordinance. Acceptable mitigation measures are elevation,
relocation, demolition or any combination thereof. All renewal and new business
flood insurance policies with effective dates on or after 6-1-1997, will
include ICC COVERAGE.
   LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). An amendment to the currently effective FEMA
map that establishes that a property is not located in a SFHA. A LOMA is only
issued by FEMA.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). An official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
   LETTER OF MAP REVISION BASED ON FILL (LOMR-F). An official revision by
letter to an effective NFIP map. A LOMR-F provides FEMA’s determination
concerning whether a structure or parcel has been elevated on fill above the
BFE and excluded from the SFHA.
   LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE. The lowest elevation, after completion of
construction, of the ground, sidewalk, patio, deck support or basement entryway
immediately next to the structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest of the following:
      (1)   The top of the lowest level of the structure;
      (2)   The top of the basement floor;
      (3)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level of
the structure;
      (4)   The top of the first floor of a structure elevated on pilings or
pillars; and
      (5)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure, other than a basement,
below an elevated structure where the walls of the enclosure provide any
resistance to the flow of flood waters unless:
         (a)   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the hydrostatic
flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood waters by
providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to doorways and windows) in a
minimum of two exterior walls having a total net area of one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area. The bottom of all such openings shall
be no higher than one foot above the exterior grade or the interior grade
immediately beneath each opening, whichever is higher; and
         (b)   Such enclosed space shall be usable solely for the parking of
vehicles and building access.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of
land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
   MAP AMENDMENT. A change to an effective NFIP map that results in the
exclusion from the SFHA of an individual structure or a legally described
parcel of land that has been inadvertently included in the SFHA (i.e., no
alterations of topography have occurred since the date of the first NFIP map
that showed the structure or parcel to be within the SFHA).
   MAP PANEL NUMBER. The four-digit number followed by a letter suffix assigned
by FEMA on a flood map. The first four digits represent the map panel, and the
letter suffix represents the number of times the map panel has been revised.
(The letter “A” is not used by FEMA, the letter “B” is the first revision.)
   MARKET VALUE. The building value, excluding the land (as agreed to between a
willing buyer and seller), as established by what the local real estate market
will bear. MARKET VALUE can be established by independent certified appraisal,
replacement cost depreciated by age of building (actual cash value) or adjusted
assessed values.
   MITIGATION. Sustained actions taken to reduce or eliminate long-term risk to
people and property from hazards and their effects. The purpose of MITIGATION
is two fold: to protect people and structures and to minimize the cost of
disaster response and recovery.
   NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM (NFIP). The federal program that makes
flood insurance available to owners of property in participating communities
nationwide through the cooperative efforts of the Federal Government and the
private insurance industry.
   NATIONAL GEODETIC VERTICAL DATUM (NGVD) OF 1929. As corrected in 1929 is a
vertical control used as a reference for establishing varying elevations within
the floodplain.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Any structure for which the “start of construction”
commenced after the effective date of the community’s first floodplain
ordinance.
   NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective
date of the community’s first floodplain ordinance.
   NORTH AMERICAN VERTICAL DATUM OF 1988 (NAVD 88). As adopted in 1993 is a
vertical control datum used as a reference for establishing varying elevations
within the floodplain.
   OBSTRUCTION. Includes, but is not limited to, any dam, wall, wharf,
embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment, protection, excavation, canalization,
bridge, conduit, culvert, building, wire, fence, rock, gravel, refuse, fill,
structure, vegetation or other material in, along, across or projecting into
any watercourse which may alter, impede, retard or change the direction and/or
velocity of the flow of water; or due to its location, its propensity to snare
or collect debris carried by the flow of water, or its likelihood of being
carried downstream.
   ONE-HUNDRED YEAR FLOOD (100-YEAR FLOOD). The flood that has a 1% chance of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with
the letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See REGULATORY FLOOD.)
   ONE-PERCENT ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD. The flood that has a 1% chance of being
equaled or exceeded in any given year. Any flood zone that begins with the
letter A is subject to the 1% annual chance flood. (See REGULATORY FLOOD.)
   PARTICIPATING COMMUNITY. Any community that voluntarily elects to
participate in the NFIP by adopting and enforcing floodplain management
regulations that are consistent with the standards of the NFIP.
   PHYSICAL MAP REVISION (PMR). An official republication of a community’s FEMA
map to effect changes to base (1% annual chance) flood elevations, floodplain
boundary delineations, regulatory floodways and planimetric features. These
changes typically occur as a result of structural works or improvements,
annexations resulting in additional flood hazard areas or correction to base
flood elevations or SFHAs.
   POST-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement that started
on or after the effective date of the initial FIRM of the community or after
12-31-1974, whichever is later.
   PRE-FIRM CONSTRUCTION. Construction or substantial improvement, which
started on or before 12-31-1974, or before the effective date of the initial
FIRM of the community, whichever is later.
   PROBATION. A means of formally notifying participating communities of
violations and deficiencies in the administration and enforcement of the local
floodplain management regulations.
   PUBLIC SAFETY AND NUISANCE. Anything which is injurious to the safety or
health of an entire community, neighborhood or any considerable number of
persons or unlawfully obstructs the free passage or use, in the customary
manner, of any navigable lake, or river, bay, stream, canal or basin.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle which is:
      (1)   Built on a single chassis;
      (2)   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
      (3)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck; and
      (4)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling, but as
quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
   REGULAR PROGRAM. The phase of the community’s participation in the NFIP
where more comprehensive floodplain management requirements are imposed and
higher amounts of insurance are available based upon risk zones and elevations
determined in a FIS.
   REGULATORY FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded
in any given year, as calculated by a method and procedure that is acceptable
to and approved by the state’s Department of Natural Resources and the Federal
Emergency Management Agency. The REGULATORY FLOOD elevation at any location is
as defined in §
192.007 of this chapter. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also known by the term BASE
FLOOD, 1% ANNUAL CHANCE FLOOD and 100-YEAR FLOOD.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of the event for
which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing the flood
damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value of the
structure at the time of each such flood event.
   SECTION 1316. The section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as
amended, which states that no new flood insurance coverage shall be provided
for any property that the Administrator finds has been declared by a duly
constituted state or local zoning authority or other authorized public body to
be in violation of state or local laws, regulations or ordinances that intended
to discourage or otherwise restrict land development or occupancy in flood-
prone areas.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA). Those lands within the jurisdictions of
the town subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of the town
are generally identified as such on the Boone County and Incorporated Areas
Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
dated 1-18-2012. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Boone County that
are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town or that may be annexed
into the town are generally identified as such on the Boone County and
Incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated 1-18-2012. (These areas are shown on a FHBM or FIRM
as Zone A, AE, A1-A30, AH, AR, A99 or AO.)
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the date
the building permit was issued; provided, the actual start of construction,
repair, reconstruction or improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.
The actual START means the first placement or permanent construction of a
structure (including a manufactured home) on a site, such as the pouring of
slabs or footing, installation of piles, construction of columns or any work
beyond the stage of excavation for placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets
and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings,
piers, foundations or the erection of temporary forms. For substantial
improvement, the actual START OF CONSTRUCTION means the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of a building, whether or not
that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STRUCTURE. A structure that is principally above ground and is enclosed by
walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a
manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also includes
recreational vehicles to be installed on a site for more than 180 days.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the “start of construction” of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred “repetitive loss”
or “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed. The
term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or any
alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the alteration will not
preclude the structures continued designation as a “historic structure”.
   SUSPENSION. The removal of a participating community from the NFiP because
the community has not enacted and/or enforced the proper floodplain management
regulations required for participation in the NFIP.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter, which
permits construction in a manner otherwise prohibited by this chapter where
specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship.
   VIOLATION. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
compliant with this chapter. A structure or other development without the
elevation, other certification or other evidence of compliance required in this
chapter is presumed to be in VIOLATION until such time as that documentation is
provided.
   WATERCOURSE. A lake, river, creek, stream, wash, channel or other
topographic feature on or over which waters flow at least periodically.
WATERCOURSE includes specifically designated areas in which substantial flood
damage may occur.
   WATER SURFACE ELEVATION. The height, in relation to the North American
Vertical Datum of 1988 (NAVD 88) or National Geodetic Vertical Datum of 1929
(NGVD) (other datum where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and
frequencies in the floodplains of riverine areas.
   X ZONE. The area where the flood hazard is less than that in the SFHA.
SHADED X ZONES shown on recent FIRMs (B zones on older FIRMs) designate areas
subject to inundation by the flood with a 0.2% chance of being equaled or
exceeded (the 500-year flood). UNSHADED X ZONES (C zones on older FIRMs)
designate areas where the annual exceedance probability of flooding is less
than 0.2%.
   ZONE. A geographical area shown on a FHBM or FIRM that reflects the severity
or type of flooding in the area.
   ZONE A. See definition for A ZONE.
   ZONE B, C AND X. Areas identified in the community as areas of moderate or
minimal hazard from the principal source of flood in the area. However,
buildings in these zones could be flooded by severe, concentrated rainfall
coupled with inadequate local drainage systems. Flood insurance is available in
participating communities but is not required by regulation in these zones.
(Zone X is used on new and revised maps in place of Zones B and C.)
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.006 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas within the
jurisdiction of the town.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.007 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING REGULATORY FLOOD DATA.
   This chapter’s protection standard is the regulatory flood. The best
available regulatory flood data is listed below. Whenever a party disagrees
with the best available data, the party submitting the detailed engineering
study needs to replace existing data with better data and submit it to the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for review and approval.
   (A)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for the
studied SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town shall be as delineated on the
1% annual chance flood profiles in the Flood Insurance Study of Boone County
and Incorporated Areas dated 1-18-2012 and the corresponding Flood Insurance
Rate Map prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 1-18-
2012.
   (B)   The regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits for each of
the SFHAs within the jurisdiction of the town, delineated as an “A Zone” on the
Boone County and incorporated Areas Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 1-18-2012, shall be according to
the best data available as provided by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
   (C)   In the absence of a published FEMA map, or absence of identification
on a FEMA map, the regulatory flood elevation, floodway and fringe limits of
any watercourse in the community’s known flood-prone areas shall be according
to the best data available as provided by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources; provided, the upstream drainage area from the subject site is
greater than one square mile.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.008 ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOODPLAIN DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   A floodplain development permit shall be required in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter prior to the commencement of any development
activities in areas of special flood hazard.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.009 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure shall hereafter be located, extended, converted or structurally
altered within the SFHA without full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations. No sand or stream within the SFHA shall
hereafter be altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.010 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and
another conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions
shall prevail.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.011 DISCREPANCY BETWEEN MAPPED FLOODPLAIN AND ACTUAL GROUND ELEVATIONS.
   (A)   In cases where there is a discrepancy between the mapped floodplain
(SFHA) on the FIRM and the actual ground elevations, the elevation provided on
the profiles shall govern.
   (B)   If the elevation of the site in question is below the base flood
elevation, that site shall be included in the SFHA and regulated accordingly.
   (C)   If the elevation (natural grade) of the site in question is above the
base flood elevation, and not located within the floodway, that site shall be
considered outside the SFHA and the floodplain regulations will not be applied.
The property owner shall be advised to apply for a LOMA.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 192.012 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.013 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods can and
will occur on rare occasions. Therefore, this chapter does not create any
liability on the part of the town, the state’s Department of Natural Resources
or the state for any flood damage that results from reliance on this chapter or
any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.014 INCREASED COST OF COMPLIANCE.
   In order for buildings to qualify for a claim payment under ICC coverage as
a “repetitive loss structure”, the National Reform Act of 1994 requires that
the building be covered by a contract for flood insurance and incur flood-
related damages on two occasions during a ten-year period ending on the date of
the event for which the second claim is made, in which the cost of repairing
the flood damage, on the average, equaled or exceeded 25% of the market value
of the building at the time of each such flood event.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.015 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter took effect on 1-13-2012.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.016 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, sentence or phrase of this chapter is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, then said
holding shall in no way effect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 192.030 ADMINISTRATOR; DESIGNATION; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Town Council hereby appoints the Building Commissioner to
administer and implement the provisions of this chapter and is herein referred
to as the Floodplain Administrator.
   (B)   (1)   The Floodplain Administrator and/or designated staff is hereby
authorized and directed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Administrator is further authorized to render interpretations of this chapter,
which are consistent with its spirit and purpose.
      (2)   Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall
include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Review all floodplain development permits to assure that the
permit requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Inspect and inventory damaged structures in the SFHA and
complete substantial damage determinations;
         (c)   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the
state’s Department of Natural Resources for all development projects subject to
§§
192.069 and
192.071 of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization (either
copy of actual permit or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment);
         (d)   Ensure that all necessary federal or state permits have been
received prior to issuance of the local floodplain development permit. Copies
of such permits are to be maintained on file with the floodplain development
permit;
         (e)   Notify adjacent communities and the state’s Floodplain
Coordinator prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse and submit
copies of such notifications to FEMA;
         (f)   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request local
permit documents, damaged structure inventories, substantial damage
determinations, regulatory flood data, SFHA maps, Letters of Map Amendment
(LOMA), Letters of Map Revision (LOMR), copies of DNR permits and floodplain
analysis and regulatory assessments (letters of recommendation), federal permit
documents and “as-built” elevation and flood-proofing data for all buildings
constructed subject to this chapter;
         (g)   Utilize and enforce all Letters of Map Revision (LOMR) or
Physical Map Revisions (PMR) issued by FEMA for the currently effective SFHA
maps of the community;
         (h)   Assure that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood-carrying capacity is
not diminished;
         (i)   Verify and record the actual elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all new or substantially improved structures, in
accordance with §
192.031 of this chapter;
         (j)   Verify and record the actual elevation to which any new or
substantially improved structures have been flood-proofed in accordance with §
192.031 of this chapter;
         (k)   Review certified plans and specifications for compliance;
         (l)   Stop-work orders:
            1.   Upon notice from the Floodplain Administrator, work on any
building, structure or premises that is being done contrary to the provisions
of this chapter shall immediately cease.
            2.   Such notice shall be in writing and shall be given to the
owner of the property, or to his or her agent, or to the person doing the work,
and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed.
         (m)   Revocation of permits:
            1.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit or approval,
issued under the provisions of the chapter, in cases where there has been any
false statement or misrepresentation as to the material fact in the application
or plans on which the permit or approval was based.
            2.   The Floodplain Administrator may revoke a permit upon
determination by the Floodplain Administrator that the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, moving, demolition, installation or replacement of the
structure for which the permit was issued is in violation of, or not in
conformity with, the provisions of this chapter.
         (n)   Inspect sites for compliance. For all new and/or substantially
improved buildings constructed in the SFHA, inspect before, during and after
construction. Authorized town officials shall have the right to enter and
inspect properties located in the SFHA.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.031 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application for a floodplain development permit shall be made to the
Floodplain Administrator on forms furnished by him or her prior to any
development activities, and may include, but not be limited to, the following:
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, earthen
fill, storage of materials or equipment, drainage facilities and the location
of the foregoing.
   (B)   Specifically, the following information is required.
      (1)   Application stage.
         (a)   A description of the proposed development;
         (b)   Location of the proposed development sufficient to accurately
locate property and structure in relation to existing roads and streams;
         (c)   A legal description of the property site;
         (d)   A site development plan showing existing and proposed
development locations and existing and proposed land grades;
         (e)   Elevation of the top of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all proposed buildings. Elevation should be in NAVD 83 or NGVD;
         (f)   Elevation (in NAVD 88 or NGVD) to which any non-residential
structure will be flood-proofed; and
         (g)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of proposed development.
      (2)   Construction stage. Upon placement of the lowest floor or flood-
proofing, it shall be the duty of the permit holder to submit to the Floodplain
Administrator a certification of the NAVD 88 or NGVD elevation of the lowest
floor or flood-proofed elevation, as built. Said certification shall be
prepared by or under the direct supervision of a registered land surveyor or
professional engineer and certified by the same. When flood-proofing is
utilized for a particular structure said certification shall be prepared by or
under the direct supervision of a professional engineer or architect and
certified by same. Any work undertaken prior to submission of the certification
shall be at the permit holders’ risk. (The Floodplain Administrator shall
review the lowest floor and flood-proofing elevation survey data submitted.)
The permit holder shall correct deficiencies detected by such review before any
further work is allowed to proceed. Failure to submit the survey or failure to
make said corrections required hereby shall be cause to issue a stop-work order
for the project.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
VARIANCES
§ 192.045 VARIANCE AND APPEALS BOARD; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals as established by the Town Council shall
hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is alleged an error in
any requirement, decision or determination is made by the Floodplain
Administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.046 VARIANCE PROCEDURES.
   In passing upon such applications, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, all standards
specified in other sections of this chapter, and:
   (A)   The danger of life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
   (B)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
   (C)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
   (D)   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
   (E)   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
   (F)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
   (G)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for that area;
   (H)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
   (I)   The expected height, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment of
transport of the flood waters at the site; and
   (J)   The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.047 CONDITIONS FOR VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall only be issued when there is:
      (1)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
      (2)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship; and
      (3)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws or ordinances.
   (B)   No variance for a residential use within a floodway subject to §§
192.069 or
192.071 of this chapter may be granted.
   (C)   Any variance granted in a floodway subject to §§
192.069 or
192.071 of this chapter will require a permit from the state’s Department of
Natural Resources.
   (D)   Variances to the provisions for flood hazard reduction of §
192.066 of this chapter may be granted only when a new structure is to be
located on a lot of one-half acre or less in size, contiguous to and surrounded
by lots with existing structures constructed below the flood protection grade.
   (E)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (F)   Variances may be granted for the reconstruction or restoration of any
structure individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Indiana State Register of Historic Sites and Structures.
   (G)   Any application to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice specifying the difference between the base flood elevation and the
elevation to which the lowest floor is to be built and stating that the cost of
the flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from
the reduced lowest floor elevation. (See §
192.048 of this chapter.)
   (H)   The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain the records of appeal
actions and report any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency or
the state’s Department of Natural Resources upon request. (See §
192.048 of this chapter.)
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.048 VARIANCE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice over the signature of a community official that:
      (1)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the base
flood elevation will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
      (2)   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to
life and property. A copy of the notice shall be recorded by the Floodplain
Administrator in the office of the county’s Recorder and shall be recorded in a
manner so that it appeals in the chain of title of the affected parcel of land.
   (B)   The Floodplain Administrator will maintain a record of all variance
actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such variances
issued in the community’s biennial report submission to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.049 HISTORIC STRUCTURES.
   Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure”
and the variance is the minimum to preserve the historic character and design
of the structure.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.050 SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Upon the consideration of the factors listed in this subchapter, and the
purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION
§ 192.065 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs and known flood-prone areas, the following provisions are
required.
   (A)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to
prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Manufactured homes shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This standard shall be in
addition to and consistent with applicable state requirements for resisting
wind forces.
   (C)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed
with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage below the FPG.
   (D)   New construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed by
methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (E)   Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, air conditioning
equipment, utility meters and other service facilities shall be located at/
above the FPG or designed so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components below the FPG. Water and sewer pipes, electrical and
telephone lines, submersible pumps and other water-proofed service facilities
may be located below the FPG.
   (F)   New and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (G)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system.
   (H)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located and constructed to
avoid impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
   (I)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvements to a structure
that is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall meet the
requirements of “new construction” as contained in this chapter.
   (J)   Any alteration, repair, reconstruction or improvement to a structure
that is not in compliance with the provisions of this chapter shall be
undertaken only if said non-conformity is not further extended or replaced.
   (K)   Whenever any portion of the SFHA is authorized for use, the volume of
space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure below the BFE
shall be compensated for and balanced by an equivalent volume of excavation
taken below the BFE. The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the
volume of storage lost (replacement ratio of 1 to 1) due to the fill or
structure.
      (1)   The excavation shall take place in the floodplain and in the same
property in which the authorized fill or structure is located.
      (2)   Under certain circumstances, the excavation may be allowed to take
place outside of but adjacent to the floodplain; provided that, the excavated
volume will be below the regulatory flood elevation, will be in the same
properly in which the authorized fill or structure is located, will be
accessible to the regulatory flood water, will not be subject to ponding when
not inundated by flood water and that it shall not be refilled.
      (3)   The excavation shall provide for true storage of flood water, but
shall not be subject to ponding when not inundated by flood water.
      (4)   The fill or structure shall not obstruct a drainage way leading to
the floodplain.
      (5)   The grading around the excavation shall be such that the excavated
area is accessible to the regulatory flood water.
      (6)   The fill or structure shall be of a material deemed stable enough
to remain firm and in place during periods of flooding and shall include
provisions to protect adjacent property owners against any increased runoff or
drainage resulting from its placement.
      (7)   Plans depicting the areas to be excavated and filled shall be
submitted prior to the actual start of construction or any site work; once site
work is complete, but before the actual start of construction, the applicant
shall provide to the Floodplain Administrator a certified survey of the
excavation and fill sites demonstrating the fill and excavation comply with
this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.066 SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   In all SFHAs, the following provisions are required.
   (A)   General. In addition to the requirements of §
192.065 of this chapter, all structures to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPG. This building protection requirement
applies to the following situations:
      (1)   Construction or placement of any new structure having a floor area
greater than 400 square feet;
      (2)   Addition or improvement made to any existing structure:
         (a)   Where the cost of the addition or improvement equals or exceeds
50% of the value of the existing structure (excluding the value of the land);
and
         (b)   With a previous addition or improvement constructed since the
community’s first floodplain ordinance.
      (3)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged structure where the
costs of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition equals or
exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure (excluding the value of the
land) before damage occurred;
      (4)   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than 180 days;
      (5)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing
site. This chapter does not apply to returning the existing manufactured home
to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed to avoid flood
damage; and
      (6)   Reconstruction or repairs made to a repetitive loss structure.
   (B)   Residential construction. New construction or substantial improvement
of any residential structure (or manufactured home) shall have the lowest
floor; including basement, at or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood
elevation). Should solid foundation perimeter walls be used to elevate a
structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded movements of flood
waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of division (D)
below.
   (C)   Non-residential construction. New construction or substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or non-residential structure (or
manufactured home) shall either have the lowest floor, including basement,
elevated to or above the FPG (two feet above the base flood elevation) or be
flood- proofed to or above the FPG. Should solid foundation perimeter walls be
used to elevate a structure, openings sufficient to facilitate the unimpeded
movements of flood waters shall be provided in accordance with the standards of
division (D) below. Structures located in all A Zones may be flood- proofed in
lieu of being elevated if done in accordance with the following.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall certify that
the structure has been designed so that below the FPG, the structure and
attendant utility facilities are water-tight and capable of resisting the
effects of the regulatory flood. The structure design shall take into account
flood velocities, duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic pressures and impacts
from debris or ice. Such certification shall be provided to the official as set
forth in §
192.030 of this chapter.
      (2)   Flood-proofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity.
   (D)   Elevated structures.
      (1)   New construction or substantial improvements of elevated structures
shall have the lowest floor at or above the FPG.
      (2)   Elevated structures with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior walls below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls. Designs must meet the following minimum criteria:
         (a)   Provide a minimum of two openings located in a minimum of two
exterior walls (having a total net area of not less than one square inch for
every one square foot of enclosed area);
         (b)   The bottom of all openings shall be no more than one foot above
the exterior grade or the interior grade immediately beneath each opening,
whichever is higher;
         (c)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices;
provided, they permit the automatic flow of flood waters in both directions;
         (d)   Openings are to be not less than three inches in any direction
in the plane of the wall. This requirement applies to the hole in the wall,
excluding any device that may be inserted such as typical foundation air vent
device;
         (e)   Access to the enclosed area shall be the minimum necessary to
allow for parking for vehicles (garage door) or limited storage of maintenance
equipment used in connection with the premises (standard exterior door) or
entry to the living area (stairway or elevator);
         (f)   The interior portion of such enclosed area shall not be
partitioned or finished into separate rooms;
         (g)   The interior grade of such enclosed area shall be at an
elevation at or higher than the exterior grade; and
         (h)   Where elevation requirements exceed six feet above the highest
adjacent grade, a copy of the legally recorded deed restriction prohibiting the
conversion of the area below the lowest floor to a use or dimension contrary to
the structure’s originally approved design, shall be presented as a condition
of issuance of the final certificate of occupancy.
   (E)   Structures constructed on fill. A residential or nonresidential
structure may be constructed on a permanent landfill in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot deep
before compacting to 95% of the maximum density obtainable with either the
Standard or Modified Proctor Test method.
      (2)   The fill should extend at least ten feet beyond the foundation of
the structure before sloping below the FPG.
      (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical.
      (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties.
      (5)   The top of the lowest floor including basements shall be at or
above the FPG.
   (F)   Standards for manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles to be installed or substantially
improved on a site for more than 180 days must meet one of the following
requirements.
      (1)   The manufactured home shall be elevated on a permanent foundation
such that the lowest
floor shall be at or above the FPG and securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement.
This requirement applies to all manufactured homes to be placed on a site:
         (a)   Outside a manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (b)   In a new manufactured home park or subdivision;
         (c)   In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or
subdivision; or
         (d)   In an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a
manufactured home has incurred “substantial damage” as a result of a flood.
      (2)   The manufactured home shall be elevated so that the lowest floor of
the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
foundation elevations that are no less than 36 inches in height above grade and
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist
flotation, collapse and lateral movement. This requirement applies to all
manufactured homes to be placed on a site in an existing manufactured home park
or subdivision that has not been substantially damaged by a flood.
      (3)   Manufactured homes with fully enclosed areas formed by foundation
and other exterior wails below the flood protection grade shall be designed to
preclude finished living space and designed to allow for the entry and exit of
flood waters to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior
walls as required for elevated structures in division (D) above.
      (4)   Flexible skirting and rigid skirting not attached to the frame or
foundation of a manufactured home are not required to have openings.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles placed on a site shall either:
         (a)   Be on site for less than 180 days;
         (b)   Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (defined as being on
its wheels or jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities and security devices and has no permanently attached additions);
or
         (c)   Meet the requirements for “manufactured homes” as stated earlier
in this section.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.067 SUBDIVISION PROPOSAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and constructed to
minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to
reduce exposure to flood hazards.
   (D)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision proposals
and other proposed development (including manufactured home parks and
subdivisions), which is greater than the lesser of 50 lots or five acres.
   (E)   All subdivision proposals shall minimize development in the SFHA and/
or limit density of development permitted in the SFHA.
   (F)   All subdivision proposals shall ensure safe access into/out of SFHA
for pedestrians and vehicles (especially emergency responders).
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.068 CRITICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Construction of new critical facilities shall be, to the extent
possible, located outside the limits of the SFHA. Construction of new critical
facilities shall be permissible within the SFHA if no feasible alternative site
is available. Critical facilities constructed within the SFHA shall have the
lowest floor elevated to or above the FPG at the site.
   (B)   Flood-proofing and sealing measures must be taken to ensure that toxic
substances will not be displaced by or released into flood waters. Access
routes elevated to or above the FPG shall be provided to all critical
facilities to the extent possible.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.069 IDENTIFIED FLOODWAY STANDARDS.
   (A)   Located within SFHAs, established in §
192.007 of this chapter, are areas designated as floodways. The floodway is an
extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of flood waters, which carry
debris, potential projectiles and has erosion potential. If the site is in an
identified floodway, the Floodplain Administrator shall require the applicant
to forward the application, along with all pertinent plans and specifications,
to the state’s Department of Natural Resources and apply for a permit for
construction in a floodway. Under the provisions of I.C. 14-28-1, a permit for
construction in a floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources is
required prior to the issuance of a local building permit for any excavation,
deposit, construction or obstruction activity located in the floodway. This
includes land preparation activities such as filling, grading, clearing and
paving and the like undertaken before the actual start of construction of the
structure. However, it does exclude non- substantial additions/improvements to
existing (lawful) residences in a non-boundary river floodway. (I.C. 14-28-1-26
allows construction of non-substantial additions/improvements to residences in
a non- boundary river floodway without obtaining a permit for construction in
the floodway from the state’s Department of Natural Resources. Please note that
if fill is needed to elevate an addition above the existing grade, prior
approval (construction in a floodway permit) for the fill is required from the
state’s Department of Natural Resources.)
   (B)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until a
permit (when applicable) has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources granting approval for construction in the floodway. Once a permit for
construction in a floodway has been issued by the state’s Department of Natural
Resources, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local floodplain
development permit; provided, the provisions contained in this subchapter have
been met. The floodplain development permit cannot be less restrictive than the
permit for construction in a floodway issued by the state’s Department of
Natural Resources. However, a community’s more restrictive regulations (if any)
shall take precedence.
   (C)   No development shall be allowed which acting alone or in combination
with existing or future development, will increase the regulatory flood more
than 0.14 of one foot.
   (D)   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill (including
levees), the town shall submit the data and request that the Federal Emergency
Management Agency revise the regulatory flood data.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.070 IDENTIFIED FRINGE STANDARDS.
   If the site is located in an identified fringe, then the Floodplain
Administrator may issue the local floodplain development permit provided the
provisions contained in this subchapter have been met. The key provision is
that the top of the lowest floor of any new or substantially improved structure
shall be at or above the FPG.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.071 SFHAS WITHOUT ESTABLISHED BASE FLOOD ELEVATION AND/OR FLOODWAYS/
FRINGES.
   (A)   Drainage area upstream of the site is greater than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined, and the drainage area
upstream of the site is greater than one square mile, the Floodplain
Administrator shall require the applicant to forward the application, along
with all pertinent plans and specifications, to the state’s Department of
Natural Resources for review and comment.
      (2)   No action shall be taken by the Floodplain Administrator until
either a permit for construction in a floodway or a floodplain analysis/
regulatory assessment citing the 1% annual chance flood elevation and the
recommended flood protection grade has been received from the state’s
Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Once the Floodplain Administrator has received the proper permit
for construction in a floodway or floodplain analysis/regulatory assessment
approving the proposed development, a floodplain development permit may be
issued; provided, the conditions of the floodplain development permit are not
less restrictive than the conditions received from the state’s Department of
Natural Resources and the provisions contained in this subchapter have been
met.
   (B)   Drainage area upstream of the site is less than one square mile.
      (1)   If the site is in an identified floodplain where the limits of the
floodway and fringe have not yet been determined and the drainage area upstream
of the site is less than one square mile, the Floodplain Administrator shall
require the applicant to provide an engineering analysis showing the limits of
the floodplain and 1% annual chance flood elevation for the site.
      (2)   Upon receipt, the Floodplain Administrator may issue the local
floodplain development permit; provided, the provisions contained in this
subchapter have been met.
   (C)   Cumulative effect. The total cumulative effect of the proposed
development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated development,
will not increase the regulatory flood more than 0.14 of one foot and will not
increase flood damages or potential flood damages.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.072 FLOOD-PRONE AREA STANDARDS.
   All development in known flood-prone areas not identified on FEMA maps, or
where no FEMA published map is available, shall meet applicable standards as
required per this subchapter.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 192.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Failure to obtain a floodplain development permit in the SFHA or
failure to comply with the requirements of a floodplain development permit or
conditions of a variance shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. All
violations shall be considered a common nuisance and be treated as such in
accordance with the provisions of Ch. 194 of this code of ordinances. All
violations shall be punishable by a fine up to $2,500 per day.
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed to occur for each day the violation
continues to exist.
   (C)   The town’s Planning Commission shall inform the owner that any such
violation is considered a willful act to increase flood damages and, therefore,
may cause coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   (D)   Nothing herein shall prevent the town from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible.
(Ord. 2011-09, passed 12-5-2011)
APPENDIX A: FLOOD MAPS
CLICK_TO_VIEW_FILE_IN_PDF_FORMAT
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-671.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-673.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-675.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-677.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-679.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-681.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-683.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-685.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-687.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-689.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-691.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-693.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-695.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-697.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-699.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-701.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-703.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 193: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
193.001   Title
   
193.002   Authority
   
193.003   Purpose
   
193.004   Effective date
   
193.005   Repealer
   
193.006   Exclusion
   
193.007   Interpretation
   
193.008   Jurisdiction
   
193.009   Findings
   
193.010   Private provisions
   
193.011   Saving provision
   
193.012   Transition rules for applications for primary plat approval,
secondary plat approval or the vacation of plats or parts of plats
   
193.013   Amendments
   
193.014   Compliance
   
193.015   Definitions
   
193.016   Improvement location permits
   
193.017   Recording required for issuance of an improvement location permit
   
193.018   Incorporation by reference
   
193.019   Appeals
   
193.020   Severability
Procedures, Plans and Surety
   
193.035   General procedures
   
193.036   Required plans
   
193.037   Completion and maintenance of improvements
Design, Reservations and Improvements
   
193.050   General improvements
   
193.051   Lots
   
193.052   Streets
   
193.053   Sidewalks
   
193.054   Monumentation
   
193.055   Drainage
   
193.056   Water facilities
   
193.057   Sewage facilities
   
193.058   Utilities
   
193.059   Public sites
   
193.060   Street lights and street signs; landscaping
   
193.061   Emergency warning sirens
Waivers
   
193.075   General
   
193.076   Waivers of subdivision control ordinance
   
193.077   Waiver guidelines
   
193.078   Procedures for review of waiver requests
   
193.079   Jurisdiction of waivers
Vacation of Land in a Plat; Recorded Covenants or Commitments;
Public Way or Place; Platted Easements
   
193.090   Vacation of land in a plat; recorded covenants or commitments
   
193.091   Vacation of public way or place; platted easements
Forms
   
193.105   Performance bond for subdivision improvements
   
193.106   Irrevocable letter of credit for subdivision improvements
   
193.107   Maintenance bond for subdivision improvements
   
193.108   Release of performance bond
   
193.109   Release of irrevocable letter of credit
   
193.110   Release of maintenance bond
   
193.111   Letter of compliance
   
193.112   Completion letter
   
193.113   Dedication statement
   
193.114   Surveyor certification
   
193.115   Plan Commission approval
   
193.116   Findings of fact for vacation of land in a plat
   
193.117   Agreement for foundation release
   Appendix A: Zionsville/Eagle/Union Subdivisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 193.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall hereinafter be known and cited as “Town of Zionsville
Subdivision Control Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.002 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in I.C.
36-7-4 et seq.
   (B)   Whenever any provision of this chapter refers to or cites a section of
the Indiana Code and that section is later amended or superseded, this chapter
shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended section or the section that
most nearly corresponds to the superseded section.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.003 PURPOSE.
   In adopting this chapter, the Town Council is acting for the purpose of:
   (A)   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and
general welfare;
   (B)   Guiding the future development of the town in accordance with the
Comprehensive Plan and related policies and objectives;
   (C)   Securing adequate light, air, convenience of access and safety from
fire, flood and other danger;
   (D)   Lessening or avoiding congestion in public ways;
   (E)   Providing adequate and efficient public and private facilities and the
conservation of natural resources;
   (F)   Providing for the safety, comfort and soundness of the built
environment; and
   (G)   Otherwise accomplishing the purposes of I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter became effective on the fourteenth day after notice of its
adoption was published in compliance with I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.005 REPEALER.
   The Zionsville Subdivision Control Regulation for the town, as adopted by
the Town Council in June of 1991 as Zionsville Ord. 91-7, and all amendments
thereto, are repealed as of the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.006 EXCLUSION.
   Nothing in this chapter or in any rules, regulations or orders issued
pursuant to this chapter shall be deemed to restrict or regulate or to
authorize any unit of government, legislative body, Plan Commission or Board of
Zoning Appeals now or hereafter established, to restrict or regulate the
exercise of the power of eminent domain by the state or by any agency of the
state, or the use of property owned or occupied by the state or any agency of
the state.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.007 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and the general welfare of the
public.
   (B)   In the case of any conflict or inconsistency between two or more
provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance of the town, the provision
which imposes the greater or higher or more restrictive standard of performance
shall control.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.008 JURISDICTION.
   Upon adoption of this chapter by the Town Council and the effective date of
this chapter, the town’s Plan Commission shall have exclusive control over the
approval of plats, replats and the vacation of plats or parts of plats
involving all real property located within the corporate boundaries of the
town.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.009 FINDINGS.
   In adopting this chapter, the Town Council have paid reasonable regard to:
   (A)   The general polices and patterns of development set out in the
Comprehensive Plan for the town;
   (B)   Current conditions and the character of current Structures and uses in
each zoning district;
   (C)   The conservation of property values throughout the town; and
   (D)   The responsible development and growth of the town.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.010 PRIVATE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to abrogate any easement,
covenant or other private agreement or restriction.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.011 SAVING PROVISION.
   Except as shall be expressly provided for in this chapter, the adoption of
this chapter shall not:
   (A)   Abate any action pending under, or by virtue of, any prior subdivision
control regulation;
   (B)   Discontinue, abate, modify or alter any penalty accruing or about to
accrue under, or by virtue of, any prior subdivision control ordinance;
   (C)   Affect the liability of any person, firm or corporation under, or by
virtue of, any prior subdivision control ordinance;
   (D)   Waive any right of the town under any section or provision of any
prior subdivision control ordinance; or
   (E)   Vacate or annul any rights obtained by any person, firm or corporation
by lawful action of the town under, or by virtue of, any prior subdivision
control regulation.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.012 TRANSITION RULES FOR APPLICATIONS FOR PRIMARY PLAT APPROVAL,
SECONDARY PLAT APPROVAL OR THE VACATION OF PLATS OR PARTS OF PLATS.
   Any application for primary plat approval, secondary plat approval or the
vacation of plats or parts of plats which has been filed with the Building
Commissioner of the town and which application is full and complete under the
provisions of the subdivision control regulations for the town (Zionsville Ord.
91-7, as amended) prior to the effective date of this chapter shall continue to
be processed to completion pursuant to the terms and conditions of the
subdivision control regulation for the town (Zionsville Ord. 91-7, as amended).
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.013 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   In its continuing administration of the purposes set forth in §
193.003 of this chapter, the Town Council may find it reasonable and necessary
to propose and adopt amendments to the text of this chapter.
   (B)   All such amendments shall be considered and adopted in compliance with
I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq., the provisions of this chapter and any applicable
rules of procedure subsequently adopted by the Plan Commission or the Town
Council governing such procedures.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.014 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Compliance with the terms and provision of this chapter shall be a
prerequisite for the use and development of real property within the town.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the terms and provisions of this chapter shall
be deemed to be a civil zoning violation enforceable by the Plan Commission as
provided for in I.C. 36-7-4 et seq. and §§
194.235 through
194.240 and
194.999 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.015 DEFINITIONS.
   The interpretation of terms or words and the definition of terms or words
contained in this chapter shall be in accordance with §
194.024 of this code of ordinances, as the same may be amended from time to
time, which section is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this chapter
by this reference.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.016 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   No improvement location permit shall be issued for any building, structure
or improvement unless the location of the building, structure or improvement
conforms with the applicable provisions of
Ch. 194 of this code of ordinances and this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.017 RECORDING REQUIRED FOR ISSUANCE OF AN IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT.
   (A)   No improvement location permit for any building, structure or
improvement shall be issued for any lot within a subdivision prior to a copy of
the properly signed and recorded secondary plat of that subdivision being filed
with the Building Commissioner of the town.
   (B)   Exception: a conditional improvement location permit and certificate
of occupancy for the construction and use of a permitted temporary use
(including a model home, sales office, construction office or similar related
use) within the real estate affected by a subdivision may be issued by the
Building Commissioner after all construction plans for required improvements
have been approved by the town. If the temporary use is a model home, the model
home shall not be converted to a residential use prior to the installation,
inspection and approval of all required improvements that directly or
indirectly affect the model home.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.018 INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Throughout the various sections of this chapter, reference is made to
other regulations of the town and each such regulations is hereby incorporated
by this referenced into this chapter.
   (B)   Two copies of each such regulations of the town are on file in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town and are available for public
inspection.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.019 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Plan Commission relating to
this chapter may appeal said decision as provided by state law.
   (B)   The appeal shall be filed within 30 days of the date of the decision
upon which the grievance is based.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.020 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this chapter are
severable and, if any such section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase is
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction in a valid judgment or decree, such unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any remaining sections, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases of this chapter because the same would have been enacted
without the incorporation into this chapter of such unconstitutional or invalid
section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
PROCEDURES, PLANS AND SURETY
§ 193.035 GENERAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Conceptual plat review.
      (1)   A pre-filing conference with staff to perform a conceptual plat
review is required prior to filing for primary plat approval for all non-
residential incremental subdivisions. A pre-filing conference, however, is not
required prior to filing for primary plat approval for all other subdivisions.
      (2)   At a pre-filing conference to perform a conceptual plat review, the
subdivider shall provide six copies of a preliminary sketch plan capable of
depicting the conceptual layout of the major features of the proposed
subdivision (streets, drainage features, water lines, sewer lines and other
utility services). Staff may take up to ten business days to review the
proposed sketch plan and provide comments back to the subdivider. The
subdivider is encouraged to incorporate the comments received from staff into
the design of the subdivision prior to filing for primary plat approval.
      (3)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the contrary,
neither the staff’s conceptual plat review of the proposed sketch plan
submitted at a pre-filing conference, nor staff’s comments to the petitioner
relating thereto, shall be considered a denial, approval or decision concerning
the proposed primary plat.
   (B)   Filing for primary plat approval.
      (1)   Subdivision plats shall be initiated by the filing of a notarized
petition, in a form as prescribed by the Plan Commission, signed by the owners
or an authorized agent of the owners of the land involved in the petition. An
authorized agent shall file a written statement with the town, signed by the
owner on a form acceptable to the Plan Commission, at the time of filing a
petition which authorizes the agent to act on the owner’s behalf.
      (2)   Petitions for primary plat approval shall be filed with the Clerk-
Treasurer’s office of the town no later than 3:00 p.m. on the day of the filing
deadline set forth below:
 
Type of Petition             Filing Deadline*
Non-residential subdivisions 60 days
Residential subdivisions
   Major                  60 days
   Minor                  45 days
NOTES TO TABLE:
The filing deadline shall mean the number of days prior to the initial hearing
before the Plan Commission at which the petition is to be considered.
 
      (3)   Each petition for primary plat approval shall be accompanied by six
folded copies of the primary plat. A copy of the proposed primary plat shall be
submitted to each checkpoint agency prior to filing with the town’s Clerk-
Treasurer’s office. For purposes of this chapter, a checkpoint agency is
defined as an agency or department of local, state or federal government, or
other public or semi-public agency determined by the Building Commissioner to
have an interest in the development of subdivisions in the town. Specific
agencies deemed to have an interest in the development of subdivisions in the
town include, but are not limited to: the town’s Fire Department; town’s Waste
Water Treatment Plant; town’s Police Department; and town’s Street Department.
      (4)   All petitions shall be on forms provided by the Plan Commission. In
addition, site plans, surveys, legal descriptions, proposed commitments and any
other relevant supporting documentation shall be of a usable scale and quality
as specified below.
      (5)   When findings of fact are required by this chapter, the petitioner
shall prepare proposed detailed written findings of fact which shall be filed
at the time of filing of the petition.
      (6)   All petitions shall specify the approvals requested. Any items,
including proposed waivers of the standards set forth in this chapter, even if
indicated on the proposed plans, shall not be considered a part of the request
presented to the Plan Commission for its consideration unless such waivers are
specified in the petition.
      (7)   Each petition filed in proper form pursuant to the guidelines
established by the Plan Commission shall, within 30 days of filing, be numbered
and docketed by the Building Commissioner for an initial hearing by the Plan
Commission.
      (8)   After review and comment is received from the town’s Engineer and
checkpoint agencies, the Building Commissioner shall inform the subdivider of
the review comments. The subdivider shall make revisions to the primary plat,
as appropriate, and resubmit 12 folded copies of the primary plat to the
Building Commissioner not less than 14 days prior to the date of the Plan
Commission hearing.
      (9)   Primary plats shall only be approved by the Plan Commission upon
determination that the primary plat is in full compliance with all terms and
provisions of this chapter and Ch. 194 of this code of ordinances and that:
         (a)   Adequate provisions have been made for regulation of minimum lot
width, minimum lot depth and minimum lot area;
         (b)   Adequate provisions have been made for the widths, grades,
curves and coordination of subdivision public ways with current and planned
public ways; and
         (c)   Adequate provisions have been made for the extension of water,
sewer and other municipal services.
      (10)   The Plan Commission may specify reasonable conditions on the
approval of a primary plat related to the following:
         (a)   The manner in which public ways shall be laid out, graded and
improved. The Plan Commission may determine the need for additional street
rights-of-way and improvements based upon existing plans, reports or studies
undertaken by the Plan Commission, or other county, state or federal agency’s
reports or studies. The Plan Commission may require additional studies to be
done by the subdivider or other professional consulting firms to determine the
need for additional street rights-of-way and improvements as a result of the
proposed development and its impact on the surrounding areas;
         (b)   A provision for water, sewage and other utility services;
         (c)   A provision for lot size, number and location;
         (d)   A provision for drainage design; and
         (e)   A provision for other services specified in this chapter.
      (11)   Expiration of approved preliminary plats and preliminary plats
with commitments.
         (a)   Preliminary plat approvals granted by the Plan Commission,
including approvals receiving modifications and amendments, shall be valid for
three years from the date of said approval. If development of the project has
not materially progressed and begun before the end of said three-year period,
the approval expires and a new preliminary plat application must be submitted;
provided, however, that, the applicant (or party which has been assigned the
property being the subject of approval) may appear at a Plan Commission
meeting, as a matter of “other business,” prior to said expiration date and
request consideration of an extension of time before such preliminary plat
approval expires, in which event any extension of the Plan Commission grants
shall not extend beyond a date which is more than seven years after the date of
the most recent preliminary plat approval, including approval of any
modification or amendment thereto.
         (b)   If the recording of commitments is required in connection with
approval of a preliminary plat, including approvals receiving modification and
amendments, said approval shall automatically be conditional and shall not
become final unless the required commitments are finalized in a manner
satisfactory to the Plan Commission and recorded within 90 days after said Plan
Commission approval; consequently, if the required commitments are not
finalized and recorded within said 90 days, such conditional approval shall
expire, and notice of a hearing for re-consideration of the subject preliminary
plat by the Plan Commission shall be served and published by the applicant (or
party which has been assigned the property being the subject of the approval),
as required originally, within 60 days after said conditional approval expires
or the preliminary plat filing shall be deemed to have been withdrawn.
   (C)   Filing for secondary plat approval.
      (1)   The secondary plat submitted for approval must:
         (a)   Conform to the primary plat in terms of design and conditions of
approval imposed on the primary plat by the Plan Commission;
         (b)   Be in a form approved for recording by the county’s Recorder;
and
         (c)   Include the all information specified below for secondary plats.
      (2)   Authority is hereby delegated to the Building Commissioner to
administratively grant final approval of a secondary plat in accordance with
the criteria set forth in this chapter.
   (D)   Special provisions for non-residential incremental subdivisions. The
secondary plat approval process for non-residential incremental subdivisions is
intended to provide for the phased approval of non-residential lots of a size
and configuration required to serve the needs of development while safeguarding
the needs and interests of the public for proper infrastructure design and
installation. Any non-residential incremental subdivision electing to not
utilize this incremental secondary plat approval process set forth herein shall
be required to follow the full primary and secondary plat approval process
outlined above.
      (1)   Incremental approval process.
         (a)   Any subdivider who proposes to utilize the incremental approval
process shall indicate the intention to utilize the incremental approval
process at the pre-filing conference for conceptual plat review with staff as
required below.
         (b)   Any subdivision for non-residential land uses may be divided
into two or more increments or phases for the purpose of secondary plat
approval. In connection with a primary plat approval intending to utilize the
incremental approval, the Plan Commission shall condition its primary plat
approval upon the following requirements:
            1.   All lots created by an incremental secondary plat shall have
either:
               a.   Direct access to and from a public street; or
               b.   Gain access to and from a public street across a perpetual
recorded access easement through portions of the real estate included in the
primary plat.
            2.   All lots created by an incremental secondary plat shall either
contain within the limits of the incremental secondary plat or have legal
access to adequate infrastructure to accommodate the fully developed needs of
the incremental plat (i.e., storm water management, sanitary sewer, water,
electric, gas, telephone and the like).
         (c)   The Plan Commission may impose any other reasonable conditions
on the primary plat approval of a non-residential incremental subdivision
deemed necessary to assure the orderly development of the non-residential
incremental subdivision. Such reasonable conditions may include the completion
of, or posting a bond or other surety in lieu thereof for, improvements
necessary to support each incremental secondary plat but which improvements may
not be located within the bounds of the proposed incremental secondary plat.
      (2)   Improvements in incremental secondary plats. Each incremental
secondary plat shall be considered a separate secondary plat and the recording
of easements, dedication of rights-of-way, infrastructure improvements or other
required improvements proposed in the remaining sections of the primary plat
may be deferred by the subdivider and completed in connection with the
appropriate future incremental secondary plat; provided, however, the recording
of easements, dedication of rights-of-way, construction of infrastructure
improvements or other required improvements proposed in the primary plat which
are determined by the Plan Commission as required to protect the public health,
safety and welfare may be required prior to approval of the proposed
incremental secondary plat.
      (3)   Filing requirements for non-residential primary plats proposing to
utilize an incremental secondary plat approval process. Any subdivider who
proposes to utilize the incremental secondary plat approval process shall
indicate the intention to utilize the incremental secondary plat approval
process at the pre-filing conference for conceptual plat review and on the
application for a non-residential primary plat.
      (4)   Review procedures for non-residential primary plats proposing
incremental secondary plat approval.
         (a)   The subdivider shall submit a sketch plan for the proposed non-
residential subdivision for conceptual plat review by the staff at a pre-filing
conference prior to filing a petition for primary plat approval with the Plan
Commission.
         (b)   Staff shall review the sketch plan and shall notify the
subdivider of any comments related to the design or contents of the sketch plan
within ten business days of the submittal for conceptual plat review.
         (c)   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter to the
contrary, neither the staff’s conceptual plat review of the sketch plan
submitted at a pre-filing conference, nor staff’s comments to the petitioner
relating thereto, shall be considered a denial, approval or decision concerning
the proposed primary plat.
         (d)   Petitioner may modify the sketch plan and file a petition for
primary plat approval after the expiration of the ten business day period
referred to above.
      (5)   Incremental secondary plat approval. Incremental secondary plat
approval is hereby delegated to the Building Commissioner; provided that, any
and all conditions imposed by the Plan Commission on the primary plat have been
fully complied with by the subdivider.
   (E)   Recording and filing of recorded secondary plat. All subdivisions
shall follow one of the following procedures in the recording and filing of
recorded secondary plats with the town.
      (1)   Completion of improvements prior to recording.
         (a)   After:
            1.   Completion of all required improvements, installations or lot
improvements within a subdivision pursuant to approved construction plans;
            2.   The submission of “as built” construction plans;
            3.   The inspection and acceptance of all improvements,
installations or lot improvements by the town; and
            4.   The posting of a maintenance bond for all improvements,
installations or lot improvements, the President and Secretary of the Plan
Commission shall sign and certify the secondary plat of a subdivision which
shall then be recorded in the office of the Recorder of the county within 30
days of signing.
         (b)   One Mylar copy of the recorded secondary plat and four blueline
copies of the recorded secondary plat shall be filed with the Building
Commissioner within five business days of recording.
      (2)   Surety for improvements prior to recording. After the posting of
surety for required improvements, installations or lot improvements which is
acceptable to the Plan Commission, the President and Secretary of the Plan
Commission shall sign the secondary plat of a subdivision which shall be
recorded in the office of the Recorder of the county within 30 days of signing.
One Mylar copy of the recorded secondary plat and four blueline copies of the
recorded secondary plat shall be filed with the Building Commissioner within
five business days of recording.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000; Ord. 2015-14, passed 3-2-2015)
§ 193.036 REQUIRED PLANS.
   All plans prepared for primary or secondary plat approval shall be prepared
in accordance with the following specifications.
   (A)   General. If more than one page is used, each page shall be numbered
sequentially. All plans must be legible and of sufficient quality to provide
for quality reproduction or recording.
   (B)   Sketch plans for conceptual plat review.
      (1)   A sketch plan submitted for conceptual plat review may be an
engineered drawing or a hand drawn plan, prepared at a useable scale
(typically, no smaller than one inch equals 100 feet), which depicts:
         (a)   Property boundaries, nearby or adjacent streets and surrounding
land uses sufficient to clearly identify the location of the proposed
subdivision;
         (b)   Major site features (i.e., streets, easements, drainage ways,
substantial topography, burial grounds, wooded areas, wetlands or existing
structures);
         (c)   Conceptual layouts of proposed streets, lots, common areas, tree
preservation areas, open space, sidewalks (or alternate plan for pedestrian
ways), drainage features and the like;
         (d)   Proposed uses for the lots*;
         (e)   Location, size and capacity of major utility sources proposed to
service the subdivision*;
         (f)   Proposals for street or roadway improvements required to support
the subdivision;
         (g)   Proposed easements necessary to service all lots, including, but
not limited to, utilities, drainage features and access;
         (h)   Required setbacks or proposed building lines;
         (i)   Potential for future extension of streets, sewers and drainage
systems to surrounding tracts; and
         (j)   Nature and extent of any development incentives pursuant to Ch.
194 of this code of ordinances or waivers of this chapter proposed for the
subdivision.*
      (2)   * Denotes items which may be provided in text form as a supplement
to the sketch plan. The Building Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion,
may waive or relax any of the sketch plan requirements listed above, as
circumstances dictate.
   (C)   Plans for primary plat approval of major residential subdivisions.
      (1)   A plan of the proposed primary plat of a major residential
subdivision shall be drawn at a scale no smaller than one inch equals 100 feet
and shall include:
         (a)   Scale, date and north arrow;
         (b)   Legal description of the real estate to be subdivided;
         (c)   Area map insert showing the general location of the proposed
subdivision with reference to major streets and section lines as well as all
school district lines and the zoning district properly designated;
         (d)   Name of the subdivision (if a replat of an existing
subdivision), proposed name for the subdivision (which shall not duplicate the
name of any subdivision plat previously recorded or any subdivision plat for
which primary approval is still in effect) or name by which property is locally
known;
         (e)   Name, address, telephone number of the owner. If applicable,
name address and telephone number of the agent representing the owner. Citation
of last deed of record conveying title to each parcel involved in the proposed
subdivision, including name of grantor, grantee, date and recording
information;
         (f)   Name, address and telephone number of the developer and any
design professional(s) responsible for the design of the subdivision, design of
public improvements or for surveys;
         (g)   The complete text of any existing covenants on the property (if
applicable);
         (h)   Accurate boundary lines of the proposed subdivision showing
distances, bearings, angles and references to section corners, township and
range lines;
         (i)   Location, width, dimension from the centerline and name of all
existing and proposed public or private streets, access easements and rights-
of-way located on and adjacent to the site;
         (j)   Location, sizes, elevations and slopes of all existing utility
facilities and easements, including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer, water,
storm water management, electric, gas, telephone and cable;
         (k)   The location of all fire hydrants, water supply improvements and
boundary lines of proposed districts indicating all improvements proposed to be
served, shall be shown on the primary plat and the cost of installing all fire
hydrants and water supply improvements shall be included in the performance
bond furnished by the subdivider;
         (l)   Preliminary proposals for connection with existing sanitary
sewer, water, storm water management, electric, gas, telephone and cable
utilities;
         (m)   Layout, number and dimensions of all lots with proposed setback
lines;
         (n)   Location, delineation and elevation of all floodway and floodway
fringe areas within the boundaries of the subdivision;
         (o)   Proposed finished floor elevation of all building pads adjacent
to or within the floodplain;
         (p)   Drainage plan for all watersheds in and around the proposed
subdivision, indicating the general drainage pattern of streets and lots, the
location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage structures, the
proposed method of disposing of all storm water runoff from the proposed
subdivision including data to show that the proposed outlet(s) are adequate to
accommodate the drainage requirements of the subdivision, and all existing and
proposed detention facilities;
         (q)   Names of all legal ditches and streams on or adjacent to the
subdivision;
         (r)   A preliminary erosion control plan for all areas of site
disturbance;
         (s)   Topographic contour every two feet superimposed upon the
proposed subdivision plat; provided that, the Building Commissioner may require
one-foot intervals on very flat land or permit five- foot intervals on very
steep slopes;
         (t)   All improvements to the street system on-site and off-site,
including measurement of curb radius and taper;
         (u)   Sidewalk plan (or alternate plan for pedestrian ways, when
applicable);
         (v)   Preliminary plans and specifications for all infrastructure
improvements and installations required or proposed in the subdivision;
         (w)   The approximate location, dimensions and area of all parcels of
land proposed to be reserved for park, conservation, wetland, common area, lake
or other similar uses for the use of property owners within the proposed
subdivision;
         (x)   Proposed covenants, commitments, conditions and restrictions for
the subdivision;
         (y)   If the subdivision is to be developed in sections, an indication
of the approximate section boundaries;
         (z)   A proposed address plan for the subdivision consistent with the
address patterns established for the town and county;
         (aa)   1.   A traffic impact study (when a proposed development meets
or exceeds the warrants of the INDOT Applicant’s Guide to Traffic Impact
Studies (i.e., 150 or more dwelling units; 15,000 square feet or more of retail
space; 35,000 or more square feet of office space; 70,000 square feet or more
square feet of industrial space; 30,000 square feet or more of educational
space; 120 or more occupied rooms; 46,000 or more square feet of medical space;
or any mixed use development which generates 100 or more peak hour trips in the
peak direction), or as requested and justified in writing by the Building
Commissioner.
            2.   The definition of a traffic impact study, documentation
required in its submission, and procedures for its review and analysis shall be
per the state’s Department of Transportation Applicant’s Guide to Traffic
Impact Studies, approved 4-23-1996, which document is incorporated into this
chapter by reference. Two copies of the Applicant’s Guide to Traffic Impact
Studies are on file and available for public inspection in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
         (bb)   Any other information requested in writing by the Building
Commissioner, Town Engineer or the Plan Commission deemed important to the
development of the subdivision.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the requirements listed above for a primary plat of a major
residential subdivision, as circumstances dictate.
   (D)   Plans required for primary plat approval of minor residential
subdivisions.
      (1)   A plan of the proposed primary plat of a minor residential
subdivision shall be drawn at a scale no smaller than one inch equals 100 feet
and shall include:
         (a)   Scale, date and north arrow;
         (b)   Legal description of the real estate to be subdivided;
         (c)   Area map insert showing the general location of the proposed
subdivision with reference to major streets and section lines as well as all
school district lines and zoning districts properly designated;
         (d)   Proposed name of the subdivision;
         (e)   Name, address, telephone number of the owner. If applicable,
name address and telephone number of the agent representing the owner. Citation
of last deed of record conveying title to each parcel involved in the proposed
subdivision, including name of grantor, grantee, date and recording
information;
         (f)   Accurate boundary lines of the proposed subdivision showing
distance, bearings, angles and references to section corners, township and
range lines;
         (g)   Names, centerlines and right-of-way widths of all existing
streets, alleys and easements affecting or providing service to the proposed
subdivision;
         (h)   Layout, number and dimension of all lots with proposed setback
lines;
         (i)   The complete text of any existing covenants on the property (if
applicable);
         (j)   Location, delineation and elevation of all floodway and floodway
fringe areas within the boundaries of the subdivision;
         (k)   Location of all existing and proposed utility facilities and
easements, including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer, water, storm water
management, electric, gas, telephone and cable, if applicable;
         (l)   All improvements to the street system on-site and off-site,
including measurement of curb radius and taper;
         (m)   Sidewalk plan (or alternate plan for pedestrian ways, when
applicable);
         (n)   The approximate location, dimensions and area of all parcels of
land proposed to be reserved for park, conservation, wetland, common area, lake
or other similar uses for the use of property owners within the proposed
subdivision;
         (o)   Proposed covenants, commitments, conditions and restrictions for
the subdivision;
         (p)   A proposed address plan for the subdivision consistent with the
address patterns established for the town and the county; and
         (q)   Any other information requested in writing by the Building
Commissioner, Town Engineer or the Plan Commission deemed important to the
development of the subdivision.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the requirements listed above for a primary plat of a minor
residential subdivision, as circumstances dictate.
   (E)   Plans for primary plat approval of non-residential subdivisions.
      (1)   A primary plat of the proposed subdivision drawn to a scale no
smaller than one inch equals 100 feet, which includes:
         (a)   Scale, date and north arrow;
         (b)   Legal description of the real estate to be subdivided;
         (c)   Area map insert showing the general location of the proposed
subdivision with reference to major streets and section lines as well as all
school district lines and zoning district properly designated;
         (d)   Name of the subdivision (if a replat of an existing
subdivision), proposed name for the subdivision (which shall not duplicate the
name of any subdivision plat previously recorded or any subdivision plat for
which primary approval is still in effect), or name by which property is
locally known;
         (e)   Name, address, telephone number of the owner. If applicable,
name address and telephone number of the agent representing the owner. Citation
of last deed of record conveying title to each parcel involved in the proposed
subdivision, including name of grantor, grantee, date and recording
information;
         (f)   Name, address and telephone number of the developer and any
design professional(s) responsible for the design of the subdivision, design of
public improvements or for surveys;
         (g)   The complete text of any existing covenants on the property (if
applicable);
         (h)   Accurate boundary lines of the proposed subdivision showing
distance, bearings, angles and references to section corners, township and
range lines;
         (i)   Location, width, dimension from the centerline and name of all
existing and proposed public or private streets, access easements and rights-
of-way located on and adjacent to the site;
         (j)   Location, sizes, elevations and slopes of all existing utility
facilities and easements, including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer, water,
storm water management, electric, gas, telephone and cable;
         (k)   The location of all fire hydrants, water supply improvements and
boundary lines of proposed districts indicating all improvements proposed to be
served, shall be shown on the primary plat and the cost of installing all fire
hydrants and water supply improvements shall be included in the performance
bond furnished by the subdivider;
         (l)   Preliminary proposals for connection with existing sanitary
sewer, water, storm water management, electric, gas, telephone and cable
utilities;
         (m)   Layout, number and dimension of all lots and outlots with
proposed setback lines;
         (n)   Location, delineation and elevation of all floodway and floodway
fringe areas within the boundaries of the subdivision;
         (o)   Proposed finished floor elevation of all building pads adjacent
to or within the floodplain;
         (p)   Drainage plan for all watersheds in and around the proposed
subdivision, indicating the general drainage pattern of streets and lots, the
location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage structures, the
proposed method of disposing of all storm water runoff from the proposed
subdivision including data to show that the proposed outlet(s) are adequate to
accommodate the drainage requirements of the subdivision, and all existing and
proposed detention facilities;
         (q)   Names of all legal ditches and streams on or adjacent to the
subdivision;
         (r)   A preliminary erosion control plan for all areas of site
disturbance;
         (s)   Topographic contour every two feet superimposed upon the
proposed subdivision plat; provided that, the Building Commissioner may require
one-foot intervals on very flat land or permit five- foot intervals on very
steep slopes;
         (t)   All improvements to the street system on-site and off-site,
including measurement of curb radius and taper;
         (u)   Sidewalk plan (or alternate plan for pedestrian ways, when
applicable);
         (v)   Preliminary plans and specifications for all infrastructure
improvements and installations required or proposed in the subdivision;
         (w)   The approximate location, dimensions and area of all parcels of
land proposed to be reserved for park, conservation, wetland, common area, lake
or other similar uses for the use of property owners within the proposed
subdivision;
         (x)   Method and depiction of access for each lot or outlot (i.e.,
direct public street, private street, blanket easement or specifically located
easement);
         (y)   Designation of common site facilities to benefit all lots or
outlots (i.e., parking areas, loading areas, interior access drives, private
streets, storm water management, sanitary sewer, water, electric, gas,
telephone, cable and the like);
         (z)   Proposed covenants, commitments, conditions and restrictions for
the subdivision;
         (aa)   If the subdivision is to be developed in sections, an
indication of the approximate section boundaries;
         (bb)   A proposed address plan for the subdivision consistent with the
address patterns established for the town and the county;
         (cc)   A traffic impact study (when a proposed development meets or
exceeds the warrants of the INDOT Traffic Impact Study Guidelines (i.e., 150 or
more dwelling units; 15,000 square feet or more of retail space; 35,000 or more
square feet of office space; 70,000 square feet or more square feet of
industrial space; 30,000 square feet or more of educational space; 120 or more
occupied rooms; 46,000 or more square feet of medical space; or any mixed use
development which generates 100 or more peak hour trips in the peak direction),
or as requested and justified in writing by the Building Commissioner; and
         (dd)   Any other information requested in writing by the Building
Commissioner, Town Engineer or the Plan Commission deemed important to the
development of the subdivision.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the requirements listed above for a primary plat of a non-
residential subdivision, as circumstances dictate.
   (F)   Plans required for primary approval of non-residential incremental
subdivisions. A primary plat application which proposes to utilize the
incremental secondary plat approval process shall, in addition to the items
specified above for the primary approval of non-residential subdivisions,
include the following items:
      (1)   An indication of the approximate or conceptual boundaries of lots
or outlots to be developed and submitted for secondary plat approval on an
incremental basis; and
      (2)   Indication of the staging or phasing of the extension of required
improvements and installations to service each lot, outlot or phase of
development, including, but not limited to, public or private street
extensions, storm water management, sanitary sewer, water, electric, gas,
telephone and cable.
   (G)   Plans for secondary approval of subdivisions.
      (1)   All sheets shall be of such size as is acceptable for filing in the
office of the County Recorder (no larger than 18 inches by 24 inches).
      (2)   All plans submitted for secondary plat approval shall be prepared
by a state licensed land surveyor and shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Name of Subdivision (and section number, if applicable);
         (b)   Name of the surveyor and developer;
         (c)   Surveyor’s stamp, address and phone number on all pages, except
pages showing only covenants or special conditions;
         (d)   Scale, date and north arrow;
         (e)   Legal description of the real estate to be subdivided;
         (f)   Wherever lines are required to have a dimension in these
regulations, the length of all required lines shall be specified in feet and
two decimal places thereof and the value of all required true bearings shall be
specified in degrees, minutes and seconds;
         (g)   Name of each public or private street within and adjacent to the
subdivision. For each street, include lengths and bearings for the centerline
and rights-of-way;
         (h)   Notarized certification by owner(s) of all real estate subject
to the subdivision clearly and precisely stating whether the improvements
contained within the subdivision are to be dedicated to and maintained by the
town, or whether said improvements are to be owned and maintained by a private
entity or owners association;
         (i)   Clear outline of any property which is offered for dedication to
public use shall be depicted with all dimensions by lengths and bearings with
the area marked “public”, “common area” or other appropriate title;
         (j)   The lines of all lots or outlots shall be fully depicted by
lengths and bearings;
         (k)   Any building setback lines in excess of those required by
Ch. 194 of this code of ordinances required for the subdivision;
         (l)   Location, delineation and elevation of all floodway and floodway
fringe areas within the boundaries of the subdivision;
         (m)   Proposed finished floor elevation of all building pads adjacent
to or within the floodplain;
         (n)   Names of all legal ditches and streams on or adjacent to the
subdivision;
         (o)   All utility easements as approved by the Plan Commission;
         (p)   Signature and certification of the President and Secretary of
the Plan Commission on all pages;
         (q)   All covenants, commitments, conditions and restrictions that
are:
            1.   Either imposed by the Plan Commission or offered by the owner;
and
            2.   Which the Plan Commission accepts the right to enforce.
         (r)   In the case of a re-plat, the recording information of any
previously recorded subdivision shall be shown on the front page of the plat;
         (s)   Address of each lot as approved by the Plan Commission or the
Building Commissioner; and
         (t)   In the case of a secondary plat approval of a lot in a non-
residential incremental subdivision, the subdivider shall submit one copy of an
overall plan for all real estate contained in the primary plat updated to show:
all previously approved lots, rights-of-way or easements; and the proposed lot.
   (H)   Construction plans. Construction plans for all improvements,
installations and lot improvements required by this chapter, the Plan
Commission, other applicable ordinances or adopted standards of the town,
including, but not limited to, street base, street binder, curbs, sanitary
sewer, storm drainage, street topcoat, street signs, sidewalks, monumentation,
lot drainage, soil preservation, erosion control, fencing, debris and waste
removal, and final grading and lawn preparation shall contain the details
required for review of such improvements, installations and lot improvements as
specified in the applicable ordinance or adopted standards of the town.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.037 COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General. All improvements, installations and lot improvements required
by this chapter shall either be complete or assurance for their completion and
maintenance shall be provided as set forth below, for all subdivisions which
involve the dedication and extension of any easement or public improvement, or
the acceptance of any easement or public improvement by the town. Minor
residential subdivisions which do not involve the dedication and extension of
any easement or public improvement shall be exempt from the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   Completion of improvements, installations and lot improvements. Before
the secondary plat is signed by the President and Secretary of the Plan
Commission, the subdivider shall complete, in accordance with the Plan
Commission’s decision and to the satisfaction of the town, all public
improvements (including, but not limited to, street, street signs, sanitary
sewer, storm drainage, sidewalk and water) and lot improvements (including, but
not limited to, erosion control, final grading and soil preservation, lot
drainage, removal of debris and waste, fencing and lawn seeding or sodding), as
required by this chapter and specified in the secondary plat approved pursuant
to this chapter, and dedicate the public improvements to the town, free and
clear of all liens and encumbrances on the dedicated property and public
improvements.
   (C)   Surety for improvements, installations and lot improvements.
      (1)   Before the secondary plat is signed by the President and Secretary
of the Plan Commission, the subdivider shall post a performance bond or
irrevocable letter of credit in a form acceptable to the Plan Commission in
which the subdivider covenants to complete all required sanitary sewer, water
system, street base, binder and curbs and storm drainage improvements no later
than two years following the date on which the President and Secretary of the
Plan Commission sign and certify the secondary plat, and to complete all other
required improvements, installations and lot improvements, including, but not
limited to, sidewalks, erosion control, fencing, debris and waste removal, soil
preservation, lot drainage, final grading and lawn preparation, street signs,
monumentation and street topcoat improvements. The subdivider shall covenant to
maintain each required improvement and also shall warrant that all required
improvements will be free from defects for a period of three years following
the acceptance by the town of the dedication of the last completed improvement.
The performance bond shall provide that the covenants contained in the
performance bond shall run with the land and bind all heirs, executors,
administrators, successors and assigns of the subdivider. The performance bond
shall contain such other terms and conditions as agreed to by the subdivider
and the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The subdivider shall provide a performance bond or irrevocable
letter of credit before the seal of the Plan Commission is affixed and attached
to the secondary plat.
      (3)   A performance bond shall:
         (a)   Run jointly and severally to the Town Council and the Plan
Commission;
         (b)   Be in an amount equal to 100% of the cost, as established
pursuant to an estimate submitted to and approved by the town’s Engineer and
the Building Commissioner, for the completion of all improvements and
installations required by this chapter;
         (c)   Provide surety satisfactory to the Plan Commission;
         (d)   Be in effect until compliance with the terms and provisions of
the performance bond and the execution of a written release of performance bond
by the Building Commissioner;
         (e)   Specify that all improvements and installations shall be
completed in accordance with the requirements and specifications of this
chapter:
            1.   For single-family or two-family subdivisions, prior to the
time that single-family or two-family dwellings are upon 90% of the lots shown
upon the secondary plat or within three years after the date on which the
President of the Plan Commission and the Secretary sign said secondary plat,
whichever occurs first; or
            2.   For multi-family, business or industrial subdivisions, within
three years after the date on which the President of the Plan Commission and
the Secretary sign said secondary plat.
         (f)   Provide that, upon completion of said improvements and
installations, but prior to acceptance thereof for public maintenance by the
town, the subdivider shall provide a maintenance bond as required by this
chapter;
         (g)   Said performance bond shall be filed on bond or letter of credit
forms approved for use by the Plan Commission; and
         (h)   The beneficiary of all performance bonds shall be the Town
Council.
      (4)   An irrevocable letter of credit shall:
         (a)   Run jointly and severally to the Town Council and the Plan
Commission;
         (b)   Be in an amount equal to 100% of the cost, as established
pursuant to an estimate submitted to and approved by the Town Engineer and the
Building Commissioner, for the completion of all improvements and installations
required by this chapter;
         (c)   Provide surety satisfactory to the Plan Commission;
         (d)   Be in effect until:
            1.   The execution of a written release of irrevocable letter of
credit by the Building Commissioner;
            2.   Compliance with the terms and provisions of this chapter;
            3.   All improvements and installations have been completed in
accordance with the requirements and specifications of this chapter:
               a.   For single-family or two-family subdivisions, prior to the
time that single- family or two-family dwellings are upon 90% of the lots shown
upon the secondary plat or within three years after the date on which the
President of the Plan Commission and the Secretary sign said secondary plat,
whichever occurs first; or
               b.   For multi-family, business or industrial subdivisions,
within three years after the date on which the President of the Plan Commission
and the Secretary sign said secondary plat.
            4.   The provision by the subdivider of a maintenance bond as
required by this chapter prior to acceptance of improvements and installations
for public maintenance by the town.
         (e)   Said irrevocable letter of credit shall be filed on letter of
credit forms approved for use by the Plan Commission; and
         (f)   The beneficiary of all irrevocable letters of credit shall be
the Town Council.
   (D)   Proof of compliance.
      (1)   Upon completion of all improvements and installations as required
by this chapter, the subdivider shall furnish the Plan Commission with
appropriate documentation indicating that said improvements, installations and
lot improvements have been constructed, installed and completed in compliance
with the provisions of this chapter, the requirements of the Plan Commission
and the provisions of other applicable ordinances of the town.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall, by rule, prescribe the procedures for
determining whether all improvements, installations and lot improvements have
been constructed and completed as required by this chapter.
   (E)   Completion letter. Upon acceptance of a required improvement or
installation, the accepting agency or department of the town shall provide a
completion letter to the subdivider stating that the required improvements and
installations for which that agency or department is responsible have been
accepted for maintenance by the town, subject to the terms of a maintenance
bond, as required below, and shall file a copy of such completion letter with
the Building Commissioner of the town.
   (F)   Maintenance bond. Upon completion of all required improvements and
installations, but prior to the acceptance of such improvements and
installations for public maintenance, the subdivider shall provide a three-year
maintenance bond, with the subdivider or some other person satisfactory to the
Plan Commission as principal, which shall:
      (1)   Run jointly and severally to the Town Council and the Plan
Commission;
      (2)   Be in an amount equal to 10% of the amount of the performance bond
for the improvements and installations subject to the maintenance bond;
      (3)   Provide surety satisfactory to the Plan Commission;
      (4)   Warrant the workmanship and materials used in the construction,
installation and completion of said improvements and installations to be of
good quality and have been constructed and completed in a workmanlike manner in
accordance with the standards, specifications and requirements of this chapter
and the satisfactory construction plans and specifications therefor submitted
to the Building Commissioner of the town;
      (5)   Provide that, for a period of three years after formal acceptance,
the subdivider shall, at the subdivider’s expense, make all repairs to said
improvements and installations, or the foundations thereof, which may become
necessary by reason of improper workmanship or materials, but not including any
damage to said improvements and installations resulting from forces or
circumstances beyond the control of said subdivider or occasioned by the
inadequacy of the standards, specifications or requirements of this chapter;
      (6)   Maintenance bonds shall be filed on forms approved for use by the
Plan Commission; and
      (7)   The beneficiary of all maintenance bonds shall be the Town Council.
   (G)   Use of bond funds. Any funds received from the performance bonds for
subdivision improvements and installations or from the maintenance bonds for
the maintenance of improvements and installations required by this chapter
shall be used only for the purpose of making improvements, installations or
repair for which said bonds were provided in accordance with the standards,
specifications and requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   Deferral or waiver of required improvements.
      (1)   (a)   The Plan Commission shall have the authority to defer or
waive, in its discretion, at the time of primary plat approval and subject to
any appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all of the public
improvements required by this chapter which, in the judgement of the Plan
Commission, are:
            1.   Not required to protect the public health, safety and general
welfare;
            2.   Inappropriate because of incompatible grades, future planning,
the inadequacy or non-existence of connecting facilities; or
            3.   Inappropriate for other reasons presented to and agreed to by
the Plan Commission.
         (b)   Any determination to defer or waive the provisions of any public
improvements or installations required by this chapter shall be accomplished by
way of a motion, approved by a majority vote of the Plan Commission at a public
hearing, which motion shall include the reasons for the deferral or waiver.
      (2)   When the Plan Commission, in its discretion, determines that a
deferral of an improvement or installation is appropriate, the subdivider shall
post a separate performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit, in an amount
determined by the Plan Commission, guaranteeing completion of the deferred
improvements or installations upon demand by the town.
   (I)   Approval of construction plans. No construction of any improvement,
installation or lot improvement within a subdivision required by this chapter,
the Plan Commission or any other applicable ordinance of the town shall
commence prior to the approval of construction plans by the Town Engineer.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
DESIGN, RESERVATIONS AND IMPROVEMENTS
§ 193.050 GENERAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   In addition to the requirements established in this chapter, the
subdivider is required to follow other laws, rules and regulations, which have
been duly adopted under state law, which apply to all subdivision plats.
   (B)   In particular, the subdivider is required to comply with the following
laws, rules and regulations:
      (1)   All applicable state and local statutory provisions;
      (2)   The town’s Zoning Ordinance, Building and Housing Codes and all
other applicable laws and ordinances of the appropriate jurisdictions;
      (3)   The Comprehensive Plan, transportation plan, capital improvements
program, including all streets, drainage systems and parks shown on the
Comprehensive Plan;
      (4)   The special requirements of this chapter and any applicable rules
of the county’s Health Department and appropriate state agencies;
      (5)   The standards, rules and regulations of the state’s Department of
Transportation, if the subdivision or any lot contained therein abut a state
highway or frontage street;
      (6)   The standards and specifications adopted by the town’s Engineer and
all boards, commissions, agencies and officials of the town; and
      (7)   All pertinent standards contained within still valid planning
guides published and adopted by the Plan Commission.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.051 LOTS.
   (A)   Lot arrangement.
      (1)   The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be no foreseeable
difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in securing
improvement location permits or building permits to build on all lots in
compliance with the town’s Zoning Ordinance, Building Code or other applicable
local, state or federal regulations.
      (2)   The design, character, grade, location and orientation of all lots
shall be appropriate for the uses proposed and logically related to existing
and proposed topography.
      (3)   Every lot shall have sufficient and adequate access to a street
constructed, or to be constructed, in accordance with the provisions, standards
and specifications of this chapter.
   (B)   Block and lot numbering.
      (1)   Blocks shall be consecutively numbered or lettered in alphabetical
order. The blocks in numbered additions to subdivisions bearing the same name
shall be numbered and lettered consecutively throughout the several additions.
      (2)   (a)   All lots in each block shall be consecutively numbered.
Outlots shall be lettered in alphabetical order.
         (b)   If blocks are numbered or lettered, outlots shall be lettered in
alphabetical order within each block.
   (C)   Lot dimensions.
      (1)   Lot dimensions, including, but not limited to, lot width, lot depth
and lot area, shall comply with the minimum standards of the applicable zoning
ordinance, zoning commitment, variance grant or development plan approval.
      (2)   Land reserved for any proposed street, detention facility, drainage
pond, watercourse, wetland or lands subject to periodic flooding (floodway),
shall not be included in the lot area.
      (3)   In general, lots shall be arranged so that:
         (a)   Side lot lines are at right angles to street lines (or radial to
curving street lines) unless a deviation from this rule will give a better
street or lot plan;
         (b)   Dimensions of corner lots shall be large enough to allow for the
erection of buildings while observing the minimum required front yard setback
applicable on each street frontage; and
         (c)   Commercial or industrial lots shall be of adequate size and
configuration to provide for off-street parking, off-street loading,
bufferyards and other applicable requirements of Ch. 194 of this code of
ordinances.
   (D)   Lot orientation. The lot line common to the street right-of-way line
shall be the front lot line. All lots shall, whenever practical, face the front
lot line. Whenever feasible, lots shall be arranged so that the rear lot lines
do not abut the side lot line of an adjacent lot.
   (E)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage lots shall be avoided whenever
practical. Double frontage lots may be acceptable when necessary to provide for
the separation of a development and its related access points from the traffic
on a bordering primary or secondary street or to overcome specific
disadvantages of topography and orientation affecting the subdivision.
   (F)   Triple frontage lots. Triple frontage lots (those lots which have
frontage on three streets) shall be prohibited.
   (G)   Lot access. Lots shall not, in general, derive access exclusively from
a primary or secondary street. Where a driveway from a primary or secondary
street is determined to be necessary, the Plan Commission may require that such
driveway be developed as a common driveway or frontage street in order to limit
possible traffic hazards on the primary or secondary street. Where possible,
driveways shall be designed and arranged so as to avoid requiring or
encouraging vehicles to back into traffic on primary or secondary streets.
   (H)   Lot drainage. All lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive
drainage away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be
coordinated with the general storm water drainage pattern for the subdivision.
Drainage shall be designed so as to avoid the concentration of storm water
runoff from a lot onto adjacent lots. Each lot owner shall maintain the lot
grade, as it relates to storm water drainage, in compliance with the approved
construction plans.
   (I)   Debris and waste. No junk, rubbish or other waste materials of any
kind, whether natural (i.e., cut trees, debris or rocks) or construction
related (i.e., concrete or building materials) shall be buried in any land at
any time, nor shall these materials be left or deposited on any lot or street
at the time of the release of the maintenance bond. No items and materials
described above shall be left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at
the time of dedication of public improvements.
   (J)   Soil preservation, final grading and lawn preparation.
      (1)   No final certificate of occupancy shall be issued until final
grading and seeding or sodding has been completed for the entire lot including
the area between the street curb and the sidewalk in accordance with approved
construction plans, except those portions of the lot covered by buildings,
parking areas, interior access drives or other improvements authorized by
improvement location permit, or where the grade has not been changed and
natural vegetation has not been damaged.
      (2)   It is recommended that all lawn areas not provided with automatic
irrigation systems should be seeded or sodded during the planting seasons of
between March 15 and May 15, or between August 15 and September 30 of each
year.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner may issue a temporary certificate of
occupancy between October 1 and March 15, or between May 15 and August 15 of
each year conditioned upon the completion of seeding or sodding during the next
planting season.
   (K)   Waterbodies and watercourses.
      (1)   No part of the lot area of any lot may contain land that is
utilized as a detention facility, drainage pond, contains a watercourse, or is
within a floodway.
      (2)   Where a watercourse separates the buildable area of the lot from
the street by which it has access, provisions shall be made for the
installation of a culvert or other appropriate structure, of a design approved
by the town’s Engineer.
      (3)   If a subdivision contains an existing or to be developed waterbody,
watercourse or portion thereof, appropriate documentary assurances acceptable
to the Plan Commission shall be provided for the maintenance of such waterbody
or watercourse.
   (L)   Fencing. The Plan Commission may, in its discretion, require the
subdivider to install fencing on or around such lot, block, common area or
other portion of a proposed subdivision in order to mitigate a potential
hazard. Fencing so required shall be installed in accordance with standards
required by the Plan Commission and approved by the town’s Engineer.
   (M)   Building setback lines. Minimum building setback lines shall be
regulated by the setback provisions of Ch. 194 of this code of ordinances
applicable to the subdivision. Setbacks in excess of such zoning ordinance
standards may be platted, however, such excess setback requirements will not be
enforced by the Plan Commission unless such excess setback requirement is part
of a zoning commitment, variance grant or development plan approval.
   (N)   Lot addressing.
      (1)   Addresses for all lots within a subdivision shall conform as
closely as practical to the address grid pattern established for the town. The
east/west baseline grid shall be Main Street. The north/south baseline grid
shall be Oak Street. Wherever possible, the grid pattern for new subdivisions
shall be laid out so as to reserve one address number for each 20 feet of
frontage of a lot. Addresses shall conform to the nearest number which
approximates the location of the proposed driveway, building or entrance
doorway on a lot. Numbers assigned to the west side of north/south streets and
the north side of east/west streets shall be even numbers. Numbers assigned to
east side of north/south streets and the south side of east/west streets shall
be odd numbers.
      (2)   Any areas within the planning jurisdiction of the town, but which
falls under the county address system, shall adapt the above guidelines to the
address grid for the county.
   (O)   Overhead power transmission line easements. No part of the lot area of
any lot may contain land that is utilized as or in an overhead power
transmission line easement for purposes of calculating density of a open space
subdivision.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000) (Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-8-2007)
§ 193.052 STREETS.
   (A)   Classification. All proposed primary subdivision plats submitted for
Plan Commission approval pursuant to this chapter shall allocate adequate areas
for streets in conformity with the Comprehensive Plan (and its component, the
transportation plan), and shall designate and label all such streets thereon in
accordance with the street classifications set forth below.
 
Street Classifications
Collector street
Local street
Primary arterial street
Private street
Secondary arterial street
 
   (B)   General requirements for street design. All streets, whether public or
private, shall comply with the following general requirements for street
design.
      (1)   Street names. Streets which are extensions or a continuation of, or
obviously in alignment with, any existing streets, either constructed or
appearing on any validly recorded primary plat or survey, or valid plat
previously approved by the Plan Commission, shall bear the names of such
existing streets. Names for all other streets shall be sufficiently different
in sound and in spelling from other streets in the town or other nearby areas
so as to avoid confusion.
      (2)   Alleys. Alleys may be proposed in such instances where the use of
alleys was indicated on a development plan approved by the Plan Commission, or
where the development represents an in-fill situation and the use of alleys
would be compatible with the development pattern of the area surrounding the
proposed subdivision.
      (3)   Access to areas abutting thoroughfares. If the proposed subdivision
abuts upon or contains an existing or proposed primary arterial street, or
secondary arterial street, the street plan shall provided vehicular access to
each lot abutting such streets by one of the following means:
         (a)   A frontage street running generally parallel to the primary or
secondary arterial street and whose right-of-way is separate from the right-of-
way of such primary or secondary arterial street;
         (b)   A local or collector street running generally parallel to the
primary or secondary arterial street with the rear of the lots backing up to a
common area, with a minimum width of 20 feet, paralleling the primary or
secondary arterial street and no access shall be provided to the primary or
secondary arterial street; or
         (c)   A series of cul-de-sac streets, u-shaped streets or short loop
streets entered from and design-ed generally at right angles to a local or
collector street running generally parallel to the primary or secondary
arterial street, with the rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto a
common area, with a minimum width of 20 feet, paralleling the primary or
secondary arterial street.
      (4)   Secondary means of access. Any major residential subdivision which
contains 30 or more lots shall:
         (a)   Provide a secondary means of access to an improved perimeter
public street; or
         (b)   Provide a divided collector street as the means of access to an
improved perimeter public street.
      (5)   Dead end streets. Permanently dead-end streets (except for cul-de-
sac streets provided in compliance with the provisions of this chapter) shall
be prohibited. A temporary dead-end street may be permitted in any case in
which a street is proposed to be and should logically be extended beyond the
limits of the subdivision, but is not yet constructed beyond said subdivision
limits. The right-of-way of a temporary dead-end street shall extend to the
property line of the subdivision. An adequate easement for turnaround shall be
provided for any such temporary dead-end street which extends 250 feet or more,
with a temporary turnaround provided. A notation on the plat shall state that
the land outside the normal street right-of-way shall revert to the abutting
lots and property owners when the street is continued, constructed and, if a
public street, accepted by the town.
      (6)   Frontage on improved streets.
         (a)   No subdivision shall be approved unless the area to be
subdivided shall have frontage on and gain access from:
            1.   An existing town, county or state street; or
            2.   A street shown upon a plat approved by the Plan Commission and
recorded in the office of the county’s Recorder.
         (b)   Such street must be improved as required by the rules,
regulations or specifications of the responsible agency, or be secured by a
performance bond as required by this chapter, with the width of the right-of-
way and pavement to be in compliance with the transportation plan and this
chapter.
      (7)   Grading and improvement plan. Streets shall be graded and improved
to conform with the standard construction details and specifications set forth
in the town’s construction standards and in Table 3.3-A: Minimum Design
Standards for Streets. Such standard construction details and specifications
shall be indicated on construction plans required prior to secondary plat
approval and shall be approved as to design and specification by the town’s
Engineer.
      (8)   Topography and arrangement.
         (a)   Streets shall be appropriately related to site topography. All
streets shall, wherever practical, be arranged so as to maximize the number of
lots located at, or above, the street grades. Street grades shall conform as
closely as possible to the original topography. A combination of steep grades
and sharp curves shall be avoided wherever practical.
         (b)   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of-way as established in
the transportation plan.
         (c)   Local streets shall be laid out to conform to as much as
possible to the topography, to discourage use by through traffic, to permit
efficient drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of
streets necessary to provide convenient, safe and efficient access to the
subdivision.
         (d)   Proposed collector streets shall, where appropriate, be extended
to the boundary lines of the subdivision unless such extension is prevented by
topography or other physical conditions, or unless, in the opinion of the Plan
Commission, such extension is not necessary or desirable for the purpose of
coordinating with existing street layouts or providing for the most
advantageous development of future tracts.
         (e)   Streets, access drives, driveways, interior access driveways and
interior access drives shall be planned in connection with the groupings of
buildings, and the provision of public or private alleys, truck loading areas
and truck maneuvering areas, walkways, bikeways and parking areas so as to
minimize conflict of movement between the various types of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic.
      (9)   Street signs, pavement markings and traffic-control signs. The
subdivider shall provide street signs at every street intersection within the
subdivision. The subdivider shall also provide pavement markings and traffic-
control signs at required locations. All street signs, pavement markings and
traffic-control signs shall conform to the town’s construction standards and
the state’s Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and Highways,
as published by the state’s Department of Transportation.
      (10)   Street lights. The subdivider shall provide and install street
lights within the subdivision to conform with the town’s construction standards
for street lights. Street light plans shall be approved by the Town Council.
      (11)   Reserve strips. Except where specifically authorized by the Plan
Commission for the purpose of minimizing traffic conflicts with primary or
secondary arterial streets or railroads, the creation of reserve strips
adjacent to the right-of-way which may be used to deny access to a street shall
not be permitted.
      (12)   Arrangement of streets. In order to provide for the convenient
movement of traffic, effective fire protection, efficient provision of
utilities or where such connection is in accordance with the Comprehensive
Plan, streets shall be arranged so as to provide for the continuation of
collector streets and larger streets between adjacent subdivisions.
      (13)   Intersection guidelines.
         (a)   At street and alley intersections, property line corners shall
be rounded by an arc, the minimum radius of which shall be 20 feet or by chords
of such arcs.
         (b)   Local street intersections shall be rounded by a back-of-curb
radii of at least 25 feet. A minimum back-of-curb radius of 40 feet shall be
used at any intersection that includes a primary arterial, secondary arterial
or collector street.
         (c)   Intersections of more than two streets at one point will not be
allowed, unless specifically approved by the Plan Commission.
         (d)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet shall
not be permitted.
         (e)   All streets shall intersect at 90 degrees whenever possible for
a minimum distance of 100 feet; however, in no instance shall they intersect at
less than 75 degrees. If the intersection of two streets is less than 90
degrees, the back-of-curb radius of the arc at the intersection of the property
lines noted above shall be increased as deemed advisable by the town’s Engineer
and approved by the Plan Commission.
      (14)   Cul-de-sac streets. The vehicle turnaround/terminus head or bulb
of cul-de-sac streets, when approved by the Plan Commission, shall not be
located nearer to a subdivision boundary than 50 feet. The 50-foot distance
shall be measured from all points around the circumference of the terminus head
or bulb or the cul-de-sac street as illustrated below. All cul-de-sac streets
shall be provided with adequate rights-of-way and pavement width in accordance
with the design specifications set forth in the town’s construction standards
and Table 3.3-A: Minimum Design Standards for Streets. The Plan Commission may,
however, require the provision of appropriate easements between the end of the
cul-de-sac street and the subdivision boundary necessary to accommodate
drainage facilities, pedestrian ways or utilities. In no event shall a cul-de-
sac street measure more than 800 feet in length, measured from centerline of an
intersecting street (excluding another cul-de-sac) to the center point of the
radius of the vehicle turnaround.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-705.jpg]
 
      (15)   New perimeter streets. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be
laid out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half-streets. Where an
existing half-street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the
street shall be improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The Plan Commission
may authorize a new perimeter street around a proposed subdivision where the
subdivider improves and dedicates the entire required right-of-way width within
the boundary of said proposed subdivision.
      (16)   Widening and realignment, additional right-of-way widening of an
existing street or a proposed future street.
         (a)   Where a subdivision boarders an existing street or when the
transportation plan indicates plans for realignment, additional right-of-way
widening of an existing street, or a proposed future street that would require
use of some of the land in the subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to
dedicate that portion of such existing street which is contained within the
land subject to the secondary plat of the subdivision to the full width
required by this chapter. The improvement of such street shall be as required
by the design and construction standards for the town’s Plan Commission. Minor
plats within the village residence or village business districts shall only be
required to dedicate that additional or proposed right-of-way as indicated in
the transportation plan as a collector street or higher classification.
         (b)   Land reserved for any street purposes shall not be counted in
satisfying the minimum yard or lot area requirements of Ch. 194 of this code of
ordinances.
      (17)   Dedication. All public streets shall be dedicated to the town on
the secondary plat free and clear of all liens and encumbrances by use of the
following language: “All streets shown on this plat, and not heretofore
dedicated, are hereby dedicated to the Town of Zionsville, Indiana.”
      (18)   Required restrictive covenants. The following divisions (B)(18)(a)
and (B)(18)(b) shall be required as provisions of restrictive covenants of all
secondary plats to which they apply.
         (a)   No building, structure or improvement, including landscaping,
shall be erected, placed, planted or maintained so as to interfere with a
vision clearance area located between the heights of two and one-half feet and
nine feet above the crown of a street, driveway or alley. A vision clearance
area shall be established for all streets, whether public or private, in one of
the following manners:
            1.   At the intersection of streets, vision clearance areas are
formed at each corner by the street right-of-way lines and a line connecting
points on the right-of-way lines located 25 feet away from the intersection of
such street right-of-way lines. In the case of a round or corner-cut right-of-
way, the measurement shall be taken from the intersection of the right-of-way
lines extended; or
            2.   At the intersection of a street with a driveway or alley,
vision clearance areas shall be formed by the intersection of the street right-
of-way line and the driveway surface edge or the right-of-way of the alley and
a line connecting points ten feet from the intersection of such street right-
of-way line and the driveway surface edge or alley right-of-way.
         (b)   No driveway shall be located within 75 feet of the intersection
of the two streets.
   (C)   Design standards for all public streets. In order to provide for
streets which are of a suitable location, width, material and improvement to
accommodate prospective traffic and afford satisfactory access to police,
firefighting, snow removal, sanitation and road maintenance equipment, and to
coordinate streets so as to compose a convenient system and avoid undue
hardships to adjoining properties, all streets which are to be dedicated to,
and accepted for maintenance by the town shall be designed and constructed in
accordance with:
      (1)   Design standards for streets of the design and construction
standards for the town;
      (2)   American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials
(AASHTO): A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets (commonly
referred to as the “Green Book”);
      (3)   State’s Department of Transportation standard specifications; and
      (4)   State’s Manual on Uniform Traffic-Control Devices for Streets and
Highways.
   (D)   Excess right-of-way. Right-of-way widths in excess of those
recommended by the transportation plan and required by this chapter shall be
required whenever, due to topography, additional width is necessary to provide
for adequate and stable earthen side slopes. Such earthen side slopes shall not
be in excess of one foot vertical for each three feet horizontal.
   (E)   Bridges. Bridges of primary benefit to the subdivider, as determined
by the Plan Commission, shall be constructed at the full expense of the
subdivider without reimbursement from the town. The sharing of expense for the
construction of bridges not of primary benefit to the subdivider, as determined
by the Plan Commission, will be fixed by special agreement between the town and
the subdivider.
   (F)   Design standards for all private streets. Private streets (which are
not intended to be dedicated to or accepted by the town for maintenance), which
have been authorized for use by zoning commitment, variance grant or
development plan approval, shall comply with the minimum pavement width
standards set forth in §
194.108 of this code of ordinances and the minimum depth and materials
standards set forth in the town’s construction standards.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.053 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Sidewalk location. Sidewalks shall be required for all public streets,
including any perimeter public streets along the outer boundaries of the
subdivision, and shall be located along each side of a public street within the
dedicated, non-paved portion of the street right-of-way. A grass landscape
strip, not less than six feet in width, shall exist between the outside edge of
the street curb and the inside edge of the sidewalk in order to provide a safe
separation between vehicular and pedestrian areas of the street right-of-way.
   (B)   Pedestrian/bike path alternative. Under circumstances considered
appropriate by the Plan Commission or when approved for use as part of a
development plan approval, an alternative pedestrian/bike path may be proposed
in lieu of sidewalks. Pedestrian/bike paths shall be a minimum of six feet in
width to a maximum of 18 feet in width and may be located in easements reserved
for such use outside of the street right-of-way.
   (C)   Sidewalk and pedestrian/bike path standards. Sidewalks shall be
constructed in compliance with the town’s construction standards. Pedestrian/
bike paths may be constructed of concrete, asphalt or other material approved
by the Plan Commission and installed in compliance with the requirements
specified by the Plan Commission and the town’s construction standards.
   (D)   Pedestrian access easements. In order to facilitate pedestrian access
from streets to schools, parks, playgrounds, open space or common areas, or
other nearby streets, the Plan Commission may require perpetual, unobstructed
pedestrian access easements at least 20 feet in width. Such pedestrian access
easements shall be indicated on the secondary plat.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.054 MONUMENTATION.
   (A)   General. The subdivider shall place permanent reference monuments in
the subdivision as required by this chapter and as approved by a state
registered land surveyor to provide interior and exterior control as well as
lot location within the subdivision. The control is to be established so as to
provide a record of the registered land surveyor who is responsible for the
location of the monumentation. All markers installed shall meet the spirit and
intent of this section while providing specific reference to the registration
number of the survey professional.
   (B)   Street monuments. The subdivider shall have set under the supervision
of a registered land surveyor appropriate permanent monuments at all angle
points and intersections of street centerlines providing horizontal street
control throughout the subdivision. Such permanent monuments shall be set as
soon as practical after the potential for damage by continued construction
activity has ended. The permanent monuments shall be presented complete and
correct in location at the time of subdivision acceptance.
   (C)   Subdivision boundary monuments. The subdivider shall have set under
the supervision of a registered land surveyor appropriate permanent monuments
at all corners, angle points or other horizontal control along the outside
boundary of the subdivision. Such permanent monuments shall be set following
the final grading and utility installation for each development phase or
section of the subdivision. The permanent monuments shall be presented complete
and correct in location at the time of subdivision acceptance.
   (D)   Standards for monuments. Standards for permanent monuments shall be as
follows: a five- eighths inch or larger diameter metal rod having a metal cap
on top showing either the responsible land surveyor’s registration number or
the state’s firm identification number (865 I.A.C. 1-12-18) and having:
      (1)   For street centerline demarcation: a length equal to the thickness
of the pavement;
      (2)   For other required monument locations: a length of 36 inches; and
      (3)   Each monument shall:
         (a)   Be installed so that the crossmark shall coincide with the point
being marked;
         (b)   Be set flush with the finished grade;
         (c)   Be detectable by a magnetic locator; and
         (d)   Be installed in such a manner that they will not be dislodged or
removed by frost heave.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.055 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   General drainage requirements.
      (1)   The Plan Commission shall not approve any subdivision which does
not make adequate provision for storm or flood water runoff channels or basins.
      (2)   The storm water drainage system shall be separate and independent
of any sanitary sewer system.
      (3)   Storm sewers, where required, shall be designed by the Rational
Method, or other methods as approved by the town’s Engineer, and a copy of the
design computations shall be submitted along with the construction plans.
      (4)   Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried
across or around any intersection, nor for a distance of greater than 400 feet
on local streets, 300 feet on collector streets, and as indicated by approved
calculations submitted to the town’s Engineer based upon a ten-year design
storm and maximum spread as provided by the town’s Engineer on primary or
secondary arterial streets. Additional inlets shall be required when
encroachment of storm water into the street disrupts traffic under the ten-year
design storm.
      (5)   The subdivider shall provide a grading plan at a maximum scale of
one inch equals 60 feet showing surface water drainage patterns on each lot and
street.
      (6)   The subdivider shall provide storm water conveyance facilities in
accordance with the town’s construction standards, and the Storm Water Drainage
Manual by Christopher B. Burke, Highway Extension and Research Project for
Indiana Counties and Cities, School of Engineering, Purdue University, West
Lafayette, Indiana.
   (B)   Nature of storm water facilities.
      (1)   Location.
         (a)   The subdivider may be required by the Plan Commission to carry
away, by pipe or open ditch, any spring or surface water that may exist, either
previously to, or as a result of the subdivision. Such drainage facilities
shall be located in the street right-of-way or in perpetual, unobstructed
easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed in accordance with the
town’s construction standards. Whenever a change of land use occurs,
concentrated storm water discharge to adjacent areas shall not be permitted
unless the discharge is conveyed through a suitable drainage feature to:
            1.   An approved outlet within the right-of-way;
            2.   An existing drainage easement;
            3.   A defined drainageway as approved by the town’s Engineer; or
            4.   An open ditch which appears as a dashed or solid blue line on
the 7.5 Minute Series Topographic Quadrangle Map as published by the United
States Geological Survey.
         (b)   The drainage feature used to convey the site discharge to the
approved outlet shall be located in the right-of-way or easement of appropriate
width.
      (2)   Public storm sewers.
         (a)   All storm water conveyance within or parallel to and adjacent to
the public right-of-way shall be fully contained in storm sewers with an
adequate and approved outlet. Residential subdivisions containing lots of less
than 15,000 square feet and non-residential subdivisions shall be provided with
storm sewers to convey all on-site drainage.
         (b)   However, on-site drainage swales with required conveyance
capacity of less than five cubic feet per second under the ten-year post-
development design storm may be allowed.
      (3)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert, storm sewer,
open ditch or other drainage facility shall, in each case, be large enough to
convey potential runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside
or outside the subdivision. The minimum conveyance provided for upstream, off-
site drainage areas shall be the runoff resulting from the 100-year storm over
the present state of upstream, off-site drainage areas. The conveyance provided
for upstream waters may be decreased to the extent that hydrograph routing and
detention on land controlled by the subdivider and dedicated to the town as a
drainage easement allows for decreased capacity; provided that, the runoff
resulting from the 100-year storm is staged less than one foot above the stage
on the natural drainage way at the interface of the development with the
upstream drainage area. Culvert capacities for conveyance under interior local,
collector and arterial streets without roadway overtopping shall be the runoff
resulting from the 25-year, 50-year and 100-year storms respectively over off-
site areas in present state and on-site areas in post development state.
Driveway culvert capacities shall be the capacities required for the street
classification to which the driveway connects. Greater culvert capacity shall
be required to protect the finished floor elevation of buildings from the post-
development 100-year storm when, in the opinion of the design engineer or the
town’s Engineer, the finished floor elevation is threatened. It is recommended
that drainage of loading docks or other building features which are proposed at
an elevation lower than adjacent roadways be considered with respect to culvert
drainage impacts.
      (4)   Effect on downstream drainage areas. The release rate of storm
water from development, redevelopment and new construction shall not exceed the
storm water runoff rate from the land in its present state of development.
      (5)   Areas of poor drainage. Areas which are not in the floodplain or
are not an identified wetland, but which contain soils subject to flooding, may
be approved for subdivision by the Plan Commission; provided that, the
subdivider fills the affected areas of said subdivision to an elevation
sufficient to place building sites and streets two feet above the ponding
levels.
      (6)   Areas of high seasonal water tables. In areas characterized by
soils having a high seasonal water table as determined by the county’s Soil and
Water Conservation District, lots shall be limited to slab type construction
unless the Plan Commission determines that appropriate engineering techniques
will be applied to alleviate the subsurface problem.
      (7)   Special flood hazard areas. If any portion of a proposed
subdivision lies within the floodplain, the subdivision shall comply with this
chapter.
   (C)   Dedication of drainage easements.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, drainageway,
channel or stream, a storm water easement or drainage right-of-way shall be
provided granting or dedicating to the town said area in an amount conforming
substantially to the lines of such watercourse, and of such width and
construction as will be adequate for the purpose of accommodating drainage and
providing for the maintenance of the right-of-way.
         (b)   Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage be
maintained as an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for
maximum potential volume of flow.
         (c)   All storm water easements and drainage rights-of-way which are
to be dedicated to the town on the secondary plat shall use the following
language: “All storm water easements and drainage rights-of-way shown on this
plat are hereby dedicated to the Town of Zionsville, Indiana.”
      (2)   Drainage easements.
         (a)   Where topography or other conditions are such as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within street rights-of-way,
perpetual, unobstructed easements for drainage facilities measuring at least 15
feet in width shall be provided across property outside of street right-of-way
lines. All drainage easements shall provide access to a public street. Drainage
easements shall extend from the street to a natural watercourse or to other
drainage facilities.
         (b)   The subdivider shall dedicate, either in fee or by drainage or
conservation easement to the town, land on both sides of existing watercourses
of a width to be determined by the Plan Commission and, in the case of legal
drains, by the county’s Drainage Board.
         (c)   When a proposed drainage system will carry water across private
land outside the subdivision, appropriate drainage rights satisfactory to the
Plan Commission shall have been secured and indicated on the secondary plat.
         (d)   Low-lying land along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during storm periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as
drainageways. Such land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be
counted in satisfying the minimum yard or lot area requirement of
Ch. 194 of this code of ordinances.
         (e)   All drainage easements shall be indicated on the secondary plat
and which are to be dedicated to the town shall use the following language:
“All drainage easements shown on this plat are hereby dedicated to the Town of
Zionsville, Indiana.”
   (D)   Connection to town drainage utilities. Whenever practical, all
subdivisions within the town shall connect to drainage utilities provided by
the town. In those instances where the Plan Commission determines that
connection to town drainage utilities would pose an unusual or unnecessary
hardship at the time of development, the Plan Commission may make a
recommendation to the Town Council to approve a connection to another public or
semi-public drainage utility; provided, however, that, all drainage facilities
are installed to the town’s construction standards or alternative standards
approved by the town’s Engineer and provision is made in the design and layout
of the drainage facilities for connection to the town drainage utilities at
such time as the town extends drainage utility facilities to the subdivision.
   (E)   Maintenance responsibility for detention/retention facilities. The
subdivider shall be responsible for the maintenance of all detention and
retention facilities during construction. After construction, the owner of the
real estate shall be responsible for the maintenance of all detention and
retention facilities. Assignment of the responsibility for maintaining a
detention or retention facility which serves more than one lot or land holding
shall be permitted only where such assignment of maintenance responsibility for
the detention or retention facilities has been documented by properly executed
and recorded covenants or deed restrictions.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.056 WATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   The subdivider shall take all actions necessary to extend or create
a water supply system capable of providing for domestic water use and fire
protection.
      (2)   Prior to obtaining secondary plat approval, the subdivider shall
obtain approval in writing from the Indianapolis Water Company or the
applicable water utility (“IWC”), that the proposed extension or creation of a
water supply system for the applicable subdivision meets all IWC requirements
for the adequacy of the water supply and the design of the facilities, and that
the IWC shall supply water facilities to the subdivision.
      (3)   The location of all fire hydrants, water supply improvements and
boundary lines of proposed districts indicating all improvements proposed to be
served, shall be shown on the primary plat and the cost of installing all fire
hydrants and water supply improvements shall be included in the performance
bond furnished by the subdivider.
      (4)   Fire hydrants with isolation valves shall be provided along all
water mains at a spacing of every 350 feet to 450 feet. Actual spacing shall be
determined by the town’s Engineer and the town’s Fire Department Chief based
upon the land use being served and the physical characteristics of the land and
buildings served.
      (5)   All water easements which are to be dedicated on the secondary plat
shall use the following language: “All water easements shown on this plat are
hereby dedicated to the Indianapolis Water Company”, or applicable water
utility.
      (6)   The subdivider shall provide water facilities in accordance with
the standards set forth by the IWC. The design shall be approved by the
appropriate town, local, state and federal agencies where required by those
agencies.
   (B)   Individual wells and central water systems.
      (1)   In the O-1 District, if a public water system is not available, the
Plan Commission, in its discretion, may approve the use of individual wells or
a central water system provided in such a manner that an adequate supply of
potable water will be available to every lot in the subdivision. Water sample
test results shall be submitted to the county’s Health Department for approval.
      (2)   All individual wells and central water systems shall be approved by
the county’s Health Department or the state’s Board of Health prior to the
issuance of an improvement location permit for any building or structure on a
lot.
      (3)   In those instances where the Plan Commission determines that
connection to IWC water facilities would pose an unusual or unnecessary
hardship at the time of development, the Plan Commission may make a
recommendation to the Town Council to approve a connection to another public or
semi-public water utility; provided, however, that, such water facilities are
installed to IWC standards or alternative standards approved by the town’s
Engineer and IWC, and provision is made in the design and layout of the water
facilities for connection to the IWC water facilities at such time as the IWC
extends public water facilities to the subdivision.
      (4)   The minimum standard for fire protection for residential areas
served by either individual wells or central water systems shall be 500 gallons
per minute in excess of the design maximum hourly flow at 20 pounds per square
inch at grade level at all points in the distribution system. A separate fire
protection main served by untreated surface water or ground water will be
considered. Fire hydrants shall not be installed on water mains which are not
capable of delivering the flow and pressure specified by this division (B)(4).
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.057 SEWAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Sanitary sewers shall be located within street or alley rights-of-
way or in perpetual, unobstructed easements. When sanitary sewer facilities are
located in easements, access easements to all manholes shall be provided.
Whenever sewer lines in private easements cross a public street or alley right-
of-way, a manhole shall be provided in such public right-of-way.
      (2)   A minimum horizontal distance of ten feet shall be maintained
between parallel water lines and sewer lines. Perpendicular or angled crossings
of water and sewer lines shall generally be at a spacing of not less than 18
inches. If the minimum spacing cannot be met, special design details (such as
encasement in sleeves) may be approved by the town’s Engineer and the
Superintendent of the Zionsville Wastewater Treatment Plant for the town.
      (3)   Sanitary sewer capacity allocations shall be approved by the Town
Council.
      (4)   All sanitary sewer easements which are to be dedicated to the town
on the secondary plat shall use the following language: “All sanitary sewer
easements shown on this plat are hereby dedicated to the Town of Zionsville,
Indiana.”
      (5)   The subdivider shall provide sanitary sewer facilities in
accordance with the town’s construction standards, and the Great Lakes-Upper
Mississippi River Board of State Public Health and Environmental Managers,
Recommended Standards for Wastewater Facilities. The design shall be approved
by the appropriate town, local, state and federal agencies where required by
those agencies.
   (B)   Individual disposal system requirements.
      (1)   In the O-1 Zoning District, if a public or semi-public sewer system
is not available, the Plan Commission, in its discretion, may approve the use
of individual disposal systems for each lot.
      (2)   An individual disposal system shall be approved by the county’s
Health Department prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit for
any building or structure on a lot.
   (C)   Connection to town sanitary sewer utility.
      (1)   Sanitary sewer facilities, whenever practical, shall connect to a
public sanitary sewer facility provided by the town. In those instances where
the Plan Commission determines that connection to town sewer facilities would
pose an unusual or unnecessary hardship at the time of development, the Plan
Commission may make a recommendation to the Town Council to approve a
connection to another public or semi-public sewer utility; provided, however,
that, the sewer facilities are installed to the town’s construction standards
or alternative standards approved by the town’s Engineer, and provision is made
in the design and layout of the sewer facilities for connection to the town
sewer facilities at such time as the town extends public sewer facilities to
the subdivision.
      (2)   All semi-public sanitary sewer systems shall be approved by the
county’s Health Department or the state’s Board of Health prior to the issuance
of an improvement location permit for any building or structure on a lot.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.058 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Underground utility location required.
      (1)   All new utility facilities, including, but not limited to, gas,
electric, telephone and cable television shall be located underground
throughout the subdivision. Whenever practical, existing utility facilities
which are located above ground, except when existing in public street rights-
of-way, shall be removed and placed underground. All utility facilities
existing and proposed throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the plans
submitted for primary plat approval.
      (2)   Underground service connections at the street property line shall
be provided to each platted lot by the subdivider. At the discretion of the
Plan Commission, the requirement for individual service connections to each lot
may be waived in the case of adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership
and intended to be developed for the same primary use.
   (B)   Utility easements.
      (1)   As a general rule, utility easements shall be located along all
rear lot lines and those side lot lines reasonably necessary to provide access
to the utilities for maintenance and repair. Such combined utility easements
shall provide an aggregate easement width of 20 feet, unless an alternative
size is required by the town’s Engineer or the applicable utility provider.
      (2)   Utility easements located along a street right-of-way shall have a
minimum width of 20 feet.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.059 PUBLIC SITES.
   (A)   (1)   All Plats submitted under the provisions of this chapter may,
subject to Plan Commission approval, allocate adequate areas for park, school,
recreational or other public and semi-public sites, wherever necessary in
conformity with the Comprehensive Plan and as required by the Plan Commission.
      (2)   The location, shape, extent, orientation, use and access to such
areas shall be appropriate for each location based upon existing and proposed
site conditions as well as the needs of the proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Such areas shall be made available by one of the following methods:
      (1)   Dedication for public use;
      (2)   Reservation for use by the owners of land contained in the
subdivision by deed restriction or covenant which shall specify how and under
what circumstances the area or areas shall be used, developed and maintained;
      (3)   Reservation for acquisition by a governmental unit or agency;
provided, however, such area shall become available for private use if after
the expiration of a period of one year from the date of recording the secondary
plat:
         (a)   No governmental unit or agency proceeds with such acquisition
within such one-year period; or
         (b)   The appropriate governmental unit releases such area from
reservation and, the secondary plat indicated the nature and extent of the
private use into which such area may be placed if such area is not used by a
governmental unit as specified.
      (4)   Any area so reserved on the secondary plat, shall be clearly marked
on the plat as “Reserved for                     Purposes”.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.060 STREET LIGHTS AND STREET SIGNS; LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Street lights.
      (1)   The subdivider shall provide the subdivision with street lights to
be installed at subdivision entrance to perimeter streets, street intersections
throughout the subdivision and spaced at intervals no greater than 600 linear
feet and not less than 300 linear feet along a street or where deemed necessary
by the town for security, health and safety purposes.
      (2)   Street lighting plan shall be submitted for review and approval to
the applicable electric utility prior to the review and approval by the Plan
Commission as a part of the submittal of a primary plat.
      (3)   The subdivider shall be responsible for the up-front payment to the
applicable utility of all capitol costs associated with the purchase and
installation of street lights. Ongoing maintenance costs including, but not
limited to, bulb replacement, ballast replacement and painting charged by the
applicable utility associated with street lights shall be the responsibility of
either the subdivider or said costs shall be assigned to a homeowners'
association by the subdivider when development is complete, as appropriate.
Should painting/repainting not be included under a maintenance agreement with
the applicable utility, the subdivider or homeowners' association shall be
responsible for said repairs with the approval of the applicable utility. The
subdivider or homeowners' association shall be responsible for the energy/
electric bills for the operation of the street lights.
      (4)   Street lights shall be pole mounted, either standard gooseneck/
cobra arm with luminaire on pole or decorative post and luminaire, and shall
conform to the installation specifications of the applicable electric utility.
   (B)   Street signs.
      (1)   The subdivider shall be responsible for installing street signs at
each street intersection throughout the subdivision. Street signs shall be
installed in compliance with the town’s construction standards.
      (2)   The town shall be responsible for the placement of traffic-control
signs or signals where deemed necessary in the development by the town’s
Engineer and as approved by the Town Council.
      (3)   When the subdivision contains private streets, the subdivider shall
be required to post a sign at the entrance of the subdivision proclaiming the
name of the subdivision with the phrase “private streets” placed directly below
in letters of two inches in height.
   (C)   Street landscaping. Landscaping, in the form of street trees, shall be
required along all streets within a subdivision in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   Landscaping along all streets within a subdivision shall consist of
trees planted in accordance with one of the following alternatives.
         (a)   If deciduous shade (overstory) trees are used: there shall be
one tree planted at a maximum of every 40 feet on center along all streets
within the subdivision.
         (b)   If deciduous ornamental (understory) trees are used: there shall
be one tree planted at a maximum of every 25 feet on center of linear distance
along all streets within the subdivision.
      (2)   The minimum size of all required landscape plant materials, at the
time of planting, shall comply with the plant sizes listed in §
194.109 of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   Trees shall be planted within the public rights-of-way of streets
in conformance with §§ 100.01 through 100.10 and 100.25 through 100.34 of
Volume 1 of this code of ordinances. In the event that the location of trees
within the right-of-way would conflict with underground infrastructure or
utilities, the trees shall be planted within the front yard of the subdivision
lot abutting and paralleling the conflicting location.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000; Ord. 2025-01, passed 2-3-2025)
§ 193.061 EMERGENCY WARNING SIRENS.
   (A)   The provisions of this section are intended to promote public health,
safety and general welfare and assist in securing safety from fire, flood and
other danger.
   (B)   The purpose of the emergency warning siren is to provide an audible
alert of imminent severe weather to those individuals within the warning
devices effective range as described by the manufacturers when properly
installed. The audible warning is targeted at those individuals who may be away
from shelter and/or electronic media (television, radio, computer and the like)
at the time of severe weather. Upon hearing the emergency warning siren, it is
intended that individuals seek shelter and attempt to gain further information
from electronic media.
   (C)   An emergency warning siren shall be installed in any subdivision that
is to be located in an area of the town not covered adequately by an emergency
warning siren, as identified by the town’s Emergency Warning Siren Coverages
Map, dated 6-1-2001, as may be amended from time to time and incorporated
herein by reference. The subdivider shall be responsible for the installation
of an emergency warning siren within the subdivision. The construction and
installation of the emergency warning siren shall be in compliance with the
town’s construction standards. The location for or placement of the emergency
warning siren and the extent/radius of its coverage area, shall be determined
by the town’s Fire Department and Police Department during the review of a
primary plat and based upon coverage deficiencies identified by the Emergency
Warning Siren Coverages Map.
   (D)   Emergency warning sirens shall be located within platted easements
dedicated to the town or in common areas of the subdivision, with a maintenance
easement running to the town.
   (E)   Once installed by the subdivider and accepted by the town, all future
maintenance, repair or replacement of warning sirens shall be the
responsibility of the town.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
WAIVERS
§ 193.075 GENERAL.
   The Plan Commission may grant waivers to the requirements, standards and
specifications of this chapter as set forth below.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.076 WAIVERS OF SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE.
   Where the Plan Commission finds that extraordinary hardships or practical
difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations or the
purposes and intent of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by
an alternative proposal, it may approve waivers to the standards and
specifications set forth in this chapter so that substantial justice may be
done and the public interest served; provided that, such waivers shall not have
the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.077 WAIVER GUIDELINES.
   The Plan Commission shall not approve waivers unless it shall make written
findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
   (A)   The granting of the waiver will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health or welfare, or injurious to other property;
   (B)   The conditions upon which the request for a waiver is based are unique
to the property for which a waiver is sought and are not applicable generally
to other property;
   (C)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations are carried out;
   (D)   The waiver will not contravene the provisions of
Ch. 191 and
194 of this code of ordinances; and
   (E)   Where the waiver impacts on the design, construction or maintenance
obligations of public facilities, that the appropriate public agency has
reviewed and approved the proposed development in writing to the Plan
Commission.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.078 PROCEDURES FOR REVIEW OF WAIVER REQUESTS.
   (A)   At the time of filing a petition for primary plat approval for
consideration by the Plan Commission, the petitioner shall submit a detailed
written statement of all waivers of this chapter sought which shall fully state
the grounds for the request and file proposed detailed written findings of fact
in support of such waiver request. Only those standards and specifications
specifically described in the request may be waived by the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Any waivers requested as a part of the filing of a petition for
primary plat approval shall be listed in the legal notice of public hearing.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.079 JURISDICTION OF WAIVERS.
   (A)   (1)   It is not within the powers or jurisdiction of the Board of
Zoning Appeals to grant waivers of any of the regulations in this chapter.
      (2)   Only the Plan Commission shall have the authority to waive any of
the regulations in this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   It is not within the powers or jurisdiction of the Plan
Commission to grant a variance of use, a variance of development standards, or
to approve a special exception use.
      (2)   Only the Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority to grant
a variance of use, a variance of development standards or to approve a special
exception use.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
VACATION OF LAND IN A PLAT; RECORDED COVENANTS OR
COMMITMENTS; PUBLIC WAY OR PLACE; PLATTED EASEMENTS
§ 193.090 VACATION OF LAND IN A PLAT; RECORDED COVENANTS OR COMMITMENTS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction procedures; vacation of all or parts of plats; recorded
covenants or commitments.
      (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-3 et seq. and I.C. 36-7-4-711, the Plan
Commission has exclusive control and jurisdiction over the vacation of all or
parts of plats, including recorded covenants or commitments.
      (2)   Subject to the provisions of §
193.091(A) of this chapter regarding the vacation of a public way, public place
or platted easement, the owner of land in a plat may file with the Plan
Commission a petition to vacate all or part of the plat pertaining to the land
owned by the petitioner. The petition shall:
         (a)   State the reasons for and circumstances prompting the request;
         (b)   Specifically describe the property in the plat proposed to be
vacated; and
         (c)   Give the name and address of each owner of land in the plat.
      (3)   (a)   The petition may include a request to vacate any recorded
covenants or commitments filed as part of the plat.
         (b)   The covenants or commitments are then also subject to vacation.
         (c)   If the petition requests the vacation of any recorded covenants
or commitments, the petitioner shall furnish the Plan Commission with signed
and notarized statements from all owners of the plat, or part of the plat, of
their support of, or opposition to, the vacation of said recorded covenants or
commitments prior to any action being taken on the petition by the Plan
Commission; provided that, if the petitioner fails to furnish a statement of
support or opposition from any such owner, such owner shall be deemed to oppose
the vacation.
   (B)   Approval of a vacation of land in a plat by the Plan Commission.
      (1)   After a public hearing, the Plan Commission may approve a petition
for the vacation of all or part of a plat.
      (2)   The Plan Commission may impose reasonable conditions as part of the
approval.
      (3)   The Plan Commission shall make written findings of fact that set
forth the reasons for the approval of the petition.
      (4)   The findings of fact shall be signed by the President of the Plan
Commission.
      (5)   A copy of the findings of fact shall be retained as a part of the
permanent record of the determination.
      (6)   The Plan Commission shall present recordable documentation of its
decision to the Recorder of the county for recording.
   (C)   Disapproval of a vacation of land in a plat by the Plan Commission.
      (1)   After a public hearing, the Plan Commission may disapprove a
petition for the vacation of all or part of a plat.
      (2)   The Plan Commission shall make written findings of fact that set
forth the reasons for the disapproval of the petition.
      (3)   The findings of fact shall be signed by the President of the Plan
Commission.
      (4)   A copy of the findings of fact shall be retained as a part of the
permanent record of the determination.
   (D)   Appeals.
      (1)   The approval, disapproval or imposition of a condition on the
approval of the vacation of all or part of a plat is a final decision of the
Plan Commission.
      (2)   The petitioner or an aggrieved party may seek review of the
decision of the Plan Commission as provided by I.C. 36-7-4-1016.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.091 VACATION OF PUBLIC WAY OR PLACE; PLATTED EASEMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-3-12, persons who do the following may
file a petition for vacation all or part of said public way or place with the
Town Council:
         (a)   Own or are interested in any lots or parts of lots; and
         (b)   Want to vacate all or part of a public way or public place in or
contiguous to those lots or parts of lots.
      (2)   The petition shall:
         (a)   State the circumstances of the case;
         (b)   Specifically describe the property proposed to be vacated; and
         (c)   Give the names and addresses of all owners of land that abuts
the property proposed to be vacated.
   (B)   (1)   The Town Council has exclusive control and jurisdiction over the
vacation of any public way or place.
      (2)   The procedures to be followed by the Town Council in the vacation
of a public way or place shall those outlined in I.C. 36-7-3-12.
   (C)   Pursuant to I.C. 36-7-3-16(a), platted easements shall be vacated in
the same manner as public ways and public places.
   (D)   If a petition requesting to vacate all or part of a public way, public
place or platted easement is filed in connection with the vacation of all or
part of a plat, the petition to vacate all or part of a public way, public
place or platted easement shall be considered, and a disposition made, by the
Town Council prior to the Plan Commission’s consideration of any petition to
vacate all or part of the plat.
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
FORMS
§ 193.105 PERFORMANCE BOND FOR SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-711.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-713.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-715.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-717.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.106 IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT FOR SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-723.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-725.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.107 MAINTENANCE BOND FOR SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-731.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-733.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-735.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.108 RELEASE OF PERFORMANCE BOND.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-741.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-743.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.109 RELEASE OF IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-749.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.110 RELEASE OF MAINTENANCE BOND.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-755.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.111 LETTER OF COMPLIANCE.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-761.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-763.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.112 COMPLETION LETTER.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-771.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.113 DEDICATION STATEMENT.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-777.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-779.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-781.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.114 SURVEYOR CERTIFICATION.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-787.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.115 PLAN COMMISSION APPROVAL.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-793.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.116 FINDINGS OF FACT FOR VACATION OF LAND IN A PLAT.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-799.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
§ 193.117 AGREEMENT FOR FOUNDATION RELEASE.
Click_to_view_file_in_pdf_format
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-805.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-807.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
APPENDIX A: ZIONSVILLE/EAGLE/UNION SUBDIVISIONS
Zoning District Name of Subdivision Location of Subdivision
Zoning     Name of Subdivision             Location of Subdivision
District
BOONE
RSF 2      Austin Oaks                     Willow Road Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 2      Benderfield                     Benderfield Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
I-3        Bennett Technology Park         Bennett Parkway Zionsville, IN 46077
RV         Bloor Woods                     Bloor Woods Court Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
RSF 2      Brittany Chase                  Brittany Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 2      Buttondown Farm                 Buttondown Lane Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 3      Cedar Bend                      Lakewood Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 3      Century Oaks                    Century Oaks Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
RSF 2      Clarkston                       Valley Meadow Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
RSF 2      Clifden Pond                    Clifden Pond Road Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
RSF 2      Cobblestone Lakes of Zionsville West Cobblestone Drive Zionsville,
Cluster                                    IN 46077
RSF 2      Colonial Heights                Marquette Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 3      Colony Square                   Colony Way Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 3      Colony Woods                    Governors Lane Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 2      Coventry Ridge                  Clarkston Road Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 2      Hampshire (formerly Brentwood    
           Pointe)
Special    Hoosier Village Retirement      5300 W. 96th Street Zionsville, IN
Use        Center                          46077
RV         Hunt Club Village               Trotwood Lane Zionsville, IN 46077
R-MF-2     Hunter’s Glen                 Michigan Road
RMF 2      Hunter’s Point                 
RSF 2      Huntington Woods                Huntington Woods Road Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
RSF 4      Irongate                        Irongate Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 2      Long Brook                      Mayfield Lane Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 2      Lost Run Farm                   Lost Run Lane Zionsville, IN 46077
RMF 1      Manchester Square               Manchester Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
RSF 3      Mulberry Place                  Hanover Close Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 3      Northern Meadows (Becker)       Becker Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 4      Northview Addition - Luttrell - Stanley Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
           no HOA
RSF 2      Oak Ridge                       Oak Ridge Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
RMF 1      Olde Dominion                   Dominion Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
RE         Oldfields                       Hunt Club Road
RSF 2      Pleasant View Estates           Equestrian Way Zionsville, IN 46077
RMF 2      Quail Run Apartments            1380 Saylor Drive
RSF 3      Raintree Place                  Raintree Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 2      Ravinia                         Summersong Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
RSF 2      Rock Bridge of Zionsville       Rock Bridge Drive Zionsville, IN
Cluster                                    46077
RSF 2      Smith Meadows                   Summer Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 2      Spring Knoll                    Greenthread Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
RSF 2 Open Preserve at Spring Knoll         
Square
RSF 3      Sugarbush Hill                  Sugarbush Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
RMF 2      The Reserve at William’s Glen 2201 Williams Glen Boulevard
           Apartments
RSF 2      The Sanctuary                   121st Street Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 3      Thornhill                       Corniche Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
RSF 2      Timberidge                      S.R. 421 and S of S.R. 334
RV         Village Residents Association    
RSF 3      Village Walk                    Village Walk Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
B-O        Zionsville Meadows              675 S. Ford Road
EAGLE
R2         Allens Acres                    Horseshoe Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
Annexed I- Andrade Industrial              106th W. of S.R. 421/Andrade Drive
2                                          Zionsville, IN 46077
R2         Blackstone                       
R-1 and R- Bridlewood                      S.R. 421 and S of 300 S
2
R2         Brittany Chase                  S.R. 421 and N of 300 and 500 S
R2         Brocks Meadow                   Brocks Meadow Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
          Buckingham Apartments           S.R. 421 and N of 106
RE         Cheval De Salle                 Cheval Rue Court Zionsville, IN
                                           46077, near Kissel Road
RE         Cooper Heights                  850 E S of 700 S
R2         Dalwhinnie                       
R2         Deer Ridge                      950E and N of S.R. 334, Deer Ridge
                                           Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
R2         Eaglewood Estates               S.R. 334 and E of Kissel Road,
                                           Eaglewood Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
R1         The Enclave                     850 E, Sections 1 and 2, Bainbridge
                                           Way Zionsville, IN 46077
R1         Friends Meeting                 300 S and 875 E
R2         Fox Hollow Comm. Association    1000 E and 700 S (on Ford Road) Fox
                                           Hollow Ridge Zionsville, IN 46077
RE         Harbridge Woods                 800 S and W of 1000 E
R2         Huddersfield (The Woods At)     300 S east of 975 E
R1         Old Hunt Club                   End of Hunt Club Road
RE         Hunt Country Preserve           800 S and E of I65, Sections 1 and 2
RE         Irishman’s Run                Hunt Club Road and W of Ford Road
R3         Kuntz Farm                      106th Street and Zionsville Road
          Lakewood                        S.R. 334 and E of Cooper Road
R2         Lear Mobile Home Park           600 S and W of 950 E
RE         Lexington Hall                  Kissel Road and Hunt Club Road
GB         Center Drive and R.S. 334 and    
           I65
GB         Mac’s Center                  Center Drive and S.R. 334 and I65
I-2        Mayflower Industrial            825 E. St. Clair Street
RSF 3      North Hills                     Becker Court
I1         Northwest Technology Center     Play approval 11-4-2004
R2         Oakwood                         Oakwood Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
R1         Old Hunt Club                   750 S and E of I65
R1         Pineview Estates                Pine View Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
R2         Pollard Minor                   300 S and 421
I1         Ripberger Industrial Park       South of 106th Street Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
R2         Round Stone                     Hull Road Zionsville, IN 46077
R1/R2      Royal Run                       Royal Run Boulevard Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
R3         Royalton                        Royal Avenue Zionsville, IN 46077
R1         Russell Lake                    S.R. 334 and E of Cooper Road
R1         Schaffer Minor                  S and CR 875 East
R2         Seligs Addition                 550 S and W of 800 E
R1         Shannon Springs                 Shannon Springs Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
RE         Soaring Hawk/Harbinger Woods/   Soaring Haw Circle Zionsville, IN
           Harbridge Woods                 46077
R2         Spring Hills                    S.R. 334 S and west of 950 E
R1/R2      Stonegate                       East Stonegate Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
R2         Sycamore Bend                   Nuthatch Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
R2         Village Green                   Zionsville Avenue and 875 E
R2         The Woods at Huddersfield       Huddersfield Lane Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
R2         Willow Glen (formerly Cimmaron) 300 S and W of 421
R2         Willow Ridge                    Willow Ridge Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
R2         The Willows                     300 S and East of 421
R1         Woodlands at Irishman’s Run   Irishman’s Run Lane Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
R2         Zion Hills                      Daugherty Drive Zionsville, IN 46077
R2         Zion Lane                       550 S and E of S.R. 421
UNION
R-2        Bolinger Minor                  200 S and 900 E
R-1        Brightleaf                      825 E and N of 100 S
R2         Brookhaven                      300 South and East of U.S. 421
AG         Countrywood                     S.R. 421 and N of 300S, Indian Pipe
                                           Lane Zionsville, IN 46077
R2         Fieldstone                      300 S and East of 421, Alamosa Lane
                                           Zionsville, IN 46077
AG         Fox Run                         Fox Trace Zionsville, IN 46077
R2         Keeler Minor                    8655 E 125 S
RE         Kindred Spirits                 100 N and U.S. 421
R2         Mallard Pond                    900 E and N of 200 S
R2         Pleasant View Estates           Pleasant View Lane
AG         Rue De Chateaux Minor           300 S and West of U.S. 421
R2         Saddlebrook Farms               Saddlebrook Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
AG         Schuberts Crossing              Rosston, First Street and West of
                                           U.S. 421
R2         St. Claire Estates              Belle Maison Drive Zionsville, IN
                                           46077
                                           Lot 1 - 11824 E 300 S
AG         Stillwater                      Lot 2 - 11820 E 300 S
                                           Lot 3 - 11788 E 300 S
                                           Lot 4 - 41786 E 300 S
R1         Timberwolf                       
AG         Wellspring                       
 
(Ord. 2000-21, passed 11-6-2000)
CHAPTER 194: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
194.001   Title
   
194.002   Authority
   
194.003   Purpose
   
194.004   Effective date
   
194.005   Repealer
   
194.006   Exclusion
   
194.007   Interpretation
   
194.008   Jurisdiction
   
194.009   Subdivision of land
   
194.010   Scope and application
   
194.011   Findings
   
194.012   Private provisions
   
194.013   Determination of land uses not listed in the zoning ordinance
   
194.014   Saving provision
   
194.015   Amendments
   
194.016   Compliance
   
194.017   Infrastructure and utility easements
   
194.018   Obstruction of easements
   
194.019   Nonconforming lots, uses, buildings or structures
   
194.020   Additional setback provisions
   
194.021   Urban section vision clearance areas
   
194.022   General regulations for all urban residential districts
   
194.023   Requirements for submittal of a traffic impact study
   
194.024   Interpretation; definitions
   
194.025   Severability
Districts
   
194.040   Establishment of Zoning Districts
   
194.041   Rural C: Rural Conservation District
   
194.042   Rural AP: Rural Agricultural Preservation District
   
194.043   Rural AG: Rural General Agricultural District
   
194.044   Rural RE: Rural Equestrian District
   
194.045   Urban R-E Equestrian/Estate Residential District
   
194.046   Urban R-SF-1: Single-Family Residential District
   
194.047   Urban R-SF-2: Single-Family Residential District
   
194.048   Urban R-SF-3: Urban Single-Family Residential Districts
   
194.049   Urban R-SF-4 Single-Family Residential Districts
   
194.050   Urban R-MF-1: Multi-Family Residential Districts
   
194.051   Urban R-MF-2: Multi-Family Residential Districts
   
194.052   Urban R-V: Village Residential Districts
   
194.053   Rural R-1: Rural Single-Family Residential
   
194.054   Rural R-2: Rural Single- and Two-Family Residential
   
194.055   Rural R-3: Rural Single- and Two-Family Residential
   
194.056   Rural R-4: Rural Single- and Two-Family Residential
   
194.057   Rural MF: Rural Multi-Family Residential
   
194.058   Urban B-O: Office Business District
   
194.059   Urban B-1: Urban Neighborhood Business
   
194.060   Urban B-2: Urban General Business District
   
194.061   Urban B-3: Urban Outdoor Business
   
194.062   Urban VBD: Urban Village Business
   
194.063   Rural LB: Rural Local Business
   
194.064   Rural PB: Rural Professional Business
   
194.065   Rural UB: Rural Urban Business
   
194.066   Rural GB: Rural General Business
   
194.067   AB: Rural Accommodation Business
   
194.068   Urban I-ORT Urban Office/Research/Technology Industrial
   
194.069   Urban I-1: Urban Light Industrial
   
194.070   Urban I-2: Urban General Industrial
   
194.071   Urban I-3: Heavy Industrial District
   
194.072   Rural Industrial District
   
194.073   Rural I-1: Rural Light Industrial
   
194.074   Rural I-2: Rural General Industrial
   
194.075   Urban Special Use Districts
   
194.076   Urban O-1: Urban Open Land District
   
194.077   Urban FP: Urban Floodplain Secondary District
   
194.078   MRO: Urban U.S. Highway 421-Michigan Road Corridor Overlay District
   
194.079   Rural: Overlay Districts
   
194.080   Rural AZ: Rural Airport Zoning District
   
194.081   Districts
   
194.082   Authorized uses and requirements
Supplemental Regulations
   
194.095   Urban accessory uses
   
194.096   Urban temporary uses, structures and buildings
   
194.097   Rural property development standards
   
194.098   Urban home occupations
   
194.099   Rural home occupations
   
194.100   Urban special regulations for residential facilities for the mentally
ill
   
194.101   Urban special regulations for adult entertainment businesses
   
194.102   Urban special regulations for wireless telecommunications facilities
   
194.103   Rural special regulations
   
194.104   Urban performance standards
   
194.105   Urban off-street parking regulations
   
194.106   Urban off-street loading regulations
   
194.107   Urban requirements for drive-through off-street stacking spaces
   
194.108   Urban requirements for all private streets, interior access driveways
and interior access drives
   
194.109   Urban landscaping requirements
   
194.110   Rural: manufactured homes
   
194.111   Rural parking and loading requirements
   
194.112   Urban works of art
   
194.113   Lighting standards
Development Plans
   
194.125   Development plans required for development in certain districts
   
194.126   Plan documentation and supporting information
   
194.127   Procedures for submission and review of development plans
   
194.128   Expiration of approved development plans and development plan with
commitments
Planned Unit Development
   
194.140   Planned Unit Development District
   
194.141   General conditions
   
194.142   Uses within a planned unit development
   
194.143   Guidelines for design
   
194.144   Lot area and lot width
   
194.145   Water and sewer
   
194.146   Procedure for approval
   
194.147   Additional information to be provided
   
194.148   Review standards
   
194.149   Final plat required
Sign Regulations
   
194.160   Intent, application and findings
   
194.161   Urban exempt signs
   
194.162   Urban prohibited signs
   
194.163   Urban general regulations
   
194.164   Urban on-premises signs: business and industrial districts
   
194.165   Urban on-premises signs: VBD Village Business District
   
194.166   Urban on-premises signs: signs in residential and open land districts
   
194.167   Urban on-premises signs: signs in special use districts
   
194.168   Urban off-premises outdoor advertising signs
   
194.169   Rural: signs
   
194.170   Candidate signs on election day
Districts and Maps
   
194.180   Official zone map
   
194.181   Identification of the official zone map
   
194.182   Official zone map changes
   
194.183   Retention and preservation of records
   
194.184   Interpretation of the official zone map
   
194.185   Zoning of newly annexed land
   
194.186   Thoroughfare plan; road classifications
Administrative and Decision Making Bodies
   
194.200   Town Council
   
194.201   Plan Commission
   
194.202   Board of Zoning Appeals
Development Review Procedures
   
194.215   Required permits and approvals
   
194.216   Improvement location permits
   
194.217   Compliance with other laws, ordinances, rules or regulations
   
194.218   Application and approval
   
194.219   Certificate of occupancy
   
194.220   Fees
Enforcement
   
194.235   Authority
   
194.236   Alleged violations
   
194.237   Responsibility for violations
   
194.238   Inspection of property; right of entry
   
194.239   Stop-work order
   
194.240   Violations
 
   
194.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 194.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall hereinafter be known and cited as “Town of Zionsville
Zoning Ordinance”.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.1)
§ 194.002 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in I.C.
36-7-4 et seq.
   (B)   Whenever any provision of this chapter refers to or cites a section of
the Indiana Code and that section is later amended or superseded, this chapter
shall be deemed amended to refer to the amended section or the section that
most nearly corresponds to the superseded section.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.2)
§ 194.003 PURPOSE.
   In adopting this chapter, the Town Council is acting for the purpose of:
   (A)   Promoting the public health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and
general welfare;
   (B)   Guiding the future development of the town;
   (C)   Securing adequate light, air, convenience of access and safety from
fire, flood and other danger;
   (D)   Lessening or avoiding congestion in public ways;
   (E)   Ensuring that the needs of agriculture, industry and business be
recognized in future growth;
   (F)   Ensuring that residential areas provide healthful surroundings for
family life;
   (G)   Ensuring that growth be commensurate with and promotive of the
efficient and economical use of public funds;
   (H)   Preserving, maintaining and enhancing the architectural and aesthetic
characteristics of the town;
   (I)   Regulating the number, size, type and style of signs permitted on all
properties;
   (J)   Fixing reasonable standards to which buildings and structures shall
conform;
   (K)   Assuring the orderly use of land developed within the planning area of
the master development plan for the town;
   (L)   Defining the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies as provided herein; and
   (M)   Otherwise accomplishing the purposes of I.C. 36-7-4 et seq.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.3)
§ 194.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective on and after the 14 days after notice of its
adoption is published in compliance with I.C. 36-7-4-610.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.4)
§ 194.005 REPEALER.
   [Reserved]
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.5)
§ 194.006 EXCLUSION.
   Nothing in this chapter or any rules, regulations or orders issued pursuant
to this chapter shall be deemed to restrict or regulate or to authorize any
unit of government, legislative body, Plan Commission or Board of Zoning
Appeals now or hereafter established, to restrict or regulate the exercise of
the power of eminent domain by the state, any agency of the state or the town,
or the use of property owned or occupied by the state, any agency of the state
or the town, except to the extent such restriction or regulation is permitted
by applicable law.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.6)
§ 194.007 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
health, safety, comfort, morals, convenience and the general welfare of the
public. In the case of any conflict or inconsistency between two or more
provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance of the town, the provision
which imposes the greater or higher or more restrictive standard of performance
shall control.
   (B)   References to other documentation or standards in this chapter shall
be interpreted to be the latest version thereof.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.7)
§ 194.008 JURISDICTION.
   Upon adoption of this chapter by the Town Council and the effective date of
this chapter, the town’s Plan Commission shall be the duly authorized Plan
Commission for the incorporated areas of the town pursuant to the Indiana Code,
and this chapter shall apply to all real property located within the corporate
boundaries of the town.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.8)
§ 194.009 SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   The subdivision of land may occur in any and all zoning districts
established by this chapter. Whenever a subdivision occurs, regulations and
procedures of this chapter, Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances and other
relevant town ordinances and standards shall apply.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.9)
§ 194.010 SCOPE AND APPLICATION.
   Except as expressly provided otherwise in this chapter:
   (A)   No person may use or occupy any land, building, structure or
improvement or authorize or permit the use or occupancy of any land, building,
structure or improvement under his or her control, except in accordance with
the applicable provisions of this chapter; and
   (B)   No land, building, structure or improvement shall be used and no
building shall be erected, reconstructed or structurally altered, which is not
in accordance with the applicable provisions of this chapter or is arranged,
intended or designed to be used for any purpose other than a use which is
permitted in the zoning district in which such land, building, structure or
improvement is located.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.10)
§ 194.011 FINDINGS.
   In adopting this chapter, the Town Council has considered, evaluated and
given reasonable regard to:
   (A)   The general policies and patterns of development set out in the
Comprehensive Plan for the town;
   (B)   Current conditions and the character of current structures and uses in
each zoning district;
   (C)   The most desirable use for which the land in each zoning district is
adapted;
   (D)   The conservation of property values throughout the town; and
   (E)   The responsible development and growth of the town.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.11)
§ 194.012 PRIVATE PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter are not intended to and do not abrogate any
easement, covenant or other private agreement or restriction.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.12)
§ 194.013 DETERMINATION OF LAND USES NOT LISTED IN THE ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (A)   It is recognized that this chapter may require interpretation to
assign all possible land uses to individual zoning districts. For any land use
which is not specifically set forth in this chapter, staff shall review the
land use for consistency with the intent set forth in each zoning district and
for compatibility with land use characteristics typical of land uses permitted
within those districts. Then, staff shall determine the appropriate zoning
district for any land use which is not specifically set forth in this chapter.
In case of disagreement with the determination of the staff in assigning a land
use to an appropriate zoning district, any aggrieved party may file an appeal
with the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to the provisions of §
194.202 of this chapter.
   (B)   If it is determined by the staff and no appeal of the staff’s decision
is filed with the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to the provisions of §
194.202 of this chapter or determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals that a
particular use is not permitted in any agricultural, residential, commercial,
industrial or other zoning district provided for in this chapter, then such use
shall be deemed to require a special exception in the most restrictive
agricultural, residential, commercial, industrial or other zoning district most
similar to the particular use (i.e., the O-1 District for open land and
agriculturally-related uses; the R-MF-2 District for residentially-related
uses; the B-3 District for commercially related uses; or the I-3 District for
industrially-related uses).
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.13)
§ 194.014 SAVING PROVISION.
   Except as shall be expressly provided for in this chapter, the adoption of
this chapter shall not:
   (A)   Abate any action pending under, or by virtue of, any prior ordinance;
   (B)   Discontinue, abate, modify or alter any penalty accruing or about to
accrue under, or by virtue of, any prior ordinance;
   (C)   Affect the liability of any person, firm, or corporation under, or by
virtue of, any prior ordinance;
   (D)   Waive any right of the town under any section or provision of any
prior ordinance; or
   (E)   Vacate or annul any rights obtained by any person, firm or corporation
by lawful action of the town under, or by virtue of, any prior ordinance.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.14)
§ 194.015 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   In its continuing administration of the purposes set forth in §
194.200 of this chapter, the Town Council may find it reasonable and necessary
to adopt amendments to the text of this chapter or determine changes to the
zone maps incorporated into this chapter.
   (B)   All such amendments shall be considered and adopted in compliance with
I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq., the provisions of this chapter and any applicable
rules of procedure.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.15)
§ 194.016 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Compliance with the terms and provisions of this chapter shall be a
prerequisite for the use and development of real property within the town.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the terms and provisions of this chapter shall
be deemed to be a civil zoning violation enforceable by the Plan Commission or
the Board of Zoning Appeals, as provided for in I.C. 36-7-4 et seq. and §§
194.235 through
194.240 and 194.999 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.16)
§ 194.017 INFRASTRUCTURE AND UTILITY EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Service easements, including, but not limited to, those providing for
roadways, pipelines, electric power lines, utility infrastructure, telephone
lines, relay stations, water lines, pumping stations, sewer lines, lift
stations or cable television lines, shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   This exemption is not applicable to easements solely for surface
drainage or for access easements not related to such service easements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.17)
§ 194.018 OBSTRUCTION OF EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Unless expressly authorized by the appropriate agency or department of
the town, no sign, fence, wall or improvement of any kind shall be erected,
planted or maintained upon easements in favor of the town.
   (B)   The town shall not be responsible for or liable for any loss
occasioned by the removal, alteration or destruction of any sign, fence, wall
or improvement by the town in the proper exercise of its rights and duties in
regard to an easement in favor of the town.
   (C)   Exception:
      (1)   Lateral supported two-foot encroachment for housing improvements
such as (eaves, gutters, and the like);
      (2)   Improvements or objects, other than playsets, that do not have
permanent foundations, including but not limited to HVAC units, landscaping and
planters.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.18; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 194.019 NON-CONFORMING LOTS, USES, BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General. Within the zoning districts established by this chapter,
there exist the following which were legally established prior to the effective
date of this chapter, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted
under the provisions of this chapter:
      (1)   Non-conforming lots of record;
      (2)   Non-conforming buildings or structures;
      (3)   Non-conforming uses of land; and
      (4)   Non-conforming uses within non-conforming buildings or structures.
   (B)   Legally established non-conforming lots, buildings or structures.
      (1)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit these legally
established non-conforming lots, buildings or structures to continue until the
buildings or structures are structurally modified or removed, but not to
encourage their survival. It is further the intent of this chapter that legally
established non- conforming buildings and structures shall not:
         (a)   Be enlarged upon, expanded or extended; or
         (b)   Be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses which are
otherwise prohibited in the same district.
      (2)   Upon structural modification, enlargement, expansion or extension
of a non-conforming building or structure such building or structure and all
uses shall be made to be compliant with this chapter and all other relevant
ordinances and standards.
   (C)   Legally established non-conforming uses. It is the intent of this
chapter to permit these legally established non-conforming uses to continue
until the uses are modified, but not to encourage their survival. It is further
the intent of this chapter that legally established non-conforming uses shall
not be changed, revised or expanded for uses which are otherwise prohibited in
the same district. Upon any change of a non-conforming use, such use shall be
made to be compliant with this chapter and all other relevant ordinances and
standards.
   (D)   Non-conforming lots, buildings, structures or uses not legally
established. Non-conforming lots of record, non-conforming buildings or
structures, non-conforming uses of land and non-conforming uses within non-
conforming buildings or structures that are either illegal or not legally
established on the effective date of this chapter shall not become legally
established or validated by virtue of the enactment of this chapter.
   (E)   Incompatibility of non-conforming uses. Legally established non-
conforming uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the zoning district in which such legally established non-conforming
uses are located. A legally established non-conforming use of a building or
structure, or a legally established non-conforming use of land shall not be
altered to another conforming use, extended, expanded or enlarged, nor shall
additional signs for such legally established non- conforming use be erected on
the lot, after the effective date of this chapter.
   (F)   Avoidance of undue hardship. To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to require a change in the plans for or construction of
any building or structure, or the designation of use of any building or
structure, for which an improvement location permit has been properly filed for
or issued prior to the effective date of this chapter; provided that, the
construction of such building or structure is commenced within six months of
such effective date and diligently prosecuted to completion; and, provided
further that, such construction shall be completed and a certificate of
occupancy issued within two years of the issuance of said improvement location
permit.
   (G)   Non-conforming lots of record. Any legally established lot recorded or
any legally established platted lot recorded prior to the effective date of
this chapter, having less than the required minimum lot area or minimum lot
width required by the applicable zoning district regulations of this chapter,
shall be deemed a permitted exception to such minimum lot area or minimum lot
width and may be used for any use permitted within the applicable zoning
districts in which such lot is located; provided that:
      (1)   All other development standards are met; and
      (2)   Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous
frontage with other lots in the same ownership.
   (H)   Non-conforming buildings or structures. Where a legally established
non-conforming building or structure exists on the effective date of this
chapter that could not be built under the terms of this chapter by reason of
restrictions on: gross floor area; lot coverage; building height limitations;
front, side and rear setbacks and yards; location on the lot; bulk; or other
provisions of this chapter applicable to the building or structure, such
building or structure may continue to exist so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to compliance with the following provisions:
      (1)   Such legally established non-conforming building or structure may
not be enlarged, expanded or altered in a way which increases its non-
conformity;
      (2)   Should such legally established non-conforming building or
structure, or legally established non-conforming portion of a building or
structure, be damaged or destroyed by any means to the extent of more than two-
thirds of the gross floor area of the building or structure immediately prior
to the damage or destruction, said building or structure shall not be
reconstructed, except in conformity with the provisions of this chapters; and
      (3)   Should such building or structure be moved for any reason for any
distance whatsoever, such building or structure shall thereafter conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (I)   Non-conforming uses of land. Where legally established non-conforming
uses of land exist on the effective date of this chapter which would not be
permitted by the provisions of this chapter, such uses may be continued so long
as they remain otherwise lawful; provided that:
      (1)   Such legally established non-conforming uses shall not be enlarged,
expanded, increased or extended to occupy a greater area of land than was
occupied on the effective date of this chapter;
      (2)   Such legally established non-conforming use shall not be moved in
whole or in part to any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied
by such uses on the effective date of this chapter; and
      (3)   No additional building or structure shall be erected in connection
with such legally established non-conforming use of land.
   (J)   Discontinuation of non-conformity. If any legally established non-
conforming use of land is discontinued or abandoned for more than six months
(except when government action impedes access to the premises), any subsequent
use of such land shall conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (K)   Legally established non-conforming uses within legally established
non-conforming buildings or structures.
      (1)   If any legally established non-conforming use is located within a
legally established non- conforming building or structure and such legally
established non-conforming building or structure becomes unsafe or unlawful by
reason of physical condition and is razed, the legally established non-
conforming use previously being conducted in such legally established non-
conforming building or structure shall be no longer permitted.
      (2)   If any legally established non-conforming use is located within a
legally established non- conforming building or structure and such legally
established non-conforming building or structure is damaged or destroyed by any
means to the extent of more than two-thirds of the gross floor area of the
building or structure immediately prior to the damage or destruction the
legally established non- conforming use previously being conducted in such
legally established non-conforming building or structure shall be extinguished
and no longer permitted unless an application in compliance with the provisions
of §§
194.215 through
194.220 of this chapter is made for an improvement location permit within 180
days of such damage or destruction and an improvement location permit
demonstrating compliance with the following regulations is issued pursuant to
such application:
         (a)   The proposed redevelopment shall, to the maximum extent
practical, comply with the development standards, including, but not limited
to, lot coverage, off-street parking, off-street loading, lighting,
landscaping, minimum yards or bufferyards, use of minimum yards and
bufferyards, building setbacks, maximum building height, main floor area and
outside storage and operations, applicable to the legally established non-
conforming use in the district in which such use is first identified as a
permitted use; and
         (b)   The gross floor area and the maximum building height devoted to
the legally established non-conforming use shall not be increased, except as
such increase is required to comply with other applicable federal, state or
local regulations (i.e., minor enlargements to accommodate ADA Accessibility
Guidelines or current Building Code).
   (L)   Repairs and maintenance.
      (1)   On any legally established non-conforming building or structure, or
portion of a building or structure, work may be done on the repair or
replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing; provided that,
there is no increase in the gross floor area or cubic feet content existing
when the building or structure, or portion of a building or structure
containing a legally established non- conforming use became non-conforming.
      (2)   Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening,
repairing or restoring to safe condition of any building or structure, or part
thereof, declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting the
public safety, upon order of such official.
   (M)   Non-conforming rural districts.
      (1)   At the time of the adoption of this chapter, some rural zoning
districts may no longer be listed in this chapter.
      (2)   Unless otherwise noted, property zoned under these rural districts
will continue to be zoned as such until such time as the property is rezoned to
a conforming district.
      (3)   Non-conforming rural districts, their restrictions and permitted
uses include:
         (a)   R5, High Density, Multi-Family Residential. Permitted uses
include all uses currently permitted in the R4 and MF Districts by right,
special exception and with development plan approval as listed;
         (b)   CR, Commercial Reserve. Uses in the underlying zoning districts
of the CR District areas shall be in accordance with the current use table by
right, special exception and with development plan approval as listed;
         (c)   SC, Shopping Center. Uses in the underlying zoning districts of
the SC District areas shall be permitted in accordance with the current table
by right, special exception and with the development plan approval as listed;
and
         (d)   IR, Industrial Reserve. Uses in the underlying zoning district
of the IR District areas shall be permitted in accordance with the table by
right, special exception and with the development plan approval as listed.
Industrial development currently permitted in the IR District would be
permitted in this district only by special exception and with a minimum tract
of 20 acres.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.19)
§ 194.020 ADDITIONAL SETBACK PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Additional front setback provisions. Front yard setback provisions of
this chapter are subject to the following modification: in any block in any
district contained in this chapter in which an existing front yard setback is
established by existing, legally established buildings or structures on more
than 50% of the total number of lots within the same block face fronting on the
same public street, the minimum required front yard setback for any new
building, structure or addition along such block face shall be no less than the
average of such established front yards if such dimension is less than the
minimum front yard setback established by this chapter.
   (B)   Side and rear yard exceptions. The minimum side and rear yard setback
requirements for a lot containing a single-family or two-family dwelling in a
residential district shall be subject to the following exceptions.
      (1)   A legally established non-conforming, detached, accessory garage
may be reconstructed on an existing foundation even though such reconstruction
would not comply with required side or rear yards; provided, such
reconstruction does not interfere with a vision clearance area or encroach into
any right-of-way.
      (2)   A legally established non-conforming single-family or two-family
dwelling may be enlarged or extended one time along a legally established non-
conforming side yard; provided, such legally established non-conforming side
yard width is not reduced, the lineal footage of such enlargement or extension
does not exceed 50% of the lineal footage of the original dimension of the
single-family or two-family dwelling along that side setback, and such
enlargement or extension does not interfere with a vision clearance area or
encroach into any right-of-way.
   (C)   Setback exception; laterally-supported extensions. Laterally-supported
extensions, such as canopies, eaves, cornices, bay windows or roof overhangs
may extend a maximum of 24 inches into any required front, side or rear yard;
required front, side or rear bufferyard; or required front, side or rear
perimeter yard.
   (D)   Setbacks for restricted uses. The following uses are subject to the
special setbacks which shall include necessary bufferyards prescribed by the
following table (in feet). If a use does not appear, or if a figure does not
appear for a particular use, the standard setback and bufferyard for the
district shall apply.
Use Front Side Rear
Use                                                           Front Side Rear
Sanitary landfill, privately or publicly owned                300   300  300
Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquid fertilizer storage and
distribution
   Liquefied petroleum gas, bottled gas dealers
   Commercial facility for breeding non-farm fowl and animals
   Construction/demolition site
   Incinerator
   Junk yard
Resource recovery facility                                    100   100  100
Sanitary landfill, privately or publicly owned petroleum tank
Farm
Stable, private on residential lot
Sale barn for livestock
Slaughterhouse
Warehouse (grain storage)
Transfer station
Composting facility
   Compost/digester facility                               100   50   50
Public water wells, water stations, filtration plants,
reservoirs and storage tanks
Public camp ground or recreational vehicle park               100   40   40
Farm                                                          *     *    *
 
* See §
194.111 RURAL PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS. Rural Buffer Yard Requirements
Table.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.20; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 194.021 URBAN SECTION VISION CLEARANCE AREAS.
   (A)   No building, structure or improvement, including landscaping, shall be
erected, placed, planted or maintained so as to interfere with a vision
clearance area located between the heights of two and one-half feet and nine
feet above the crown of a street, driveway or alley.
   (B)   A vision clearance area shall be established for all streets, whether
public or private, in one of the following manners.
      (1)   (a)   At the intersection of streets, vision clearance areas are
formed at each corner by the street right-of-way lines and a line connecting
points on the right-of-way lines located 25 feet away from the intersection of
such street right-of-way lines.
         (b)   In the case of a round or corner-cut right-of-way, the
measurement shall be taken from the intersection of the right-of-way lines
extended.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-809.jpg]
 
      (2)   At the intersection of a street with a driveway or alley, vision
clearance areas shall be formed by the intersection of the street right-of-way
line and the driveway surface edge or the right-of-way of the alley and a line
connecting points ten feet from the intersection of such street right-of-way
line and the driveway surface edge or alley right-of-way.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-811.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.21)
§ 194.022 GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR ALL URBAN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Dismantling, repairing, restoring or performing any work on any motor
vehicle, machine, motor or similar device in an urban residential district.
Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the contrary, no person shall
dismantle, repair, restore or otherwise perform any work on any motor vehicle,
machine, motor or similar device not owned or leased by that person or a member
of that person’s family, on any real estate zoned as an urban residential
district. In addition, any work performed shall be:
      (1)   Incidental to a permitted use;
      (2)   Completely within an accessory building or garage; or
      (3)   Completely within an area wholly enclosed from the view of
surrounding lots and rights-of-way by a solid structural barrier (either a wall
or fence of ornamental stone, brick, wood or a combination thereof), with a
maximum height above grade of not less than six feet, nor greater than eight
feet.
   (B)   Storing, maintaining or keeping a motor vehicle, machine, motor or
similar device in an urban residential district. Notwithstanding any provision
in this chapter to the contrary, no motor vehicle, machine, motor or similar
device from which any part material to the operation of the vehicles has been
removed, or which is inoperable for any reason, shall be stored, maintained or
kept on any property in an urban residential district unless such device is:
      (1)   Owned or leased by the resident of the property on which it is
stored or by a member of that person’s family; and
      (2)   Completely within an accessory building or garage.
   (C)   Parking, storing, maintaining or keeping a commercial motor vehicle or
trailer in an urban residential district. Commercial motor vehicles that are in
the course of making normal and reasonable service calls are exempt from this
provision. Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter to the contrary, no
commercial motor vehicle or trailer shall be parked, stored, maintained or kept
on any property in an urban residential district unless the vehicle:
      (1)   Has a maximum load capacity of three-quarters of a ton or less;
      (2)   Serves as the sole vehicular transportation of a resident of the
property upon which it is parked, stored, maintained or kept; and
      (3)   Such vehicle is stored within an accessory building or garage which
complies with all the standards and regulations of this chapter.
   (D)   Parking, storing, maintaining or keeping of any recreational vehicle
in an urban residential district. Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter
to the contrary, no recreational vehicle shall be parked, stored, maintained or
kept on any property in an urban residential district unless in compliance with
the following:
      (1)   Recreational vehicles may be parked or stored;
      (2)   Inside an accessory building or garage; or
      (3)   Outside in such a manner that no part of any such recreational
vehicle shall project into any required side or rear yard or in the front yard
of the lot other than on the hard-surfaced area of the driveway or interior
access drive.
   (E)   Number limit. Not more than two recreational vehicles shall be
permitted to be parked or stored in the open on the same lot at any one time.
   (F)   Occupation. Parked or stored recreational vehicles shall not be
occupied or used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes in any urban
residential district.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.22) Penalty, see §
194.999
§ 194.023 REQUIREMENTS FOR SUBMITTAL OF A TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDY.
   (A)   A traffic impact study shall be required to be filed with any zone map
change, development plan approval, variance or special exception petition when
a proposed development meets or exceeds the warrants of the INDOT Applicant’s
Guide to Traffic Impact Studies (i.e., 150 or more dwelling units; 15,000 or
more square feet of retail space; 35,000 or more square feet of office space;
70,000 square feet or more of industrial space; 30,000 square feet or more of
educational space; 120 or more occupied rooms; 46,000 or more square feet of
medical space; or any mixed use development which generates 100 or more peak
hour trips in the peak direction), or as requested and justified in writing by
the Building Commissioner.
   (B)   (1)   The definition of a traffic impact study, documentation required
in its submission and procedures for its review and analysis shall be per the
state’s Department of Transportation Applicant’s Guide to Traffic Impact
Studies, which is incorporated into this chapter by reference.
      (2)   Copies of the Applicant’s Guide to Traffic Impact Studies are on
file and available for public inspection in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer
of the town.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 1.23)
§ 194.024 INTERPRETATION; DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The language of this chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with
the following regulations.
      (1)   The word “person” includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, limited liability company, corporation or other legal
entity, as well as an individual.
      (2)   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular, in each case,
if the context so requires.
      (3)   The word “shall” is mandatory, the word “may” is permissive.
      (4)   The words “used” or “occupied” include the words “intended”,
“designed”, “constructed”, “altered” or “arranged” to be used or occupied.
      (5)   The word “lot” includes the words “plot”, “tract” or “parcel”.
      (6)   Where a regulation involves two or more items, conditions,
provisions or events connected by the conjunction “and”, “or” or “either ...
or”, the conjunction shall be interpreted as follows.
         (a)   “And” indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply.
         (b)   “Or” indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions
or events may apply singly or in any combination.
         (c)   “Either ... or” indicates that all the connected items,
conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly, but not in combination.
      (7)   The terms “more intense” and “less intense” are terms used herein
to describe relationships between particular zoning districts. This
relationship is based upon the uses permitted within each district. A “more
intense” district permits its more uses or a greater density of uses than a
“less intense” district. District intensity groupings progress from
agricultural, to residential, to commercial, to industrial districts, in the
sequence listed within each group of districts from least intense to the most
intense.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 11.1)
   (B)   The following terms or words used in the text of this chapter shall
have the following meanings, unless a contrary meaning is required by the
context of a particular sentence or phrase or specifically prescribed in a
particular sentence or phrase.
      ABANDONED SIGN. Any lawful non-conforming sign or its supporting sign
structure which remains without a message or whose display surface remain blank
for a period of:
         (a)   One year or more (for a sign or its supporting sign structure
which conforms to this chapter at the time of adoption);
         (b)   Sixty days (for a sign or its supporting sign structure which
does not conform to the provisions of this chapter at the time of adoption); or
         (c)   Any sign which pertains to a time, event or purpose which no
longer applies shall be deemed to have been abandoned.
      ACCESS. The way in which vehicles ingress and egress a lot from a street
fronting along said lot.
      ACCESS DRIVE. The area within the right-of-way between the pavement edge
or curb and the right-of-way line to provide ingress and egress to and from a
lot.
      ACCESSORY (STRUCTURE, BUILDING OR USE). A subordinate structure, building
or use that is customarily associated with, and is appropriately and clearly
incidental and subordinate in use, size, bulk, area and height to the primary
structure, building or use, and is located on the same lot as the primary
building, structure or use.
      ACT. The Area Planning Law of the state, as defined by I.C. 36-7-4-102.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a preponderance of its stock
in trade or its dollar volume in trade, books, magazines, periodicals or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, tapes, records or other forms of visual or audio representations which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, theater, restaurant or similar
establishment which features live performances by topless and/or bottomless
dancers, go-go dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers,
where such performances are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas and/or
which regularly feature films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or
other photographic reproductions which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical
areas for observation by patrons.
      ADULT DRIVE-IN THEATER. An open lot or part thereof, with appurtenant
facilities, devoted primarily to the presentation of motion pictures, films,
theatrical productions and other forms of visual productions, for any form of
consideration, to persons in motor vehicles or on outdoor seats in which a
preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons.
      ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ARCADE. Any building or structure which contains
or is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly
is charged a fee to view from an enclosed or screened area or booth a series of
live dance routines, strip performances or other gyrational choreography which
performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS.
         (a)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a preponderance of
its stock in trade or its dollar volume in trade any merchandise for sale,
trade or lease which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
adult matter.
         (b)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Any establishment, to which the
public is permitted or invited, used for presenting films, motion pictures,
video cassettes, slide or similar photographic reproductions in which a
preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to showing of materials
which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on adult matter.
         (c)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, theater, restaurant or similar
establishment which frequently features live performances by topless or
bottomless dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, whether professional or
amateur, where such performance are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on, or by exposure of, adult matter.
         (d)   ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT ARCADE. Any building or structure which
contains or is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or
indirectly is charged a fee to view from an enclosed or screened area or booth
a series of live dance routines, strip performance or other gyrational
choreography which performance are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on, or by exposure of, adult matter.
         (e)   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar establishment offering
public accommodations for any form of consideration which provides patrons,
upon request, with closed-circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproduction which are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description
of adult matter.
         (f)   ADULT SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, structure, premises
or other facility, or any part thereof, under common ownership or control which
provides a preponderance of services involving adult matter.
      ADULT MATTER. Any of the following:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola;
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered;
         (c)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
         (d)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
         (e)   Fondling or other erotic touchings of human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks or female breasts;
         (f)   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
         (g)   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the
infliction of pain;
         (h)   Erotic touching, fondling or other such contact with an animal
by a human being; or
         (i)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in
divisions (e) through (h) above.
      ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Any building or structure which
contains or
is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is
charged a fee, with a capacity of more than five, but less than 50, persons,
used for presenting films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar
photographic reproductions in which a preponderance of the total presentation
time is devoted to the showing of materials which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specified sexual activities or by exposure of specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted
or invited where coin- or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or
mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. Any building or structure which contains or
is used for commercial entertainment where the patron directly or indirectly is
charged a fee, with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions
in which a preponderance of the total presentation time is devoted to the
showing of materials which are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, premises, structure or other
facility, or any part thereof, under common ownership or control which provides
a preponderance of services involving specified sexual activities or display of
specified anatomical areas.
      ADVERTISING SIGN. See SIGN, ADVERTISING.
      AGRICULTURE. Areas in which the general use of land is devoted to one or
more of the following:
         (a)   Tillage of soil in the production of crops;
         (b)   Production or maintenance of hay and pasture crops;
         (c)   Husbandry or production of livestock or poultry, and horses, and
their products, excluding dogs and other small animals commonly kept as
household pets;
         (d)   Growing of trees for the production of timber or timber
products, erosion control and other purposes commonly found in agricultural
areas; and
         (e)   The science or art of horticultural processes, by which land is
used for cultivating fruits, vegetables, ornamental plants and other
activities.
      AGRICULTURAL BUILDING. A structure utilized for the conduct of farming
operations, but not including dwellings used for human occupancy.
      AGRICULTURAL USE. An operation which consists of the following uses,
individually or in combination: the production of grain or livestock; stables;
forest or tree production; pasture; setting aside land in a government set-
aside reserve program; a farmstead; uses accessory to agricultural operations
on the site; or uses accessory to agricultural operations in the area.
      AIRCRAFT. Any contrivance used or designed for transporting a cargo and/
or passengers more than five feet above the ground.
      AIRPORT/HELIPORT. Any area which is used or intended to be used for the
taking off and landing of aircraft and any appurtenance areas which are used or
intended to be used for airport buildings or facilities, including open spaces,
taxiways and tie-down areas.
      ALLEY, PRIVATE. A privately held right-of-way for public use as a
secondary means of public access to a lot otherwise abutting upon a public or
private street and not intended for traffic other than public services and
circulation to and from said lot.
      ALLEY, PUBLIC. Any public right-of-way which has been dedicated or deeded
to and accepted by the public for public use as a secondary means of public
access to a lot otherwise abutting upon a public street and not intended for
traffic other than public services and circulation to and from said lot.
      AMUSEMENT ARCADE. A type of indoor commercial amusement/recreation
establishment where more than four amusement machines are available to the
public.
      AMUSEMENT MACHINE. An amusement device operated by means of the insertion
of a coin, token or similar object for the purpose of entertainment, amusement
or skill; or for the playing of which a fee is charged. AMUSEMENT MACHINE does
not include vending machines which do not incorporate gaming amusement or skill
feature, nor does the term include a coin-operated mechanical musical device.
      ANIMAL DAY CARE FACILITY. Any facility in which four or more dogs or
other small animals that are commonly kept as household pets, which are at
least three months old, and where the primary use of the facility is to care
for those animals during the day-time hours. Overnight boarding of the animals
at the facility is prohibited.
      ANTENNA.
         (a)   Any structure or device used to collect or radiate
electromagnetic waves, including both directional antennas, such as panels, and
dishes, and omni-directional antennas, such as whip antennas, but not including
satellite earth stations; and
         (b)   A device that is designed to receive:
            1.   Direct broadcast satellite service, including direct-to-home
satellite services;
            2.   Video programming services via multi-point distribution
services, including multi- channel multi-point distribution services,
instructional television fixed services and local multi-point distribution
services; or
            3.   Television broadcast signals.
      ANTENNA ARRAY. A structure attached to a telecommunications tower that
supports a telecommunications antenna.
      ANTENNA, RADIO/TELEVISION. A wire or combination of wires and support
structures designed for directly transmitting electric waves (broadcast radio
or television) into space, or receiving them therefrom.
      ANTENNA, SATELLITE DISH. A dish-shaped device which may be free standing
or mounted on a building or structure and is designed to receive direct
broadcast satellite service.
      ARTIFICIAL LAKE. Either:
         (a)   An artificially created body of water which is not required in
connection with a storm water management system; or
         (b)   The portion of an artificially created body of water developed
in connection with a storm water management system which exceeds the capacity
required to manage the 100-year storm event.
      AUTHORIZED AGENT. Any party duly authorized in writing by the owner of a
subject parcel to act on the owner’s behalf with respect to a petition for zone
map change, subdivision plat, development plan approval or vacation of land.
      AUTOMATIC CAR WASH. A building, or portion thereof, where automobiles,
trucks or other self-powered vehicles are washed by mechanical devices of any
type.
      AUTOMOTIVE, MOBILE HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER, FARM IMPLEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION
MACHINERY SALES AREA. An open area other than a street or public right-of-way,
used for the display, sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles, mobile
homes, travel trailers, farm implements and construction machinery.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR. Servicing and repairs which include muffler
repair or installation, brake repair or installation, shock replacement,
transmission repair, tire recapping, motor overhaul or body or fender repair
work (not including the dismantling or wrecking of motor vehicles, or the
storage of inoperable, damaged or wrecked vehicles, other than those awaiting
immediate repair).
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MINOR. Servicing and repairs limited to tune-ups, oil
changes, sale and installation of lubricants, tires, batteries and other minor
maintenance operations.
      AUTOMOBILE SALES, MAJOR. The sale of motor vehicles including the repair
and servicing of vehicles as set out in the definition of “auto repair, major”.
This use includes the outdoor display and/or storage offer sale vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE SALES, MINOR. The sale of new or used motor vehicles including
the repair and servicing of vehicles as set out in the definition of
“automobile repair, major”. This use limits the available show room space to a
maximum of 2,500 square feet and 110 more than six showroom vehicles on
display. This use further limits service bays for not more than six vehicles.
Outdoor display or storage offer sale motor vehicles is prohibited.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building, structure or land used
primarily for the dispensing or sale of any automobile fuels, oils or
accessories. This includes lubrication and replacement or installation of minor
parts or accessories, but does not include major repair work such as motor
replacement, transmission replacement, body and fender repair or spray-
painting.
      AWNING. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, metal, plastic, fiberglass or
glass designed and intended for protection from the weather or as a decorative
embellishment, and which is supported by and projects from a wall or roof of a
structure over a window, door, walk or the like.
      BANNER. A temporary sign of lightweight fabric or similar material
mounted to a pole or building at one or more edges. Flags of any governmental
or political unit shall not be considered BANNERS.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a building with an interior vertical height
clearance of not less than 78 inches and having one-half or more of its
interior vertical height clearance below grade level.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. The commercial leasing of bedroom(s) for guest(s)
within a private, owner-occupied, one- or two-family dwelling unit. Such
leasing provides temporary accommodations, typically including a morning meal,
to overnight guests for a fee. Such leasing may also provide for the temporary
accommodation of daytime meetings or receptions for guests for a fee. Such
leasing caters largely to tourists and the traveling public.
      BILLBOARD. See SIGN, ADVERTISING.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, municipal
boundary lines.
      BLOCK FACE. The frontage of a block, which may contain one or more lots,
along one side of a public or private street between intersections.
      BOARD (OF ZONING APPEALS). The Town of Zionsville Advisory Board of
Zoning Appeals.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building or part of a building, other than hotels,
motels, restaurants, bed and breakfast, or multi-family dwellings, containing
accommodation facilities in common where lodging, typically with meals reserved
solely for the occupants thereof, is provided for a fee.
      BOND. See PERFORMANCE BOND or MAINTENANCE BOND.
      BOOK STORE. A business established for the retail trade of books,
magazines or similar literature, excluding adult or sexually oriented
materials.
      BUFFERYARD. A front, side or rear yard of a non-residential land use on a
lot which faces or abuts a residential zoning district. A BUFFERYARD may
include landscape plantings, fences, walls or berms to provide screening or
buffering for adjacent residential properties.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The area of a lot remaining after the minimum yard and
open space requirements of the applicable zoning ordinance(s) have been met.
      BUILDING.
         (a)   Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls and
intended for the shelter, housing or enclosure of any individual, animal,
process, equipment, goods or materials of any kind or nature; and
         (b)   Pertaining only to §
194.059 of this chapter, see STRUCTURE.
      BUILDING COMMISSIONER. The person, authorized and empowered to issue
building permits, make inspections, order corrections of violations, issue
certificates of occupancy and perform such other duties as commonly performed
in the execution of this office, as appointed by the Town Council.
      BUILDING, DETACHED. A building having no structural connection with
another building.
      BUILDING HEIGHT, MAXIMUM. See MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT.
      BUILDING INSPECTOR. The employee or officer of the town who is empowered
to inspect and approve ILPs, and to act as the agent of the Director in any
other matter concerning the enforcement of the applicable Building Code
ordinances.
      BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to any front, side or rear lot line which
passes through the nearest point of any building or structure.
      BUILDING LINE, FRONT. A line parallel to any front lot line which passes
through the nearest point of any building or structure and terminates at the
point of contact with any side lot line.
      BUILDING LINE, SIDE. A line parallel to any side lot line which passes
through the nearest point of any building or structure and terminates at the
point of contact with any front or rear lot line.
      BUILDING LINE, REAR. A line parallel to any rear lot line which passes
through the nearest point of any building or structure and terminates at the
point of contact with any side lot line.
      BUILDING PERMIT. Permits issued by the town in compliance with the terms
and provisions of the town’s Building Code.
      BUSINESS. The engaging in the purchase, sale, barter or exchange of
goods, wares, merchandise or services, the maintenance or operation of offices
or recreational and amusement enterprises for profit.
      BUSINESS DAY. A day when the offices of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town
are open to the public for the transaction of business for the entire period of
its normal operating hours.
      CANOPY. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, metal, plastic, fiberglass or
glass on a support, which is supported in total or impart, from the ground and
providing shelter over, for example, a doorway, outside walk, interior access
drive or parking area.
      CAMPING GROUNDS. A parcel of land used or intended to be used for
temporary occupancy by campers, recreational vehicles, travel trailers, mobile
homes, tents and the like.
      CARPORT. A roofed structure designed and intended to shelter the
automotive vehicle of occupant or owner of the premises, with at least one side
open to the weather.
      CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbarium, crematories, mausoleums and mortuaries when
operated in conjunction with and within the boundary of such cemetery.
      CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A certificate signed by the Building
Commissioner, stating that the occupancy and use of land or building or
structure referred to the certificate complies with the provisions of this
chapter, Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances, variance, special exception or
development plan approval.
      CHILD CARE. A service that provides for the care, health, safety and
supervision of a child’s social, emotional and educational growth. (For
reference, see I.C. 12-7-2.)
      CHILD CARE CENTER. A building where at least 17 children receive child
care from a provider:
         (a)   While unattended by a parent, legal guardian or custodian;
         (b)   For regular compensation; and
         (c)   For more than four hours, but less than 24 hours, in each of ten
consecutive days per year, excluding intervening Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays. This term also applies to a building where child care is provided to
less than 17 children if the provider has applied for a license under I.C. 12-
17.2-4 and meets the requirements under I.C. 12-17.2-4. (For reference, see
I.C. 12-7-2.)
      CHILD CARE HOME.
         (a)   A residential structure in which at least six children (not
including the children for whom the provider is a parent, stepparent, guardian,
custodian or other relative) at any time receive child care from a provider:
            1.   While unattended by a parent, legal guardian or custodian;
            2.   For regular compensation; and
            3.   For more than four hours, but less than 24, hours in each of
ten consecutive days per year, excluding intervening Saturdays, Sundays and
holidays.
         (b)   This term includes a Class I child care home, and a Class II
child care home as such terms are defined by I.C. 12-7-2-33.7 and 33-
8 respectively.
      CHILD CARE MINISTRY. A child care operated by a church or religious
ministry that is a religious organization exempt from federal income taxation
under I.R.C. § 501. (For reference, see I.C. 12-7-2.)
      CHILD CARING INSTITUTION.
         (a)   A residential facility:
            1.   That provides child care on a 24-hour basis for more than ten
children; or
            2.   With a capacity of not more than ten children that does not
meet the residential structure requirements of a group home.
         (b)   An institution that:
            1.   Operates under a license issued under I.C. 12-17.4;
            2.   Provides for delivery of mental health services that are
appropriate to the needs of the individual; and
            3.   Complies with the rules adopted under I.C. 4-22-2 by the
Division of Family and Children. (For reference, see I.C. 12-7-2.)
      CHURCH or TEMPLE. A building, together with its accessory buildings and
uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and related
social events and which buildings, together with accessory buildings and uses,
is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain religious
ceremonies and purposes.
      CLEAN FILL SITE. A facility or site specifically designed and restricted
to the disposal, processing and/or reclamation of off-site generated,
uncontaminated and untreated stone, bricks, or concrete; road demolition waste
materials; natural growth including tree limbs and grass clippings; sawdust
from untreated natural wood; and other items not included in the above
definition if subsequently approved by the county’s Solid Waste Management
District and the state’s Department of Environmental Management. CLEAN FILL
SITES shall be classified into one of the following types:
         (a)   Long-term permitted clean fill disposal site;
         (b)   Temporary permitted clean fill disposal site;
         (c)   Long-term permitted clean fill processing site;
         (d)   Temporary permitted clean fill processing site; or
         (e)   Temporary permitted clean fill land reclamation site.
      CLINIC. A building used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick,
ailing, infirm or injured persons, and those who are in need of medical and
surgical attention, but which building does not provide board, room or regular
hospital care and services.
      CLUB. A building or portion thereof or premises owned or operated by a
person or group for a social, literary, political, educational or recreational
purpose primarily for the exclusive use of members and their guests excluding
adult or sexually oriented activities. This does not include any use or
activity rendering a service usually and ordinarily carried out as a business
including restaurants or food service.
      CLUSTER. A development design technique that concentrates buildings in
specific areas on the site to allow the remaining land to be used for
recreation, common open space and preservation of environmentally sensitive
features in perpetuity.
      CLUSTER SUBDIVISION or OPEN SPACE SUBDIVISION. A form of development that
permits a reduction in the minimum lot: area, width, setback and open space
requirements, and to concentrate development in specific areas of the
subdivision while also maintaining the same overall density permitted under a
conventional subdivision in a given zoning district, and, the remaining land
area is devoted to open space, or recreational areas in perpetuity.
      COMMITMENT. An official agreement concerning and running with the land as
recorded in the office of the county’s Recorder.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The town’s master development plan approved by the
Plan Commission and the Town Council pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-500 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
      CONCEPTUAL PLAT REVIEW. A cursory review of a sketch plan for a proposed
subdivision in which staff provides initial review comments to a prospective
petitioner on the design and layout of a proposed subdivision.
      CONDITION. An official agreement between the municipality and the
petitioner concerning the use of development of the land as imposed by the
Board of Zoning Appeals or the Plan Commission.
      COMMERCIAL CLASSIFICATION. These shall be obtained from the latest
edition of the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, Executive Officer of
the President, Bureau of the Budget.
      COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business,
product, service or other commercial activity.
      COMMON SPACE. An area that is held in common by a homeowners’
association, a recognized land trust or conservancy, or a public entity and is
not located in rights-of-way.
      COMPOSTING. The biological treatment process by which microorganisms
decompose the organic component of vegetative matter and other types of organic
material; the COMPOST may be used as:
         (a)   A soil conditioner;
         (b)   A cover material for a solid waste landfill; and/or
         (c)   Another use approved by the county’s Solid Waste Management
District and the state’s Department of Environmental Management.
      COMPOSTING FACILITY. A solid waste processing facility specifically
designed and operated for the express purpose of composting.
      COMPOSTING/DIGESTER FACILITY. A specific type of composting facility.
      CONDOMINIUM. A building, group of buildings, or portion thereof, in which
units are owned individually, and the structure, common areas or facilities are
owned by all the owners on a proportional, undivided basis.
      CONFINED FEEDING OPERATION. As defined in I.C. 13-11-2-40.
         (a)   Any confined feeding of 300 or more cattle, 600 or more swine or
sheep and 30,000 or more fowl;
         (b)   Any animal feeding operation where the operator elects to come
under the Act;
         (c)   Any animal feeding operation that violates Ch. 214 of the Act of
1943, as determined by the Water Pollution Control Board of the state; or
         (d)   As defined by the state’s Department of Environmental Management
latest revisions or amendments.
      CONSERVATION AREA. Designated open space further defined as primary and
secondary conservation areas. PRIMARY CONSERVATION AREAS include wetlands,
lands that are generally inundated, land within the 100-year floodplain and
slopes exceeding 25%. SECONDARY CONSERVATION AREAS typically include parks and
natural resources such as forests, meadows, farm fields, wildlife habitat and
water quality protection or other reasons.
      CONSERVATION EASEMENT. An easement granting a right or interest in real
property that is appropriate to retaining land or water areas predominately in
their natural, scenic, open or wooded condition retaining such areas as
suitable habitat for fish, plants or wildlife, or maintaining existing land
uses.
      CONSTRUCTION/DEMOLITION SITE. A solid waste land disposal facility, or
site, designed and operated to accommodate large volumes of solid waste, having
minimal potential for ground water contamination. Further, in the county’s
Solid Waste Management District, a CONSTRUCTION/ DEMOLITION SITE is to be
specifically designed and restricted to the disposal, processing and/or
reclamation of only construction or demolition waste to include bricks;
concrete; stone; glass; wallboard; lumber; roofing materials; other items which
are affixed to the structure being constructed or demolished including plumbing
fixtures; wiring and non-asbestos insulation; and other items not included in
the above definition if subsequently approved by the county’s Solid Waste
Management District and the state’s Department of Environmental Management.
      COOPERATIVE. A building or land in which an individual owns stock in a
corporation with the right through a proprietary lease to occupy a portion of
the land or part of the building, which building shall be the same as
“dwelling, multi-family”.
      COUNTY. The County of Boone, Indiana.
      CUT. An excavation. The difference between a point on the original ground
and a designated point of lower elevation on the final grade. Also, the
material removed in excavation.
      DAY CARE CENTER. A commercial facility or single-family home licensed
and/or regulated by the state’s Department of Public Welfare for the care and/
or education of human beings. A DAY CARE CENTER shall not be considered a home
occupation.
      DECIBEL. A unit of measurement of the intensity of loudness of sound.
      DECK. A ground-supported, unenclosed, platform accessory structure,
usually constructed of wood, of which any permanent horizontal area(s) of the
platform is raised above grade level and is designed and intended for the
recreational enjoyment of the occupant(s) and guest(s) of the primary use or
structure.
      DENSITY, GROSS. A unit of measurement which represents the number of
units per acre of land on the aggregate total land to be developed.
      DETENTION FACILITY. A facility constructed or modified to restrict the
flow of storm water to a prescribed maximum rate, and to temporarily detain
flow of storm water to a prescribed maximum rate, and to temporarily detain
concurrent excess waters that accumulate behind the outlet. DETENTION
FACILITIES may have either dry bottoms or wet bottoms in the form of a lake or
pond.
      DEVELOPED RECREATIONAL OPEN SPACE. The total horizontal area of those
portions of a lot which are located outside of any required yard and which are
set aside and developed for the recreational use and enjoyment of all residents
of a project.
      DEVELOPER. Any person engaged in developing a lot or group of lots or
structures thereon for use or occupancy.
      DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, any human-made change to improved or
unimproved real estate including, but not limited to:
            1.   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any
addition to a building;
            2.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for
a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than 180
days;
            3.   Installing utilities, erection or walls and fences,
construction of roads or similar projects;
            4.   Construction of flood-control structures such a levees, dikes,
channel improvements and the like;
            5.   Mining, dredging, filling, grading, excavation or drilling
operations;
            6.   Construction or reconstruction of bridges or culverts;
            7.   Storage or materials; or
            8.   Any other activity that might change the direction, height or
velocity of load or surface waters.
         (b)   DEVELOPMENT does not include activities such as the maintenance
of existing buildings and facilities such as painting, re-roofing; resurfacing
roads; or gardening, plowing and similar agricultural practices that do not
involve filling, grading, excavation or the construction of permanent
buildings.
      DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A specific plan for multi-family residential,
commercial, industrial or special use development of property that contains the
plan documentation and supporting information required by this chapter and
satisfies the development requirements specified in this chapter.
      DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS. Development standards, plus any additional
requirements specified in this chapter which must be satisfied in connection
with the approval of a development plan.
      DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS. Area, bulk, height and other applicable
regulations of a zoning district contained in this chapter which govern the
physical development of real estate.
      DISTRICT. A section of the territory within the jurisdiction of Plan
Commission for which uniform regulations governing the use, height, area, size
and intensity of use of buildings and land, and open spaces about buildings,
are established by this chapter.
      DRAINAGE POND. An artificially created body of water which is required in
connection with a storm water management system.
      DRIVE, INTERIOR ACCESS. A way for internal vehicular movement in and
around an individual lot or integrated center.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-813.jpg]
 
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. An establishment selling, foods, frozen desserts or
beverages to consumers, the establishment being designed, intended or used for
the consumption of such items on the premises outside of the building in which
they were prepared.
      DRUG STORE. A store where the primary business is the filling of medical
prescriptions and the sale of drugs, medical devices and supplies and non-
prescription medicines but where non-medical products may be sold as well.
      DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES. An establishment so developed and/or operated
that a preponderance of its retail or service business and/or character is
dependent on providing auto-oriented amenities (drive-through service unit,
single-use bays, parking spaces, etc.) so as to serve patrons while in the
motor vehicle rather than within a building or structure.
      DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE UNIT. A feature of an establishment which
encourages or permits customers to request and receive services or to order and
obtain goods while remaining in or on a motor vehicle. Component parts of a
DRIVE-THROUGH SERVICE UNIT may include menu boards, order stations, pay
windows, food/service pickup windows or service bays.
      DRIVEWAY. Access for vehicular egress/ingress between the right-of-way of
a public or private street and the minimum required setback line on a lot.
      DRIVEWAY, INTERIOR ACCESS. A minor, private street providing for
vehicular egress/ingress between the minimum required setback lines of separate
lots or between lots within the boundaries of an integrated center.
      DWELLING. Any building, or portion of a building, which is designed or
used primarily for residential purposes, including a single-family, two-family
and multi-family dwelling, but not including hotels, boarding houses, lodging
houses and tourist dwellings.
      DWELLING, MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit which is designed and
fabricated in one or more modules at a location other than the home site, by
assembly-line type production techniques or by other construction methods
unique to an off-site manufacturing process; provided that, each module must
bear a label certifying that it is built in compliance with the Federal
Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law of 1974; and,
provided further that, each unit must have been built after 1-1-1981, and must
have at least 950 square feet of main floor area (exclusive of garages,
carports and open porches).
      DWELLING, MOBILE. A movable or portable dwelling unit that:
         (a)   Is fabricated in one or more modules at a location other than
the home site, by assembly-line type;
         (b)   Is production techniques or by other construction methods unique
to an off-site manufacturing process;
         (c)   Is designed for occupancy by one family;
         (d)   Is erected or located as specified by the town’s Building Code;
and
         (e)   Was either:
            1.   Constructed prior to 6-15-1976 and bears a seal attached under
Indiana Public Law 135, 1971, certifying that it was built in compliance with
the standards established by the state’s Administrative Building Council; or
            2.   Constructed subsequent to or on 6-15-1976 and bears a seal,
certifying that it was built in compliance with the Federal Mobile Home
Construction and Safety Standards law.
      DWELLING, MODULAR HOME. A dwelling unit which is fabricated in one or
more modules at a location other than the home site, by assembly-line type
production techniques or by other construction methods unique to an off-site
manufacturing process, designed for residential occupancy; provided. that each
module must bear the seal certified that it was built in compliance with
Indiana Public Law 360; and, provided further that, the unit must have been
built in compliance with the CABO One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code.
      DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building consisting of three or more dwelling
units, including condominiums, with varying arrangements of entrances and party
walls.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. An individual, detached building containing one
dwelling unit which is either built in compliance with the CABO One- and Two-
Family Code and the town’s Building Code:
         (a)   A modular dwelling; or
         (b)   A manufactured dwelling.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building consisting of two dwelling units which
may be either attached side by side or one above the other, and each dwelling
unit having a separate or combined entrance.
      DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms designed and equipped exclusively
for use as living quarters for only one family and its household employees,
including eating, lawful cooking, sleeping space and sanitary facilities
reserved solely for the occupants thereof. The term shall include mobile
dwellings, modular dwellings and manufactured dwellings, but shall not include
recreational vehicles.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to specific persons, the general
public, corporations, utilities or others for the purposed of providing
services or access to the property or through the property to adjacent
property.
      EIA-222. Electronics Industries Association Standard 222, Structural
Standards for Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Support Structures.
      EROSION. The removal of surface materials by the action of natural
elements.
      ESTABLISHMENT OF AN ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS. Any of the following:
         (a)   The opening or commencement of any such business as a new
business;
         (b)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not an adult
entertainment business, to any of the adult entertainment businesses defined
herein;
         (c)   The addition of any of the adult entertainment businesses
defined herein to any other existing adult entertainment business; or
         (d)   The relocation of any such business.
      EXCAVATION. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or other similar
material is dug into, cut, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated
or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
      EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, a manufactured home park or subdivision
for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation
of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of the
floodplain management regulations adopted by the community.
      EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.
Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, the preparation of additional sites by
the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured
homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the
construction of streets and either final site grading or the pouring of
concrete pads).
      FAMILY. One or more human beings related by blood, marriage, adoption,
foster care or guardianship, together with incidental domestic servants and
temporary, non-compensating guests; or, not more than four human beings not so
related, occupying a dwelling unit and living as a single housekeeping unit.
      FARM. An area comprising 20 acres or more which is primarily adapted, by
reason or nature, for the use for agricultural purposes.
      FARM BUILDINGS. A structure on a farm which hosts agricultural storage of
livestock, poultry, grain, feed, hay, farm machinery or other similar non-
residential uses.
      FBFM. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, Flood Boundary and Floodway Map.
      FEMA. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      FENCE. A partition including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed for enclosure or screening.
      FHBM. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, Flood Hazard Boundary Map.
      FILL. Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock or any other similar
material is placed, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved to a new
location above the natural surface of the ground or on top of the stripped
surface and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom. The difference in
elevation between a point on the original ground and a designated point of
higher elevation of the final grade. The material used to make a FILL.
      FILLING OR SERVICE STATION. The same as AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
      FIRM. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, Flood Insurance Rate Map.
      FLEX-SPACE. A light industrial use which includes a combination of office
space and either warehouse or light assembly operations; provided that, a
minimum of 15% of the gross floor area of each tenant space shall be devoted to
office use.
      FLOODWAY. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, the channel of a river or stream and
those portions of the floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably
required to efficiently carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the
regulatory flood of a river or stream.
      FLOOD. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, a general and temporary condition of
partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow,
the unusual and rapid accumulation or the runoff of surface waters from any
source.
      FLOODPLAIN. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, the channel proper and the areas
adjoining any wetland, lake or watercourse which have been or hereafter may be
covered by the regulatory flood. The FLOODPLAIN includes both the Floodway and
the Floodway Fringe Districts.
      FLOOD PROTECTION GRADE or the FPG. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, the elevation of the regulatory flood,
plus two feet at any given location in the SFHA.
      FLOODWAY. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, the channel of a river or stream and
those portions of the floodplains adjoining the channel which are reasonably
required to efficiently carry and discharge the peak flood flow of the
regulatory flood of any river or stream.
      FLOODWAY FRINGE. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, those portions of the floodplain lying
outside the floodway.
      FLOOR AREA.
         (a)   For single-family dwellings and two-family dwellings, the sum of
all horizontal surface areas of all floors of all roofed portions of a building
enclosed by and within the surrounding exterior walls or roofs, or the
centerline(s) of party walls separating such buildings or portions thereof. The
floor area of a building shall exclude all areas with a vertical height
clearance less than 78 inches, exterior open balconies and open porches.
         (b)   For multi-family dwellings, the sum of all horizontal surface
areas of all floors of all roofed portions of all buildings enclosed by and
within the surrounding exterior walls or roofs, or the centerline(s) of party
walls separating such buildings or portions thereof. However, this shall not
include the following:
            1.   All areas with a vertical height clearance less than 78
inches;
            2.   All exterior open balconies and open porches;
            3.   Floor area or basement floor area devoted to off-street
parking or off-street loading, including aisles, ramps and maneuvering space;
floor area or basement floor area provided for recreational uses, available
use, available to occupants of two or more dwelling units within a project; or
            4.   Basement floor area provided for storage facilities, allocated
to serve individual dwelling units within a project.
      FLOOR AREA, FINISHED. The portion of floor area constructed, completed
and usable for living purposes with normal living facilities which includes
sleeping, dining, cooking, sanitary or combination thereof. A floor area or
portion thereof used only for storage purposes and not equipped with the
facilities mentioned above shall not be considered FINISHED FLOOR AREA.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS.
         (a)   For dwelling units, the total area, computed on a horizontal
plane inclusive of finished basements, attached garages, entrances, hallways,
stairways and other enclosed areas, but exclusive of unfinished basements,
cellars and attics.
         (b)   For commercial or industrial buildings or structures, the sum of
all horizontal surface areas of all floors of a building or structure measured
from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls
separating abutting buildings or structures.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS LEASABLE. The portion of the gross floor area which is
designated for the exclusive use and occupancy of a tenant.
      FLOOR AREA, MAIN. The portion of the finished floor area located on the
first floor of the dwelling unit.
      FOOD PROCESSING. The preparation, storage or processing of food products.
      FRONTAGE. The line of contact of an abutting property with the street
right-of-way along a front lot line which allows unobstructed, direct access to
the property.
      GAME COURT. In residential districts, a type of recreation facility which
consists of an unpaved or paved, accessory, surface area of ground open and
essentially unobstructed to the sky, on the same lot as the primary structure,
designed and intended for the playing of a recognized sport as an accessory,
recreational activity by the occupants and guests of the primary structure,
which may include fencing, screening, nets, goals or other necessary
appurtenances required for recreational use.
      GARAGE. An accessory building to a residential use, or an enclosed area
attached to or integrated into a residential building, which is primarily
designed and intended to be used for the storage of the private vehicle(s) for
the occupant(s) of said residence and is not a separate commercial enterprise
available to the general public.
      GARAGE, PARKING. Any building or structure designed and intended for the
storage of motor vehicles for compensation.
      GARAGE SALE. A public or private sale conducted by the owner or occupier
of a premises of six or more items of personal property owned by the owner or
occupier of the premises, which personal property was not acquired by the owner
or occupier for the purpose of resale.
      GARAGE, TRUCK REPAIR. A building, other than a parking garage or private
residential garage, used for the care, repair or equipment of trucks, over one
ton, or where such vehicles are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or
sale.
      GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. Any building, land area or other premises or
portion thereof, used or intended to be used for the retail dispensing or sales
of vehicular fuels, which may include as an accessory use: minor automotive
repairs; the sale and installation of lubricants, tires or batteries; car
washes; and similar uses. Such establishments shall provide a facility where
gasoline and other motor fuels are stored and subsequently dispensed by means
of fixed, approved dispensing equipment by customers or employees.
      GEOMETRIC CENTER. The center point of the smallest rectangle that will
encompass the entire site.
      GRADE. The average level of the finished surface of the ground five feet
from the building, structure or proposed building pad; provided, however, for
the purposes of Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances, the term GRADE, when
referring to “street grade” shall mean the slope of a street specified in
percentage terms.
      GROUND FLOOR AREA. Same as FLOOR AREA, NET, except computed for ground
floor only.
      GROUP HOME. A residential facility licensed by the Community Residential
Facilities Council, or its successor in authority, and authorized by I.C. 12-
17.4-5 in which care is provided on a 24-hour basis for not more than ten
children in need of services or who have committed a delinquent act.
      HARD-SURFACED AREA. Quality of an outer area being solidly constructed of
pavement, brick, paving stone or a combination thereof.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE. A waste or combination of wastes that, because of its
quantity; concentration; or physical, chemical and/or infectious
characteristics; may:
         (a)   Cause or significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or
increase in serious irreversible;
         (b)   Incapacitating reversible illness; or
         (c)   Pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
      HAZARDOUS WASTE LANDFILL. A facility approved by the EPA and sited by the
state for the disposal of hazardous wastes as defined elsewhere in this
chapter.
      HELIPORT. See AIRPORT.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or business activity carried on within a
legally established dwelling unit by a resident of said dwelling, where the
occupation or business activity:
         (a)   Is clearly incidental and subordinate to the residential use;
         (b)   Does not alter the interior or exterior residential character of
the dwelling unit;
         (c)   Is carried on within the principal building and only by members
of the family occupying the premises; and
         (d)   Does not include any outdoor storage or activities other than
receipt or delivery associated with the business activity.
      HOTEL. Any building or group of buildings containing five or more rooms
without direct entrance to or from the outside, designed or intended to be
occupied for sleeping purposes by guests for a fee, often with general kitchen
and dining room facilities provided within the building or an accessory
building, and which caters to the traveling public.
      IMPERVIOUS (SURFACE). Area covered by a material that substantially
reduces or prevents the infiltration of stormwater into previously undeveloped
land. Impervious area shall include but is not limited to decks.
      IMPROVEMENT. Any human-made, immovable item which becomes part of, placed
upon or is affixed to real estate.
      IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMIT. A permit stating that the proposed erection,
construction, enlargement or moving of a building or structure, and uses
thereof, complies with the provisions of this chapter and Ch. 193 of this code
of ordinances.
      INCIDENTAL. A minor occurrence or condition which is customarily
associated with a permitted use and is likely to ensue from normal operations.
      INCINERATOR. An engineered apparatus or solid waste processing facility
designed for the burning of solid waste under the effect of controls of
temperature, retention time, air and other combustion factors.
      INDUSTRY, LIGHT (RURAL). Manufacturing, processing, extraction, heavy
repairing, dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw materials,
manufactured products or wastes, in which all operations, other than
transportation, are performed entirely within enclosed buildings and for which
all loading and unloading facilities are enclosed.
      INDUSTRIAL, GENERAL (RURAL). Manufacturing, processing, extraction, heavy
repairing, dismantling, storage or disposal of equipment, raw materials,
manufactured products or wastes, in which operations, other than
transportation, may be performed in either open or closed areas.
      INDUSTRIAL PARK (RURAL). A tract of land that is planned and developed as
a distinctive unit featuring landscaped open spaces and well-designed
structures to be used for research, offices, experimental and testing
laboratories, light industrial, storage and distribution facilities, and for
necessary uses to the convenience of employees, and is controlled by an
organization guaranteeing the continued maintenance of all commonly used areas
and installations.
      INDUSTRIAL PARK. See INTEGRATED CENTER.
      INSTITUTION. Any home, orphanage or other facility maintained or
conducted by a group of persons, a firm, association, corporation or
governmental body engaged in receiving and caring for dependent, neglected,
handicapped or permanently disabled persons, or children in danger of becoming
delinquent or in operating for gain a private business of boarding children who
are unattended by parents or guardians, or persons in loco parentis.
      INTEGRATED CENTER. An area of development (commercial, industrial or any
combination of commercial, industrial and residential uses) of one or more
lots, comprised of:
         (a)   Two or more individual, non-related and separately operated uses
in one building sharing common site facilities;
         (b)   One or more buildings containing non-related and separately
operated uses occupying a common site, which utilizes one or a combination of
common site facilities, such as driveways, parking areas, interior access
drives, maintenance and similar common services; or
         (c)   One or more buildings containing non-related and separately
operated uses occupying individual sites, which are interrelated by the
utilization of one or a combination of common facilities, such as driveways,
internal public or private street network developed in accordance with an
approved subdivision, parking areas, maintenance or other services.
      INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, semi-trailer, school
bus, recreational vehicle and the like that lacks a motor, drive train, wheels,
axles, transmission and the like; also, a vehicle which does not carry a
current year state registration or license tag.
      JUNK YARD. Any place at which personal property is or may be salvaged for
reuse, resale, or reduction or similar disposition and is owned, possessed,
collected, accumulated, dismantled, or assorted, including, but not limited to,
used or salvaged base metal or metals, their compounds or combinations, used or
salvaged rope, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, lumber, millwork, brick and
similar property, except animal matter; and used motor vehicles, machinery or
equipment which does not carry a current, valid license, and is used, owned or
possessed for the purpose of wrecking or salvaging parts therefrom.
      KENNEL, SMALL. Any lot or premises on which there are located four to 25
run cages, pens and/or animal housing units for dogs or other small animals
that are commonly kept as household pets, at least four months old and where
the primary use of the facility is to breed and/or board the animals, whether
on a temporary or long-term basis. All animals must be licensed in accordance
with county regulations.
      KENNEL, LARGE. Any lot or premises on which there are located 26 to 50
runs, cages, pens and/or animal housing units for dogs or other small animals
that are commonly kept as household pets, which are at least three months old,
where the primary use of the facility is to breed and/or board the animals,
whether on a temporary or long-term basis. All animals must be licensed in
accordance with county regulations.
      KENNEL, UNLIMITED. Any lot or premises on which there are located more
than 50 runs, cages, pens and/or animal housing units for dogs or other small
animals that are commonly kept as household pets, which are at least three
months old, where the primary use of the facility is to breed and/or board the
animals, whether on a temporary or long-term basis. All animals must be
licensed in accordance with county regulations.
      LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR. A person, partnership or corporation involved in
the business of growing, storing, planting, installing and otherwise caring for
live trees, shrubs, flowers and the like.
      LANDSCAPE EASEMENT.
      (1)   An area located in a subdivision that may be privately owned, but
is reserved to provide greenspace and bufferyards.
      (2)   Restrictions for LANDSCAPE EASEMENTS will reflect those of
regulated drain easements.
      LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA). Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, an amendment to the currently effective
FEMA map that establishes that a property is not located in a special flood
hazard area (SFHA). A LOMA is only issued by FEMA.
      LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR). Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, an official revision to the currently
effective FEMA map. It is issued by FEMA and changes flood zones, delineations
and elevations.
      LIFE CARE FACILITY. A facility for the housing and care of elderly
residents that may or may not contain on-site health care facilities.
      LIMITED ACCESS HIGHWAY. A highway to which abutting properties are denied
access.
      LOADING AREA. A hard-surfaced, off-street area maintained and intended
for the maneuvering and temporary parking of vehicles while transferring goods
or materials to and from a facility. LOADING AREA includes the loading space
and maneuvering area required to enter the loading space.
      LOADING, OFF-STREET. A loading area located completely on a lot and
accessed via interior access drives, interior access driveways, access drives
or driveways in which no individual loading spaces gain direct access to a
public or private street.
      LOADING SPACE. A hard-surfaced, off-street area used for the temporary
parking of a commercial vehicle while transferring goods or materials to and
from a facility.
      LOT.
         (a)   A piece, parcel, plot or tract of land designated by its owner
or developer to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under single
ownership or control and may consist of:
            1.   A single lot of record;
            2.   A portion of a lot of record; or
            3.   A combination of complete lots of record, or complete lots of
record and portions of lots of record, or of portions of lots of record.
         (b)   A LOT may or may not coincide with a lot of record. For purpose
of this definition, the ownership of a LOT is further defined to include:
            1.   The person(s) who holds either fee simple title to the
property or is a life tenant as disclosed in the records of the Township
Assessor; or
            2.   A long-term lessee (but only if the lease is recorded among
the records of the county’s Recorder and has a term (exclusive of non-exercised
extensions and renewals) of at least 25 years remaining before its expiration
at the time of applying for a permit).
         (c)   Provided, however, for the purposes of Ch. 193 of this code of
ordinances, the term LOT shall mean that portion of a subdivision which is
proposed to be recorded in the office of the county’s Recorder as a lot of
record.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-815.jpg]
 
      LOT AREA. The area bounded on all sides by the front, rear, and side lot
lines that is available for use or development and does not include any area
lying within the right-of-way of any public or private street or easement for
surface access into the subject lot or adjoining lots.
      LOT, FLAG. A lot with access provided to the majority of the lot by means
of a narrow corridor.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersections,
or upon two parts of the same street forming an interior angle of less than 135
degrees.
      LOT COVERAGE. A measure of intensity of land use that represents the
portion of a site that is impervious. This portion includes but is not limited
to all areas covered by the primary structure, plus any accessory structures
(including decks, patios, above-ground pools, in-ground pools, garages,
carports and storage sheds), excluding driveways, sidewalks, fences and walls
not attached in any way to a roof.
      LOT DEPTH. The distance from the midpoint of the front lot line to the
midpoint of the rear lot line.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot abutting two parallel streets or abutting two
streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot.
      LOT, GROUND LEVEL. For buildings having walls adjoining one street only,
the elevation of the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the average of the
elevation of the sidewalk at the center of all walls adjoining the streets. Any
wall approximately parallel to and not more than five feet from a street is to
be considered as adjoining the street.
      LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot or through lot.
      LOT, THROUGH. A lot having frontage on two parallel or approximately
parallel streets.
      LOT LINE. The line of separation of a lot from any abutting street or
adjoining lot; provided, however, for the purposes of Ch. 193 of this code of
ordinances, the term LOT LINE shall mean the line of separation between a lot
of record and any abutting street or adjoining lot of record.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-817.jpg]
 
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot line separating a lot from any abutting street.
In the case of a through lot, the lot line which most closely parallels the
primary entrance of the primary structure shall be considered the FRONT LOT
LINE.
      LOT LINE, REAR. A lot line which is opposite and most distant from the
front lot line, or in the case of a triangularly shaped lot, a line ten feet in
length within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front
lot line. However, in the case of a corner lot, any lot line which intersects
with a front lot line shall not be considered a REAR LOT LINE.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not designated as a front or rear lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the
office of the county’s Recorder, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
      LOT WIDTH. The full width of a lot measured along the minimum front yard
and minimum building setback line required by this chapter.
      LOW LEVEL NUCLEAR WASTE. Radioactive byproduct materials generated by
laboratory, hospital and industrial research and commercial production as
defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended and administered by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
      LOWEST FLOOR. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, the lowest of the following:
         (a)   The top of the basement floor;
         (b)   The top of the garage floor, if the garage is the lowest level
of the building. The top of the first floor of buildings elevated on pilings or
constructed on a crawl space with permanent openings; or
         (c)   The top of the floor level of any enclosure below an elevated
building where the walls of the enclosure provided any resistance to the flow
of flood waters unless:
            1.   The walls are designed to automatically equalize the
hydrostatic flood forces on the walls by allowing for the entry and exit of
flood waters, through providing a minimum of two openings (in addition to
doorways and windows) having a total area of one square foot for every two
square feet of enclosed floor area subject to flooding. The bottom of all such
openings shall be no higher than one foot above the enclosed area’s floor; or
            2.   Such enclosed space shall be usable for non-residential
purposes and building access.
      MAINTENANCE BOND. A legally binding agreement whereby the subdivider
posts a surety in a form acceptable to the Plan Commission for the maintenance
of improvements, installations and lot improvements required by
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances, any other applicable ordinances of the town
and any requirements, covenants, conditions or commitments which may be imposed
by the Plan Commission.
      MAJOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION, MAJOR RESIDENTIAL.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term “manufactured home” does not include a “recreational vehicle”.
      MANUFACTURED HOME.
         (a)   As defined in I.C. 22-12-1-16, a dwelling unit (as defined in
Pub. Law No. 312), designed and built in a factory which bears a seal
certifying that it was built in compliance with the Federal Manufactured
Housing Construction and Safety Standards Law, and certified by the state.
         (b)   Such MANUFACTURED HOME shall be constructed after 1-1-1981,
classified as residential design, and exceed 750 square feet of occupied space,
and exceed 12 feet in width.
         (c)   Occupied space does not include porches, terraces, garages,
pullout or expansion rooms.
      MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel of land platted for subdivision
according to all requirements of
Ch. 191 and
193 and this chapter, designed or intended for lots to be conveyed by deed to
individual owners for residential occupancy primarily by manufactured homes.
      MANUFACTURED HOUSING CONSTRUCTION AND SAFETY STANDARDS CODES. Title VI of
the 1974 Housing and Community Development Act (42 U.S.C. §§ 5401 et seq.), as
amended (previously known as the Federal Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Act), rules and regulations adopted there under (including information supplied
by the home manufacturer, which has been stamped and approved by a design
approval primary inspection agency, an agent of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development pursuant to HUD rules), and regulations and
interpretations of said code by the state’s Department of Fire and Safety, all
of which became effective for mobile/manufactured home construction on 6-15-
1976.
      MASSAGE.
         (a)   Any method of pressure on or friction against, or stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of any mechanical
electrical apparatus or appliances with or without such supplementary aids as
rubbing alcohol, liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions,
ointment or other such similar preparations commonly used in the practice of
massage, under such circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the
person to whom the treatment is provided or some third person on his or her
behalf will pay money or give any other consideration or any gratuity therefor.
         (b)   However, MASSAGE, as used in this chapter, shall not apply to
the activity of any person who is registered or licensed by the United States
Government or any agency thereof, by the state or any agency thereof, by the
county or any agency thereof, or registered or licensed by any agency or
association authorized to so register or license by any statute or ordinance of
the United States, the state or the county, while such person so registered or
licensed is performing the services for which the registration or license was
issued and during the period of time said registration or license is in effect.
      MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having a source of income or
compensation derived from the practice of massage, as herein defined, and which
has a fixed place of business where any person, firm, association or
corporation engages in, or carries on, any of the activities as defined in a
“massage”.
      MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from finished
grade to the highest point of the roof.
      MAXIMUM DENSITY. A unit of measurement which represents the maximum
number of units per acre of land on the aggregate total land to be developed,
exclusive of rights-of-way of perimeter streets, floodway areas and areas
designated as primary conservation areas or other non-developable areas.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-819.jpg]
 
      MINERAL EXTRACTION. Activities including mining or quarrying and the
removal of earth materials.
      MINOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION, MINOR RESIDENTIAL.
      MOBILE HOME. As defined in I.C. 16-41-27-4, a detached transportable
structure designed to be used as a single-family residential dwelling with all
of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Certified in a factory and fabricated to the standards outlined
in Indiana Public Law 135 pursuant to I.C. 91-5-1; and
         (b)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels;
and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling complete,
including the major appliances, and ready for occupancy, except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation supports,
connection to the utilities and the like.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. As defined in I.C. 16-41-27-5, any parcel or tract of
land licensed and registered under provisions of the Mobile Home Commission
Act, being Act 419 of the Public Acts of 1976, as amended, under the control of
any person upon which three or more occupied mobile homes are harbored on a
continual or non-recreational basis, or which is offered to the public for that
purpose, regardless of whether a charge is made therefore, together with any
building structure, enclosure, street, equipment or facility used or intended
for use incident to the harboring or occupancy of mobile homes.
      MOBILE HOME, TEMPORARY. The temporary placement of a mobile home for one
of the following purposes:
         (a)   Temporary residence for persons intending to build a permanent
residence on the same property within two years;
         (b)   Temporary residence of a mobile home adjacent to the permanent
residence of one who is able to provide care or in need of care; or
         (c)   Temporary use of a mobile home, trailer or van as a contractor’s
office, watchman’s shelter or tool and equipment storage on the project site
and only during the period of construction.
      MONUMENT. Any permanent marker used to identify any tract, parcel, lot or
street line.
      MOTEL. Any building or group of buildings containing five or more rooms
with at least 25% of all rooms having direct entrance to and from the outside
without the necessity of passing through the main lobby of the building(s),
designed and intended to be occupied for sleeping purposes by guests for a fee,
where general kitchen and dining room facilities may be provided within the
building or an accessory building and which caters to the traveling public.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a vehicle
that is self-propelled. The term does not include a “farm tractor”, “implement
of husbandry” or motorized bicycle. The definitions for I.C. 9-13-2 applicable
to motor vehicles law generally are hereby incorporated by reference hereto.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, ABANDONED.
         (a)   A vehicle located on public property illegally;
         (b)   A vehicle left on public property without being moved for three
days;
         (c)   A vehicle located on public property in such a manner as to
constitute a hazard or obstruction to the movement of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic on a public right-of-way;
         (d)   A vehicle that has remained on private property without the
consent of the owner or person in control of that property for more than 48
hours;
         (e)   A vehicle from which the engine, transmission or differential
has been removed or that is otherwise partially dismantled or inoperable and
left on public property;
         (f)   A vehicle that has been removed by a towing service or public
agency upon request of an officer enforcing a statute or an ordinance other
than this chapter if the impounded vehicle is not claimed or redeemed by the
owner or the owner’s agent within 20 days after the vehicle’s removal; and
         (g)   A vehicle that is at least three model years old, is
mechanically inoperable and is left on private property continuously in a
location visible from public property for more than 20 days.
      MOTOR VEHICLE, UNREGISTERED. Any vehicle which is not registered as
required by state law, specifically I.C. 9-18-2-1 and the requirements to
obtain the appropriate indicia of ownership, such as a license plate or renewal
tag, and display the same as required by I.C. 9-18-2-7 and all regulations of
the state’s Bureau of Motor Vehicles.
      MULTI-UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A development that contains three or more
residential units.
      NEIGHBORHOOD RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT. A site where individuals bring
household recyclable materials to either drop off without compensation or to
redeem the materials for monetary compensation. Beyond any limited sorting, no
other processing of the materials takes place at the site. All materials are
stored completely within the structure while awaiting periodic shipment to the
processing facilities. While these collection points may be developed as
freestanding sites, they typically are accessory uses sharing the site of a
larger primary use. Possible structures for this type of operation include such
recycling containers as “igloos”, reverse vending machines, trailers or similar
structures.
      NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, a manufactured home park or subdivision
for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
manufactured homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation
of utilities, the construction of streets and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads) is completed on or after the effective date of
floodplain management regulations adopted by a community.
      NIGHT CLUB. An establishment dispensing liquor and/or meals and in which
music, dancing or entertainment is conducted, excluding adult or sexually
oriented activities.
      NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE, LEGALLY ESTABLISHED. Any
continuous, lawfully established building or structure erected or constructed
prior to the time of adoption, revision or amendment of the zoning ordinance
but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision or amendment to conform to
the present requirements of the zoning district.
      NON-CONFORMING USE, LEGALLY ESTABLISHED. Any continuous, lawful land use
having commenced prior to the time of adoption, revision or amendment of the
zoning ordinance, but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision or
amendment to conform to the present requirements of the zoning district.
      NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION, NON-RESIDENTIAL.
      NON-WHIP ANTENNA. An antenna which is not a whip antenna, such as dish
antennas, panel antennas and the like.
      NUCLEAR WASTE. Radioactive fuel elements, assemblies and the like
generated by utility companies; military, industrial and commercial production
as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 as amended and administered by the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Any radioactive material whether gaseous, liquid
or solid and associated carrier materials whether gaseous, liquid or solid
which has been declared “de minimus” and no longer under control of the NRC.
Such material may or may not be designated hazardous by the EPA.
      NURSING HOME. A facility licensed by the state that provides nursing and
health care services on a continuing basis to persons of all ages who may
require medical treatment, but not hospitalization.
      OFFICE PARK. See INTEGRATED CENTER.
      OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in the open or in an open
dump.
      OPEN DUMP. The consolidation of solid waste from one or more resources or
the disposal of solid waste at a single disposal site that does not fulfill the
requirements of a sanitary landfill or other land disposal method as prescribed
by law or regulations, and that is established and maintained without cover and
without regard to the possibilities of contamination of surface or subsurface
water resources.
      OPEN SPACE. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, an area of land not covered by buildings,
parking structures or accessory uses except for recreational structures. OPEN
SPACE may include nature areas; stream and floodplains; meadows or open fields
containing baseball, football and soccer fields, golf courses and the like;
swimming pools; bicycle paths; and the like. OPEN SPACE does not include street
right-of-way, platted lot area, private yard, patio areas or land scheduled for
future development.
      ORPHANAGE. An institution for the care of children whose parents are
incapacitated or deceased.
      OUTLOT. The portion of land in a subdivision, integrated center or
planned development which is:
         (a)   Usually located adjacent to a street or frontage street; and
         (b)   Is intended for an additional and separate building or buildings
in the development.
      OVERLAY DISTRICT. A zoning district that encompasses one or more
underlying zones and that imposes additional requirements above that required
by the underlying zone.
      PARENT LOT, TRACT OR PARCEL. The lot, tract or parcel of land for which
approval is sought to subdivide it into at least two lots, tracts, parcels or
other divisions of land for sale, development or lease.
      PARKING AREA. Any public or private area, under or outside of a building
or structure, designed and used for parking and maneuvering motor vehicles
including garages, private driveways and legally designated areas of public
streets.
      PARKING AREA. Any area of paving other than an open exhibition or display
area, not inclusive of interior access drives, driveways, interior access
driveways and access drives, intended for the temporary storage of automotive
vehicles including parking spaces and the area allocated to the egress/ingress
of automotive vehicles to and from the actual parking space.
      PARKING GARAGE. See GARAGE, PARKING.
      PARKING, OFF-STREET. A parking area located completely on a lot and
accessed via interior access drives, interior access driveways, access drives
or driveways in which no individual parking spaces gain direct access to a
public or private street.
      PARKING LOT. The primary or accessory use of a lot or a portion of a lot
for the parking of automotive vehicles.
      PARKING SPACE. An off-street portion of the parking area, which shall be
used only for the temporary placement of an operable motor vehicle.
      PATIO. A hard-surfaced area accessory structure to a primary use or
structure of which the horizontal area is at grade level with at least one side
open to the weather and essentially unobstructed to the sky. This area is
specifically designed and intended for the recreational enjoyment of the
occupant(s) and guest(s) of the primary use or structure and is not designed or
intended for use by automotive vehicles.
      PAVEMENT. A layer of concrete, asphalt or coated macadam used on street,
parking area, sidewalk or airport surfacing.
      PENNANT. A sign of lightweight plastic, fabric or other similar material,
whether or not containing a message of any kind, which is suspended from a
rope, wire or string, usually in a series, and which is designed to move in the
wind. Flags of any government or political unit shall not be considered
PENNANTS.
      PERFORMANCE BOND. A legally binding agreement whereby the subdivider
posts a surety in a form acceptable to the Plan Commission for the construction
of improvements, installations and lot improvements required by Ch. 193 of this
code of ordinances, any other applicable ordinances of the town and any
requirements, covenants, conditions or commitments which may be imposed by the
Plan Commission.
      PERMITTED USE. The use of land or the use of a building or structure on
land which is allowed, either as a matter of right or under limited conditions
(i.e., as a special exception use, an accessory use, a home occupation or a
temporary use) in the zoning district applicable to the land.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association or
organization, or any other group that acts as a unit.
      PERVIOUS (SURFACE). Area maintained in its natural condition, or covered
by a material that permits infiltration or percolation of water into the
ground.
      PLAN COMMISSION. The Town of Zionsville Plan Commission established
pursuant to the Advisory Planning Law of the state.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A district established to allow development of
an area of land as a single entity for a number of uses conforming to an
approved development plan, which may not correspond with number of units, bulk,
type of use, density, open space, parking, signage, landscaping or other
standards required by other ordinances; a zoning district for which a PUD
ordinance is required.
      PLANNER. The employee of the town who is empowered to inspect sites for
compliance with this chapter and act as the agent of the Director in any other
matter concerning the enforcement of this chapter.
      PLANT NURSERY. Land, buildings, structures or a combination thereof for
the storage, cultivation, transplanting of live trees, shrubs or plants offered
for retail or wholesale sale on the premises including products used for
gardening and landscaping.
      PLAT. A drawing, map, plan or other graphic representation of a
subdivision of a tract of land or a replat of such a tract of land into lots of
record.
      PORCH. A roofed structure with at least one side exposed to the weather,
supported from the ground and attached to or part of a building at the area of
entrance or exit to said building.
      PRIMARY BUILDING. The building in which the primary permitted use of the
lot is conducted.
      PRIMARY CONSERVATION AREAS. This category includes wetlands, lands that
are generally inundated (under ponds, lakes or creeks), land within the 100-
year floodplain and slopes exceeding 25%.
      PRIMARY PLAT. Any initial request for the subdivision of real estate
filed before the Plan Commission pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-700 et seq.
      PRIMARY STRUCTURE. A building in which the primary use of the lot or
premises on which it is located is conducted, including a building that is
attached to such a building in a substantial way, such as by a roof. With
respect to residential uses, the PRIMARY BUILDING shall be the main dwelling.
      PRIME FARMLAND. Land that has the best combination of physical and
chemical characteristics for producing food, feed, forage, fiber and oilseed
crops and is also available for these uses (land cannot be urban built-up land
or water). It has the soil quality, growing season and moisture supply needed
to economically produce sustained high yields or crops when treated and
managed, including water management, according to acceptable farming methods.
In general, PRIME FARMLANDS have an adequate and dependable water supply from
precipitation or irrigation, a favorable temperature and growing season,
acceptable acidity or alkalinity, acceptable salt and sodium content and few or
no rocks. They are permeable to water and air. PRIME FARMLANDS are not
excessively erodible or saturated with water for a long period of time and they
either do not flood frequently or are protected from flooding. These areas are
defined and illustrated on the map “Important Farmlands”, as defined in 1975 by
Cartographic Division, Soil Conservation Service, USDA, of Boone County,
Indiana, as amended.
      PRIMARY USE. A permitted use of land or a permitted use of a building or
structure on land which is allowed as a matter of right in the zoning district
applicable to the land, subject only to compliance with the development
standards applicable to that zoning district.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or structures as distinguished from a
secondary or accessory use.
      PRIVATE SCHOOL. A private primary, grade, high or preparatory school or
academy not supported by public tax dollars.
      PROFESSIONAL OFFICE CENTER. A building or group of buildings housing
professional offices and appropriate associated and accessory uses.
      PUBLIC SEWER UTILITY. A municipal or public sewage disposal service that
has been issued a final order by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission
(IURC) granting a certificate of territorial authority (CTA) to the utility and
maintains said CTA in good standing with the IURC.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. A municipal or public utility service which has been
issued a final order by the state’s Utility Regulatory Commission granting an
applicable certificate to the utility and maintains said certificate in good
standing with the IURC.
      PUBLIC UTILITY INSTALLATIONS. The erection, construction, alteration,
operation or maintenance of buildings, power plants, substations, water and
sewage treatment plants, pumping stations and other similar public service
structures by a public utility, railroad or by a municipal or other
governmental agency.
      PUBLIC WATER UTILITY. A municipal or public water utility service that
has been issued a final order by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission
(IURC) granting a certificate of necessity and convenience (CNC) to the utility
and maintains said CNC in good standing with the IURC.
      QUALIFYING TRACT. Any tract where 20 or more cubic yards of earth are
moved.
      “R” DISTRICT. The R-SF-1, R-SF-2, R-SF-3, R-SF-4, R-MF-1, R-MF-2 and R-
V Residential Zoning Districts.
      RECOVERY. Obtaining materials or energy for commercial or energy for
commercial or industrial use from solid waste or hazardous waste.
      RECREATION AREA. An area designated, designed and equipped for the
conduct of sports and leisure-time activities.
      RECREATION FACILITY, INDOOR. A place primarily designed and equipped for
the conduct of sports and leisure-time activities indoors.
      RECREATION FACILITY, OUTDOOR. An area primarily designed and equipped for
the conduct of outdoor sports and leisure-time activities. Such facility may be
either public or private.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
         (a)   A self-propelled or towed vehicle designed and intended
specifically for temporary living, travel and leisure activities, including,
but not limited to, boats, motor homes, travel trailers and camping trailers.
         (b)   Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, a vehicle which is:
            1.   Built on a single chassis;
            2.   Four hundred square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projections;
            3.   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a
light duty truck; and
            4.   Designed primarily not for use a permanent dwelling, but as
temporary living quarters for recreational camping, travel or seasonal use.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK. Any lot or land upon which two or more
recreational vehicle sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy
by recreational vehicles of the general public as temporary living quarters for
recreation or vacation purposes.
      RECYCLING. A process by which materials that would otherwise become solid
waste are collected, separated or processed, and converted into materials or
products for reuse or sale.
      RECYCLING CONTAINER. A receptacle designed and intended for the
collection of cleaned, sorted, solid household waste products, including, but
not limited to, glass, plastic, metal and paper.
      RECYCLING FACILITY. A recycling operation involving further processing
(relative to a neighborhood recycling collection point) of materials to improve
the efficiency of subsequent hauling. Such a facility typically features
sorting, the use of a crushing apparatus and the storage of the material until
it is shipped out.
      REGULATORY FLOOD. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, the flood having a 1% probability of
being equaled or exceeded in any given year, as calculated by a method and
procedure which is acceptable to and approved by the state’s Natural Resources
Commission and the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The regulatory flood
elevation at any location is as defined herein. The REGULATORY FLOOD is also
know by the term BASE FLOOD.
      RELIGIOUS USE. A land use and all buildings and structures associated
therewith devoted primarily to the purpose of divine worship together with
reasonably related accessory uses, which are subordinate to and commonly
associated with the primary use, which may include, but are not limited to,
educational, instructional, social, residential or child care ministry uses.
      RESEARCH PARK. See INTEGRATED CENTER.
      RESTRICTED WASTE SITE. A solid waste land disposal facility designed and
operated to accommodate specific types of waste as specified in 329 I.A.C. 2-9.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE DEVELOPMENTALLY DISABLED. A facility which
provides residential services for not more than eight developmentally disabled
individuals in a program described in I.C. 12-11-1-1.
      RESIDENTIAL FACILITY FOR THE MENTALLY ILL. A facility which provides
residential services for mentally ill individuals in a program described in
I.C. 12-22-23.
      RESOURCE RECOVERY. The processing of solid waste into commercially
valuable materials or energy.
      RESOURCE RECOVERY FACILITY. A solid waste processing facility designed
and operated for the express purpose of processing solid waste into
commercially valuable materials or energy.
      RESOURCE RECOVERY SYSTEM. A solid waste management system that provides
for collection, separation, recycling and recovery of solid and/or non-
hazardous wastes including the disposal of non-recoverable waste residues.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Specific and particularly described land, property, or
interest therein devoted to and subject to the lawful use, typically as a
thoroughfare for passage of pedestrians, vehicles or utilities, as set forth in
a written grant, declaration or conveyance that is recorded in the office of
the county’s Recorder.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, EXISTING. The total right-of-way width of a street as
created or expanded by the most recent grant, declaration or conveyance for
that is recorded by the office of the county’s Recorder.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, PUBLIC. Specific and particularly described strip of land,
property or interest therein dedicated to and accepted by the municipality,
county or state to be devoted to and subject to use by the general public for
general transportation purposes or conveyance of utilities whether or not in
actual fact improved or actually used for such purposes, as set forth in a
written grant, declaration or conveyance that is recorded by the office of the
county’s Recorder.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY, PRIVATE. Specific and particularly described strip of
privately-held land devoted to and subject to use for general transportation
purposes or conveyance of utilities whether or not in actual fact improved or
actually used for such purposes, as set forth in a written grant, declaration
or conveyance that is recorded by the office of the county’s Recorder.
      RINGLEMAN NUMBER. The number of the area on the Ringleman Chart that most
nearly approximates the light observing capacity of smoke. The Ringleman Chart
is described in the U.S. Bureau of Mines Information Circular 6888; on which
are illustrated graduated shades of gray for use in estimating smoke density.
Smoke below the density of Ringleman No. 1 shall be considered as no smoke or
Ringleman No. 0.
      ROADSIDE PRODUCE STAND. A temporary structure designed or used for the
display or sale of agricultural and related products.
      RUNOFF. The surface water discharge or rate of discharge of a given
watershed after a fall of rain or snow that does not enter the soil, but runs
off the surface of the land.
      RUNOFF FROM A FULLY DEVELOPED AREA UPSTREAM. The surface water runoff
that can be reasonably anticipated upon maximum development of that area of the
watershed located upstream from the subject tract, as permitted by prevailing
zoning or any existing Comprehensive Plan.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. A solid waste land disposal facility designed to
accommodate general types of solid waste as elsewhere defined in this chapter,
excluding waste regulated by 329 I.A.C. 3, and operated by spreading the waste
in thin layers, compacting it to the smallest practical volume, and covering it
with cover material at the end of each working day. This definition does not
include a clean fill site or a construction/demolition site which are defined
elsewhere in this chapter.
      SEASONAL RETAIL SALES. A temporary use established for a fixed period of
time, for the retail sale of seasonal products, including, but not limited to,
such items as food, Christmas trees and live plants. This use may or may not
involve the construction or alteration of any permanent building or structure.
      SECONDARY CONSERVATION AREAS. This category shall typically include all
or part of the following kinds of resources: woodlands; aquifer recharge areas;
poorly drained soils; significant wildlife habitat areas; prime farmland;
historic, archaeological or cultural features listed (or eligible to be listed)
on national, state or county registers or inventories; scenic views into the
property from existing public roads; or other features unique to the site.
SECONDARY CONSERVATION AREAS, therefore, typically include forest, meadows,
pastures, farm fields, part of the ecologically connected matrix of natural
areas significant for wildlife habitat, water quality protection or other
reasons.
      SECONDARY PLAT. Any plat approved by the Plan Commission and authorized
for filing with the county’s Auditor and for recording by the office of the
county’s Recorder in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-710.
      SECRETARY. The Secretary of the Plan Commission as duly appointed by the
Plan Commission in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-304.
      SEDIMENTATION. The process by which mineral or organic matter is
accumulated or deposited by moving wind, water or gravity.
      SEPTIC SYSTEM, PRIVATE. A septic tank, filtration field and subsurface
drainage if required, which are located on an individual lot. Installations of
such a system shall be based on the requirements of the county’s Sewage
Disposal and Drainage Ordinance, as administered by the county’s Health
Department.
      SERVICES INVOLVING SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES OR DISPLAY OF SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS. This phrase, as used in the definition of “adult service
establishment”, means and includes any combination of two or more of the
following activities:
         (a)   The sale or display of books, magazines, periodicals or other
printed matter, or photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides, tapes, records or other forms of visual or audio representations which
are characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
         (b)   The presentation of films, motion pictures, video cassettes,
slides or similar photographic reproductions which are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis upon the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons;
         (c)   The operation of coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors or other image producing devices to show images to five or fewer
persons per machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas;
         (d)   Live performance by topless and/or bottomless dancers, go-go
dancers, exotic dancers, strippers or similar entertainers, where such
performances are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; and
         (e)   The operation of a massage establishment.
      SETBACK. The distance measured perpendicularly from the property line to
the closest point of the building, structure, sign structure, parking area or
any other permanent improvement.
      SETBACK LINE. A line that establishes the minimum distance that a
building, structure or portion thereof can be located from a lot line or right-
of-way line.
      SETBACK, MINIMUM SIDE. The minimum distance from a side lot line required
by this chapter, measured perpendicularly from the side lot line, to the
closest point of the building, structure, sign structure, parking area or any
other permanent improvement.
      SFHA or SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, those lands within the jurisdiction of
the town that are subject to inundation by the regulatory flood. The SFHAs of
the town are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map of
the town prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 6-15-
1989. The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Boone County that are within
the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the town or that may be annexed into the
town are generally identified as such on the Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared
for the county by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and dated 3-16-1982.
      SHARED DRIVEWAY. A single driveway that serves two to four adjacent lots
pursuant to access easements.
      SIGN.
         (a)   Any object, device, display or structure, or part thereof,
situated outdoors or indoors, which is used to advertise, identify, display,
direct or attract attention to an object, person, institution, organization,
business, product, service, event or location by any means, including words,
letters, figures, design, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination or projected
images.
         (b)   For purposes of this chapter, the following SIGNS are defined.
            1.   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or change of
lighting to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
            2.   BANNER. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material
that is permanently mounted to a pole or a building by a permanent frame at one
or more edges. National flags, state or municipal flags or the official flag of
any institution or business shall not be considered BANNERS.
            3.   BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building
and date and incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut
into a masonry surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
            4.   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to any part of a building, as
contrasted to a freestanding sign.
            5.   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is a part of or attached to an
awning, canopy or other fabric, plastic or structural protective cover over a
door, entrance, window or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a CANOPY.
            6.   FLAG. Any fabric, banner or bunting containing distinctive
colors, patterns or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political
subdivision or other entity.
            7.   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign supported by structures or
supports that are placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are
independent from any building or other structure.
            8.   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a
purpose secondary to the use of the lot on which it is located, such as “no
parking”, “entrance”, “loading only” and other similar directives. No sign with
a commercial message legible from a position off the lot on which this sign is
located shall be considered INCIDENTAL.
            9.   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a
building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building,
generally designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
            10.   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Directs attention to a business,
commodity, service or entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a location
other than the premises on which the sign is located.
            11.   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the
ground or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported,
including, but not limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of
wheels; signs converted to A- or T-frames; menu and sandwich board signs;
balloons used as signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and signs attached to
or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless
said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations of the business.
            12.   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign affixed to a building or wall in
such a manner that its leading edge extends more than six inches beyond the
surface of such building or wall.
            13.   RESIDENTIAL SIGN. Any sign located in a residential district
that contains no commercial message, except advertising for goods or services
legally offered on the premises where the sign is located, if offering such
service at such location conforms with all requirements of this chapter.
            14.   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and considered wholly on and over
the roof of a building, supported by the roof structure and extending
vertically above the highest portion of the roof.
            15.   ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL. Any sign erected or constructed as an
integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that no part of
the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof and such that
no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a space of more
than six inches.
            16.   SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign that is suspended from the underside
of a horizontal plane surface and is supported by such surface.
            17.   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign that is used only temporarily and is
not permanently mounted.
            18.   WALL SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, but within six
inches of, a wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined
within the limits of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is
supported by such wall or building, and which displays only one sign surface.
         (c)   A SIGN is any structure, fixture, placard, announcement,
declaration, device, demonstration or insignia used for direction, information,
identification or to advertise or promote any business, product, goods,
activity, services or interests.
      SIGN, A-FRAME. A portable sign containing two sign faces and whose
framing is hinged at the apex at an angle less than 45 degrees.
      SIGN, ADVERTISING. An off-premises sign which directs attention to any
business, profession, product, activity, commodity or service that is offered,
sold or manufactured on property or premises other than that upon which the
sign is located. Also known as an OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGN.
      SIGN, AWNING. A building identification sign or graphic printed on or in
some fashion attached directly to the material of an awning.
      SIGN, BALLOON. A temporary sign consisting of a bag made of lightweight
material which is either:
         (a)   Filled with a gas lighter than air; or
         (b)   Continuously filled with blown air, and designed to rise or
float in the atmosphere or is attached to the ground or a building.
      SIGN, BUSINESS. See SIGN, IDENTIFICATION.
      SIGN, CANOPY. Any sign that is part of or attached to a canopy over a
door, entrance or window.
      SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. See READER BOARD SIGN or ELECTRONIC VARIABLE
MESSAGE SIGN.
      SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A temporary sign which identifies the construction
activity on a property and announces the project, owner or developer,
contractor, subcontractor, architect, engineer, funding sources or related
information.
      SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. Any incidental sign which serves solely to designate
the location of or direction to any place or area located on the same lot.
      SIGN, DIRECTORY. An on-premises sign on which the name, title, street
number or use of building is displayed.
      SIGN, ELECTRONIC VARIABLE MESSAGE (EVMS). A sign, or portion thereof,
where the message copy includes characters, letters or illustrations that can
be changed or rearranged electronically without touching or physically altering
the primary surface of the sign. Message copy may be changed in the field or
from a remote location.
      SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign that is attached to, erected on or supported
by some structure (such as a pole, mast or frame) that is grade not itself an
integral part of or attached to a building or structure whose principal
function is something other than the support of a sign.
      SIGN, GROUND. Any freestanding sign constructed in or on the ground
surface with a maximum height not exceeding six feet above grade.
      SIGN, IDENTIFICATION. Any sign which is limited to the name, address and
number of a building, institution or person and to the activity carried on in
the building or institution, or the occupancy of the person.
      SIGN, INCIDENTAL. A sign relating to the lot or use thereof and
designated accessory uses, direction, identification, information, construction
or real estate for sale, lease or rent.
      SIGN, MARQUEE. Any building identification sign painted, mounted,
constructed or attached in any manner on a marquee.
      SIGN, NON-COMMERCIAL OPINION. A sign which does not advertise products,
goods, businesses or services and which expresses an opinion or point of view.
      SIGN, NON-CONFORMING. A sign which qualifies as a legally established
non-conforming structure.
      SIGN, OFF-PREMISES. See SIGN, ADVERTISING.
      SIGN, ON-PREMISES. A sign which directs attention to a building,
business, product, activity or service offered on the property on which the
sign is located.
      SIGN, PARKING AND LOADING. Any incidental sign which serves to designate
the location of any parking or loading area on a lot and may include the name
of the owner or the establishment for which such parking or loading area it is
provided.
      SIGN, POLE. Any freestanding sign which has its supportive structure(s)
anchored in the ground and which as the lowest portion of its sign display
surface elevated a minimum of ten feet above the grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-821.jpg]
 
      SIGN, PORTABLE. Any sign or sign structure not securely attached to the
ground or other permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported from
place to place, including, but not limited to, signs transported by means of
wheels; a sign attached to A- or T-frames; a menu and sandwich board sign; a
balloon used as a sign, umbrella used for advertising; and, a sign attached to
or painted on a vehicle parked and visible from the public right-of-way, unless
said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operation of the business.
      SIGN, PROJECTING. Any sign which is affixed to a building or wall in such
a manner that the leading edge extends more than 18 inches beyond the surface
of such building or wall face.
      SIGN, PYLON. Any freestanding sign anchored in the ground with its sign
display surface extending upward from the ground surface and which has a height
exceeding six feet above grade.
      SIGN, READER BOARD.
         (a)   A sign, or portion thereof, where the message copy includes
characters, letters or illustrations that can be physically altered without
altering the primary surface of the sign. The message copy of a reader board
sign can be changed manually in the field or through remote electronic or
electric techniques.
         (b)   Methods of changing the message copy include the use of:
            1.   Changeable letters, numbers, symbols and similar characters;
            2.   Changeable pictorial panels; or
            3.   Rotating panels or other similar devices.
      SIGN, ROOF. Any sign erected on or wholly constructed upon a roof of any
building and supported solely on the roof structure.
      SIGN, SPANDREL. Any sign that is a part of or attached to the spandrel.
      SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure including supports, uprights, acing and
framework which supports or is capable of supporting any sign.
      SIGN SURFACE. The surface of the sign upon, against or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
      SIGN SURFACE AREA. The area of a sign surface (which is also the sign
surface area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face). SIGN SURFACE
AREA shall be computed by using the smallest square, rectangle or combination
thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing, representation,
emblem or other display, together with any material or color forming an
integral part of the background of the display or used to differentiate the
sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is placed, but not
including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence or wall when
such fence or wall otherwise meets the applicable regulations of this chapter
and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-823.jpg]
 
      SIGN, SUSPENDED. Any sign that is suspended from the underside of a
horizontal plane surface and is connected to the horizontal plane surface.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-825.jpg]
 
      SIGN, T-FRAME. A portable sign utilizing an inverted “T” style of framing
to support.
      SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign or sign structure which is not permanently
affixed or installed, and is intended to be displayed for limited periods only.
Examples of such signs include, but are limited to the following: real estate,
construction, special event, garage sale or home improvement/remodeling signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-827.jpg]
 
      SIGN, WALL. Any sign attached to or erected on a wall exposed face of the
sign in a plane parallel to the plane of said wall, within 18 inches of said
wall and containing only one sign display surface.
      SIGN, WIND. A sign of lightweight fabric or similar material attached at
one end to a pole or similar apparatus so as to swing freely, inflate and
flutter by movement of the wind.
      SIGN, WINDOW. Any sign placed:
         (a)   Inside of and within two feet of a window; or
         (b)   Upon a window panes or glass, and is intended to be seen from
the exterior of the window.
      SINGLE USE SITE. A lot which is developed and intended for use by one
permitted use.
      SITE PLAN. A plan prepared to scale, and other material showing
accurately and with complete dimensions, the boundaries of a site and the
location of all buildings, structures, uses and principal site development
features, interior vehicular and pedestrian access proposed for a specific
parcel of land.
      SKETCH PLAN. A graphic representation of a site or subdivision, drawn to
an appropriate scale by hand or other drawing method, capable of depicting the
general pattern proposed for a development or subdivision layout in compliance
with the applicable provisions of
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances or this chapter.
      SLOPE. The face of an embankment or cut section; any ground whose surface
makes an angle with the plane of the horizon. SLOPES are usually expressed in a
percentage based upon vertical difference in feet per 100 feet of horizontal
distance.
      SMOKE UNIT. The number obtained when the smoke density in Ringleman
number is multiplied by the time of emission in minutes. For the purpose of
this calculation, a Ringleman density reading shall be made at least once a
minute during the period of observation. Each reading shall then be multiplied
by the time in minutes during which it is observed. The products so computed
shall then be added to give the total number of smoke units observed during the
entire observation period.
      SOIL STABILIZATION. Chemical or structural treatment of a mass of soil to
increase or maintain its stability or otherwise improve its engineering
properties.
      SOLID WASTE. Garbage; refuse; sludge from a waste treatment plant, water
supply treatment plant or air pollution control facility; or other discarded
materials including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material
resulting from industrial, commercial, mining or agricultural operations or
from community activities. However, the term SOLID WASTE does not include:
         (a)   Solid or dissolved materials in domestic sewage or solid or
dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or industrial discharges, which
are point sources subject to permits under § 402 of the Water Pollution Control
Act Amendments (33 U.S.C. § 1342);
         (b)   Source, special nuclear or by-product material as defined by the
Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. §§ 2011 et seq.); or
         (c)   Manures or crop residues returned to the soil at the point of
generation as fertilizers or soil conditioners as part of a total farm
operation (Pub. Law No. 143-1985, § 90).
      SOLID WASTE PROCESSING FACILITY. A solid waste facility upon which is
located a solid waste incinerator, transfer station, solid waste baler, solid
waste shredder, resource recovery system, composting facility, garbage grinding
facility and other facilities, or recycling facilities, not included in the
above definition if subsequently approved by the county’s Solid Waste
Management District and the state’s Department of Environmental Management.
      SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION. A facility for the collection, separation,
compaction, processing and storage of solid waste until said waste can be
transported or transferred to a sanitary landfill or other facility approved
and licensed for the disposal of solid wastes by the state.
      SPANDREL. A roof-like structure that covers the gasoline pump dispenser,
serves as a second-tier canopy, is a lighting source for the dispensing area,
serves to identify the gasoline pumps by numerical designation and may display
signs.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION. The authorization of a use, designated as being
permitted in the district concerned if it meets special conditions, and upon
application, is specifically authorized by the BZA.
      SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE. The use of land or the use of a building or
structure on land which is allowed in the zoning district applicable to the
land only through the grant of a special exception by the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. This phrase means and includes any of the
following:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breasts below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; or
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. This phrase means and includes any of the
following:
         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touchings of human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks or female breasts;
         (d)   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
         (e)   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the
infliction of pain;
         (f)   Erotic touching, fondling or other such contact with an animal
by a human being; or human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation as part of or in connection with any of the activities set forth in
divisions (a) through (f) above.
      STABLE, PRIVATE. An accessory building in which horses are kept for
private use and not for remuneration, hire or sale.
      STABLE, PUBLIC. An accessory building in which horses are kept for
commercial use including boarding, hire, riding, show or sale.
      STAFF. The Building Commissioner, or any attorney, employee or agent of
the town, as designated by the Plan Commission.
      STATE. The State of Indiana.
      STORAGE AND TRANSFER ESTABLISHMENT. A facility at which products, goods
or materials are received from various locations and temporarily warehoused
while awaiting distribution or shipment via a subsequent carrier, possibly
along with other products, goods or materials to another destination.
      STORAGE, OUTSIDE. The storage of any product, goods, equipment,
machinery, vehicles, boats, supplies, building materials or commodities,
including raw, semi-finished and finished materials for a period of time in
excess of one week, the storage of which is not accessory to a residential use,
and which is visible from ground level; provided, however, that, vehicular
parking and the display of automobiles, boats, trucks or farm equipment
associated with a legally established dealership shall not be deemed OUTSIDE
STORAGE.
      STORY. The part of a building, with an open height of no less than 78
inches, except a mezzanine, included between the upper surface of one floor and
the lower surface of the next floor, or if there is no floor above, then the
ceiling next above. A basement shall constitute a STORY only if it provided
finished floor area.
      STREET.
         (a)   Any public or private right-of-way, with the exception of
alleys, essentially open to the sky and open and dedicated to the general
public for the purposes of vehicular and pedestrian travel affording access to
abutting property, whether referred to as a street, lane, road, drive,
expressway, arterial, thoroughfare, highway or any other term commonly applied
to a right-of-way for said purposes.
         (b)   A STREET may be comprised of pavement, shoulders, gutters,
curbs, sidewalks, parking space and similar features.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-829.jpg]
 
      STREET, COLLECTOR. A street primarily designed and intended to carry
vehicular traffic movement at moderate speeds (e.g., 35 mph) between local
street and arterials while allowing direct access to abutting property(ies).
      STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street having one open end and being
permanently terminated at the other by a vehicular turnaround.
      STREET, FRONTAGE. A street located along side and generally parallel with
a more heavily traveled street and which provides access to abutting property
(ies).
      STREET, LIMITED ACCESS. A street along which access is restricted due to
the acquisition of access rights from adjoining properties by the appropriate
governmental agency having jurisdiction over such street (example Interstates
I-465 or I-65).
      STREET, LOCAL. A street, not classified as a primary arterial street,
secondary arterial street or collector street, designed and intended to carry
low volumes of vehicular traffic movement at low speeds within the immediate
geographic area with direct access to abutting properties.
      STREET, PRIMARY ARTERIAL. A street so designated by the transportation
plan for the town, as amended.
      STREET, PRIVATE. A privately-held right-of-way, with the exception of
alleys, essentially open to the sky and open to the general public for the
purposes of vehicular and pedestrian travel affording access to abutting
property, whether referred to as a street, easement, road, expressway,
arterial, thoroughfare, highway or any other term commonly applied to a right-
of-way for said purposes. A PRIVATE STREET may be comprised of pavement,
shoulders, curbs, sidewalks, parking spaces and similar features.
      STREET PUBLIC. A publicly dedicated, accepted and maintained right-of-way
with the exception of alleys essentially open to the sky and open to the
general public for the purposes of vehicular and pedestrian travel affording
access to abutting property, whether referred to as a street, lane, road,
drive, expressway, arterial, thoroughfare, highway or any other term commonly
applied to a public right-of-way for said purposes. A PUBLIC STREET may be
comprised of pavement, shoulders, gutters, curbs, sidewalks, parking space and
similar features.
      STREET, SECONDARY ARTERIAL. A street so designated by the transportation
plan for the town, as amended.
      STRUCTURE.
         (a)   Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground, or attachment to something having a fixed location on
the ground. Among other things, STRUCTURES include buildings, mobile homes,
walls, parking areas, signs and billboards.
         (b)   Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, a structure that is principally above
ground and is enclosed by walls and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid
storage tank, a manufactured home or a prefabricated building. The term also
includes recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site
for more than 180 days.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any substantial change in the exterior walls or roof.
      SUBDIVIDER. The owner, developer or authorized agent of the owner or
developer of real estate, who is responsible for all designs, reservations and
improvements related to the petition for primary or secondary plat approval or
the development of a subdivision.
      SUBDIVISION, MAJOR RESIDENTIAL.
         (a)   A subdivision of a tract of land into four or more parcels or
lots, including any remainder of the original tract, for single-family or two-
family dwelling purposes;
         (b)   Any single-family or two-family dwelling subdivision which
involves the creation of new streets, extension of water lines or sewer lines,
or the creation of public improvements; or
         (c)   Subdivision for a multi-family dwelling development.
      SUBDIVISION, MINOR RESIDENTIAL. A subdivision of a tract of land into
less than four parcels or lots, including any remainder of the original tract,
for single-family or two-family dwelling purposes, which does not involve the
creation of new streets, extension of water lines or sewer lines or the
creation of public improvements.
      SUBDIVISION, NON-RESIDENTIAL. A subdivision of a tract of land for any
commercial, industrial or special exception use.
      SUBDIVISION, RURAL ZONING. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land
into two lots, tracts, parcels or other divisions of land for sale, development
or lease. The following kinds of division of existing parcels of land are
exempt from requirements found in the Subdivision Control Ordinance:
         (a)   AGRICULTURAL DIVISION. A division where the resulting lots are:
            1.   Intended solely for agricultural uses;
            2.   Are at least 20 acres in size; and
            3.   Abut existing public ways.
         (b)   TWO-LOT DIVISION. A division resulting in only two building lots
when the parent lot, tract or parcel existed prior to 1-1-1999.
         (c)   ADJOINING TRANSFERS. A division resulting in the transfer or
sale of land between adjoining lot owners that does not create additional
building sites.
      SUBDIVISION, URBAN ZONING.
         (a)   The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots, parcels,
sites, units, plats or interest for the purpose of offer, sale, lease or
development, either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans,
terms and conditions, including resubdivision. SUBDIVISION includes the
division or development of land opened for residential and non-residential
uses, whether by deed, metes and bounds description, devise, intestacy, lease,
map, plat or other recorded instrument.
         (b)   The following kinds of division of existing parcels of land are
exempt from requirements found in
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances:
            1.   A division of land into two or more tracts all of which are at
least five acres in size;
            2.   A division of land for the sale or exchange of tracts by
adjoining landowners to correct errors in an existing legal description;
provided that, no additional building sites other than for accessory buildings
are created by the division;
            3.   A division of land for the acquisition of street or utility
right-of-way or easement;
            4.   A division of land for the sale or exchange of tracts between
adjoining land owners; provided that, no additional development sites other
than for accessory buildings are created by the division;
            5.   A division of land into cemetery plots for the purpose of
burial; and
            6.   A division of a lot of record, which is or may be legally
developed with a two- family dwelling or a multi-family dwelling, into sub-lots
for the purpose of transfer of ownership of the individual dwelling units and
their associated portion of the lot of record; provided that, no additional
development sites are created by the division and that no sub-lots are created
which do not contain a dwelling unit.
      SUB-LOTS. Portions of a lot of record created in connection with the
transfer of ownership of individual dwelling units in a two-family or multi-
family dwelling.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, any reconstruction, rehabilitation,
addition or other improvement of a Structure, the cost of which equals or
exceeds 40% of the market value of the structure before the “start of
construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures which have
incurred “substantial damage” regardless of the actual repair work performed.
The term does not include improvements of structures to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary or safety code requirements or
any alteration of a “historic structure”; provided that, the alteration will
not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure”.
      SWALE. A low lying stretch of land which gathers or carries surface water
runoff.
      SWIMMING POOL. A self-contained body of water at least 18 inches in depth
used for recreational purposes. Such body of water may exist in a metal tank,
plastic lined or masonry structure located either above or below ground level.
SWIMMING POOLS may be either public or private in use. A private pool is
considered as an accessory use.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS. The transmission between or among points specified by
the user of information of the user’s choosing, without change in the form or
content of the information as sent and received.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA. An antenna used to provide a
telecommunications
service.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE. The offering of telecommunications for a fee
directly to the public, or to such classes of users as to be effectively
available directly to the public, regardless of the facilities used.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWER. A structure more than ten feet tall, built
primarily to support one or more telecommunications antennas.
      TEMPORARY SEASONAL RETAIL SALES. A temporary use established for a fixed
period of time, for the retail sale of seasonal products, including, but not
limited to, such items as food, Christmas trees, pumpkins and live plants. This
use may or may not involve the construction or alteration of any permanent
building or structure.
      TEMPORARY USE. A land use established for a limited and fixed period of
time with the intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time
period.
      THOROUGHFARE. See STREET.
      TRADE OR BUSINESS SCHOOL. A secretarial or business school or college
when not publicly owned or not owned or conducted by or under the sponsorship
of a religious, charitable or non- profit organization or a school conducted as
a commercial enterprise for teaching music, dancing, barbering, hair dressing,
drafting or industrial or technical arts.
      TRANSPORTATION PLAN. The Zionsville Regional transportation plan, a
segment of the Comprehensive Plan for the town, adopted pursuant to I.C. 36-7-
4, that sets forth the location, alignment, dimensions, identification and
classification of primary arterial streets, secondary arterial street and other
public ways as a plan for the development, redevelopment, improvement and
extension and revision thereof.
      TRUCK SERVICE CENTER. An occupancy, which provides especially for the
servicing of trucks, with incidental operations similar to those permitted for
“automobile service station”.
      TOPSOIL. Surface soils and subsurface soils which presumably are fertile
soils and soil materials, ordinarily rich in organic matter of humus debris.
TOPSOIL is usually found in the uppermost soil layer call the “A Horizon”.
      TOWN COUNCIL. The Town Council of the Town of Zionsville, Indiana.
      TOWN ENGINEER. The licensed engineer designated by the town to furnish
engineering assistance and advice in the administration of this chapter and Ch.
193 of this code of ordinances.
      TOWN STANDARDS. The town’s Construction Standards for Paving and
Surfacing, Storm Sewer, Gravity Sanitary Sewer, Force Main, Submersible Lift
Station, adopted by the Town Council, April, 1994, as amended. Those drawings,
memorandum and specifications established by the Town Engineer, under the
authority and adoption of the Town Council, for the sole purpose of identifying
the minimum quality and performance standards for facilities, or components
thereof, which, in the opinion of the town’s Engineer, may impact the integrity
of the street and public works systems, thereby impacting the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of the town.
      TRANSFER STATION. A facility where solid waste is transferred from a
vehicle or container to another vehicle or container for transportation. The
term does not include the following:
         (a)   Facility where the solid waste that is transferred has been
generated by the facility; and
         (b)   A recycling facility. (For reference, see I.C. 13-7-1.)
      USE. The specific purposes, for which land or a building is designated,
arranged, intended or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
      UNDERGROUND FACILITIES. An accessory structure which is at least 75%
subterranean, utilized for storage of personal property or as a temporary
shelter for people, such as a storm cellar or fallout shelter.
      VARIANCE. Pertaining only to
Chapter 192: Flood Hazard Prevention, a grant of relief from the requirements
of this section which permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be
prohibited by this section.
      VETERINARY ANIMAL HOSPITAL OR CLINIC. A facility where the primary use is
for a licensed veterinarian and his or her supervised staff to care for,
diagnose and treat sick, ailing, infirm or injured animals, and those in need
of medical or surgical attention. Temporary boarding on the premises as an
accessory use is allowed.
      VIDEO STORE. A business where videos and associated visual home
entertainment products are sold, rented or otherwise distributed, excluding
sexually oriented material.
      WATERCOURSE. A permanent stream, intermittent stream, river, brook,
creek, channel or ditch for water whether natural or human-made.
      WHIP ANTENNA. An omni-directional dipole antenna of cylindrical shape
which is no more than six inches in diameter.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITY. Any towers, poles, antennas or other
structures intended for use in connection with transmission or receipt of radio
or television signals, or any other spectrum-based transmissions/receptions.
      YARD. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending fully across the
lot while situated between the front, side or rear lot line and the established
front, side or rear building line.
      YARD, FRONT. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending fully
across the lot while situated between the front lot line and the established
front building line.
      YARD, INTERIOR. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending out
from the wall of a multi-family dwelling.
      YARD, MINIMUM. An open space unobstructed to the sky, extended fully
across the lot situated between a lot line and a setback line. MINIMUM YARDS
may be a front yard, a side yard or a rear yard depending on which lot line the
required yard abuts.
      YARD, PERIMETER. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending fully
across the lot while situated between any front, side and rear lot line and the
minimum required front, side and rear setback.
      YARD SALE. See GARAGE SALE.
      YARD, SIDE. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending fully
across the lot while situated between a side lot line and the established side
building line.
      YARD, REAR. An open space, unobstructed to the sky, extending fully
across the lot while situated between the rear lot line and the established
rear building line.
      ZERO LOT LINE. The zoning practice of placing a building on one of the
side lot lines in order to increase the useable side yard space by combining
the required side yards into one.
      ZIONSVILLE THEME. The architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior
character of a building which is consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek
Revival or Victorian architectural styles, and which enhances the overall
visual and physical landscape, streetscape and associated surroundings.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 11.2)
(Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-2-2015; ; Ord. 2016-23, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2017-
17, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 194.025 SEVERABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the Town Council that the
sections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses and phrases of this chapter are
severable and, if any such section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase is
declared unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction in a valid judgment or decree, such unconstitutionality or
invalidity shall not affect any remaining sections, paragraphs, sentences,
clauses or phrases of this chapter because the same would have been enacted
without the incorporation into this chapter of such unconstitutional or invalid
section, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 12.1)
DISTRICTS
§ 194.040 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The following zoning districts for the town are hereby established, and land
within the town is hereby classified, divided and zoned into said districts as
designated on the Official Zone Map, as specified in §§
194.180 through
194.185 of this chapter:
   (A)   Rural conservation and agricultural districts:
      (1)   Rural C: Rural Conservation District;
      (2)   Rural AP: Rural Agricultural Preservation District;
      (3)   Rural AG: Rural General Agricultural District; and
      (4)   Rural RE: Rural Equestrian District.
   (B)   Urban RE: Equestrian/Estate Residential District;
   (C)   Urban residential districts:
      (1)   Urban R-SF-1: Urban Single-Family Residential;
      (2)   Urban R-SF-2: Urban Single-Family Residential;
      (3)   Urban R-SF-3: Urban Single-Family Residential (deleted for new
subdivisions after 7-9-1990);
      (4)   Urban R-SF-4: Urban Single-Family Residential (deleted for new
subdivisions after 7-9-1990);
      (5)   Urban R-MF-1: Urban Multi-Family Residential District One;
      (6)   Urban R-MF-2: Urban Multi-Family Residential District Two; and
      (7)   Urban R-V: Urban Special Residential.
   (D)   Rural residential districts:
      (1)   Rural R-1: Rural Single-Family Residential;
      (2)   Rural R-2: Rural Single- and Two-Family Residential;
      (3)   Rural R-3: Rural Single- and Two-Family Residential;
      (4)   Rural R-4: Rural Single- and Two-Family Residential; and
      (5)   Rural MF: Rural Multi-Family Residential.
   (E)   Urban business/commercial districts:
      (1)   Urban B-O: Urban Office;
      (2)   Urban B-1: Urban Neighborhood Business;
      (3)   Urban B-2: Urban Outdoor Business; and
      (4)   Urban B-3: Urban Outdoor Business.
   (F)   Urban VBD: Urban Village Business;
   (G)   Rural business/commercial districts:
      (1)   Rural LB: Rural Local Business;
      (2)   Rural PB: Rural Professional Business;
      (3)   Rural UB: Rural Urban Business;
      (4)   Rural GB: Rural General Business; and
      (5)   Rural AB: Rural Accommodation Business.
   (H)   Urban industrial districts:
      (1)   Urban I-ORT: Urban Office/Research/Technology Industrial;
      (2)   Urban I-1: Light Industrial;
      (3)   Urban I-2: General Industrial; and
      (4)   Urban I-3: Heavy Industrial.
   (I)   Rural industrial districts:
      (1)   Rural I-1: Rural Light Industrial; and
      (2)   Rural I-2: Rural General Industrial.
   (J)   Urban special use districts:
      (1)   Urban SU-1: Schools;
      (2)   Urban SU-2: Churches;
      (3)   Urban SU-3: Golf Course, Golf Driving Range;
      (4)   Urban SU-4: Airport or Landing Field;
      (5)   Urban SU-7: Charitable and Philanthropic Institutions;
      (6)   Urban SU-8: Buildings and Grounds Used by Any Department of Town,
Township, County, State or Federal Government;
      (7)   Urban SU-9: Cemeteries;
      (8)   Urban SU-12: Swimming Pool, Commercial;
      (9)   Urban SU-13: Community Center;
      (10)   Urban SU-14: Library;
      (11)   Urban SU-16: Light and Power Substation, Water Tank and Similar
Structures;
      (12)   Urban SU-17: Radio or Telecommunications, Receiving or
Broadcasting Towers and Associated Accessory Buildings; and
      (13)   Urban SU-20: Extracting or Gravel, Sand, Peat and Other Raw
Materials.
   (K)   Urban other districts:
      (1)   Urban O-1: Urban Open Land District;
      (2)   Urban FP: Urban Floodplain Secondary District; and
      (3)   Urban MRO: Urban U.S. Highway 421-Michigan Road Corridor Overlay
District.
   (L)   Rural other districts:
      (1)   Rural MRO: Urban U.S. Highway 421-Michigan Road Corridor Overlay
District; and
      (2)   Rural AZ: Rural Airport Zoning District.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.1)
§ 194.041 RURAL C: RURAL CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The Rural C, Rural Conservation, District is
hereby established to emphasize the conservation of existing natural resources.
   (B)   Specifics. See Table 1, Rural Authorized Uses and Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.2)
§ 194.042 RURAL AP: RURAL AGRICULTURAL PRESERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The Rural AP, Rural Agricultural Preservation,
District is hereby established to restrict non-agriculturally related land
uses. Residential development may occur at a substantially decreased rate than
other rural residential districts.
   (B)   Specifics. See Table 1, Rural Authorized Uses and Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.3)
§ 194.043 RURAL AG: RURAL GENERAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The Rural AG, General Agricultural, District is
hereby established to allow the opportunity for further rural residential
development beyond constraints of the Rural AP, Rural Agricultural
Preservation, District; however, residential development in this district
remains limited.
   (B)   Specifics.
      (1)   See Table 1, Rural Authorized Uses and Requirements.
      (2)   See Table 2, Rural Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-
Family.
      (3)   See Table 5, Rural Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.4)
§ 194.044 RURAL RE: RURAL EQUESTRIAN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The Rural RE, Rural Equestrian, Districts hereby
established to maintain and conserve a rural, country-like atmosphere and to
encourage equestrian uses rather than rural, or urban, residential uses.
Residential development may occur, but is secondary to the rural equestrian
purpose of this district. Further, the lot area requirements of this rural
residential district are more restrictive than established rural residential
districts; typically at a density of one home per three acres.
   (B)   Specifics.
      (1)   See Table 1, Rural Authorized Uses and Requirements.
      (2)   See Table 2, Rural Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-
Family.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.5)
§ 194.045 URBAN R-E EQUESTRIAN/ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The R-E: Equestrian/Estate Residential (“Horse Country”)
Districts are established to preserve and protect a unique region within the
town’s planning area. The region features large estate development interspersed
with horse farms, agricultural operations and undeveloped wooded, natural
tracts of land. This area, known locally as “Horse Country”, has long been the
defining characteristic of the south central portion of Eagle Township south of
S.R. 334. The intent of the Estate-Equestrian Land Use Category is to
strengthen and protect this unique land use pattern from encroachment of
scatter-urban type uses. Agricultural and horse farm facilities are encouraged.
Single-family residential uses should be similar in scale, density and context
with the existing development pattern of the area. Compatibility with adjacent
land uses will determine the appropriate density for any development in this
category in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Agricultural uses; including agricultural crop production; tree
farms; agricultural livestock production and the harvesting, storage and
primary processing of agricultural products produced on the premises; storage
offer vehicles, farm equipment and farm materials by the operator of such farm;
         (b)   Single-family dwelling;
         (c)   Private horse stable;
         (d)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
         (e)   Residential facility for the mentally ill, subject to the
provisions of §
194.100 of this chapter;
         (f)   Child care home (that is used as the primary residence of the
person who operates the child care home);
         (g)   Roadside food sales stand (sale of produce grown on the
premises); and
         (h)   Nature reserve or preserve, wildlife sanctuary.
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Bed and breakfast;
         (b)   Communications/utilities:
            1.   Communication relay tower;
            2.   Public utility substation;
            3.   Public wells; and
            4.   Telecommunication tower.
         (c)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Cemetery;
            2.   Commercial breeding and raising of non-farm fowl and animals;
            3.   Sales barn for livestock sale; and
            4.   Religious use.
         (d)   Recreation:
            1.   Private camp;
            2.   Campground;
            3.   Ball fields;
            4.   County club;
            5.   Riding stable or multi-use trails (i.e., biking, cross-country
skiing, hiking); and
            6.   Golf course (not including a golf driving range or miniature
golf course as the primary use).
         (e)   See also §
194.202 of this chapter.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Home occupations. See §
194.097 of this chapter.
      (5)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sewer requirements. Attachment to public water and
sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for all development in this
district for lots in any subdivision platted and recorded after 1-1-2000.
However, well water and septic systems may be utilized in this district,
subject to the approval of the county’s Health Department or the state’s Board
of Health if the lot area is three acres or greater.
      (2)   Minimum lot area. Three acres.
      (3)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width at the building setback
line shall be not less than provided as follows:
 
Lots Not on a Cul-de-Sac Lots on a Cul-de-Sac
200 feet                 150 feet
 
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage. The minimum lot frontage on a public street
shall be not less than provided as follows:
 
Lots Not on a Cul-de-Sac Lots on a Cul-de-Sac
100 feet                 75 feet
 
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage, primary or special exception uses and
accessory uses. 15% of the total lot area.
      (6)   Maximum lot depth to width ratio. Four to one (4:1).
      (7)   Minimum yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
 
Collector/local street/cul-de-sac or other street 40 feet
Primary arterial street                           60 feet
Secondary arterial street                         40 feet
 
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan for the town or where the existing
right-of-way is greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the
setback measurement.
         (b)   Side: a minimum side yard of 25 feet shall be provided along all
side lot lines.
         (c)   Rear:
            1.   A minimum rear yard shall be provided along all rear lot lines
as follows:
 
Agricultural building          150 feet
Residential accessory building 25 feet
Residential primary building   50 feet
 
            2.   See also §
194.018 of this chapter.
      (8)   Maximum building height.
 
                               Unlimited; provided that, for each additional 1
Agricultural building          foot over 35 feet in height, 1 additional foot
                               shall be added to the minimum yard and building
                               setback requirements
Residential accessory building 22 feet
Residential primary building   40 feet
 
      (9)   Minimum main floor area. The minimum main floor area of the
residential primary building, exclusive of garage, carport, deck, patio and
open porches:
 
One-story building          1,500 square feet
                            1,000 square feet; provided that, the total
Two- or more story building finished floor area shall be at least 1,500 square
                            feet
 
      (10)   Off-street parking. See §
194.102 of this chapter.
      (11)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.168 of this chapter.
      (12)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.024 of this chapter.
   (D)   Development plan approval required for open space subdivisions. All
open space subdivisions proposed within an R-E District shall be subject to the
filing of a development plan for review and approval by the Plan Commission as
set forth in §§
194.041 and
194.125 through 194.128 of this chapter.
      (1)   Intent. Open space subdivisions are intended to allow greater
flexibility in design and development of subdivisions in order to provide for
more efficient use of land, protect topographical or other natural features or
amenities, permit common area and open space reservation and preservation in
perpetuity, and reduce overall development costs. The provisions set forth
promote imaginative design in the development of subdivisions, which allows for
better utilization of the unique physical qualities of the site in order to
preserve them for not only the subdivision residents, but the community as a
whole. To accomplish this purpose, the following regulations and development
incentives to the R-E District shall be available when employing the open space
subdivision option.
      (2)   Applicability. In any subdivision within the R-E Districts, the
primary plat of which is submitted for approval after 7-1-2000 in accordance
with Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances may be developed as an open space
subdivision in accordance with the provisions of §§
194.041 and
194.125 through 194.128 of this chapter.
      (3)   Development requirements.
         (a)   Subdivision area (minimum size of a subdivision). There shall be
a minimum of 15 acres required for the development of a open space subdivision.
The tract of land to be divided shall be in one ownership or shall be the
subject of an application for primary plat approval filed by the owners of the
entire tract. The tract shall be developed as a unit and in the manner
approved.
         (b)   Subdivision density. The overall maximum density of the proposed
open space subdivision shall remain the same as that permitted by developing
the same tract into developable lots in full compliance with the applicable
underlying residential district regulations, Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances
and any other applicable regulations.
         (c)   Project open space. The total land area saved by using this
provision shall be put into project open space, per division (D)(6) below.
      (4)   Waiver of development requirements for open space subdivisions.
Individual lots with an overall subdivision that receives development plan
approval from the Plan Commission to be developed as a open space subdivision
pursuant to this section, and §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter, may be granted a waiver of the development
requirements of the R-E District to the extent permitted below.
         (a)   Lot area, setback, frontage and coverage exceptions for
individual lots. The following minimum provisions for lot area, rear and side
yard setbacks, lot frontage and lot coverage may be reduced in an open space
subdivision to the extent provided for below:
            1.   Minimum lot area: 21,780 square feet (one-half acre);
            2.   Minimum rear yard setback: 25 feet;
            3.   Minimum side yard setback: 15 feet, unless the zero lot line
option, noted in division (D)(4)(b) below is utilized;
            4.   Minimum lot frontage: minimum lot frontage may be reduced to
50 feet; provided that, each individual lot shall have direct access to a
public street;
            5.   Maximum lot coverage: 20%; and
            6.   Lot width: 50 feet.
         (b)   Zero lot line option. Any subdivision which is submitted for
review and subsequent primary plat approval utilizing the open space
subdivision provisions of this section may reduce the minimum side yard
requirement for one side yard of each lot to zero feet; provided that:
            1.   A minimum distance of 25 feet shall be required and maintained
between all buildings on abutting lots;
            2.   No window or doors shall be provided or maintained on that
portion of the building in which the required side yard has been reduced to
zero feet;
            3.   The aggregate side yard(s) is provided on the lot according to
the applicable residential district regulations; and
            4.   An access and maintenance easement shall be recorded which
provides for the continual maintenance of the lot, buildings and structures
along the side yard which has been reduced to zero feet.
         (c)   Design and construction standards.
            1.   All construction projects which are to become part of the
town’s system, to be operated and maintained by the town, shall conform to the
town’s design and construction standards.
            2.   Construction drawings and specifications (including any
variations thereof) shall be approved by the town and a written permit obtained
in accordance with existing ordinances before construction begins.
      (5)   General requirements for projects open space.
         (a)   The amount of permanent open space created by the development of
the tract as an open space subdivision shall be:
            1.   Preserved in its naturally occurring state;
            2.   Developed only to the extent required to provide for:
               a.   The passive recreational activities of walking, biking,
hiking or picnicking;
               b.   Developed and maintained as landscape features including,
but not limited to, common areas, landscape easements and boulevard entry ways;
or
               c.   Other recreational or amenity features approved by the Plan
Commission.
            3.   Developed into an active recreational area; and
            4.   If the project is located adjacent to any portion of a
bicycle/walking/jogging pathway, or the rail trail, as developed by the town or
its Parks Department, a direct linkage to such bicycle/walking/jogging pathway
or rail trail from the open space shall be provided.
         (b)   The development of such open space shall be subject to the
following additional requirements.
            1.   The open space shall be equivalent to or more than the total
reduction in lot area. At least 75% of the total amount of open space shall
consist of land areas which are at least 50 feet wide.
            2.   The open space created by the development of the tract as a
open space subdivision shall further be provided in such a manner that it is
accessible:
               a.   To residents of the open space subdivision and their
guests, by way of sidewalk, footpath or combined walkway/bikeway; and
               b.   For maintenance.
            3.   The open space shall run perpetually with the open space
subdivision and shall not be developed or separated from it at a later date.
Provisions shall be made for continuous and adequate maintenance of the open
space at a reasonable and non-discriminatory rate of charge.
            4.   No overhead transmission line easement may be used in
calculation of required open space.
         (c)   Open space shall be calculated by taking the total land area
within lots contained in sketch plan one (as outlined in division (D)(6) below)
and subtracting the total land area within lots contained in sketch plan two
(as outlined in division (D)(6) below).
      (6)   Procedures for open space subdivision approval plan documentation;
plan documentation and supporting information.
         (a)   Plans. Prior to applying for primary plat approval, the
petitioner shall submit two plans for the tract proposed for an open space
subdivision for review by the Building Commissioner.
            1.   A sketch plan shall depict the development of the tract in
full compliance with all use and development standards of the applicable
underlying residential district and Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances. This
sketch plan shall be used to determine the maximum number of developable lots
possible on the tract and set the density of that development.
            2.   A site plan shall depict the development of the tract as an
open space subdivision. The density of the overall development (total number of
lots), shall be no greater than that permitted by the development of the tract
depicted in the sketch plan. Documentary evidence of the provision of open
space in a manner and amount equal to or in excess of that required by this
section shall be proved either in written format or in tabular format
incorporated into the site plan.
         (b)   Building Commissioner review.
            1.   The Building Commissioner shall compare the two plans noted
above to determine the appropriateness of the open space subdivision layout for
the tract. In determining the appropriateness of the open space subdivision
layout, the Building Commissioner shall look for the following attributes:
               a.   Protection of unique topographical features on the tract,
including, but not limited to, slopes, streams, wooded areas and other natural
features;
               b.   Protection and preservation of wooded areas, individual
trees of significant size, wetlands or other environmentally sensitive
features;
               c.   Development of common open space and recreational areas
accessible to residents of the open space subdivision including provisions for
walkways and bikeways;
               d.   More efficient use of land;
               e.   Innovative residential environments;
               f.   Minimization of the alteration of natural site features by
the design and location of individual lots, streets and buildings. Diversity
and originality in lot layout and individual building design shall be
encouraged to achieve the best possible relationship between the development
and the tract of land on which it is located;
               g.   Relationship to surrounding properties, improvement of the
view from and of buildings; and
               h.   Minimization of the land area devoted to motor vehicle
access shall be encouraged through the arrangement and location of individual
lots, streets and buildings.
            2.   The Building Commissioner shall further review the proposed
open space subdivision to ensure that it shall be constructed, arranged and
operated so as not to interfere with the development and use of surrounding
properties in accordance with the applicable residential district regulations,
to include any necessary transition along the perimeter of the development with
other abutting single-family residential districts. In review of the proposed
open space subdivision, the Building Commissioner may consult with the town’s
Engineer or other appropriate health and safety officials to ensure that all
fire and safety issues are addressed.
            3.   The Building Commissioner shall provide his or her findings in
writing to the petitioner, with a copy forwarded to the Plan Commission. The
petitioner may then proceed with the filing of a petition for primary plat
approval, which shall further serve as a petition for development plan
approval. The primary plat filed shall be in substantial compliance with the
site plan submitted to and reviewed by the Building Commissioner or may be
revised to address or correct any deficiencies outlined in writing by the
Building Commissioner. The petition for a primary plat approval, and subsequent
legal notice of the public hearing regarding the petition, shall indicate
clearly that the petition is for primary plat and development plan approval for
an open space subdivision.
         (c)   Plan Commission consideration.
            1.   The Plan Commission shall make a disposition on the petition
for development plan separately from the petition for primary plat approval for
an open space subdivision in compliance with this chapter, Ch. 193 of this code
of ordinances and the rules of procedures of the town’s Plan Commission.
            2.   All petitions for secondary plat approval for an open space
subdivision shall comply with the primary plat approved by the Plan Commission
and any commitments or conditions associated with its approval.
         (d)   Findings. The Plan Commission may approve a development plan
(and thereby grant the waivers requested by the petitioner) indicating
compliance with this section and §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter only upon finding that:
            1.   The use or value of area properties shall not be adversely
affected. The proposed development shall be in compliance with the applicable
general requirements for open space;
            2.   The proposed development is appropriate to the site and its
surroundings; and
            3.   The proposed development is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
         (e)   Existing perimeter street lots.
            1.   Existing perimeter streets shall be separated by a minimum 50-
foot open space buffer when rear loaded lots or lots served by an access
street/drive causing the eventual house to face the existing perimeter street.
            2.   When lots are to cause houses to back up to an existing
perimeter street, there shall be a minimum 150-foot open space buffer with
landscaping equal to a Level C pursuant to §
194.106 of this chapter.
         (f)   Vistas.
            1.   Backyard vistas from internal streets shall be broken up by
open space landscape areas along internal street frontage(s) where affected by
such view.
            2.   Following approval of the development plan, the Plan
Commission may then consider a primary plat following the requirements and
findings of
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances and the rules of procedures of the Plan
Commission.
         (g)   Maintenance of common open space. As a part of the approval of
an open space subdivision, the petitioner shall submit with the petition for
primary plat approval, and any subsequent secondary plat approvals, for review
and approval documentary assurances, in the form of signed and notarized
commitments, that permanent reservation of the open spaces areas shall be made
and that adequate provisions are being made for the continuous and adequate
maintenance of the open space subdivisions open space, common areas and
recreational areas. The documentary assurance shall be incorporated in the
primary plat, and subsequent secondary plats, and that all documentary
assurances shall be recorded with the office of the county’s Recorder. No
exceptions to, or deviations from, these commitments shall be permitted unless
approved by the Plan Commission. In approving any exceptions to or deviations
from these commitments, the Plan Commission shall provide a finding that the
petitioner has adequately provided for the upkeep, protection and maintenance
of open space, common areas or recreational areas through other legally binding
perpetual agreements.
   (E)   General regulations. See general regulations for R districts.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.6)
§ 194.046 URBAN R-SF-1: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The R-SF-1: Single-Family Residential Districts are
established to promote neighborhoods within the town by the development of a
variety of housing types including single-family dwellings and limited public
and institutional uses that are compatible with the surrounding residential
neighborhoods. The development standards in this district provide for a mixture
of housing opportunities in compliance with the single-family residential low
density land use recommendations of the master development plan of the town.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   One single-family dwelling, including a modular home dwelling
and a manufactured home dwelling;
         (b)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
         (c)   Residential facility for the mentally ill, subject to the
provisions of §
194.100 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Child care home (that is used as the primary residence of the
person who operates the child care home).
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Club house, golf course (public and private), tennis courts and
similar recreational uses that are an integral part of and for the residents
of, a subdivision or planned unit development in which they are located (not
including commercial community swimming pools); provided, however, that, any
principal building or accessory swimming pool shall be located not less than
100 feet from any other lot in any R district;
         (b)   Religious use;
         (c)   Accessory uses: see §
194.095 of this chapter;
         (d)   Home occupations: see §
194.097 of this chapter; and
         (e)   Temporary uses: see §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sewer requirements. Attachment to public water and
sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for all development in this
district for lots in any subdivision platted and recorded after 1-1-2000.
      (2)   Minimum lot area. The average lot area shall be not less than one
acre within a subdivision (as defined by the primary plat) and shall have a
minimum lot area of not less than one-half acre or 21,780 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width at the building setback
line shall be not less than provided in the following table:
 
Lot Area                       Lots Not on a Cul-de-Sac Lots on a Cul-de-Sac
1 acre or more                 150 feet                 120 feet between
25,000 square feet to 1 acre   100 feet                 80 feet
1/2 acre to 25,000 square feet 80 feet                  64 feet
 
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage. The minimum lot frontage on a public street
shall be not less than provided in the following table:
 
Lot Area                       Lots Not on a Cul-de-Sac Lots on a Cul-de-Sac
1 acre or more                 150 feet                 120 feet
25,000 square feet to 1 acre   100 feet                 80 feet
1/2 acre to 25,000 square feet 80 feet                  64 feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Direct access shall be gained from said public street or an abutting alley.
 
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage. Primary or special exception uses and
accessory uses: 15% of the total lot area. See §
194.095 Urban Accessory Uses for additional information.
      (6)   Minimum yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right- of-way shall be provided as follows:
 
Collector/local street/cul-de-sac or other street 40 feet
Primary arterial street                           40 feet
Secondary arterial street                         40 feet
 
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan for the town or where the existing
right-of-way is greater; the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the
setback measurement.
         (b)   Side: a minimum aggregate and individual side yard shall be
provided along all side lot lines as follows:
 
Lots with an area of 1 acre or greater  Aggregate side yards of 45 feet; no
                                        side yard shall be less than 20 feet
Lots with an area between 25,000 square Aggregate side yards of 30 feet; no
feet to 1 acre                          side yard shall be less than 12 feet
Lots with an area of 1/2 acre to 25,000 Aggregate side yards of 25 feet; no
square feet                             side yard shall be less than 10 feet
 
         (c)   Rear: a minimum rear yard shall be provided along all rear lot
lines as follows:
 
Accessory building or use 5 feet; see also §
                          194.018 of this chapter
Primary building          25 feet
 
      (7)   Maximum building height.
 
Accessory building 22 feet, but in no case shall the height of an accessory
                   building exceed the height of the primary building
Primary building   35 feet
 
      (8)   Minimum main floor area. The minimum main floor area of the primary
building, exclusive of garage, carport, deck, patio and open porches:
 
One-story building              1,800 square feet
                                1,200 square feet; provided that, the total
Building greater than one-story finished floor area shall be at least 1,800
                                square feet
 
      (9)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (10)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (11)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
   (D)   Development plan approval required for open space subdivisions. All
open space subdivisions proposed within an R-SF-1 District shall be subject to
the filing of a development plan for review and approval by the Plan Commission
as set forth in this section and §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (1)   Intent. Open space subdivisions are intended to allow greater
flexibility in design and development of subdivisions in order to provide for
more efficient use of land, protect topographical or other natural features or
amenities, permit common area and open space reservation and preservation in
perpetuity, and reduce overall development costs. The provisions set forth
promote imaginative design in the development of subdivisions, which allows for
better utilization of the unique physical qualities of the site in order to
preserve them for not only the subdivision residents, but the community as a
whole. To accomplish this purpose, the following regulations and development
incentives to the R-SF-1 District shall be available when employing the open
space subdivision option.
      (2)   Applicability. In any subdivision within the R-SF-1 Districts, the
primary plat of which is submitted for approval after 7-1-2000 in accordance
with Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances may be developed as a open space
subdivision in accordance with the provisions of division (D)(3) below and §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (3)   Development requirements.
         (a)   Subdivision area (minimum size of a subdivision). There shall be
a minimum of five acres required for the development of a open space
subdivision. The tract of land to be divided shall be in one ownership or shall
be the subject of an application for primary plat approval filed by the owners
of the entire tract. The tract shall be developed as a unit and in the manner
approved.
         (b)   Subdivision density. The overall maximum density of the proposed
open space subdivision shall remain the same as that permitted by developing
the same tract into developable lots in full compliance with the applicable
underlying residential district regulations, Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances
and any other applicable regulations.
         (c)   Project open space. The total land area saved by using this
provision shall be put into project open space, per division (E) below.
   (E)   Waiver of development requirements in the R-SF-1 District for open
space subdivisions. Individual lots with an overall subdivision that receives
development plan approval from the Plan Commission to be developed as a open
space subdivision pursuant to this section and §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter, may be granted a waiver of the development
requirements of the R-SF-1 District to the extent permitted below:
      (1)   Lot area, setback, frontage and coverage exceptions for individual
lots. The following minimum provisions for lot area, rear and side yard
setbacks, lot frontage and lot coverage may be reduced in a open space
subdivision to the extent provided for below:
         (a)   Minimum lot area: 6,000 square feet;
         (b)   Minimum rear yard setback: 15 feet;
         (c)   Minimum side yard setback: five feet, unless the zero lot line
option, noted in division (E)(2) below is utilized;
         (d)   Minimum lot frontage: minimum lot frontage may be reduced to 15
feet; provided that, each individual lot shall have direct access to a public
street; and
         (e)   Maximum lot coverage: 50%.
      (2)   Zero lot line option. Any subdivision which is submitted for review
and subsequent primary plat approval utilizing the open space subdivision
provisions of this section, may reduce the minimum side yard requirement for
one side yard of each lot to zero feet; provided that:
         (a)   A minimum distance of ten feet shall be required and maintained
between all buildings on abutting lots;
         (b)   No window or doors shall be provided or maintained on that
portion of the building in which the required side yard has been reduced to
zero feet;
         (c)   The aggregate side yard(s) is provided on the lot according to
the applicable residential district regulations; and
         (d)   An access and maintenance easement shall be recorded which
provides for the continual maintenance of the lot, buildings and structures
along the side yard which has been reduced to zero feet.
      (3)   Design and construction standards.
         (a)   All construction projects which are to become part of the town’s
system, to be operated and maintained by the town, shall conform to the town’s
design and construction standards.
         (b)   Construction drawings and specifications (including any
variations thereof) shall be approved by the town and a written permit obtained
in accordance with existing ordinances before construction begins.
   (F)   General requirements for project open space.
      (1)   The amount of permanent open space created by the development of
the tract as a open space subdivision shall be:
         (a)   Preserved in its naturally occurring state;
         (b)   Developed only to the extent required to provide for:
            1.   The passive recreational activities of walking, biking, hiking
or picnicking;
            2.   Developed and maintained as landscape features including, but
not limited to, common areas, landscape easements and boulevard entryways; or
            3.   Other recreational or amenity features approved by the Plan
Commission.
         (c)   Developed into an active recreational area; and
         (d)   If the project is located adjacent to any portion of a bicycle/
walking/jogging pathway, or the rail trail, as developed by the town or its
Parks Department, a direct linkage to such bicycle/walking/jogging pathway or
rail trail from the open space shall be provided.
      (2)   The development of such open space shall be subject to the
following additional requirements.
         (a)   The open space shall be equivalent to or more than the total
reduction in lot area. At least 75% of the total amount of open space shall
consist of land areas which are at least 50 feet wide.
         (b)   The open space created by the development of the tract as a open
space subdivision shall further be provided in such a manner that it is
accessible:
            1.   To residents of the open space subdivision and their guests,
by way of sidewalk, footpath or combined walkway/bikeway; and
            2.   For maintenance.
         (c)   The open space shall run perpetually with the open space
subdivision and shall not be developed or separated from it at a later date.
Provisions shall be made for continuous and adequate maintenance of the open
space at a reasonable and non-discriminatory rate of charge.
         (d)   No over head transmission line easement may be used in
calculation of required open space.
      (3)   Open space shall be calculated by taking the total land area within
lots contained in sketch plan one (as outlined below) and subtracting the total
land area within lots contained in sketch plan two (as outlined below).
   (G)   Procedures for open space subdivision approval; plan documentation and
supporting information.
      (1)   Plans. Prior to applying for primary plat approval, the petitioner
shall submit two plans for the tract proposed for an open space subdivision for
review by the Building Commissioner.
         (a)   A sketch plan shall depict the development of the tract in full
compliance with all use and development standards of the applicable underlying
residential district and
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances. This sketch plan shall be used to determine
the maximum number of developable lots possible on the tract and set the
density of that development.
         (b)   A site plan shall depict the development of the tract as an open
space subdivision. The density of the overall development (total number of
lots) shall be no greater than that permitted by the development of the tract
depicted in the sketch plan. Documentary evidence of the provision of open
space in a manner and amount equal to or in excess of that required by this
section shall be proved either in written format or in tabular format
incorporated into the site plan.
      (2)   Building Commissioner review.
         (a)   The Building Commissioner shall compare the two plans noted
above to determine the appropriateness of the open space subdivision layout for
the tract. In determining the appropriateness of the open space subdivision’s
layout, the Building Commissioner shall look for the following attributes:
            1.   Protection of unique topographical features on the tract,
including, but not limited to, slopes, streams, wooded areas and other natural
features;
            2.   Protection and preservation of wooded areas, individual trees
of significant size, wetlands or other environmentally sensitive features;
            3.   Development of common open space and recreational areas
accessible to residents of the open space subdivision including provisions for
walkways and bikeways;
            4.   More efficient use of land;
            5.   Innovative residential environments;
            6.   Minimization of the alteration of natural site features by the
design and location of individual lots, streets and buildings. Diversity and
originality in lot layout and individual building design shall be encouraged to
achieve the best possible relationship between the development and the tract of
land on which it is located;
            7.   Relationship to surrounding properties, improvement of the
view from and of buildings; and
            8.   Minimization of the land area devoted to motor vehicle access
shall be encouraged through the arrangement and location of individual lots,
streets and buildings.
         (b)   The Building Commissioner shall further review the proposed open
space subdivision to ensure that it shall be constructed, arranged and operated
so as not to interfere with the development and use of surrounding properties
in accordance with the applicable residential district regulations, to include
any necessary transition along the perimeter of the development with other
abutting single-family residential districts. In review of the proposed open
space subdivision, the Building Commissioner may consult with the town’s
Engineer or other appropriate health and safety officials to ensure that all
fire and safety issues are addressed.
         (c)   The Building Commissioner shall provide his or her findings in
writing to the petitioner, with a copy forwarded to the Plan Commission. The
petitioner may then proceed with the filing of a petition for primary plat
approval, which shall further serve as a petition for development plan
approval. The primary plat filed shall be in substantial compliance with the
site plan submitted to and reviewed by the Building Commissioner or may be
revised to address or correct any deficiencies outlined in writing by the
Building Commissioner. The petition for a primary plat approval, and subsequent
legal notice of the public hearing regarding the petition, shall indicate
clearly that the petition is for primary plat and development plan approval for
an open subdivision.
      (3)   Plan Commission consideration.
         (a)   The Plan Commission shall make a disposition on the petition for
development plan separately from the petition for primary plat approval for a
open space subdivision in compliance with this chapter,
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances and the rules of procedures of the town’s
Plan Commission.
         (b)   All petitions for secondary plat approval for a open space
subdivision shall comply with the primary plat approved by the Plan Commission
and any commitments or conditions associated with its approval.
      (4)   Findings. The Plan Commission may approve a development plan (and
thereby grant the waivers requested by the petitioner) indicating compliance
with this section and §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter only upon finding that:
         (a)   The use or value of area properties shall not be adversely
affected;
         (b)   The proposed development shall be in compliance with the
applicable general requirements for open space;
         (c)   The proposed development is appropriate to the site and its
surroundings; and
         (d)   The proposed development is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
      (5)   Existing perimeter street lots.
         (a)   Existing perimeter streets shall be separated by a minimum 50-
foot open space buffer when rear loaded lots or lots served by an access
street/drive causing the eventual house to face the existing perimeter street.
         (b)   When lots are to cause houses to back up to an existing
perimeter street, there shall be a minimum 150-foot open space buffer with
landscaping equal to a Level C pursuant to §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (6)   Vistas.
         (a)   Backyard vistas from internal streets shall be broken up by open
space landscape areas along internal street frontage(s) where affected by such
view.
         (b)   Following approval of the development plan, the Plan Commission
may then consider a primary plat following the requirements and findings of
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances and the rules of procedures of the Plan
Commission.
   (H)   Maintenance of common open space. As a part of the approval of an open
space subdivision, the petitioner shall submit with the petition for primary
plat approval, and any subsequent secondary plat approvals, for review and
approval documentary assurances, in the form of signed and notarized
commitments, that permanent reservation of the open spaces areas shall be made
and that adequate provisions are being made for the continuous and adequate
maintenance of the open space subdivisions open space, common areas and
recreational areas. The documentary assurance shall be incorporated in the
primary plat, and subsequent secondary plats, and that all documentary
assurances shall be recorded with the office of the county’s Recorder. No
exceptions to, or deviations from, these commitments shall be permitted unless
approved by the Plan Commission. In approving any exceptions to or deviations
from these commitments, the Plan Commission shall provide a finding that the
petitioner has adequately provided for the upkeep, protection and maintenance
of open space, common areas or recreational areas through other legally binding
perpetual agreements.
   (I)   General regulations. See general regulations for R districts.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.7; Ord. 2017-17, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 194.047 URBAN R-SF-2: SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The R-SF-2: Single-Family Residential Districts are
established to promote and maintain established neighborhoods within the town
by the development of a variety of housing types, including single-family
dwellings and limited public and institutional uses that are compatible with
the surrounding residential neighborhoods. The development standards and range
of permitted uses in this district provide for a mixture of housing
opportunities in compliance with the single-family residential-low density land
use recommendations of the master development plan of the town.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   One single-family dwelling, including a modular home dwelling
and a manufactured home dwelling;
         (b)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
         (c)   Residential facility for the mentally ill, subject to the
provisions of §
194.100 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Child care home (that is used as the primary residence of the
person who operates the child care home).
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Club house, golf course (public and private), tennis courts and
similar recreational uses that are an integral part of and for the residents
of, a subdivision or planned unit development in which they are located (not
including commercial community swimming pools); provided, however, that, any
principal building or accessory swimming pool shall be located not less than
100 feet from any other lot in any R district; and
         (b)   Religious use.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Home occupations. See §
194.097 of this chapter.
      (5)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sewer requirements. Attachment to public water and
sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for a development in this district
for lots in any subdivision platted and recorded after 1-1-2000.
      (2)   Minimum lot area. The average lot area shall be not less than one-
half acre within a subdivision (as defined by the primary plat), and shall have
a minimum lot area of not less than 15,000 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width at the building setback
line shall be not less than provided in the following table:
 
Lot Area                     Lots Not on a Cul-De-Sac Lots on a Cul-De-Sac
1 acre or more               150 feet                 120 feet
25,000 square feet to 1 acre 100 feet                 80 feet
15,000 square feet to 25,000 80 feet                  64 feet
square feet
 
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage. The minimum lot frontage on a public street
shall be not less than provided in the following table:
 
Lot Area                            Lots Not On Cul-De-Sac Lots on a Cul-De-Sac
1 acre or more                      75 feet*               60 feet*
25,000 square feet to 1 acre        50 feet*               40 feet*
15,000 square feet to 25,000 square 40 feet*               32 feet*
feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
*Direct access shall be gained from said public street or an abutting alley.
 
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage. Primary or special exception uses and
accessory uses: 20% of the total lot area. Exception: lots within the Brittany
Chase or Austin Oaks Subdivisions developed under the jurisdiction of the
county’s Area Plan Commission and subsequently annexed into the town after 1-1-
2004 shall be permitted a maximum lot coverage of 35%. See §
194.095 Urban Accessory Uses for additional information.
      (6)   Minimum yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
 
Collector/local street/cul-de-sac or other street 35 feet
Primary arterial street                           35 feet
Secondary arterial street                         35 feet
 
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan for the town or where the existing
right-of-way is greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the
setback measurement.
         (b)   Side: a minimum aggregate and individual side yard shall be
provided along all side lot lines as follows:
 
Lots with an area of 1 acre (43,560     Aggregate side yards of 45 feet; no
square feet) or greater                 side yard shall be less than 20 feet
Lots with an area between; greater than Aggregate side yards of 30 feet; no
25,000 square feet to less than 1 acre  side yard shall be less than 12 feet
(43,560 square feet)
Lots with an area of 15,000 square feet Aggregate side yards of 25 feet; no
to 25,000 square feet                   side yard shall be less than ten feet
 
         (c)   Rear: a minimum rear yard shall be provided along all rear lot
lines as follows:
            1.   Accessory building or use: five feet, see also §
194.018 of this chapter; and
            2.   Primary building: 25 feet.
      (7)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Accessory building: 22 feet, but in no case shall the height of
an accessory building exceed the height of the primary building; and
         (b)   Primary building: 35 feet.
      (8)   Minimum main floor area. The minimum main floor area of the primary
building, exclusive of garage, carport, deck, patio and open porches:
         (a)   One-story building: 1,500 square feet; and
         (b)   Building greater than one-story: 1,000 square feet; provided
that, the total finished floor area shall be at least 1,500 square feet.
      (9)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (10)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (11)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
   (D)   Development standards exception. Development standards for the real
estate known as The Sanctuary at 121st Street and legally described as: Exhibit
A: approved for development and the plat of which was recorded under the
jurisdiction of the county’s Area Plan Commission, County Commissioners and
subsequently annexed into the town on 4-8-2007 shall utilize the following
development standards, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in
the ordinance, the real estate shall be governed entirely by the zoning
classification attached to this section; the plat attached to this section and
made a part hereof as Exhibit A; and all provisions of the 1998 Zoning
Ordinance of the county (with May 2006 amendments) that are applicable to the
zoning classification and the plat, all of which are hereby incorporated by
reference including, without limitation, the following development standards.
      (1)   Minimum height of buildings. 35 feet.
      (2)   Minimum ground floor area.
         (a)   One-story: 900 square feet; and
         (b)   Multi-story: 750 square feet.
      (3)   Maximum lot coverage. 70%.
      (4)   Minimum lot area. 5,000 square feet (in all districts with public
sewers).
      (5)   Minimum acreage on utilities. One-third acre per dwelling unit.
      (6)   Minimum road frontage. 45 feet (up to 20% of total lots may reduce
road frontage by up to 20%).
      (7)   Minimum front yard. 20 feet from the right-of-way or 70 feet from
the center of the road, whichever is greater (not applicable to flag lots).
      (8)   Minimum rear yard, primary structures. 20 feet.
      (9)   Accessory structures. Five feet.
      (10)   Minimum side yard. Five feet.
      (11)   Minimum primary structure width. 18 feet.
      (12)   Minimum number of parking spaces per lot. Two spaces: all of the
foregoing which shall be subject to any conditions, waivers, variances or other
modifications contained in the zoning classification or the plat.
      (13)   Improvement location permit. The issuance of all improvement
location permits by the town for the development of the real estate and the
construction of any residences and accessory structures within said real estate
shall be governed solely by this division (D).
   (E)   Development plan approval required for open space subdivisions. All
open space subdivisions proposed within an R-SF-2 District shall be subject to
the filing of a development plan for review and approval by the Plan Commission
as set forth in this section and §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (1)   Intent. Open space subdivisions are intended to allow greater
flexibility in design and development of subdivisions in order to provide for
more efficient use of land, protect topographical or other natural features or
amenities, permit common area and open space reservation and preservation in
perpetuity, and reduce overall development costs. The provisions set forth
promote imaginative design in the development of subdivisions, which allows for
better utilization of the unique physical qualities of the site in order to
preserve them for not only the subdivision residents, but the community as a
whole. To accomplish this purpose, the following regulations and development
incentives to the R-SF-2 District shall be available when employing the open
space subdivision option.
      (2)   Applicability. In any subdivision within the R-SF-2 Districts, the
primary plat of which is submitted for approval after 7-1-2000 in accordance
with
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances may be developed as an open space
subdivision in accordance with the provisions of this section and §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (3)   Development requirements.
         (a)   Subdivision area (minimum size of a subdivision). There shall be
a minimum of five acres required for the development of an open space
subdivision. The tract of land to be divided shall be in one ownership or shall
be the subject of an application for primary plat approval filed by the owners
of the entire tract. The tract shall be developed as a unit and in the manner
approved.
         (b)   Subdivision density. The overall maximum density of the proposed
open space subdivision shall remain the same as that permitted by developing
the same tract into developable lots in full compliance with the applicable
underlying residential district regulations, Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances
and any other applicable regulations.
         (c)   Project open space. The total land area saved by using this
provision shall be put into project open space, per division (E)(5) below.
      (4)   Waiver of development requirements in the R-SF-2 District for open
space subdivisions. Individual lots with an overall subdivision that receives
development plan approval from the Plan Commission to be developed as an open
space subdivision pursuant to this section and §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter, may be granted a waiver of the development
requirements of the R-SF-2 District to the extent permitted below.
         (a)   Lot area, setback, frontage and coverage exceptions for
individual lots. The following minimum provisions for lot area, rear and side
yard setbacks, lot frontage and lot coverage may be reduced in an open space
subdivision to the extent provided for below:
            1.   Minimum lot area. 6,000 square feet;
            2.   Minimum rear yard setback. 15 feet;
            3.   Minimum side yard setback. Five feet, unless the zero lot line
option, noted in division (E)(4)(b) below, is utilized;
            4.   Minimum lot frontage. Minimum lot frontage may be reduced to
15 feet; provided that, each individual lot shall have direct access to a
public street;
            5.   Maximum lot coverage. 50%; and
            6.   Lot width. 50 feet.
         (b)   Zero lot line option. Any subdivision which is submitted for
review and subsequent primary plat approval utilizing the open space
subdivision provisions of this section, may reduce the minimum side yard
requirement for one side yard of each lot to zero feet; provided that:
            1.   A minimum distance of ten feet shall be required and
maintained between all buildings on abutting lots;
            2.   No window or doors shall be provided or maintained on that
portion of the building in which the required side yard has been reduced to
zero feet;
            3.   The aggregate side yard(s) is provided on the lot according to
the applicable residential district regulations; and
            4.   An access and maintenance easement shall be recorded which
provides for the continual maintenance of the lot. Buildings and structures
along the side yard which has been reduced to zero feet.
         (c)   Design and construction standards.
            1.   All construction projects which are to become part of the
town’s system, to be operated and maintained by the town, shall conform to the
town’s design and construction standards.
            2.   Construction drawings and specifications (including any
variations thereof) shall be approved by the town and a written permit obtained
in accordance with existing ordinances before construction begins.
      (5)   General requirements for project open space.
         (a)   The amount of permanent open space created by the development of
the tract as an open space subdivision shall be:
            1.   Preserved in its naturally occurring state;
            2.   Developed only to the extent required to provide for:
               a.   The passive recreational activities of walking, biking,
hiking, picnicking;
               b.   Developed and maintained as landscape features including,
but not limited to, common areas, landscape easements and boulevard entry ways;
or
               c.   Other recreational or amenity features approved by the Plan
Commission.
            3.   Developed into an active recreational area; and
            4.   If the project is located adjacent to any portion of a
bicycle/walking/jogging pathway, or the rail trail, as developed by the town or
its Parks Department, a direct linkage to such bicycle/walking/jogging pathway
or rail trail from the open space shall be provided.
         (b)   The development of such open space shall be subject to the
following additional requirements.
            1.   The open space shall be equivalent to or more than the total
reduction in lot area. At least 75% of the total amount of open space shall
consist of land areas which are at least 50 feet wide.
            2.   The open space created by the development of the tract as a
open space subdivision shall further be provided in such a manner that it is
accessible:
               a.   To residents of the open space subdivision and their
guests, by way of sidewalk, footpath or combined walkway/bikeway; and
               b.   For maintenance.
            3.   The open space shall run perpetually with the open space
subdivision and shall not be developed or separated from it at a later date.
Provisions shall be made for continuous and adequate maintenance of the open
space at a reasonable and non-discriminatory rate of charge.
         (c)   Open space shall be calculated by taking the total land area
within lots contained in sketch plan one (as outlined below) and subtracting
the total land area within lots contained in sketch plan two (as outlined
below).
      (6)   Procedures for open space subdivision approval plan documentation
and supporting information.
         (a)   Plans. Prior to applying for primary plat approval, the
petitioner shall submit two plans for the tract proposed for a open space
subdivision for review by the Building Commissioner.
            1.   A sketch plan shall depict the development of the tract in
full compliance with all use and development standards of the applicable
underlying residential district and
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances. This sketch plan shall be used to determine
the maximum number of developable lots possible on the tract and set the
density of that development.
            2.   A site plan shall depict the development of the tract as an
open space subdivision. The density of the overall development (total number of
lots), shall be no greater than that permitted by the development of the tract
depicted in the sketch plan. Documentary evidence of the provision of open
space in a manner and amount equal to or in excess of that required by this
section shall be proved either in written format or in tabular format
incorporated into the site plan.
         (b)   Building Commissioner review.
            1.   The Building Commissioner shall compare the two plans noted
above to determine the appropriateness of the open space subdivision layout for
the tract. In determining the appropriateness of the open space subdivision’s
layout, the Building Commissioner shall look for the following attributes:
               a.   Protection of unique topographical features on the tract,
including, but not limited to: slopes, streams, wooded areas and other natural
features;
               b.   Protection and preservation of wooded areas, individual
trees of significant size, wetlands or other environmentally sensitive
features;
               c.   Development of common open space and recreational areas
accessible to residents of the open space subdivision including provisions for
walkways and bikeways;
               d.   More efficient use of land;
               e.   Innovative residential environments;
               f.   Minimization of the alteration of natural site features by
the design and location of individual lots, streets and buildings. Diversity
and originality in lot layout and individual building design shall be
encouraged to achieve the best possible relationship between the development
and the tract of land on which it is located;
               g.   Relationship to surrounding properties, improvement of the
view from and of buildings; and
               h.   Minimization of the land area devoted to motor vehicle
access shall be encouraged through the arrangement and location of individual
lots, streets and buildings.
            2.   The Building Commissioner shall further review the proposed
open space subdivision to ensure that it shall be constructed, arranged and
operated so as not to interfere with the development and use of surrounding
properties in accordance with the applicable residential district regulations,
to include any necessary transition along the perimeter of the development with
other abutting single-family residential districts. In review of the proposed
open space subdivision, the Building Commissioner may consult with the town’s
Engineer or other appropriate health and safety officials to ensure that all
fire and safety issues are addressed.
            3.   The Building Commissioner shall provide his or her findings in
writing to the petitioner, with a copy forwarded to the Plan Commission. The
petitioner may then proceed with the filing of a petition for primary plat
approval, which shall further serve as a petition for development plan
approval. The primary plat filed shall be in substantial compliance with the
site plan submitted to and reviewed by the Building Commissioner or may be
revised to address or correct any deficiencies outlined in writing by the
Building Commissioner. The petition for a primary plat approval, and subsequent
legal notice of the public hearing regarding the petition, shall indicate
clearly that the petition is for primary plat and development plan approval for
an open space subdivision.
         (c)   Plan Commission consideration.
            1.   The Plan Commission shall make a disposition on the petition
for development plan separately from the petition for primary plat approval for
an open space subdivision in compliance with this chapter, Ch. 193 of this code
of ordinances and the rules of procedures of the town’s Plan Commission.
            2.   All petitions for secondary plat approval for an open space
subdivision shall comply with the primary plat approved by the Plan Commission
and any commitments or conditions associated with its approval.
         (d)   Findings.
            1.   The Plan Commission may approve a development plan (and
thereby grant the waivers requested by the petitioner) indicating compliance
with this section and §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter only upon finding that:
               a.   The use or value of area properties shall not be adversely
affected;
               b.   The proposed development shall be in compliance with the
applicable general requirements for open space;
               c.   The proposed development is appropriate to the site and its
surroundings; and
               d.   The proposed development is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
            2.   Following a disposition of the development plan, the Plan
Commission may then consider a primary plat following the requirements and
findings of
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances and the rules of procedures of the town’s
Plan Commission.
         (e)   Existing perimeter street lots.
            1.   Existing perimeter streets shall be separated by a minimum 50-
foot open space buffer when rear loaded lots or lots served by an access
street/drive causing the eventual house to face the existing perimeter street.
            2.   When lots are to cause houses to back up to an existing
perimeter street, there shall be a minimum 150-foot open space buffer with
landscaping equal to a Level C pursuant to §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (f)   Vistas. Backyard vistas from internal streets shall be broken up
by open space landscape areas along internal street frontage(s) where affected
by such view.
         (g)   Maintenance of common open space. As a part of the approval of
an open space subdivision, the petitioner shall submit with the petition for
primary plat approval, and any subsequent secondary plat approvals, for review
and approval documentary assurances, in the form of signed and notarized
commitments, that permanent reservation of the open spaces areas shall be made
and that adequate provisions are being made for the continuous and adequate
maintenance of the open space subdivisions open space, common areas and
recreational areas. The documentary assurance shall be incorporated in the
primary plat, and subsequent secondary plats, and that all documentary
assurances shall be recorded with the office of the county’s Recorder. No
exceptions to, or deviations from, these commitments shall be permitted unless
approved by the Plan Commission. In approving any exceptions to or deviations
from these commitments, the Plan Commission shall provide a finding that the
petitioner has adequately provided for the upkeep, protection and maintenance
of open space, common areas or recreational areas through other legally binding
perpetual agreements.
      (7)   General regulations. See general regulations for R districts.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.8; Ord. 2007-01, passed 1-8-2007; Ord.
2017-17, passed 12-4-2017; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 194.048 URBAN R-SF-3: URBAN SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The R-SF-3 District is repealed as a zoning classification to which real
estate within the town can be zoned as of 1-21-2002. The R-SF-3 District,
however, shall remain a viable zoning classification for real estate zoned to
said district prior to 1-21-2002 and shall continue to be platted and developed
in compliance with the development standards of the R-SF-3 District.
   (A)   Intent. The R-SF-3, Single-Family Residential, Districts are
established to promote and maintain established neighborhoods within the town
by the development of a variety of housing types, including single-family
dwellings and limited public and institutional uses that are compatible with
the surrounding residential neighborhoods. The development standards and range
of permitted uses in this district provide for a mixture of housing
opportunities in compliance with the single-family residential medium density
land use recommendations of the master development plan of the town.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   One single-family dwelling, including a modular home dwelling
and a manufactured home dwelling;
         (b)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
         (c)   Residential facility for the mentally ill, subject to the
provisions of §
194.100 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Child care home (that is used as the primary residence of the
person who operates the child care home).
      (2)   Special exception uses. Club house, golf course (public and
private), tennis courts and similar recreational uses that are an integral part
of and for the residents of, a subdivision or planned unit development in which
they are located (not including commercial community swimming pools); provided,
however, that, any principal building or accessory swimming pool shall be
located not less than 100 feet from any other lot in any R district.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Home occupations. See §
194.097 of this chapter.
      (5)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sewer requirements. Attachment to public water and
sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for all development in this
district.
      (2)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area shall be not less than
15,000 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width at the building setback
line shall be not less than 80 feet.
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage. 40 feet on a public street and gain direct
access from said public street or an abutting alley.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage, primary or special exception uses and
accessory uses. 25% of the total lot area.
      (6)   Minimum yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right-of- way shall be provided as follows:
               a.   Secondary arterial street: 35 feet; and
               b.   Collector/local street, cul-de-sac or other street: 35
feet.
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan for the town or where the existing
right-of-way is greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the
setback measurement.
         (b)   Side: a minimum aggregate and individual side yard shall be
provided along all side lot lines as follows: primary arterial street: 35 feet:
            1.   Aggregate side yards of 20 feet; and
            2.   No side yard shall be less than seven feet.
         (c)   Rear: a minimum rear yard shall be provided along all rear lot
lines as follows:
            1.   Primary building: 20 feet; and
            2.   Accessory building or use: five feet.
      (7)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Primary building: 35 feet and not over three stories; and
         (b)   Accessory building: 22 feet, but in no case shall the height of
an accessory building exceed the height of the primary building.
      (8)   Minimum main floor area. The minimum main floor area of the primary
building, exclusive of garage, carport, deck, patio and open porches:
         (a)   One-story building: 1,200 square feet; and
         (b)   Building greater than one-story: 800 square feet; provided that,
the total finished floor area shall be at least 1,200 square feet.
      (9)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (10)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (11)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
   (C)   General regulations. See general regulations for R districts.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.9)
§ 194.049 URBAN R-SF-4 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   General. The R-SF-4 District is repealed as a zoning classification to
which real estate within the town can be zoned as of 1-21-2002. The R-SF-
4 District, however, shall remain a viable zoning classification for real
estate zoned to said district prior to 1-21-2002 and shall continue to be
platted and developed in compliance with the development standards of the R-SF-
4 District.
   (B)   Intent. The R-SF-4, Single-Family Residential, Districts are
established to promote and maintain established neighborhoods within the town
by the development of a variety of housing types, including single-family
dwellings and limited public and institutional uses that are compatible with
the surrounding residential neighborhoods. The development standards and range
of permitted uses in this district provide for a mixture of housing
opportunities in compliance with the single-family residential medium density
land use recommendations of the master development plan of the town.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   One single-family dwelling, including a modular home dwelling
and a manufactured home dwelling;
         (b)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
         (c)   Residential facility for the mentally ill, subject to the
provisions of §
194.100 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Child care home (that is used as the primary residence of the
person who operates the child care home).
      (2)   Special exception uses. Club house, golf course (public and
private), tennis courts and similar recreational uses that are an integral part
of and for the residents of, a subdivision or planned unit development in which
they are located (not including commercial community swimming pools); provided,
however, that, any principal building or accessory swimming pool shall be
located not less than 100 feet from any other lot in any R district.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Home occupations. See §
194.097 of this chapter.
      (5)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (D)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sewer requirements. Attachment to public water and
sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for all development in this
district for lots in any subdivision platted and recorded after 1-1-2000.
      (2)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area shall be not less than
10,000 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot width. The minimum lot width at the building setback
line shall be not less than 70 feet.
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage. 35 feet on a public street and gain direct
access from said public street or an abutting alley.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage, primary or special exception uses and
accessory uses. 30% of the total lot area.
      (6)   Minimum yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
               a.   Primary arterial street: 35 feet;
               b.   Secondary arterial street: 35 feet; and
               c.   Collector/local street/cul-de-sac or other street: 35 feet.
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan for the town, or where the existing
right-of-way is greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the
setback measurement.
         (b)   Side: a minimum aggregate and individual side yard shall be
provided along all side lot lines follows:
            1.   Aggregate side yards of 16 feet; and
            2.   No side yard shall be less than six feet.
         (c)   Rear: a minimum rear yard shall be provided along all rear lot
lines as follows:
            1.   Primary building: 20 feet; and
            2.   Accessory building or use: five feet.
      (7)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Primary building: 35 feet and not over three stories; and
         (b)   Accessory building: 22 feet, but in no case shall the height of
an accessory building exceed the height of the primary building.
      (8)   Minimum main floor area. The minimum main floor area of the primary
building, exclusive of garage, carport, deck, patio and open porches:
         (a)   One-story building: 900 square feet; and
         (b)   Building greater than one-story: 660 square feet; provided that,
the total finished floor area shall be at least 900 square feet.
      (9)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (10)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (11)   Vision clearance areas. See general regulations for R districts.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.10)
§ 194.050 URBAN R-MF-1: MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The R-MF-1, Multi-Family Residential, Districts are
established to promote the development of multi-family dwellings and limited
public and institutional uses that are compatible with the surrounding
residential neighborhood. The development standards and range of permitted uses
are designed to encourage clustering in order to promote establishing on-site
amenities and to allow multi- family dwelling development in compliance with
the multi-family land use recommendation of the master development plan of the
town.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Multi-family dwellings;
         (b)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
         (c)   Residential facility for the mentally ill, subject to the
provisions of §
194.100 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Child care home (that is used as the primary residence of the
person who operates the child care home).
      (2)   Special exception uses. Mobile dwelling park.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Home occupations. See §
194.097 of this chapter.
      (5)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards. Except mobile dwelling parks. All uses
permitted in the R-MF-1 District shall conform to the following development
standards.
      (1)   Maximum project gross density. Nine dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   Attachment to public water and sanitary sewer facilities. Shall be
mandatory for development in this district.
      (3)   Minimum project area. There shall be no required minimum project
area other than the land area necessary to provide for the development
standards of this section.
      (4)   Minimum project frontage. 150 feet on a public street and gain
access from said public street.
      (5)   Minimum setbacks and perimeter yard requirements. A minimum setback
and perimeter yard shall be provided along all property lines of the project as
follows:
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
               a.   Primary arterial street: 35 feet;
               b.   Secondary arterial street: 35 feet; and
               c.   Collector/local street/cul-de-sac or other street: 35 feet.
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the thoroughfare plan for the town or where the existing
right-of-way is greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the
setback measurement.
         (b)   Side yards: 25 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yards: 25 feet.
      (6)   Use of perimeter yards. Perimeter yards shall be landscaped with
grass and shrubbery, trees or hedge, or in combination with other suitable
ground cover materials, subject to the requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter and shall remain as open space free from structures,
except where expressly permitted by this chapter. Perimeter yards:
         (a)   May include pedestrian walks, driveways, interior access
driveways, flag poles, fences, screening wall and similar appurtenant
structures; and
         (b)   Shall not include parking areas or interior access drives.
      (7)   Minimum interior yards. In projects containing two or more
buildings, interior yards shall be provided as follows.
         (a)   Around buildings containing dwelling units, the greater of 15
feet or ten feet, plus one additional foot for each ten feet of aggregate
length of any wall of a building.
         (b)   Around accessory buildings or uses: five feet.
         (c)   The distance between buildings shall be the sum of each
applicable minimum interior yard.
         (d)   Interior yards shall be measured perpendicular to the building
or structure at all points.
         (e)   Interior yards shall not overlap any required perimeter yards.
Lakes, ponds or other water bodies, shall not be included in the calculation
and measurement of an interior yard.
      (8)   Use of interior yards. Required interior yards shall be used for
open space and landscaping; provided, however, that, up to 50% of an interior
yard may be used for driveways, interior access drives, parking areas,
sidewalks, open balconies, uncovered porches and patios.
      (9)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Primary building: 35 feet, but not to exceed three stories
containing a dwelling unit; and
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 25 feet.
      (10)   Minimum floor area. The minimum floor area each multi-family
dwelling unit, exclusive of garage, carport, deck, patio and open parches shall
be:
         (a)   One thousand two hundred square feet for dwelling units located
on one story; and
         (b)   Six hundred square feet per floor for dwelling units located on
more than one floor.
      (11)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (12)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (13)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
      (14)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (15)   Developed recreational open space requirements. Developed
recreational open space areas equal to, at a minimum, 10% of the total lot area
of the project shall be required. Developed recreational open space may
include, but not be limited to, such facilities as: playgrounds; tot lots;
swimming pools; tennis, volleyball or basketball courts; walking and jogging
paths; and common recreational buildings. Developed recreational open space
areas shall not overlap any required interior yards or perimeter yards.
      (16)   Requirements for all private streets, interior access driveways
and interior access drives for multi-family dwelling projects. Individual
buildings and dwelling units located within a multi-family dwelling project may
be served by private streets, interior access driveways and interior access
drives developed in compliance with the standards set forth in §
194.108 of this chapter.
   (D)   Development standards, mobile dwelling parks. Mobile dwelling parks
shall comply with the following development standards.
      (1)   Project area.
         (a)   Minimum area: ten acres;
         (b)   Maximum area: 40 acres; and
         (c)   Attachment to public water and sanitary sewer facilities: shall
be mandatory for development of a mobile dwelling park.
      (2)   Minimum park frontage. Each park shall have at least 150 feet of
contiguous frontage on a public street and shall gain direct access from said
street. Each park containing over 30 dwelling units shall provide at least two
accesses from a perimeter public street.
      (3)   Minimum setbacks and perimeter yard requirements. A minimum
building setback and perimeter yard shall be provided along all property lines
of the project as follows: Front:
         (a)   A minimum front perimeter yard and building setback measured
from the right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
            1.   Primary arterial street: 60 feet;
            2.   Secondary arterial street: 40 feet; and
            3.   Local street/cul-de-sac street: 30 feet.
         (b)   Minimum side perimeter yards and building setbacks: 30 feet; and
         (c)   Minimum rear perimeter yards and building setbacks: 30 feet.
      (4)   Use of minimum perimeter yards. All minimum perimeter yards shall
be landscaped with grass or other suitable ground cover materials, shall remain
free from structures, except where expressly permitted below.
         (a)   Minimum front perimeter yards may include driveways and shall be
landscaped with one deciduous shade tree, ornamental tree or evergreen tree
planted for every 40 feet of frontage along all required front yards. Such
trees shall be reasonably spaced within and along the required front yard.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear perimeter yards may include interior
access driveways connecting adjoining lots and shall be landscaped with one
deciduous shade tree, ornamental tree or evergreen tree planted for every 30
feet of linear distance along all required side and rear perimeter yards. Such
trees shall be reasonably spaced within and along all required side and rear
perimeter yards.
      (5)   Mobile dwelling placement.
         (a)   Each mobile dwelling shall be located on an individual mobile
dwelling site.
         (b)   Minimum mobile dwelling site area:
            1.   Single wide units: 4,000 square feet; and
            2.   Double (or greater) wide units: 5,000 square feet.
         (c)   Front building setback: ten feet from right-of-way of an
internal public street or ten feet from the curb line of any interior private
street or interior access drive within the park. Parking spaces shall not be
permitted within this required setback.
         (d)   A minimum distance of 50 feet shall be provided between any
mobile dwelling and any non-mobile dwelling within the mobile dwelling park.
         (e)   A minimum distance of 25 feet shall be provided between all
mobile dwellings at their closest point to each other.
         (f)   Any mobile dwelling accessory structure open on at least two
sides may project into such required interior yard; provided that, the distance
between such accessory structure and any other mobile dwelling, or between such
accessory structures of two mobile dwellings, shall be at least 15 feet.
      (6)   Minimum recreational and open space areas.
         (a)   Developed recreational and common open space areas equal to, at
a minimum, 10% of the total area of the mobile dwelling park shall be required.
Land used for the required perimeter yard, mobile dwelling sites, vehicular
areas, access easements and rights-of-way shall not be considered as part of
this required 10% open space. Items such as drainage swales may be included as
open space if, through proper design, they add favorably to the open space
inventory and site development of the mobile dwelling park and do not present a
health or safety hazard to mobile dwelling park residents.
         (b)   Recreational and common open space areas shall be accessible to
all mobile dwelling park residents, appropriately located within the mobile
dwelling park with respect to the residents they are designed to serve and with
regard to adjacent land uses. Accessibility to such areas shall not solely be
gained by way of a mobile dwelling site.
      (7)   Off-street parking. See §
194.098 of this chapter.
      (8)   Open storage area. An open storage area shall be provided within
the park boundaries for the purpose of storing travel trailers, campers, boats
and other recreational vehicles owned by park residents. The open storage area
required for the park shall be computed on the basis of 120 square feet of
space per mobile dwelling site. Such open storage areas shall be screened so as
not to be directly visible from any perimeter boundary of the park and shall be
accessible to all park residents. Travel trailers, campers, boats and other
recreational vehicles shall be permitted to be stored only in such storage
areas, whether temporarily or permanently.
      (9)   Paved stands. All mobile dwellings sites shall be improved as
follows.
         (a)   Concrete runners, concrete pillars or a paved stand shall be
provided to accommodate each mobile dwelling.
         (b)   An anchoring system or tie-down shall be provided, installed and
attached to the mobile dwelling upon its placement on the mobile dwelling site
to withstand the specified horizontal, up-lift, overturning wind forces on a
mobile dwelling based upon accepted engineering design standards as required by
Regulation HSE 21 of the state’s Board of Health.
      (10)   Skirting. No later than 30 days after a mobile dwelling has been
placed upon a mobile dwelling site, the areas between the bottom of the sides
and ends of the mobile dwelling and the surface upon which it is located shall
be enclosed by walls made of a visibly opaque skirting material. Mobile
dwellings shall have skirting or other design attachments installed by the
mobile dwelling owner which shall harmonize with the architectural style of the
mobile dwelling. Access doors shall be permitted under the mobile dwelling.
      (11)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   All mobile dwellings, accessory buildings or structures: 25
feet; and
         (b)   All management offices, common recreation and service buildings:
35 feet.
      (12)   Streets and sidewalks.
         (a)   Public streets, private streets, interior access drives,
driveways and off-street parking areas shall be provided in accordance with §
194.108 of this chapter.
         (b)   Sidewalks shall be installed within each park in accordance with
the following.
            1.   Sidewalks are required to be installed on one side of a street
with an improved width of 20 feet or less and on both sides of a street with an
improved width of greater than 20 feet.
            2.   All sidewalks shall be hard surfaced, shall have a width of no
less than four feet, and shall have a thickness of no less than four inches.
      (13)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (14)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
   (E)   Development plan approval required. Lots located in a R-MF-1 District
shall be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and approval by
the Plan Commission, as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
   (F)   General regulations. See general regulations for R districts.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.11)
§ 194.051 URBAN R-MF-2: MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The R-MF-2, Multi-Family Residential, Districts are
established to promote the development of multi-family dwellings and limited
public and institutional uses that are compatible with the surrounding
residential neighborhood. The development standards and range of permitted uses
are designed to encourage open spacing in order to promote establishing on-site
amenities and to allow multi- family dwelling development in compliance with
the multi-family land use recommendation of the master development plan of the
town.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Multi-family dwellings;
         (b)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
         (c)   Residential facility for the mentally ill, subject to the
provisions of §
194.100 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Child care home (that is used as the primary residence of the
person who operates the child care home).
      (2)   Special exception uses. Mobile dwelling park.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Home occupations. See §
194.097 of this chapter.
      (5)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards, except mobile dwelling parks. All uses
permitted in the R-MF-2 District shall conform to the following development
standards.
      (1)   Maximum project gross density. 15 dwelling units per acre.
      (2)   Attachment to public water and sanitary sewer facilities. Shall be
mandatory for development in this district.
      (3)   Minimum project area. There shall be no required minimum project
area other than the land area necessary to provide for the development
standards of this section.
      (4)   Minimum project frontage. 150 feet on a public street and gain
access from said public street.
      (5)   Minimum setbacks and perimeter yard requirements. A minimum setback
and perimeter yard shall be provided along all property lines of the project as
follows:
         (a)   Front: a minimum front yard and building setback measured from
the proposed right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
            1.   Primary arterial street: 35 feet;
            2.   Secondary arterial street: 35 feet; and
            3.   Collector/local street/cul-de-sac or other street: 25 feet.
         (b)   Side yards: 25 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yards: 25 feet.
      (6)   Use of perimeter yards. Perimeter yards shall be landscaped with
grass and shrubbery, trees or hedge, or in combination with other suitable
ground cover materials, subject to the requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter and shall remain as open space free from structures,
except where expressly permitted by this chapter. Perimeter yards:
         (a)   May include pedestrian walks, driveways, interior access
driveways, flag poles, fences, screening wall and similar appurtenant
structures; and
         (b)   Shall not include parking areas or interior access drives.
      (7)   Minimum interior yards. In projects containing two or more
buildings, interior yards shall be provided as follows:
         (a)   Around buildings containing dwelling units: ten feet, plus one
additional foot for each ten feet of aggregate length of any wall of a
building;
         (b)   Around accessory buildings or uses: five feet;
         (c)   The distance between buildings shall be the sum of each
applicable minimum interior yard;
         (d)   Interior yards shall be measured perpendicular to the building
or structure at all points; and
         (e)   Interior yards shall not overlap any required perimeter yards.
Lakes, ponds or other waterbodies shall not be included in the calculation and
measurement of an interior yard.
      (8)   Use of interior yards. Required interior yards shall be used for
open space and landscaping; provided, however, that, up to 65% of an interior
yard may be used for driveways, interior access drives, parking areas,
sidewalks, open balconies, uncovered porches and patios.
      (9)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Primary building: 35 feet, but not to exceed three stories
containing a dwelling unit; and
         (b)   Accessory buildings: 25 feet.
      (10)   Minimum floor area. The minimum floor area of each multi-family
dwelling unit, exclusive of garage, carport, deck, patio and open porches shall
be:
         (a)   Seven hundred twenty square feet for dwelling units located on
one story; and
         (b)   Five hundred square feet per floor for dwelling units located on
more than one floor.
      (11)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (12)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (13)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
      (14)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (15)   Developed recreational open space requirements.
         (a)   Developed recreational open space areas equal to, at a minimum,
7% of the total lot area of the project shall be required. Developed
recreational open space may include, but not be limited to, such facilities as:
playgrounds; tot lots; swimming pools; tennis, volleyball or basketball courts;
and common recreational buildings. Developed recreational open space areas
shall not overlap any required interior yards or perimeter yards.
         (b)   If the project is located adjacent to any portion of the
greenway plan as set forth in the Comprehensive Plan, a direct linkage to such
greenway from the open space shall be provided.
      (16)   Requirements for all private streets, interior access driveways
and interior access drives for multi-family dwelling projects. Individual
buildings and dwelling units located within a multi-family dwelling project may
be served by private streets, interior access driveways and interior access
drives developed in compliance with the standards set forth in §
194.108 of this chapter.
   (D)   Development standards, mobile dwelling parks. Mobile dwelling parks
shall comply with the following development standards:
      (1)   Project area.
         (a)   Minimum area: ten acres; and
         (b)   Maximum area: 40 acres.
      (2)   Attachment to public water and sanitary sewer facilities. Shall be
mandatory for development of a mobile dwelling park.
      (3)   Minimum park frontage. Each park shall have at least 150 feet of
contiguous frontage on a public street and shall gain direct access from said
street. Each park containing over 30 dwelling units shall provide at least two
accesses from a perimeter public street.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks and perimeter yard requirements. A minimum
building setback and perimeter yard shall be provided along all property lines
of the project as follows:
         (a)   Front: a minimum front perimeter yard and building setback
measured from the right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
            1.   Primary arterial street: 60 feet;
            2.   Secondary arterial street: 40 feet; and
            3.   Local street/cul-de-sac street: 30 feet.
         (b)   Minimum side perimeter yards and building setbacks: 30 feet; and
         (c)   Minimum rear perimeter yards and building setbacks: 30 feet.
      (5)   Use of minimum perimeter yards. All minimum perimeter yards shall
be landscaped with grass or other suitable ground cover material shall remain
free from structures, except where expressly permitted below.
         (a)   Minimum front perimeter yards may include driveways and shall be
landscaped with one deciduous shade tree, ornamental tree or evergreen tree
planted for every 40 feet of frontage along all required front yards. Such
trees shall be reasonably spaced within and along the required front yard.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear perimeter yards may include interior
access driveways connecting adjoining lots and shall be landscaped with one
deciduous shade tree, ornamental tree or evergreen tree planted for every 30
feet of linear distance along all required side and rear perimeter yards. Such
trees shall be reasonably spaced within and along all required side and rear
perimeter yards.
      (6)   Mobile dwelling placement.
         (a)   Each mobile dwelling shall be located on an individual mobile
dwelling site.
         (b)   Minimum mobile dwelling site area:
            1.   Single wide units: 4,000 square feet; and
            2.   Double (or greater) wide units: 5,000 square feet.
         (c)   Front building setback: ten feet from right-of-way of an
internal public street or ten feet from the curb line of any interior private
street or interior access drive within the park. Parking spaces shall not be
permitted within this required setback.
         (d)   A minimum distance of 50 feet shall be provided between any
mobile dwelling and any non-mobile dwelling within the mobile dwelling park.
         (e)   A minimum distance of 25 feet shall be provided between all
mobile dwellings at their closest point to each other.
         (f)   Any mobile dwelling accessory structure, open on at least two
sides, may project into such require interior yard; provided that, the distance
between such accessory structure and any other mobile dwelling, or between such
accessory structures of two mobile dwellings, shall be at least 15 feet.
      (7)   Minimum recreational and open space areas.
         (a)   Developed recreational and common open space areas equal to, at
a minimum, 10% of the total area of the mobile dwelling park shall be required.
Land used for the required perimeter yard, mobile dwelling sites, vehicular
areas, access easements and rights-of-way shall not be considered as part of
this required 10% open space. Items such as drainage swales may be included as
open space if, through proper design, they add favorably to the open space
inventory and site development of the mobile dwelling park and do not present a
health or safety hazard to mobile dwelling park residents.
         (b)   Recreational and common open space areas shall be accessible to
all mobile dwelling park residents, appropriately located within the mobile
dwelling park with respect to the residents they are designed to serve and with
regard to adjacent land uses. Accessibility to such areas shall not solely be
gained by way of a mobile dwelling site.
      (8)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (9)   Open storage area. An open storage area shall be provided within
the park boundaries for the purpose of storing travel trailers, campers, boats
and other recreational vehicles owned by park residents. The open storage area
required for the park shall be computed on the basis of 120 square feet of
space per mobile dwelling site. Such open storage areas shall be screened so as
not to be directly visible from any perimeter boundary of the park and shall be
accessible to all park residents. Travel trailers, campers, boats and other
recreational vehicles shall be permitted to be stored only in such storage
areas, whether temporarily or permanently.
      (10)   Paved stands. All mobile dwellings sites shall be improved as
follows.
         (a)   Concrete runners, concrete pillars or a paved stand shall be
provided to accommodate each mobile dwelling.
         (b)   An anchoring system or tie-down shall be provided, installed and
attached to the mobile dwelling upon its placement on the mobile dwelling site
to withstand the specified horizontal, up-lift, overturning wind forces on a
mobile dwelling based upon accepted engineering design standards as required by
Regulation HSE 21 of the state’s Board of Health.
      (11)   Skirting. No later than 30 days after a mobile dwelling has been
placed upon a mobile dwelling site, the areas between the bottom of the sides
and ends of the mobile dwelling and the surface upon which it is located shall
be enclosed by walls made of a visibly opaque skirting material. Mobile
dwellings shall have skirting or other design attachments installed by the
mobile dwelling owner which shall harmonize with the architectural style of the
mobile dwelling. Access doors shall be permitted under the mobile dwelling.
      (12)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   All mobile dwellings, accessory buildings or structures: 25
feet; and
         (b)   All management offices, common recreation and service buildings:
35 feet.
      (13)   Streets and sidewalks.
         (a)   Public streets, private streets, interior access drives,
driveways and off-street parking areas shall be provided in accordance with §
194.108 of this chapter.
         (b)   Sidewalks shall be installed within each park in accordance with
the following:
            1.   Sidewalks are required to be installed on one side of a street
with an improved width of 20 feet or less and on both sides of a street with an
improved width of greater than 20 feet.
            2.   All sidewalks shall be hard surfaced, shall have a width of no
less than four feet, and shall have a thickness of no less than four inches.
      (14)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (15)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
   (E)   Development plan approval required. All lots located in a R-MF-
2 District shall be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and
approval by the Plan Commission, as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
   (F)   General regulations. See general regulations for R districts.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.12)
§ 194.052 URBAN R-V: VILLAGE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The R-V Village Residential District is established to promote
and maintain the historic core or village neighborhoods within the town. The
development standards reinforce the traditional height, bulk and area features
of these neighborhoods to maintain their scale and proportion in compliance
with the village residential land use recommendation of the master development
plan of the town.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Single-family dwelling, including a modular home dwelling and a
manufactured home dwelling;
         (b)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
         (c)   Residential facility for the mentally ill, subject to the
provisions of §
194.100 of this chapter; and
         (d)   Child care home (that is used as the primary residence of the
person who operates the child care home).
      (2)   Special exception uses. Subject to the provisions of §
194.202 of this chapter:
         (a)   Two-family dwelling; and
         (b)   Religious use.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Home occupations. See §
194.097 of this chapter.
      (5)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot area. 8,000 square feet. Attachment to public water and
sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for development in this district.
      (2)   Minimum lot width. 50 feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot frontage. 50 feet on a public street and gain direct
access from said public street or an abutting alley.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage; primary or special exception uses and
accessory uses. 35% of the lot. See §
194.095 Urban Accessory Uses for additional information.
      (5)   Minimum yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
existing right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
               a.   Primary arterial street: 30 feet;
               b.   Secondary arterial street: 30 feet; and
               c.   Collector/local street/cul-de-sac or other street: 20 feet.
            2.   Exception: in any block face in which an existing front yard
setback is established by existing, legally established buildings or structures
on 50% or more of the total number of lots within the same block face fronting
on the same public street, the minimum required front yard setback for any new
building, structure or addition along such block face shall be the average of
such established front yards if such dimension is less than or greater than the
minimum front yard setback established by this chapter. In the case of a new
building or structure, the lot on which the building or structure is to be
erected shall not be included in the calculation of the average of the
established front yards for the block face.
         (b)   Side:
            1.   A minimum side yard of five feet shall be provided along all
side lot lines. However, in no case shall the distance between any two
buildings, whether located on the same lot or on abutting lots, be less than
ten feet. Driveways shall be required to meet the minimum side yard
requirement.
            2.   See also §
194.020 of this chapter.
         (c)   Aggregate side: a minimum aggregate side yard of 15 feet shall
be provided on all lots.
         (d)   Rear:
            1.   A minimum rear yard shall be provided along all rear lot lines
as follows:
               a.   Primary building: 20 feet; and
               b.   Accessory building: five feet.
            2.   See also §
194.020 of this chapter.
      (6)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Primary building: 35 feet and not over three stories; and
         (b)   Accessory building: 22 feet, but in no case shall the height of
an accessory building exceed that of the primary building.
      (7)   Minimum main floor area. The minimum main floor area of the primary
building, exclusive of garage, carport, deck, patio and open porches:
         (a)   One-story building: 900 square feet per dwelling unit; and
         (b)   Two- or more story building: 650 square feet per dwelling unit;
provided that, the total finished floor area shall be at least 900 square feet.
      (8)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (9)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (10)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
   (D)   General regulations. See general regulations for R districts.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.13; Ord. 2017-17, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 194.053 RURAL R-1: RURAL SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The R-1, Rural Single-family Residential, District
is hereby established to be a low-density rural residential district. The lot
area and minimum floor area requirements are intended to be larger than the
other rural residential districts, and development in this district typically
has a density of less than one home per two acres.
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.14)
§ 194.054 RURAL R-2: RURAL SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The R-2, Rural Single-Family and Two-Family
Residential, District is hereby established to be low-density single-family
district, which could include two-family dwellings by development plan
approval. This district is primarily suited for rural residential development
in areas contiguous to the urban centers of the county. Development in this
district typically ranges from 0.50 homes per acre (without public water and
public sewer) to 1.75 homes per acre (with public water and public sewer).
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.15)
§ 194.055 RURAL R-3: RURAL SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The R-3, Rural Single-Family and Two-Family
Residential, District is hereby established to be a medium-density single-
family district, which may include two-family dwellings by development plan
approval. Development in this district typically ranges from 1.75 homes per
acre to three homes per acre. In this district, residential development at
these densities requires connection to public water and public sewer.
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.16)
§ 194.056 RURAL R-4: RURAL SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The R-4, Rural Single- and Two-Family Residential,
District is hereby established for high-density single-family dwellings and may
include two-family dwellings by development plan approval. Single- and two-
family development in this district typically ranges from three homes per acre
to 4.25 homes per acre. Two-family development typically ranges from seven
units per acre to 12 units per acre. In this district, single- and two-family
development at these densities requires connection to public water and public
sewer utilities.
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.17)
§ 194.057 RURAL MF: RURAL MULTI-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The R-5, Rural Multi-Family Residential, District
is hereby established as a high-density multi-family residential district.
Development in this district is typically at a density of seven to 12 dwelling
units per acre. Development in this district requires connection to public
water and public sewers.
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.18)
§ 194.058 URBAN B-O: OFFICE BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. B-O: Office Districts are established to promote the
development of areas where office uses, compatible office-type businesses and
some public and semi-public uses are developed in close proximity with
commercial areas while serving as a buffer or transitional area between
commercial areas and existing or future residential areas. Uses within the B-
O Districts are regulated in character to assure harmonious development with
the residential districts which the B-O Districts buffers from more intense
commercial development.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Communication/utilities: telephone exchange;
         (b)   Miscellaneous: clinic, medical, dental or optometrists;
         (c)   Educational use:
            1.   Child care center;
            2.   Day nursery;
            3.   Nursery school;
            4.   Kindergarten; and
            5.   School-commercial, trade or business.
         (d)   Office: any type;
         (e)   Professional services:
            1.   Automated teller machines/ATMs (excluding freestanding
machines);
            2.   Bank/savings and loan;
            3.   Credit union;
            4.   Designer services;
            5.   Musician or artist studio;
            6.   Photographic studio; and
            7.   Travel agency.
         (f)   Government use:
            1.   Governmental services (excluding police or fire station); and
            2.   Post office (without storage of delivery vehicles).
         (g)   Semi-public facilities:
            1.   Museum; and
            2.   Religious use.
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Communication/utilities: public wells;
         (b)   Public facilities:
            1.   Community center; and
            2.   Parking garage.
         (c)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Drive-through customer service units; and
            2.   Freestanding automated teller machines/ATMs.
         (d)   Residential:
            1.   Assisted-living facility;
            2.   Nursing home; and
            3.   Convalescent home.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter. In addition, subordinate, appropriate and incidental
to the above permitted primary uses, the following uses shall be considered
accessory uses in this district, and shall be permitted as a supportive service
within the same building as the primary use served:
         (a)   Cafeteria/restaurant (serving only employees and guests of the
primary use);
         (b)   Drug store/pharmacy;
         (c)   News dealers and newsstands;
         (d)   Office supplies; and
         (e)   Photocopying and duplicating services. These additional
accessory uses shall:
            1.   Have a total gross floor area which does not exceed 10% of the
total gross floor area of the primary building in which the use is located;
            2.   Be for the primary purpose observing the occupants, employees
or guests of the primary use; and
            3.   Not be permitted any exterior freestanding or building
identification signs.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sewer requirements. Attachment to public water and
sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for development in this district.
      (2)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot or integrated center shall
have a minimum lot width and frontage on a street of 50 feet.
      (3)   Yards and setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
 
Street Classification Front Yard Front Bufferyard
Limited access street 30 feet    30 feet
Any other street      10 feet    20 feet
 
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is
greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yard and setback shall be provided from
the lot line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: ten feet;
            2.   Minimum side bufferyard: 25 feet;
            3.   Minimum rear yard: ten feet; and
            4.   Minimum rear bufferyard: 25 feet.
         (c)   Outlots within an integrated center shall provide a minimum yard
of five feet along all lot lines in common with other outlots or with the main
portion of the integrated center. If any portion of an outlot abuts the
perimeter of the integrated center, that portion of the outlot shall be
required to comply with the applicable minimum front, side or rear yard
requirements set forth above. The main portion of the integrated center shall
not be required to provide a minimum yard along the lot line in common with an
outlot.
      (4)   Use of minimum yards and bufferyards. All minimum yards and
bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass, trees, shrubbery or hedge or in
combination with other suitable ground cover materials and shall remain free
from structures, except where expressly permitted below.
         (a)   Minimum front yards and front bufferyards may include driveways
and shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or other structures
in compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yards may include interior access
driveways connecting to adjoining lots; provided that, the remainder of said
yards shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (c)   Minimum side and rear bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass
and shrubbery, trees or hedge, or in combination with other suitable ground
cover materials and maintained in compliance with the landscaping requirements
set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (5)   Maximum building height. 45 feet.
      (6)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street loading. See §
194.106 of this chapter.
      (8)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (9)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
      (10)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (11)   Outdoor operations. All uses and operations (except off-street
parking, off-street loading and delivery, walk-up customer service windows)
shall be conducted completely within enclosed buildings, except where expressly
permitted below: trash container(s) exceeding 36 cubic feet shall:
         (a)   Be completely screened on all four sides with a solid-walled or
opaque fenced enclosure with gate not less than six feet or greater than eight
feet in height above grade;
         (b)   Be located behind the established front building line; and
         (c)   Not be located in a required yard or bufferyard.
   (D)   Development plan approval required. All lots in a B-O District shall
be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and approval by the
Plan Commission as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (1)   Architectural design requirements.
         (a)   Design theme. Buildings shall be designed to incorporate the
salient features of and be consistent with or complementary to the Zionsville
theme, incorporating the architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior
character of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival or
Victorian architectural styles.
         (b)   Building materials.
            1.   Exposed foundations shall be constructed of one or more of the
following;
               a.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the selected
architectural style;
               b.   Stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone and the like); and
               c.   Architectural pre-cast concrete, if surface looks like
brick or stone.
            2.   Facade walls shall be constructed of any combination of:
               a.   Stone;
               b.   Clapboard siding;
               c.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the selected
architectural style;
               d.   Beaded siding; or
               e.   Dryvit. In order to create variation and interest in the
built environment, all new buildings or building additions shall use the
exterior building materials specified below. In addition, the exterior building
material selection shall be supplemented by the use of multiple colors,
textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated and the like) or architectural elements
(quions, pilasters, soldier courses, friezes, cornices, dentils and the like)
on each facade. Two or three building materials (excluding glass in windows or
doors and roofing material) shall be utilized for all facades visible from a
street or alley. The primary building material shall be one of the following
brick; stone; clapboard; or dryvit, and shall constitute a minimum of 60% of
the available wall area (exclusive of window and doors) of each applicable
facade.
         (c)   Roofs. In no case shall rooftop mechanical equipment be visible
from adjoining R districts. All vents, attic ventilators, turbines, flues and
other roof penetrations shall be painted to match the color of the roof, or
painted flat black. Gutters and downspouts shall be appropriate to or visually
integrated with the selected architectural style of the structure. Dormers,
belvederes, cupolas and pergolas may be utilized as a design element, so long
as they are designed with the details, proportions, style and materials
consistent with the selected architectural design of the building.
            1.   Pitched roofs. Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched
and only in the configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:
12 to 14:12. Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate, composition
asphalt shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Shingle or panel color shall be
appropriate to the design of the building.
            2.   Shed roofs. Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
            3.   Flat roofs. Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the
selected style of architecture, if edged by a railing or parapet, and if
rooftop mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually
integrated into the overall design of the building.
         (d)   Entrances. The main building or tenant space pedestrian
entrances shall be defined and articulated by architectural elements such as
lintels, pediments, pilasters, columns and other design elements appropriate to
the selected architectural style and details of the building as a whole. The
location, orientation, proportion and style of doors shall reflect the chosen
style of the building.
         (e)   Windows. All window design shall be compatib1e with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way the window opens, the trim around the window and whether the window is
embellished with shutters shall be consistent with the selected architectural
style of the building.
         (f)   Storefronts. Storefronts shall be integrally designed with the
overall facade character. Ground floor retail, service and restaurant uses may
use large pane display windows; provided, however, such windows shall not
exceed 75% of the total ground level (first floor) facade area. Buildings with
multiple storefronts shall be of unified design, through the use of common
building materials, architectural details, signs and lighting consistent with
the overall building style. Each individual tenant shall have a primary
entrance to the storefront from the exterior of the building.
         (g)   Awnings, canopies. In addition to the provisions of §
194.163 of this chapter, fixed or retractable awnings or canopies are
permitted; provided, they complement the building’s architectural style,
building materials, colors and details; do not conceal architectural features
(such as cornices, columns, pilasters or decorative details); do not impair
facade composition; and are designed as an integral part of the facade. Metal,
plastic or aluminum awnings are prohibited.
      (2)   Lighting requirements. See §
194.113.
      (3)   Building orientation. Rear building facades shall not face a public
street. No loading spaces shall be permitted to face a street.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.19; Ord. 2008-15, passed 8-4-2008; Ord.
2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.059 URBAN B-1: URBAN NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS.
   (A)   Intent. The B-1: Neighborhood Business Districts are established to
promote development of areas for convenience uses which tend to meet the daily
needs of the residents of the immediate residential districts. Uses within the
B-1 Districts are regulated in intensity and character to assure harmonious
development with the residential districts served and are limited in size and
scale to promote pedestrian access and ensure compatibility of this district
with adjacent residential development.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Child care center;
         (b)   Personal service:
            1.   Barber or beauty shop;
            2.   Health spa; fitness center; or tanning salon; and
            3.   Locksmith.
         (c)   Clothing service:
            1.   Dressmaking; dry cleaning and laundry establishment (including
self-service);
            2.   Millinery or fabric shop; and
            3.   Shoe repair shop; tailor and pressing shop.
         (d)   Communication/utilities: telephone exchange;
         (e)   Semi-public facilities:
            1.   Community center; and
            2.   Religious use.
         (f)   Retail:
            1.   Antique shop;
            2.   Apparel shop;
            3.   Appliance store;
            4.   Art gallery;
            5.   Arts and crafts store;
            6.   Book store;
            7.   Card shop; camera store; clock shop;
            8.   Coin or stamp shop;
            9.   Computer store;
            10.   Department store;
            11.   Drug store;
            12.   Fabric store;
            13.   Flower shop/florist;
            14.   Frame shop;
            15.   Furniture store;
            16.   Gift shop;
            17.   Hardware store;
            18.   Hobby, toy or game shop;
            19.   Jewelry store;
            20.   Music shop; and
            21.   News dealer.
         (g)   Retail food sales and service:
            1.   Bakery; candy store;
            2.   Convenience store (no gasoline sales);
            3.   Dairy bar/ice cream store/yogurt store;
            4.   Delicatessen;
            5.   Grocery;
            6.   Meat market; and
            7.   Restaurant (drive-through service units prohibited).
         (h)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Clinic: medical, dental;
            2.   Chiropractic or optometrists; and
            3.   Bed and breakfast.
         (i)   Office, any type; and
         (j)   Professional services:
            1.   Bank/savings and loan/credit union, including bank machines
(drive-through service units and freestanding automated teller machines/ATMs
prohibited);
            2.   Photographic studio;
            3.   Travel agency;
            4.   Pet shop;
            5.   Shoe store;
            6.   Stationery and book store; and
            7.   Video tape rental or sales.
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Communication/utilities:
            1.   Public utility substation; and
            2.   Public wells.
         (b)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Print shop;
            2.   Drive-through customer service units; and
            3.   Freestanding automated teller machines (ATMs).
         (c)   Food sales and service:
            1.   Roadside food sales stand;
            2.   Liquor store; and
            3.   Tavern/bar.
         (d)   Public facilities: neighborhood recycling collection point;
         (e)   Governmental use:
            1.   Police or fire station; and
            2.   Post office.
         (f)   Recreation:
            1.   Arcade; dancing, aerobics, gymnastics studio; and
            2.   Lodge or private club recreation.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sanitary system requirements. Attachment to public water
and sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for development in this
district.
      (2)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot or integrated center shall
have a minimum lot width and frontage on a public street of 50 feet.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right of-way shall be provided as follows:
 
Street Classification Front Yard Front Bufferyard
Limited access street 30 feet    30 feet
Any other street      10 feet    20 feet
 
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is
greater, the existing right-of way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yard and setback shall be provided from
the lot line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: zero feet;
            2.   Minimum side bufferyard: 25 feet;
            3.   Minimum rear yard: zero feet; and
            4.   Minimum rear bufferyard: 25 feet.
      (3)   Minimum yards for outlots. Outlots within an integrated center
shall provide a minimum yard of five feet along all lot lines in common with
other outlots or with the main portion of the integrated center. If any portion
of an outlot abuts the perimeter of the integrated center, that portion of the
outlot shall be required to comply with the applicable minimum front, side or
rear yard requirements set forth above. The main portion of the integrated
center shall not be required to provide a minimum yard along the lot line in
common with an outlot.
      (4)   Use of minimum yards and bufferyards. All minimum yards and
bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass, trees, shrubbery or hedge, or in
combination with other suitable ground cover materials and shall remain free
from structures, except where expressly permitted below.
         (a)   Minimum front yards and front bufferyards may include driveways
and shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass
and shrubbery, trees or hedge, or in combination with other suitable ground
cover materials and maintained in compliance with the landscaping requirements
set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (5)   Maximum building height. 35 feet and not to exceed three stories.
      (6)   Maximum gross floor area. No single use, whether freestanding or
contained in an integrated center, shall exceed 15,000 square feet of gross
floor area. No integrated center shall exceed 30,000 square feet of total gross
floor area.
      (7)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (8)   Off-street loading. See §
194.106 of this chapter.
      (9)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (10)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
      (11)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (12)   Outdoor operations. All uses and operations (except off-street
parking, off-street loading and delivery, walk-up customer service windows)
shall be conducted completely within enclosed buildings, except where expressly
permitted below.
         (a)   Outdoor seating shall not be located between a building line and
a bufferyard.
         (b)   Trash container(s) exceeding six cubic feet shall:
            1.   Be completely screened on all four sides with a solid-walled
or opaque fenced stall with gate not less than six feet in height;
            2.   Be located behind the established front building line; and
            3.   Not be located within a required yard or bufferyard.
   (D)   Development plan approval required. All lots in a B-1 District shall
be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and approval by the
Plan Commission as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (1)   Architectural design requirements.
         (a)   Design theme. Buildings shall be designed to incorporate the
salient features of and be consistent with or complementary to the Zionsville
theme, incorporating the architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior
character of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek revival or
Victorian architectural styles.
         (b)   Building materials.
            1.   Exposed foundations shall be constructed of one or more of the
following:
               a.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the selected
architectural style;
               b.   Stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone and the like); or
               c.   Architectural pre-cast concrete, if surface looks like
brick or stone.
            2.   Clapboard siding;
            3.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the selected
architectural style;
            4.   Beaded siding; or
            5.   Dryvit. In order to create variation and interest in the built
environment, all new buildings or building additions shall use the exterior
building materials specified below. In addition, the exterior building material
selection shall be supplemented by the use of multiple colors, textures (e.g.
rough, smooth, striated and the like) or architectural elements (quions,
pilasters, soldier courses, friezes, cornices, dentils and the like) on each
facade. Two or three building materials (excluding glass in windows or doors
and roofing material) shall be utilized for all facades visible from a street
or alley.
               a.   The primary building material shall be one of the
following: brick, stone, clapboard or dryvit.
               b.   Facade walls shall be constructed of any combination of the
following and shall constitute a minimum of 60% of the available wall area
(exclusive of window and doors) of each applicable facade:
                  i.   Stone;
                  ii.   Brick;
                  iii.   Stone;
                  iv.   Clapboard; or
                  v.   Dryvit.
         (c)   Roofs.
            1.   Pitched roofs. Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched
and only in the configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:
12 to 14:12. Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate, composition
asphalt shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Shingle or panel color shall be
appropriate to the design of the building.
            2.   Shed roofs. Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
            3.   Flat roofs. Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the
selected style of architecture, if edged by a railing or parapet, and if
rooftop mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually
integrated into the overall design of the building. In no case shall rooftop
mechanical equipment be visible from adjoining R districts. All vents, attic
ventilators, turbines, flues and other roof penetrations shall be painted to
match the color of the roof, or painted flat black. Gutters and downspouts
shall be appropriate to or visually integrated with the selected architectural
style of the structure. Dormers, belvederes, cupolas and pergolas may be
utilized as a design element, so long as they are designed with the details,
proportions, style and materials consistent with the selected architectural
design of the building.
         (d)   Entrances. The main building or tenant space pedestrian
entrances shall be defined and articulated by architectural elements such as
lintels, pediments, pilasters, columns and other design elements appropriate to
the selected architectural style and details of the building as a whole. The
location, orientation, proportion and style of doors shall reflect the chosen
style of the building.
         (e)   Windows. All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way the window opens, the trim around the window and whether the window is
embellished with shutters shall be consistent with the selected architectural
style of the building.
         (f)   Storefronts. Storefronts shall be integrally designed with the
overall facade character. Ground floor retail, service and restaurant uses may
use large pane display windows; provided, however, such windows shall not
exceed 75% of the total ground level (first floor) facade area. Buildings with
multiple storefronts shall be of unified design, through the use of common
building materials, architectural details, signs and lighting consistent with
the overall building style. Each individual tenant shall have a primary
entrance to the storefront from the exterior of the building.
         (g)   Awnings, canopies. In addition to the provisions of §
194.163 of this chapter, fixed or retractable awnings or canopies are
permitted; provided, they complement the building’s architectural style,
building materials, colors and details; do not conceal architectural features
(such as cornices, columns, pilasters or decorative details); do not impair
facade composition; and are designed as an integral part of the facade. Metal,
plastic or aluminum awnings are prohibited.
      (2)   Lighting requirements. See §
194.113.
      (3)   Building orientation. Rear building facades shall not face a public
street. No loading spaces shall be permitted to face a street.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.20; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.060 URBAN B-2: URBAN GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The B-2: General Business Districts are established to provide
a location for higher volume and higher intensity commercial uses than the B-
1 District. Activities in this district are often large space users located
along a primary arterial street.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Any uses permitted in the B-1 District (except child care
center);
         (b)   Professional services:
            1.   Print shop; and
            2.   Veterinary clinic/hospital (indoor boarding and runs).
         (c)   Automobile service:
            1.   Automobile repair, minor;
            2.   Automobile parts sales (new);
            3.   Automobile quick oil change facility;
            4.   Car wash (automated and self);
            5.   Gasoline service station;
            6.   Painting and customizing; and
            7.   Tire or muffler service center.
         (d)   Personal service:
            1.   Hotel;
            2.   Motel; and
            3.   Mortuary/funeral home.
         (e)   Public facilities:
            1.   Parking garages; and
            2.   Surface parking lots.
         (f)   Clothing service:
            1.   Costume shop; and
            2.   Tuxedo rental.
         (g)   Recreation:
            1.   Dancing, aerobics, gymnastics studio;
            2.   Banquet hall;
            3.   Billiard room;
            4.   Bowling alley;
            5.   Lodge or fraternal organization;
            6.   Miniature golf;
            7.   Night club (see division (D)(13) below);
            8.   Skating rink, ice or roller (indoor);
            9.   Tennis/racquet club (indoor); and
            10.   Theater (indoor).
         (h)   Food sales and service:
            1.   Convenience store (gasoline sales permitted) (see division (D)
(13) below);
            2.   Restaurant (drive through service units permitted) (see
division (D)(13) below); and
            3.   Tavern/bar (see division (D)(13) below).
         (i)   Governmental use:
            1.   Police or fire station; and
            2.   Post office.
         (j)   Retail:
            1.   Department store;
            2.   Home improvement store;
            3.   Liquor store (see division (C)(13) below);
            4.   Paint/w all covering/floor; covering store;
            5.   Radio, television, electronics;
            6.   Sales or service;
            7.   Sporting goods store; and
            8.   Tobacco store.
         (k)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Bus station;
            2.   Hospital;
            3.   Rehabilitation center; and
            4.   Repair of electronics.
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Communication/utilities: public utility substation;
         (b)   Retail:
            1.   Lumber yard; and
            2.   Satellite dish sales or service.
         (c)   Recreation; and
         (d)   Public facilities: neighborhood recycling collection point.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sanitary system requirements. Attachment to public water
and sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for development in this
district.
      (2)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot or integrated center shall
have a minimum lot width and frontage on a public street of 50 feet.
      (3)   Yards and setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
 
Street Classification Front Yard Front Front Bufferyard
Limited access street 30 feet          30 feet
Any other street      10 feet          30 feet
 
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is
greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yard and setback shall be provided from
the lot line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: zero feet;
            2.   Minimum side bufferyard: 30 feet;
            3.   Minimum rear yard: zero feet; and
            4.   Minimum rear bufferyard: 30 feet.
         (c)   Outlots within an integrated center shall provide a minimum yard
of five feet along all lot lines in common with other outlots or with the main
portion of the integrated center. If any portion of an outlot abuts the
perimeter of the integrated center, that portion of the outlot shall be
required to comply with the applicable minimum front, side or rear yard
requirements set forth above. The main portion of the integrated center shall
not be required to provide a minimum yard along the lot line in common with an
outlot.
      (4)   Use of minimum yards and bufferyards. All minimum yards and
bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass, trees, shrubbery or hedge, or in
combination with other suitable ground cover materials and shall remain free
from structures, except where expressly permitted below.
         (a)   Minimum front yards and bufferyards may include driveways and
shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass
and shrubbery, trees or hedge, or in combination with other suitable ground
cover materials and maintained in compliance with the landscaping requirements
set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (5)   Maximum building height. 45 feet.
      (6)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street loading. See §
194.106 of this chapter.
      (8)   Requirements for drive-through, off-street stacking spaces. See §
194.108 of this chapter.
      (9)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (10)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
      (11)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (12)   Outdoor operations. All uses and operations (except off-street
parking, off-street loading and delivery, walk-up or drive-through customer
service windows) shall be conducted completely within enclosed buildings,
except where expressly permitted below.
         (a)   Outdoor seating shall not be located between a building line and
a bufferyard.
         (b)   Trash container(s) exceeding 36 cubic feet shall:
            1.   Be completely screened on all four sides with a solid-walled
or opaque fenced enclosure with gate not less than six feet or greater than
eight feet in height above grade;
            2.   Be located behind the established front building line; and
            3.   Not be located within a required yard or bufferyard yard.
      (13)   Separation from R districts. Taverns, package liquor stores, night
clubs, convenience stores, fast-food or drive-through restaurants shall not be
located within 100 feet, measured in any direction, of an R district. The
measurement shall be taken from the exterior of the building (or the tenant bay
of the establishment if the use is an integrated center), to the zoning
boundary of the R district.
      (14)   Maximum gross floor area. No single use, whether freestanding or
contained in an integrated center, shall exceed 60,000 square feet of gross
floor area. No integrated center shall exceed 125,000 square feet of total
gross floor area.
   (D)   Development plan approval required. All lots in a B-2 District shall
be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and approval by the
Plan Commission as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (1)   Architectural design requirements.
         (a)   Design theme. Buildings shall be designed to incorporate the
salient features of and be consistent with or complementary to the Zionsville
theme, incorporating the architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior
character of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival or
Victorian architectural styles.
         (b)   Building materials.
            1.   Exposed foundations shall be constructed of one or more of the
following:
               a.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the selected
architectural style;
               b.   Stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone and the like); and
               c.   Architectural pre-cast concrete, if surface looks like
brick or stone.
            2.   Facade walls shall be constructed of any combination of:
               a.   Stone;
               b.   Clapboard siding;
               c.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the selected
architectural style;
               d.   Beaded siding; or
               e.   Dryvit. In order to create variation and interest in the
built environment, all new buildings or building additions shall use the
exterior building materials specified below. In addition, the exterior building
material selection shall be supplemented by the use of multiple colors,
textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated and the like) or architectural elements
(quions, pilasters, soldier courses, friezes, cornices, dentils and the like)
on each facade. Two or three building materials (excluding glass in windows or
doors and roofing material) shall be utilized for all facades visible from a
street or alley. The primary building material shall be one of the following
and shall constitute a minimum of 60% of the available wall area (exclusive of
window and doors) of each applicable facade:
                  i.   Brick;
                  ii.   Stone;
                  iii.   Clapboard; or
                  iv.   Dryvit.
         (c)   Roofs.
            1.   Pitched roofs. Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched
and only in the configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:
12 to 14:12. Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate, composition
asphalt shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Shingle or panel color shall be
appropriate to the design of the building.
            2.   Shed roofs. Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a Building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
            3.   Flat roofs. Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the
selected style of architecture, if edged by a railing or parapet, and if
rooftop mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually
integrated into the overall design of the building. In no case shall rooftop
mechanical equipment be visible from adjoining R districts. All vents, attic
ventilators, turbines, flues and other roof penetrations shall be painted to
match the color of the roof, or painted flat black. Gutters and downspouts
shall be appropriate to or visually integrated with the selected architectural
style of the structure. Dormers, belvederes, cupolas and pergolas may be
utilized as a design element, so long as they are designed with the details,
proportions, style and materials consistent with the selected architectural
design of the building.
         (d)   Entrances. The main building or tenant space pedestrian
entrances shall be defined and articulated by architectural elements such as
lintels, pediments, pilasters, columns and other design elements appropriate to
the selected architectural style and details of the building as a whole. The
location, orientation, proportion and style of doors shall reflect the chosen
style of the building.
         (e)   Windows. All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way the window opens, the trim around the window and whether the window is
embellished with shutters shall be consistent with the selected architectural
style of the building.
         (f)   Storefronts. Storefronts shall be integrally designed with the
overall facade character. Ground floor retail, service and restaurant uses may
use large pane display windows; provided, however, such windows shall not
exceed 75% of the total ground level (first floor) facade area. Buildings with
multiple storefronts shall be of unified design, through the use of common
building materials, architectural details, signs and lighting consistent with
the overall building style. Each individual tenant shall have a primary
entrance to the storefront from the exterior of the building.
         (g)   Awnings, canopies. In addition to the provisions of §
194.163 of this chapter, fixed or retractable awnings or canopies are
permitted; provided they: complement the building’s architectural style,
building materials, colors and details; do not conceal architectural features
(such as cornices, columns, pilasters or decorative details); do not impair
facade composition; and are designed as an integral part of the facade. Metal,
plastic or aluminum awnings are prohibited.
      (2)   Lighting requirements. See §
194.113.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.21; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.061 URBAN B-3: URBAN OUTDOOR BUSINESS.
   (A)   Intent. The B-3: Outdoor Business Districts are established to provide
areas for those retail sales and service establishments which are characterized
by outdoor display or sales of merchandise (automobile sales or rental),
outdoor activities (commercial recreational enterprises) or those uses
requiring extensive land areas (lumber yards, “big box” retail establishments).
These types of uses tend to draw customers from a regional, rather than local,
area. This district should be located on a primary arterial street or similar
heavy commercial thoroughfare and should avoid being located adjacent to R
districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Any use permitted in the B-2 District;
         (b)   Professional services: veterinary clinic/hospital (indoor or
outdoor boarding or runs);
         (c)   Automotive:
            1.   Automobile, truck or bus sales or service;
            2.   Automobile, truck or bus rental;
            3.   Automobile repair-major;
            4.   Automobile parts sales (new or used);
            5.   RV and camper sales or service;
            6.   Auto service center; and
            7.   Boat sales.
         (d)   Recreation:
            1.   Indoor or outdoor commercial;
            2.   Recreational enterprise, including, miniature golf, skating
rink-ice or roller;
            3.   Tennis/racquet club; and
            4.   Theater.
         (e)   Food and sales service:
            1.   Farmers market; and
            2.   Roadside food sales stand.
         (f)   Retail:
            1.   Lumber yard; and
            2.   Satellite dish sales or service.
         (g)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Self-storage (mini-) warehouses; and
            2.   Tool or equipment rental.
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Communication/utilities:
            1.   Public utility substation; and
            2.   Public wells.
         (b)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Contractor, any type; and
            2.   Manufactured home sales.
         (c)   Recreation: arcade; and
         (d)   Public facilities: neighborhood recycling collection point.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sanitary system requirements. Attachments to public water
and sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for development in this
district.
      (2)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot or integrated center shall
have a minimum lot width and frontage on a public street if 50 feet.
      (3)   Yards and setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
 
Street Classification Front Yard Front Bufferyard
Limited access street 30 feet    30 feet
Any other street      10 feet    30 feet
 
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is
greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yard and setback shall be provided from
the lot line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: zero feet;
            2.   Minimum side bufferyard: 40 feet;
            3.   Minimum rear yard: zero feet; and
            4.   Minimum rear bufferyard: 40 feet.
         (c)   Outlots within an integrated center shall provide a minimum yard
of five feet along all lot lines in common with other outlots or with the main
portion of the integrated center. If any portion of an outlot abuts the
perimeter of the integrated center, that portion of the outlot shall be
required to comply with the applicable minimum front, side or rear yard
requirements set forth above. The main portion of the integrated center shall
not be required to provide a minimum yard along the lot line in common with an
outlot.
      (4)   Use of minimum yards and bufferyards. All minimum yards and front
bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass, trees, shrubbery or hedge, or in
combination with other suitable ground cover materials and shall remain free
from structures, except where expressly permitted below.
         (a)   Minimum front yards and bufferyards may include driveways and
shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass
and shrubbery, trees or hedge, or in combination with other suitable ground
cover materials and maintained in compliance with the requirements set forth in
§
194.109 of this chapter.
      (5)   Maximum building height. 45 feet.
      (6)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street loading. See §
194.106 of this chapter.
      (8)   Requirements for drive-through, off-street stacking spaces. See §
194.108 of this chapter.
      (9)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (10)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
      (11)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (12)   Outdoor operations. All uses and operations (except off-street
parking, off-street loading and delivery, walk-up customer service windows)
shall be conducted completely within enclosed buildings, except where expressly
permitted below.
         (a)   Outdoor display and sales areas shall:
            1.   Not be located between a building line and a bufferyard;
            2.   Not be located in any minimum yard or bufferyard, off-street
parking area or off-street loading area;
            3.   Be of concrete, asphaltic pavement, brick, flagstone or
comparable material maintained in good condition;
            4.   Be provided with bumper or wheel guards along the perimeter of
any vehicular display area; and
            5.   Not interfere with walks, parking areas, loading areas,
driveways, interior access driveways or interior access drives.
         (b)   Trash container(s) exceeding 36 cubic feet shall:
            1.   Be completely screened on all four sides with a solid-walled
or opaque fenced enclosure with gate not less than six feet or greater than
eight feet in height above grade;
            2.   Be located behind the established front building line; and
            3.   Not be located within a required yard or bufferyard.
         (c)   Separation from R districts: taverns, package liquor stores,
night clubs, convenience stores, fast-food or drive-through restaurants shall
not be located within 100 feet, measured in any direction, of an R district.
The measurement shall be taken from the exterior of the building (or the tenant
bay of the establishment if the use is an integrated center), to the zoning
boundary of the R district.
         (d)   Maximum gross floor area: no single use, whether freestanding or
contained in an integrated center, shall exceed 60,000 square feet of gross
floor area. No integrated center shall exceed 125,000 square feet of total
gross floor area.
   (D)   Development plan approval required. All lots in a B-3 District shall
be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and approval by the
Plan Commission as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (1)   Architectural design requirements.
         (a)   Design theme. Buildings shall be designed to incorporate the
salient features of and be consistent with or complementary to the Zionsville
theme, incorporating the architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior
character of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival or
Victorian architectural styles.
         (b)   Building materials.
            1.   Exposed foundations shall be constructed of one or more of the
following:
               a.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the selected
architectural style;
               b.   Stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone and the like); and
               c.   Architectural pre-cast concrete, if surface looks like
brick or stone.
            2.   Facade walls shall be constructed of any combination of:
               a.   Stone;
               b.   Clapboard siding;
               c.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the selected
architectural style;
               d.   Beaded siding; or
               e.   Dryvit. In order to create variation and interest in the
built environment, all new buildings or building additions shall use the
exterior building materials specified below. In addition, the exterior building
material selection shall be supplemented by the use of multiple colors,
textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated and the like) or architectural elements
(quions, pilasters, soldier courses, friezes, cornices, dentils and the like)
on each facade. Two or three building materials (excluding glass in windows or
doors and roofing material) shall be utilized for all facades visible from a
street or alley. The primary building material shall be one of the following,
and shall constitute a minimum of 60% of the available wall area (exclusive of
window and doors) of each applicable facade:
                  i.   Brick;
                  ii.   Stone;
                  iii.   Clapboard; or
                  iv.   Dryvit.
         (c)   Roofs.
            1.   Pitched roofs. Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched
and only in configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12. Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate, composition asphalt
shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Shingle or panel color shall be
appropriate to the design of the building.
            2.   Shed roofs. Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a Building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
            3.   Flat roofs. Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the
selected style of architecture, if edged by a railing or parapet, and if
rooftop mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually
integrated into the overall design of the building. In no case shall rooftop
mechanical equipment be visible from adjoining R districts. All vents, attic
ventilators, turbines, flues and other roof penetrations shall be painted to
match the color of the roof, or painted flat black. Gutters and downspouts
shall be appropriate to or visually integrated with the selected architectural
style of the structure. Dormers, belvederes, cupolas and pergolas may be
utilized as a design element, so long as they are designed with the details,
proportions, style and materials consistent with the selected architectural
design of the building.
         (d)   Entrances. The main building or tenant space pedestrian
entrances shall be defined and articulated by architectural elements such as
lintels, pediments, pilasters, columns and other design elements appropriate to
the selected architectural style and details of the building as a whole. The
location, orientation, proportion and style of doors shall reflect the chosen
style of the building.
         (e)   Windows. All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way the window opens, the trim around the window and whether the window is
embellished with shutters shall be consistent with the selected architectural
style of the building.
         (f)   Storefronts. Storefronts shall be integrally designed with the
overall facade character. Ground floor retail, service and restaurant uses may
use large pane display windows; provided, however, such windows shall not
exceed 75% of the total ground level (first floor) facade area. Buildings with
multiple storefronts shall be of unified design, through the use of common
building materials, architectural details, signs and lighting consistent with
the overall building style. Each individual tenant shall have a primary
entrance to the storefront from the exterior of the building.
         (g)   Awnings, canopies. In addition to the provisions of §
194.163 of this chapter, fixed or retractable awnings or canopies are
permitted, provided they complement the building’s architectural style,
building materials, colors and details; do not conceal architectural features
(such as cornices, columns, pilasters or decorative details); do not impair
facade composition; and are designed as an integral part of the facade. Metal,
plastic or aluminum awnings are prohibited.
      (2)   See §
194.113.
      (3)   Building orientation. Rear building facades shall not face a public
street. No loading spaces shall be permitted to face a street.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.22; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.062 URBAN VBD: URBAN VILLAGE BUSINESS.
   (A)   Intent. The VBD (Village Business) District is composed of the
downtown business center. The regulations are intended to:
      (1)   Be compatible with, and strengthen the existing character of, the
historic downtown and its unique Main Street area; and
      (2)   Promote a concentrated business area which maximizes the use of
properties, encourages pedestrian activity and discourages interruptions in the
continuity of business frontages.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses drive. Through service units shall not be permitted
for any uses noted below:
         (a)   Automotive: automobile sales, minor;
         (b)   Retail food sales and service:
            1.   Bakery;
            2.   Neighborhood market (no gasoline sales);
            3.   Dairy bar/ice cream store/yogurt store (retail sales);
            4.   Delicatessen;
            5.   Farmers market;
            6.   Grocery;
            7.   Meat market; and
            8.   Restaurant.
         (c)   Residential: dwelling units (upper level);
         (d)   Clothing service:
            1.   Costume rental;
            2.   Dressmaking;
            3.   Dry cleaning and laundry establishment;
            4.   Millinery shop (fabric shop);
            5.   Shoe repair shop; and
            6.   Tailor and pressing shop.
         (e)   Retail:
            1.   Antique shop;
            2.   Apparel shop;
            3.   Appliance store;
            4.   Art gallery;
            5.   Art and craft store;
            6.   Bicycle sales;
            7.   Camera store;
            8.   Card shop;
            9.   Clock shop;
            10.   Coin and stamp shop;
            11.   Computer store;
            12.   Department store;
            13.   Drug store;
            14.   Fabric store;
            15.   Flower shop;
            16.   Floor coverings;
            17.   Frame shop;
            18.   Furniture store;
            19.   Gift shop;
            20.   Hardware store;
            21.   Hobby, toy or game shop;
            22.   Home improvement store;
            23.   Jewelry store;
            24.   Music shop;
            25.   News dealer;
            26.   Paint/wall cover store;
            27.   Pet store;
            28.   Shoe store;
            29.   Sporting goods store;
            30.   Stationary and book store;
            31.   Tobacco store;
            32.   Variety store; and
            33.   Video tape rental or sales.
         (f)   Office/professional services:
            1.   Architect;
            2.   Artist;
            3.   Bank machines/automated teller machines (ATMs) (freestanding
units not permitted);
            4.   Bank/savings and loan/credit union;
            5.   Consultant;
            6.   Dentist or physician;
            7.   Design services;
            8.   Engineer;
            9.   Insurance agent;
            10.   Lawyer;
            11.   Musician;
            12.   Pharmacist;
            13.   Photographic studio;
            14.   Professional offices;
            15.   Real estate office;
            16.   Service organization office; and
            17.   Travel agency.
         (g)   Personal service:
            1.   Barbershop;
            2.   Beauty shop;
            3.   Locksmith; and
            4.   Tanning salon.
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Government use:
            1.   Governmental offices; and
            2.   Post office (without storage of delivery vehicles).
         (b)   Recreation:
            1.   Dancing, aerobics, gymnastics studio;
            2.   Lodge or fraternal organization; and
            3.   Social hall.
         (c)   Public facilities:
            1.   Community center;
            2.   Museum;
            3.   Park;
            4.   Parking garage;
            5.   Commercial parking lot (surface); and
            6.   Religious use.
         (d)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Print shop;
            2.   Drive-through service unit;
            3.   Outdoor seating for restaurants, subject to the provisions of
division (C)(14) below; and
            4.   Outdoor display of merchandise, subject to the provisions of
division (C)(14) below.
         (e)   Retail:
      1.   Garden supply; and
            2.   Pet shop.
         (f)   Personal service:
            1.   Bed and breakfast; and
            2.   Health spa or fitness center.
         (g)   Liquor sales and service:
            1.   Liquor store; and
            2.   Tavern/bar.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sanitary system requirements. Attachment to public water
and sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for development in this
district.
      (2)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot shall have a minimum lot
width and frontage on a public street of 40 feet and gain access from said
public street or abutting alley.
      (3)   Maximum lot coverage. 100% of the lot area.
      (4)   Maximum gross floor area. No single use, whether freestanding or
contained in an integrated center, shall exceed 5,000 square feet of floor area
on the ground floor.
      (5)   Integrated center floor area. No integrated center shall exceed
15,000 square feet of floor area on the ground floor.
      (6)   Yards and setbacks.
         (a)   Minimum. Minimum front yard for any building or structure
(except surface parking) shall be zero feet.
         (b)   Exceptions.
            1.   In any block face in this district in which an existing front
yard setback of greater than zero feet is established by existing, legally
established buildings or structures on more than 50% of the total number of
lots within the same block face fronting on the same public street, the
required front yard setback for any new building, structure or addition along
such block face shall be the average of such established front yards. In the
case of a new building or structure, the lot on which the building or structure
is to be erected shall not be included in the calculation of the average of the
established front yards for the block face.
            2.   Minimum front yards required for surface parking lots.
         (c)   Primary use. Depth of yard: six feet, measured from and
paralleling the right-of-way. Except where interrupted by a driveway, all
minimum front yards shall be free from buildings or structures, landscaped with
grass or other suitable ground cover materials and shall include the following
landscaping: one deciduous shade tree, ornamental tree or evergreen tree
planted for every 30 feet of frontage along the required front yard. The
minimum size of trees to be planted shall be as required in Table 12(C).
         (d)   Accessory use. Parking lots shall not be permitted between a
front building line and a front lot line.
      (7)   Awnings and canopies.
         (a)   Awnings and canopies may encroach over the sidewalk onto public
right-of-way; provided:
            1.   When the width of all awnings along the direction of a
particular building facade is ten feet or less, the horizontal projection of
such awnings shall not exceed six feet from the facade of any supporting
building. (See Figure 3, Diagram 1.) The vertical distance from the top to the
bottom of such awnings shall not exceed six feet, including any valance. (See
Figure 3, Diagram 1.);
            2.   When the width of all awnings along the direction of a
particular building facade exceed ten feet, the horizontal projection of such
awnings shall not exceed four feet from the facade of any supporting building.
(See Figure 3, Diagram 1.) The vertical distance from the top to the bottom of
such awnings shall not exceed four feet, including any valance. (See Figure 3,
Diagram 1.); and
            3.   The horizontal projection of any awning may extend to a point
not closer than two feet from any street curb, pavement edge or edge of an
interior access drive.
         (b)   Canopies.
            1.   The maximum width of any canopy shall be ten feet. (See Figure
4.)
            2.   The horizontal projection of any canopy may extend to a point
not closer than two feet from any street curb, pavement edge or edge of an
interior access drive. (See Figure 4.)
            3.   The outer column support shall be located in the outer one-
third of the walk area. (See Figure 4.)
            4.   In no case shall the minimum distance between the entry and
the column support be less than four feet.
            5.   The vertical distance from the top to the bottom of the canopy
shall not exceed an average of four feet, including any valance. The highest
point of the canopy shall not be higher than four feet above the door opening
or 16 feet.
            6.   Canopies shall not be spaced closer than 20 feet from each
other, measured from centerline to centerline. (See Figure 4.)
            7.   Minimum clearance, awnings and canopies height above finished
grade: all potions of any awning or canopy, excluding the column supports for a
canopy, shall be not less than nine feet above the finished grade. (See Figure
4.) An awning or canopy valance shall be not less than eight feet above the
finished grade. (See also §
194.165 of this chapter.)
      (8)   Minimum side and rear yard and setback. From the lot line as
follows measured from and paralleling the lot line, shall be provided along
such side or rear lot line. Except where interrupted by a driveway, all minimum
bufferyards shall be free from buildings or structures, landscaped with grass
or other suitable ground cover materials in compliance with §
194.109 of this chapter:
         (a)   Minimum side yard: zero feet;
         (b)   Minimum side bufferyard: ten feet;
         (c)   Minimum rear yard: zero feet; and
         (d)   Minimum rear bufferyard: ten feet.
      (9)   Building height.
         (a)   Primary structure:
            1.   Minimum height: 22 feet; and
            2.   Maximum height: 35 feet and not over three stories. However,
in no case shall the height of a primary structure exceed the average building
height established by existing, legally established buildings or structures
within the same block face fronting the same public street. In the case of a
new building or structure, the lot on which the building or structure is to be
erected shall not be inc1uded in the calculation of the average of the
established buildings or structures for the block face.
         (b)   Accessory structure: 22 feet.
         (c)   In the Village Business District, maximum building height shall
be the vertical distance measured from finished grade to the highest point of
the building, including parapets, towers, chimneys or any other ancillary
structure or embellishment.
      (10)   Off-street parking. The total number of off-street parking spaces
required for any use in the VBD District, calculated per the provisions of §
194.105 of this chapter, shall be reduced by 50%.
      (11)   Off-street loading. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (12)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (13)   Vision clearance areas. The provisions of §
194.021 of this chapter shall not apply to the VBD District.
      (14)   Outdoor operations. Except for the following uses which may be
conducted outdoors, all uses and operations in the VBD District shall be
conducted completely within enclosed buildings:
         (a)   Off-street parking, off-street loading and delivery;
         (b)   Walk-up customer service windows or automated teller machines
(ATMs); provided, they are not free standing and are set flush with the facade
of the building;
         (c)   Trash container(s) exceeding 36 cubic feet shall:
            1.   Be completely screened on all four sides with a solid-walled
or opaque fenced enclosure with gate not less than six feet, nor greater than
eight feet in height above grade;
            2.   Be located behind the established front building line; and
            3.   Not be located within a required yard or bufferyard.
         (d)   Outdoor seating for restaurants or outdoor display of
merchandise may be conducted only upon the grant of a special exception by the
Board of Zoning Appeals, and subject to the following regulations:
            1.   Shall not reduce the effective sidewalk width measured from
the back the curb to less than five feet;
            2.   Shall be located against the building facade;
            3.   Shall not block access points to the business or the building;
            4.   Shall be permitted only along the business tenant bay or
storefront facade;
            5.   Shall be permitted only during the hours of operation of the
business and shall be removed at the close of each business day; and
            6.   Shall require an encroachment permit from the Building
Commissioner.
   (D)   Development plan required. All lots located in the VBD District shall
be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and approval by the
Plan Commission, as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter. In review of a development plan, the Plan Commission
shall base its review on compliance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Architectural design requirements.
         (a)   Design theme. Buildings shall be designed to incorporate the
salient features of and be consistent with or complementary to the Zionsville
theme, incorporating the architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior
character of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival or
Victorian architectural styles.
         (b)   Building materials. In order to create variation and interest in
the built environment, all new buildings or building additions shall use the
exterior building materials specified below. In addition, the exterior building
material selection shall be supplemented by the use of multiple colors,
textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated and the like) or architectural elements
(quions, pilasters, soldier courses, friezes, cornices, dentils and the like)
on each facade. Two or three building materials (excluding glass in windows or
doors and roofing material) shall be utilized for all facades visible from a
street or alley. The primary building material shall be one of the four options
noted in division (D)(1)(b)2. below and shall constitute a minimum of 60% of
the available wall area (exclusive of window and doors) of each applicable
facade.
            1.   Exposed foundations shall be constructed of one or more of the
following:
               a.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the selected
architectural style;
               b.   Stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone and the like); or
               c.   Architectural concrete, if surface looks like brick or
stone.
            2.   Facade walls shall be constructed of any combination of:
               a.   Stone;
               b.   Wood clapboard siding;
               c.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the selected
architectural style; or
               d.   Wood beaded siding.
         (c)   Roofs.
            1.   Pitched roofs. Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched
and only in the configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:
12 to 14:12. Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate and
composition asphalt shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Shingle or panel
color shall be appropriate to the design of the building.
            2.   Shed roofs. Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a Building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
            3.   Flat roofs.
               a.   Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the selected
style of architecture. if edged by a railing or parapet, and if rooftop
mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually integrated
into the overall design of the building.
               b.   In no case shall rooftop mechanical equipment be visible
from adjoining R districts. All vents, attic ventilators, turbines, flues and
other roof penetrations shall be painted to match the color of the roof, or
painted flat black. Gutters and downspouts shall be appropriate to or visually
integrated with the selected architectural style of the structure.
               c.   Dormers, belvederes, cupolas and pergolas may be utilized
as a design element, so long as they are designed with the details,
proportions, style and materials consistent with the selected architectural
design of the building.
         (d)   Entrances. The main building or tenant space pedestrian
entrances shall be defined and articulated by architectural elements such as
lintels, pediments, pilasters, columns and other design elements appropriate to
the selected architectural style and details of the building as a whole. The
location, orientation, proportion and style of doors shall reflect the chosen
style of the building.
         (e)   Windows. All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way the window opens, the trim around the window and whether the window is
embellished with shutters shall be consistent with the selected architectural
style of the building.
         (f)   Storefronts. Storefronts shall be integrally designed with the
overall facade character. Ground floor retail, service and restaurant uses
should generally have large pane display windows; however, they shall not
exceed 75% of the total ground level (first floor) facade area. Buildings with
multiple storefronts shall be of unified design, through the use of common
building materials, architectural details, signs and lighting consistent with
the overall building style. Each individual tenant shall have a primary
entrance to the storefront from the public street.
         (g)   Awnings, canopies.
            1.   In addition to the provisions hereof, fixed or retractable
awnings or canopies are permitted; provided, they complement the building’s
architectural style, building materials, colors and details; do not conceal
architectural features (such as cornices, columns, pilasters or decorative
details); do not impair facade composition; and are designed as an integral
part of the facade.
            2.   Metal, plastic or aluminum awnings or canopies are prohibited.
      (2)   Lighting requirements. See §
194.113. 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-831.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-833.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.23; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.063 RURAL LB: RURAL LOCAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The LB, Rural Local Business, District is hereby
established to be designed and located in rural neighborhoods to accommodate
the primary needs of that locality. This district would place convenience and
necessity facilities close to consumers in limited areas close to residents.
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements, Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.24)
§ 194.064 RURAL PB: RURAL PROFESSIONAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The PB, Rural Professional Business, District is
hereby established as a buffer generally between rural commercial and rural
residential districts permitting selected businesses and professional uses
having limited contact with the public.
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements, Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.25)
§ 194.065 RURAL UB: RURAL URBAN BUSINESS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The UB, Rural Urban Business, District is hereby
established to address the needs of existing and future downtown development.
This district carries virtually all of the characteristics of the GB, Rural
General Business, District, but without setbacks, bufferyards or other design
requirements common to suburban development.
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements, Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.26)
§ 194.066 RURAL GB: RURAL GENERAL BUSINESS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The GB, Rural General Business District, is hereby
established to include central business districts in established urban places
in the town’s rural area. This district would be used for most types of
business and service areas.
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements, Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.27)
§ 194.067 AB: RURAL ACCOMMODATION BUSINESS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The AB, Rural Accommodation Business, District is
hereby established to include areas adjacent to interstate interchanges and is
designed to serve the needs of the public traveling on these major
thoroughfares.
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements, Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.28)
§ 194.068 URBAN I-ORT URBAN OFFICE/RESEARCH/TECHNOLOGY INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The I-ORT: Office/Research/Technology Industrial Districts are
established to promote the development of research facilities, testing
laboratories and administrative facilities which are generally compatible in
physical appearance and service requirements to office uses. Other uses, such
as distribution, warehouse and flex-space centers, and light manufacturing or
assembly operations which are generally free from objectionable elements such
as odor, dust, smoke or glare and are operated within enclosed structures, are
also permitted. This district is designed to function as a “gateway” district,
with easy access and high visibility from primary transportation routes, while
acting as a transitional use or buffer between heavy industrial or outdoor
commercial districts and lower intensity residential or commercial uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Administrative:
            1.   Corporate headquarters; and
            2.   Offices any type (no ancillary public retail or service-
commercial components).
         (b)   Education/support services:
            1.   School-commercial, trade or business; industrial training
facility; and
            2.   Day care center.
         (c)   Communications/utilities:
            1.   Data processing/analysis;
            2.   Telecommunication tower; and
            3.   Telephone exchange.
         (d)   Educational use: school, commercial, trade or business;
industrial training facility;
         (e)   Industrial uses, agri-science:
            1.   Agri-science, medical or dental laboratories, or research
facilities;
            2.   Assembly of previously manufactured parts, subassemblies or
components;
            3.   Distribution center (shall contain an office component
occupying a minimum of 20% of the gross square footage of the building);
            4.   Engineering laboratories; flex-space;
            5.   Manufacture of, or light assembly or repair of previously
manufactured parts for:
               a.   Appliances: light; portable; household;
               b.   Bicycles, motorcycles or parts; cabinets;
               c.   Carpets/rugs;
               d.   Clocks and watches;
               e.   Cloth products from finished cloth (i.e., apparel);
               f.   Communication equipment and assembly;
               g.   Computers, computer equipment;
               h.   Containers;
               i.   Cosmetics;
               j.   Electric hand tools;
               k.   Electric motors;
               l.   Electrical components and sub-assemblies;
               m.   Ice or dry ice;
               n.   Jewelry (including engraving);
               o.   Leather products from finished leather;
               p.   Light component parts of products;
               q.   Office equipment, including assembly;
               r.   Office machinery, electrical and mechanical;
               s.   Optical goods;
               t.   Paper box and paper products from finished paper;
               u.   Recording instruments;
               v.   Signs; and
               w.   Textiles.
            6.   Research laboratories or research and development center; and
            7.   Warehouse (shall contain an office component occupying a
minimum of 20% of the gross square footage of the building).
         (f)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Engraving (non-retail);
            2.   Mail order distribution;
            3.   Offices, in conjunction with a use permitted by this section;
            4.   Printing or publishing facility;
            5.   Upholstery; and
            6.   Wholesale business.
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Governmental use; and
         (b)   Post office.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sanitary system requirements. Attachment to public water
and sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for development in this
district.
      (2)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot or industrial park shall
have a minimum lot width and frontage of 100 feet on a public street.
      (3)   Yards and setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback or front bufferyard,
measured from the proposed right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
 
Street Classification          Front Yard Front Bufferyard
Collector street               40 feet*   50 feet*
Limited access street          50 feet*   50 feet*
Local street/cul-de-sac street 40 feet*   50 feet*
Primary arterial street        50 feet*   50 feet*
Secondary arterial street      40 feet*   50 feet*
Other street                   See division (F) below
 
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is
greater. The existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yard and setback shall be provided from
the lot line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: ten feet;
            2.   Minimum side bufferyard: 30 feet;
            3.   Minimum rear yard: ten feet; and
            4.   Minimum rear bufferyard: 30 feet.
      (4)   Use of minimum yards and bufferyards. All minimum yards and
bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass, trees, shrubbery or hedge, or in
combination with other suitable ground cover materials and shall remain free
from structures, except where expressly permitted below.
         (a)   Minimum front yards and bufferyards may include driveways and
shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yards may include interior access
driveways connecting to adjoining lots; provided that, the remainder of said
yards shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (c)   Minimum side and rear bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass
and shrubbery, trees or hedge, or in combination with other suitable ground
cover materials and maintained in compliance with the landscaping requirements
set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (5)   Maximum building height. Unlimited; provided, however, that, the
setback for that portion of the building or structure which is in excess of 45
feet shall be increased by one foot each one foot of building or structural
height above 45 feet until the ultimate height of building or structure is
allowed.
      (6)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street loading. See §
194.106 of this chapter.
      (8)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (9)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
      (10)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (11)   Outside storage and operations.
         (a)   Operations. All operations, servicing and processing (except
off-street parking and off-street loading) shall be conducted within completely
enclosed buildings.
         (b)   Storage. All storage of materials or products shall be within
completely enclosed buildings or permanent structures.
   (D)   Development plan approval required. All lots in an I-ORT District
shall be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and approval by
the Plan Commission. The development plan shall demonstrate compliance with the
following development requirements and compliance with the provisions set forth
in §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (1)   Architectural design.
         (a)   Building design. Any portion of a lot which is within 400 feet
of the right-of-way of any street identified in the transportation plan by its
functional classification (§
194.186 of this chapter), as a primary, secondary or collector street, any new
building or building addition shall be designed to incorporate the salient
features of and be consistent with or complementary to the Zionsville theme,
incorporating the architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior character
of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival or Victorian
architectural styles. (See also division (E) below.)
         (b)   Building materials. In order to create variation and interest in
the built environment, all new buildings or building additions shall use the
exterior building materials specified below on any facade of the building that
is visible from a street.
            1.   Two or three building materials (excluding: glass in windows
or doors; doors; and roofing material) shall be utilized for any facades
visible from a street.
            2.   The primary building material for any facade visible from the
street shall be one of the following: brick; architectural concrete, if the
surface of the architectural concrete simulates brick or stone (examples
include, but are not limited to, limestone, marble or granite); pre-cast
concrete, if the surface of the pre-cast concrete is: painted; textured (e.g.,
rough, striated, imprinted with a pattern or form); or designed to simulate
brick or stone (examples include, but are not limited to, limestone, marble or
granite); external insulation and finish system (E.I.F.S.); or stone.
            3.   The primary building material shall constitute a minimum of
60% of the available wall area (exclusive of window and doors) of any facade
visible from the street.
            4.   The exterior building material selection shall be supplemented
by the use of multiple colors, textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated and the
like) or architectural elements (quions, pilasters, soldier courses, friezes,
cornices, dentils and the like) on facades visible from the street. (See also
division (E) below.)
         (c)   Roofs.
            1.   Pitched roofs. Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched
and only in the configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:
12 to 14:12. Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles. slate, composition
asphalt shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Shingle or panel color shall be
appropriate to the design of the Building.
            2.   Shed roofs. Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a Building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
            3.   Flat roofs. Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the
selected style of architecture, if edged by a railing or parapet, and if
rooftop mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually
integrated into the overall design of the building. In no case shall rooftop
mechanical equipment be visible from adjoining R districts. All vents, attic
ventilators, turbines, flues and other roof penetrations shall be painted to
match the color of the roof, or painted flat black. Gutters and downspouts
shall be appropriate to or visually integrated with the selected architectural
style of the structure. Dormers, belvederes, cupolas and pergolas may be
utilized as a design element, so long as they are designed with the details,
proportions, style and materials consistent with the selected architectural
design of the building.
         (d)   Entrances. The main building or tenant space pedestrian
entrances shall be defined and articulated by architectural elements such as
lintels, pediments, pilasters, columns and other design elements appropriate to
the selected architectural style and details of the building as a whole. The
location, orientation, proportion and style of doors shall reflect the chosen
style of the building.
         (e)   Windows. All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way the window opens and the trim around the window shall be consistent
with the selected architectural style of the building.
         (f)   Awnings, canopies. In addition to the provisions of §
194.163 of this chapter, fixed or retractable awnings or canopies are
permitted; provided they:
            1.   Complement the building’s architectural style, building
materials, colors and details;
            2.   Do not conceal architectural features (such as cornices,
columns, pilasters or decorative details);
            3.   Do not impair facade composition; and
            4.   Are designed as an integral part of the facade. Plastic
awnings and canopies are prohibited.
      (2)   Lighting requirements. See §
194.113.
      (3)   Building orientation. Rear building facades shall not face a public
street. No loading spaces shall be permitted to face a street.
   (E)   Waiver of development requirements.
      (1)   Building design findings. The Plan Commission may grant a waiver of
the building design development requirements of division (D) above and approve
a building design which does not incorporate the salient features of the
Zionsville theme, or incorporate the architecture, design and overall aesthetic
exterior character of, a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek
Revival or Victorian architectural styles upon finding that:
         (a)   The building design represents an innovative use of building
materials or design, or site design features which will not be detrimental to
the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The proposed building is appropriate when compared to the
architecture, design and overall exterior character of other buildings on the
site and surrounding sites;
         (c)   The building design is consistent with and compatible with other
development located along the street; and
         (d)   The proposed building is consistent with the intent and purpose
of this chapter.
      (2)   Building materials findings. The Plan Commission may grant a waiver
of the building materials development requirements of division (D) above and
approve the use of alternate exterior building materials on any facade of a
building that is visible from a street upon finding that:
         (a)   The building materials utilized represent an innovative use of
said materials which enhance the overall aesthetic exterior character of the
building and will not be detrimental to the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The building materials utilized are appropriate when compared to
the building materials utilized on other buildings on the site and surrounding
sites;
         (c)   The building materials utilized are consistent with and
compatible with other building materials utilized on, and with the overall
exterior character of, other buildings and development located along the
street; and
         (d)   The building materials utilized are consistent with the intent
and purpose of this chapter.
   (F)   Development incentives; front yard and front bufferyard reduction.
      (1)   Purpose. In order to facilitate urban development and improve
quality of landscaping in the built environment, the depth of a required front
yard or front bufferyard may be reduced as follows, if such reduction is
approved by the Plan Commission in connection with the review and approval of a
development plan.
      (2)   Minimum front yard and bufferyard.
         (a)   The minimum front yard and front bufferyard may be reduced to a
minimum of:
            1.   Front yards: 20 feet; and
            2.   Front bufferyards: 30 feet.
         (b)   Provided, however, that, the landscaping required for said yard
shall be increased as follows:
            1.   Front yards: to Level A landscaping, per the landscaping
requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables A, B and C;
            2.   Front bufferyards: to a Level C, per the landscaping
requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables A, B and C.
      (3)   Findings. The Plan Commission may approve such required depth of
front yard or front bufferyard reduction only upon finding that:
         (a)   The level of landscaping within the required [(i) front yard,
(ii) front bufferyard] shall meet or exceed [(i) Level A, (ii) Level C]
landscaping, per the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter and the building shall be placed at the reduced setback
line;
         (b)   The proposed development is appropriate to the site and its
surroundings; and
         (c)   The proposed development is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.29; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.069 URBAN I-1: URBAN LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The I-I: Light Industrial Districts are established to
encourage development of assembly and processing facilities which may require
limited amounts of outside storage. These activities require extensive
community facilities, and excellent access to arterial streets or collector
streets. Permitted uses in this district may have limited outdoor storage/
service areas and may generate heavy traffic, but such operations shall be
subject to specific development standards.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Administrative uses:
            1.   Corporate headquarters; and
            2.   Offices any type (no ancillary retail or service-commercial
components).
         (b)   Agricultural uses:
            1.   Commercial greenhouse;
            2.   Cropland, orchards or animal husbandry;
            3.   Plant nursery; and
            4.   Accessory uses related thereto.
         (c)   Communications/utilities:
            1.   Data processing/analysis;
            2.   Telecommunication tower; and
            3.   Telephone exchange.
         (d)   Educational use:
            1.   School, commercial;
            2.   Trade or business; and
            3.   Industrial training facility.
         (e)   Food sales and service: wholesale produce terminal;
         (f)   Industrial uses:
            1.   Assembly of previously manufactured parts, sub-assemblies or
components;
            2.   Distribution center;
            3.   Engineering laboratories;
            4.   Light assembly or repair of previously manufactured parts:
               a.   Appliances: light; portable; household;
               b.   Bicycles, motorcycles or parts;
               c.   Cabinets;
               d.   Carpets/rugs;
               e.   Clocks and watches;
               f.   Cloth products from finished cloth (i.e., apparel);
               g.   Communication equipment and assembly;
               h.   Computers, computer equipment;
               i.   Containers;
               j.   Cosmetics;
               k.   Electric hand tools;
               l.   Electric motors;
               m.   Electrical components and sub-assemblies;
               n.   Ice or dry ice;
               o.   Jewelry (including engraving);
               p.   Leather products from finished leather;
               q.   Light component parts of products;
               r.   Office equipment including assembly;
               s.   Office machinery, electrical and mechanical;
               t.   Optical goods;
               u.   Paper box and paper products from finished paper;
               v.   Recording instruments;
               w.   Signs; and
               x.   Textiles.
            5.   Research laboratories; and
            6.   Warehouse.
         (g)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Dental laboratory;
            2.   Engraving (non-retail);
            3.   Mail order distribution;
            4.   Offices, in conjunction with a use permitted by this section;
            5.   Printing, publishing;
            6.   Upholstery; and
            7.   Business.
         (h)   Governmental use:
            1.   Fire station;
            2.   Police station; and
            3.   Post office.
         (i)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Artificial lake; and
            2.   Self-storage (mini-) warehouse wholesale (not permitted within
the U.S. Highway 421-Michigan Road Corridor Overlay District).
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Communication/utilities:
            1.   Public utility substation; and
            2.   Public wells.
         (b)   Public facilities:
            1.   Recycling facility;
            2.   Resource recovery facility; and
            3.   Transfer station.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sanitary system requirements. Attachment to public water
and sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for development in this
district.
      (2)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot, integrated center or
industrial park shall have a minimum lot width and frontage of 75 feet on a
public street.
      (3)   Yards and setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right-of-way shall be provided as follows:
 
Street Classification                Front Yard Front Bufferyard
Collector street                     40 feet*   50 feet*
Limited access street                50 feet*   50 feet*
Local street/cul-de-sac other street 40 feet*   50 feet*
Primary arterial street              50 feet*   50 feet*
Secondary arterial street            40 feet*   50 feet*
NOTES TO TABLE:
* See division (F) below.
 
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is
greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yard and setback shall be provided from
the lot line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: 20 feet;
            2.   Minimum side bufferyard: 30 feet;
            3.   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet; and
            4.   Minimum rear bufferyard: 30 feet.
      (4)   Use of minimum yards and bufferyards. All minimum yards and
bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass, trees, shrubbery or hedge, or in
combination with other suitable ground cover materials and shall remain free
from structures, except where expressly permitted below.
         (a)   Minimum front yards and bufferyards may include driveways and
shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yards may include interior access
driveways connecting to adjoining lots provided that the remainder of said
yards shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (c)   Minimum side and rear bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass
and shrubbery, trees or hedge, or in combination with other suitable ground
cover materials and maintained in compliance with the landscaping requirements
set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (5)   Maximum building height. 35 feet.
      (6)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street loading. See §
194.106 of this chapter.
      (8)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (9)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
      (10)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (11)   Outside storage and operations.
         (a)   Operations. All operations, servicing and processing located
within 600 feet of any R district boundary or any SU-1, SU-2, SU-7, SU-12, SU-
13 or SU-14 District boundary (except outside storage, off-street parking and
off-street loading) shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
         (b)   Storage. All storage of materials or products within 600 feet of
any R district or any SU-1, SU-2, SU-7, SU-12, SU-13 or SU-14 District boundary
shall be either:
            1.   Within completely enclosed buildings; or
            2.   Effectively screened within a lattice slatted, chain link,
wood shadow box or similar type fenced area, with ornamental, non-solid or
chain link gates. The height of said fence shall be at least six feet and shall
not exceed eight feet. Materials or products stored within the enclosure shall
not exceed the height thereof. The storage area shall be surrounded by
landscaping installed in compliance with the provisions of §
194.109 of this chapter for Level B bufferyard and perimeter yard landscaping.
         (c)   Amount of outside storage and operations. The total area devoted
to outside storage and operations shall not exceed 25% of the gross floor area
of enclosed structures or buildings on the lot.
   (D)   Development plan approval required. All lots in an I-1 District shall
be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and approval by the
Plan Commission. The development plan shall demonstrate compliance with the
following development requirements and compliance with the provisions set forth
in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (1)   Architectural design.
         (a)   Building design. Any portion of a lot which is within 400 feet
of the right-of-way of any street identified in the transportation plan by its
functional classification (§
194.186 of this chapter), as a primary, secondary or collector street, any new
building or building addition shall be designed to incorporate the salient
features of and be consistent with or complementary to the Zionsville theme,
incorporating the architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior character
of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival or Victorian
architectural styles. (See also division (E) below.)
         (b)   Building materials. In order to create variation and interest in
the built environment, all new buildings or building additions shall use the
exterior building materials specified below on any facade of the building that
is visible from a street.
            1.   Two or three building materials (excluding: glass in windows
or doors; doors; and roofing material) shall be utilized for any facades
visible from a street.
            2.   The primary building material for any facade visible from the
street shall be one of the following:
               a.   Brick;
               b.   Architectural concrete, if the surface of the architectural
concrete simulates brick or stone (examples include, but are not limited to,
limestone, marble or granite);
               c.   Pre-cast concrete, if the surface of the pre-cast concrete
is:
                  i.   Painted;
                  ii.   Textured (e.g., rough, striated, imprinted with a
pattern or form); or
                  iii.   Designed to simulate brick or stone (examples include,
but are not limited to, limestone, marble or granite);
               d.   External insulation and finish system (E.I.F.S.); or
               e.   Stone.
            3.   The primary building material shall constitute a minimum of
60% of the available wall area (exclusive of window and doors) of any facade
visible from the street.
            4.   The exterior building material selection shall be supplemented
by the use of multiple colors, textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated and the
like) or architectural elements, (quions, pilasters, soldier courses, friezes,
cornices, dentils and the like) on facades visible from the street. (See also
division (E) below.)
         (c)   Roofs.
            1.   Pitched roofs. Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched
and only in the configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:
12 to 14:12. Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate, composition
asphalt shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Shingle or panel color shall be
appropriate to the design of the building.
            2.   Shed roofs. Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
            3.   Flat roofs. Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the
selected style of architecture, if edged by a railing or parapet, and if
rooftop mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually
integrated into the overall design of the building. In no case shall rooftop
mechanical equipment be visible from adjoining R districts. All vents, attic
ventilators, turbines, flues and other roof penetrations shall be painted to
match the color of the roof or painted flat black. Gutters and downspouts shall
be appropriate to or visually integrated with the selected architectural style
of the structure. Dormers, belvederes, cupolas and pergolas may be utilized as
a design element, so long as they are designed with the details, proportions,
style and materials consistent with the selected architectural design of the
building.
         (d)   Entrances. The main building or tenant space pedestrian
entrances shall be defined and articulated by architectural elements such as
lintels, pediments, pilasters, columns and other design elements appropriate to
the selected architectural style and details of the building as a whole. The
location, orientation, proportion and style of doors shall reflect the chosen
style of the building.
         (e)   Windows. All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way the window opens and the trim around the window shall be consistent
with the selected architectural style of the building.
         (f)   Awnings, canopies. In addition to the provisions of §
194.163 of this chapter, fixed or retractable awnings or canopies are
permitted; provided they:
            1.   Complement the building’s architectural style, building
materials, colors and details;
            2.   Do not conceal architectural features (such as cornices.
columns, pilasters or decorative details);
            3.   Do not impair facade composition; and
            4.   Are designed as an integral part of the facade. Plastic
awnings and canopies are prohibited.
      (2)   Lighting requirements. See §
194.113.
      (3)   Building orientation. Rear building facades shall not face a public
street. No loading spaces shall be permitted to face a street.
   (E)   Waiver of development requirements.
      (1)   Building design findings. The Plan Commission may grant a waiver of
the building design development requirements of division (D) above and approve
a building design which does not incorporate the salient features of the
Zionsville theme, or incorporate the architecture, design and overall aesthetic
exterior character of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek
Revival or Victorian architectural styles upon finding that:
         (a)   The building design represents an innovative use of building
materials or design, or site design features which will not be detrimental to
the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The proposed building is appropriate when compared to the
architecture, design and overall exterior character of other buildings on the
site and surrounding sites;
         (c)   The building design is consistent with and compatible with other
development located along the street; and
         (d)   The proposed building is consistent with the intent and purpose
of this chapter.
      (2)   Building materials findings. The Plan Commission may grant a waiver
of the building materials development requirements of division (D) above and
approve the use of alternate exterior building materials on any facade of a
building that is visible from a street upon finding that:
         (a)   The building materials utilized represent an innovative use of
said materials which enhance the overall aesthetic exterior character of the
building and will not be detrimental to the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The building materials utilized are appropriate when compared to
the building materials utilized on other buildings on the site and surrounding
sites;
         (c)   The building materials utilized are consistent with and
compatible with other building materials utilized on, and with the overall
exterior character of, other buildings and development located along the
street; and
         (d)   The building materials utilized are consistent with the intent
and purpose of this chapter.
   (F)   Development incentives.
      (1)   Front yard and front bufferyard reduction.
         (a)   Purpose. In order to facilitate urban development and improve
quality of landscaping in the built environment, the depth of a required front
yard or front bufferyard may be reduced as follows, if such reduction is
approved by the Plan Commission in connection with the review and approval of a
development plan.
         (b)   Minimum. The minimum front yard and front bufferyard may be
reduced to a minimum of:
            1.   Front yards: 20 feet; and
            2.   Front bufferyards: 30 feet; provided, however, that, the
landscaping required for said yard shall be increased as follows:
               a.   Front yards: to Level A landscaping, per the landscaping
requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables A, B and C; and
               b.   Front bufferyards: to a Level C, per the landscaping
requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables A, B and C.
         (c)   Findings. The Plan Commission may approve such required depth of
front yard or front bufferyard reduction only upon finding that:
            1.   The level of landscaping within the required [(i) front yard,
(ii) front bufferyard] shall meet or exceed [(i) Level A, (ii) Level C]
landscaping, per the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter and the building shall be placed at the reduced setback
line;
            2.   The proposed development is appropriate to the site and its
surroundings; and
            3.   The proposed development is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   Use of required side and rear yards in integrated centers or
industrial parks.
         (a)   Purpose. In order to facilitate urban development and to enhance
the quality or landscaping in the built environment, the Plan Commission may,
in connection with the review and approval of a development plan, approve the
use of required side and rear yards which abut other required side or rear
yards of lots located within the same integrated center or industrial park for
parking areas, loading areas, interior drives, interior access drives or
outdoor storage.
         (b)   Findings. The Plan Commission may approve such use of required
side and rear yards only upon finding that:
            1.   The level of landscaping within the required [(i) front yard,
(ii) front bufferyard] shall meet or exceed [(i) Level A, (ii) Level C]
landscaping, per the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter;
            2.   The area of required foundation planting areas located along
the building, as required by §
194.109(C) of this chapter, has been increased to Level B plantings as set
forth in §
194.109 of this chapter, Table B;
            3.   The plant unit value contained in such enlarged foundation
planting areas shall have been increased to Level B Plantings as set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter, Table B;
            4.   The proposed development is appropriate to the site and its
surroundings; and
            5.   The proposed development is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.30; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.070 URBAN I-2: URBAN GENERAL INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Intent. The I-2: General Industrial Districts are established to
encourage development of manufacturing and processing facilities. Uses
permitted in this district generally include those manufacturing and industrial
activities which cannot be operated economically without creating some
conditions which may be objectionable to the occupants of adjoining properties
and for that reason must be grouped in areas where similar industrial uses are
now located or where the permitted uses will be best located in accordance with
the Comprehensive Plan. Uses in this district require extensive community
facilities and excellent access to arterial streets. Permitted uses in this
district may have outdoor storage/service areas and may generate heavy traffic,
but such operations shall be subject to specific development standards.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Any use permitted by the I-1 District in §
194.069 of this chapter;
         (b)   Administrative uses:
            1.   Corporate headquarters; and
            2.   Offices, any type (service retail component; please see
division (B)(1)(h) below).
         (c)   Automobile service:
            1.   Painting and customizing; and
            2.   Racing and testing.
         (d)   Food products:
            1.   Bakery, industrial (no retail); and
            2.   Brewing or distillation of liquor or spirits.
         (e)   Utilities: storage tanks, non-hazardous material;
         (f)   Industrial uses: manufacture assembly or repair of:
            1.   Appliances, major electric or gas;
            2.   Bottled gas storage and distribution;
            3.   Bottling of beverages (any type);
            4.   Bottling/packaging of food (secondary processing and packaging
of food products initially processed off of the premises);
            5.   Boats;
            6.   Cans;
            7.   Ceramic and clay products;
            8.   Coating (excluding tar products);
            9.   Construction equipment or machinery;
            10.   Dairy and milk products;
            11.   Detergents or soaps;
            12.   Electric materials;
            13.   Electroplating operations;
            14.   Elevators;
            15.   Fabrication of structural metal products;
            16.   Glass products;
            17.   Granaries, grain processing or milling;
            18.   Furniture;
            19.   Machinery or machinery components;
            20.   Machine shop;
            21.   Malt products;
            22.   Marine equipment;
            23.   Mattresses;
            24.   Medical, surgical or dental instruments or supplies;
            25.   Musical instruments;
            26.   Pharmaceutical products;
            27.   Phonograph records, tapes or compact disks;
            28.   Photographic equipment;
            29.   Pre-manufactured parts, sub-assemblies or components;
            30.   Prefabricated wood, building or structural members;
            31.   Refrigeration or service industry machinery;
            32.   Sports equipment;
            33.   Starch;
            34.   Petroleum tank farm (storage);
            35.   Tobacco products;
            36.   Tools and implements (electrical or non-electrical);
            37.   Toys;
            38.   Transmission reconditioning;
            39.   Terminal; and
            40.   Welding.
         (g)   Office/professional services: construction companies, contractor
and home remodeling companies (including storage of materials and equipment
with accessory offices - service retail component, please see division (B)(1)
(h) below);
         (h)   Service retail:
            1.   Health, beauty salon, spa;
            2.   Fitness equipment sales, service;
            3.   Indoor recreational center or facility (includes physical
therapy facility);
            4.   Recreational equipment sales and service; and
            5.   Ancillary sales and service component associated with
permitted I-2 use when not in excess of 30% of the net floor area of the total
demised space associated with the permitted use.
         (i)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Automobile body shop or painting;
            2.   Heavy construction equipment sales or service;
            3.   Self-storage (mini-) warehouse (not permitted - truck within
the U.S. Highway 421-Michigan Road Corridor Overlay District);
            4.   Power plant (electric, steam or thermal);
            5.   Tool and die shop; and
            6.   Vehicle storage (new or operable only).
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Communication/utilities:
            1.   Public utility substation; and
            2.   Public wells.
         (b)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Recycling facility;
            2.   Resource recovery facility; and
            3.   Transfer station.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sanitary system requirements. Attachment to public water
and sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for development in this
district.
      (2)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot, integrated center or
industrial park shall have a minimum lot width and frontage of 75 feet on a
public street.
      (3)   Yards and setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right-of- way shall be provided as follows:
 
Street Classification                 Front Yard Front Bufferyard
Collector street                      40 feet*   75 feet*
Limited access street                 50 feet*   75 feet*
Local street/cul-de-sac, other street 40 feet*   75 feet*
Primary arterial street               50 feet*   75 feet*
Secondary arterial street             40 feet*   75 feet*
NOTES TO TABLE:
* See division (F) below.
 
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is
greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yard and setback shall be provided from
the lot line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: 20 feet*;
            2.   Minimum side bufferyard: 50 feet;
            3.   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet*; and
            4.   Minimum rear bufferyard: 50 feet.
* See division (F) below, regarding development incentives.
      (4)   Use of minimum yards and bufferyards. All minimum yards and
bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass, trees, shrubbery or hedge, or in
combination with other suitable ground cover materials and shall remain free
from structures, except where expressly permitted below.
         (a)   Minimum front yards and bufferyards may include driveways and
shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yards may include interior access
driveways connecting to adjoining lots provided that the remainder of said
yards shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (c)   Minimum side and rear bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass
and shrubbery, trees or hedge, or in combination with other suitable ground
cover materials and maintained in compliance with the landscaping requirements
set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (5)   Maximum building height. 35 feet.
      (6)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street loading. See §
194.106 of this chapter.
      (8)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (9)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
      (10)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (11)   Outside display, storage and operations.
         (a)   Operations.
            1.   All operations, servicing and processing located within 600
feet of any R district boundary or an SU-1, SU-2, SU-7, SU-12, SU-13 or SU-14
District boundary (except outside storage, off-street parking and off-street
loading) shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
            2.   Outdoor display of merchandise associated with a permissible
service retail use, shall:
               a.   Be located against the building facade;
               b.   Not block access points into the business or the building;
               c.   Not be located on hard-surfacing utilized for required off-
street parking or maneuvering;
               d.   Be permitted only along the business tenant bay or
storefront facade; and
               e.   Only be permitted during the hours of operation of the
business and shall be removed at the close of each business day.
         (b)   Storage. All storage of materials or products within 600 feet of
any R district boundary or an SU-1, SU-2, SU-7, SU-12, SU-13 or SU-14 District
shall be either:
            1.   Within completely enclosed buildings; or
            2.   Effectively screened within a lattice slatted, chain link,
wood shadow box or similar type fenced area, with ornamental, non-solid or
chain link gates. The height of said fence shall be at least six feet and shall
not exceed eight feet. Materials or products stored within the enclosure shall
not exceed the height thereof. The storage area shall be surrounded by
landscaping installed in compliance with the provisions of §
194.109 of this chapter for Level B bufferyard and perimeter yard landscaping.
         (c)   Amount of outside storage and operations. The total area devoted
to outside storage and operations shall not exceed 50% of the gross floor area
of enclosed structures or buildings on the lot.
   (D)   Development plan approval required. All lots in an I-2 District shall
be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and approval by the
Plan Commission. The development plan shall demonstrate compliance with the
following development requirements and compliance with the provisions set forth
in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (1)   Architectural design.
         (a)   Building design. Any portion of a lot which is within 400 feet
of the right-of-way of any street identified in the transportation plan by its
functional classification (§
194.186 of this chapter), as a primary, secondary or collector street, any new
building or building addition shall be designed to incorporate the salient
features of and be consistent with or complementary to the Zionsville theme,
incorporating the architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior character
of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival or Victorian
architectural styles. (See also division (E) below.)
         (b)   Building materials. In order to create variation and interest in
the built environment, all new buildings or building additions shall use the
exterior building materials specified below on any facade of the building that
is visible from a street:
            1.   Two or three building materials (excluding: glass in windows
or doors; doors; and roofing material), shall be utilized for any facades
visible from a street.
            2.   The primary building material for any facade visible from the
street shall be one of the following:
               a.   Brick;
               b.   Architectural concrete, if the surface of the architectural
concrete simulates brick or stone (examples include, but are not limited to,
limestone, marble or granite); precast concrete, if the surface of the pre-cast
concrete is:
                  i.   Painted;
                  ii.   Textured (e.g., rough, striated, imprinted with a
pattern or form); or
                  iii.   Designed to simulate:
                     A.   Brick or stone (examples include, but are not limited
to, limestone, marble or granite);
                     B.   External insulation and finish system (E.I.F.S.); or
                     C.   Stone.
            3.   The primary building material shall constitute a minimum of
60% of the available wall area (exclusive of window and doors) of any facade
visible from the street.
            4.   The exterior building material selection shall be supplemented
by the use of multiple colors, textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated and the
like) or architectural elements (quions, pilasters, soldier courses, friezes,
cornices, dentils and the like) on facades visible from the street. (See also
division (E) below.)
         (c)   Roofs.
            1.   Pitched roofs. Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched
and only in the configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:
12 to 14:12. Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate, composition
asphalt shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Shingle or panel color shall be
appropriate to the design of the building.
            2.   Shed roofs. Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
            3.   Flat roofs. Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the
selected style of architecture, if edged by a railing or parapet, and if
rooftop mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually
integrated into the overall design of the building. In no case shall rooftop
mechanical equipment be visible from adjoining R districts. All vents, attic
ventilators, turbines, flues and other roof penetrations shall be painted to
match the color of the roof, or painted flat black. Gutters and downspouts
shall be appropriate to or visually integrated with the selected architectural
style of the structure. Dormers, belvederes, cupolas and pergolas may be
utilized as a design element, so long as they are designed with the details,
proportions, style and materials consistent with the selected architectural
design of the building.
         (d)   Entrances.
            1.   The main building or tenant space pedestrian entrances shall
be defined and articulated by architectural elements such as lintels,
pediments, pilasters, columns and other design elements appropriate to the
selected architectural style and details of the building as a whole.
            2.   The location, orientation, proportion and style of doors shall
reflect the chosen style of the building.
         (e)   Windows. All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way the window opens and the trim around the window shall be consistent
with the selected architectural style of the building.
         (f)   Awnings, canopies. In addition to the provisions of §
194.163 of this chapter, fixed or retractable awnings or canopies are
permitted; provided they:
            1.   Complement the building’s architectural style, building
materials, colors and details;
            2.   Do not conceal architectural features (such as cornices,
columns, pilasters or decorative details);
            3.   Do not impair facade composition; and
            4.   Are designed as an integral part of the facade. Plastic
awnings and canopies are prohibited.
      (2)   Lighting requirements. See §
194.113.
      (3)   Building orientation. Rear building facades shall not face a public
street. No loading spaces shall be permitted to face a street.
   (E)   Waiver of development requirements.
      (1)   Building design findings. The Plan Commission may grant a waiver of
the building design development requirements of division (D) above and approve
a building design which does not incorporate the salient features of the
Zionsville theme, or incorporate the architecture, design and overall aesthetic
exterior character of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek
Revival or Victorian architectural styles upon finding that:
         (a)   The building design represents an innovative use of building
materials or design or site design features which will not be detrimental to
the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The proposed building is appropriate when compared to the
architecture, design and overall exterior character of other buildings on the
site and surrounding sites;
         (c)   The building design is consistent with and compatible with other
development located along the street; and
         (d)   The proposed building is consistent with the intent and purpose
of this chapter.
      (2)   Building materials findings. The Plan Commission may grant a waiver
of the building materials development requirements of division (D) above and
approve the use of alternate exterior building materials on any facade of a
building that is visible from a street upon finding that:
         (a)   The building materials utilized represent an innovative use of
said materials which enhance the overall aesthetic exterior character of the
Building and will not be detrimental to the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The building materials utilized are appropriate when compared to
the building materials utilized on other buildings on the site and surrounding
sites;
         (c)   The building materials utilized are consistent with and
compatible with other building materials utilized on, and with the overall
exterior character of, other buildings and development located along the
street; and
         (d)   The building materials utilized are consistent with the intent
and purpose of this chapter.
   (F)   Development incentives.
      (1)   Front yard and front bufferyard reduction.
         (a)   Purpose. In order to facilitate urban development and improve
quality of landscaping in the built environment, the depth of a required front
yard or front bufferyard may be reduced as follows, if such reduction is
approved by the Plan Commission in connection with the review and approval of a
development plan.
         (b)   Minimum.
            1.   The minimum front yard and front bufferyard may be reduced to
a minimum of:
               a.   Front yards: 20 feet; and
               b.   Front bufferyards: 40 feet.
            2.   Provided, however, that, the landscaping required for said
yard shall be increased as follows:
               a.   Front yards: to Level A landscaping, per the landscaping
requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables A, B and C; and
               b.   Front bufferyards: increase the point value for the
landscaping required in a front bufferyards to a point value of 5.0 for each
100 lineal feet, per the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables B and C.
         (c)   Findings. The Plan Commission may approve such required depth of
front yard or front bufferyard reduction only upon finding that:
            1.   The building shall be placed at the reduced setback line:
               a.   The level of landscaping within the required front yard
shall meet or exceed Level A Landscaping, per the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables A, B and C; or
               b.   The level of landscaping within the required front
bufferyard shall meet or exceed a point level of 5.0 for each 100 lineal feet,
per the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables B and C.
            2.   The proposed development is appropriate to the site and its
surroundings; and
            3.   The proposed development is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   Use or required side and rear yards in integrated centers or
industrial parks.
         (a)   Purpose. In built environment, the Plan Commission may, in
connection with the review and approval of a development plan, approve the use
of required side and rear yards which abut other required side or rear yards of
lots located within the same integrated center or industrial park for parking
areas, loading areas, interior drives, interior access drives or outdoor
storage.
         (b)   Findings. The Plan Commission may approve such use of required
side and rear yards only upon finding that:
            1.   a.   The level of landscaping within the required front yard
shall meet or exceed Level A landscaping, per the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter; or
               b.   The level of landscaping within the required front
bufferyard shall meet or exceed a point value of 5.0 per 100 lineal feet, per
the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter.
            2.   The area of required foundation planting areas located along
the building, as required by §
194.109(C) of this chapter, has been increased to Level B plantings as set
forth in §
194.109 of this chapter, Table B;
            3.   The plant unit value contained in such enlarged foundation
planting areas shall have been increased to a Level B plantings as set forth in
§
194.109 of this chapter, Table B;
            4.   The proposed development is appropriate to the site and its
surroundings; and
            5.   The proposed development is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.31; Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-2-2015; Ord.
2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.071 URBAN I-3: HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The I-3 Heavy Industrial Districts are established to
encourage development of heavy manufacturing and processing facilities which
may require substantial amounts of outside storage. These activities require
extensive community facilities, and excellent access to arterial streets.
Permitted uses in this district may have extensive outdoor storage/service
areas and may generate heavy traffic, but such operations shall be subject to
specific development standards. The permitted uses provided for in this
district should never be located in close proximity to residential areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Communications/utilities: telephone exchange; and
         (b)   Industrial uses:
            1.   Ceramic products, pottery or glazed tile;
            2.   Concrete mixing/batching plant, production of concrete block
and shapes, cinder blocks;
            3.   Foundries;
            4.   Glass production;
            5.   Iron or steel production;
            6.   Liquid fertilizer storage or distribution (commercial);
            7.   Lumber mill;
            8.   Processing of forest products such as, but not limited to,
plaining mills, saw mills, mill work, wood pallets or skids;
            9.   Manufacture, assembly or repair of: abrasive, asbestos,
metallic and non-metallic mineral products; boiler tanks; engines or turbines;
farm machinery or equipment; meat and meat products, packing, processing;
railroad equipment; rubber or rubber products;
            10.   Mineral extraction, borrow pit, topsoil removal or storage
areas;
            11.   Oil processing, refining or manufacture; and
            12.   Sheet metal shop.
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Any use permitted by the I-1 and I-2 Districts in §§
194.069(B) and
194.070(B) of this chapter; and
         (b)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Utility pole yard or pipe yard;
            2.   Bulk storage or petroleum products;
            3.   Coke ovens, blast furnaces;
            4.   Fat rendering;
            5.   Manufacture of: batteries, wet or dry; chemical or gases;
creosote, including treatment;
            6.   Explosives or fireworks;
            7.   Fertilizer;
            8.   Plastic materials and synthetic resin;
            9.   Smelting or refining or non-ferrous metals;
            10.   Tar, tar paper or tar products, manufacture or processing;
            11.   Production of emulsified asphalt or preparation of asphaltic
concrete paving materials;
            12.   Sand, gravel or aggregate washing;
            13.   Processing (not including mining or dredging);
            14.   Scrap metal, junk or salvage, storage or operation,
(including automobile or truck wrecking or recycling, construction materials,
recycling or similar uses);
            15.   Slaughtering or meat packing;
            16.   Vehicle storage (wrecked or inoperable);
            17.   Wrecker service;
            18.   Any similar use requiring outside storage;
            19.   Recycling facility;
            20.   Resource recovery facility;
            21.   Transfer station; and
            22.   Telecommunication tower.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sanitary system requirements. Attachment to public water
and sanitary sewer facilities shall be mandatory for development in this
district.
      (2)   Minimum lot width and frontage. Each lot, integrated center or
industrial park shall have a minimum lot width and frontage of 100 feet on a
public street.
      (3)   Yards and setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right-of- way shall be provided as follows:
 
Street Classification                 Front Yard Front Bufferyard
Collector street                      50 feet*   100 feet*
Limited access street                 50 feet*   100 feet*
Local street/cul-de-sac, other street 50 feet*   100 feet*
Primary arterial street               50 feet*   100 feet*
Secondary arterial street             50 feet*   100 feet*
NOTES TO TABLE:
* See division (F) below.
 
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by right-of-way line shall be used for the setback measurement.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yard and setback shall be provided from
the lot line as follows:
            1.   Minimum side yard: 20 feet*;
            2.   Minimum side bufferyard: 75 feet;
            3.   Minimum rear yard: 20 feet*; and
            4.   Minimum rear bufferyard: 75 feet.
*See division (F) below, regarding development incentives.
      (4)   Use of minimum yards and bufferyards. All minimum yards and
bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass, trees, shrubbery or hedge, or in
combination with other suitable ground cover materials and shall remain free
from structures, except where expressly permitted below.
         (a)   Minimum front yards and bufferyards may include driveways and
shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (b)   Minimum side and rear yards may include interior access
driveways connecting to adjoining lots provided that the remainder of said
yards shall be maintained as open space free from buildings or structures in
compliance with the landscaping requirements set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
         (c)   Minimum side and rear bufferyards shall be landscaped with grass
and shrubbery, trees, or hedge, or in combination with other suitable ground
cover materials and maintained in compliance with the landscaping requirements
set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (5)   Maximum building height. 45 feet; provided, however, that, the
setback for that portion of the building or structure which is in excess of 35
feet shall be increased by one foot each one foot of building or structural
height above 35 feet until the ultimate height of building or structure is
allowed.
      (6)   Off-street parking. See §
194.105 of this chapter.
      (7)   Off-street loading. See §
194.106 of this chapter.
      (8)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (9)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
      (10)   Landscaping and screening requirements. See §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (11)   Outside storage and operations.
         (a)   Operations. All operations, servicing and processing located
within 600 feet of any R district boundary or an SU-1, SU-2, SU-7, SU-12, SU-13
or SU-14 District boundary (except outside storage, off-street parking and off-
street loading) shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
         (b)   Storage. All storage of materials or products within 600 feet of
any R district boundary or an SU-1, SU-2, SU-7, SU-12, SU-13 or SU-14 District
boundary shall be either:
            1.   Within completely enclosed buildings; or
            2.   Effectively screened within a lattice slatted, chain link,
wood shadow box or similar type fenced area, with ornamental, non-solid or
chain link gates. The height of said fence shall be at least six feet and shall
not exceed eight feet. Materials or products stored within the enclosure shall
not exceed the height thereof. The storage area shall be surrounded by
landscaping installed in compliance with the provisions of §
194.109 of this chapter for Level B bufferyard and perimeter yard landscaping.
         (c)   Amount of outside storage and operations. The total area devoted
to outside storage and operations shall not exceed 50% of the lot area.
   (D)   Development plan approval required. All lots in an I-3 District shall
be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and approval by the
Plan Commission. The development plan shall demonstrate compliance with the
following development requirements and compliance with the provisions set forth
in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (1)   Architectural design.
         (a)   Building design. Any portion of a lot which is within 400 feet
of the right-of-way of any street identified in the transportation plan by its
functional classification (§
194.186 of this chapter), as a primary, secondary or collector street, any new
building or building addition shall be designed to incorporate the salient
features of and be consistent with or complementary to the Zionsville theme,
incorporating the architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior character
of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival or Victorian
architectural styles. (See also division (E) below.)
         (b)   Building materials. In order to create variation and interest in
the built environment, all new buildings or building additions shall use the
exterior building materials specified below on any facade of the building that
is visible from a street.
            1.   Two or three building materials (excluding: glass in windows
or doors; doors; and roofing material) shall be utilized for any facades
visible from a street.
            2.   The primary building material for any facade visible from the
street shall be one of the following:
               a.   Brick;
               b.   Architectural concrete, if the surface of the
architectural, concrete simulates brick or stone (examples include, but are not
limited to, limestone, marble or granite);
               c.   Pre-cast concrete, if the surface of the pre-cast concrete
is:
                  i.   Painted;
                  ii.   Textured (e.g., rough, striated, imprinted with a
pattern or form); or
                  iii.   Designed to simulate brick or stone (examples include,
but are not limited to, limestone, marble or granite).
               d.   External insulation and finish system (E.I.F.S.); or
               e.   Stone.
            3.   The primary building material shall constitute a minimum of
60% of the available wall area (exclusive of window and doors) of any facade
visible from the street.
            4.   The exterior building material selection shall be supplemented
by the use of multiple colors, textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated and the
like) or architectural elements (quions, pilasters, soldier courses, friezes,
cornices, dentils and the like) on facades visible from the street. (See also
division (E) below.)
         (c)   Roofs.
            1.   Pitched roofs. Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched
and only in the configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:
12 to 14:12. Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate, composition
asphalt shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Shingle or panel color shall be
appropriate to the design of the building.
            2.   Shed roofs. Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
            3.   Flat roofs. Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the
selected style of architecture, if edged by a railing or parapet, and if
rooftop mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually
integrated into the overall design of the building. In no case shall rooftop
mechanical equipment be visible from adjoining R districts. All vents, attic
ventilators, turbines, flues and other roof penetrations shall be painted to
match the color of the roof, or painted flat black. Gutters and downspouts
shall be appropriate to or visually integrated with the selected architectural
style of the structure. Dormers, belvederes, cupolas and pergolas may be
utilized as a design element, so long as they are designed with the details,
proportions, style and materials consistent with the selected architectural
design of the building.
         (d)   Entrances. The main Building or tenant space pedestrian
entrances shall be defined and articulated by architectural elements such as
lintels, pediments, pilasters, columns and other design elements appropriate to
the selected architectural style and details of the building as a whole. The
location, orientation, proportion and style of doors shall reflect the chosen
style of the building.
         (e)   Windows. All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way the window opens and the trim around the window shall be consistent
with the selected architectural style of the building.
         (f)   Awnings, canopies. In addition to the provisions of §
194.163 of this chapter, fixed or retractable awnings or canopies are
permitted; provided they:
            1.   Complement the building’s architectural style, building
materials, colors and details;
            2.   Do not conceal architectural features (such as cornices,
columns, pilasters or decorative details);
            3.   Do not impair facade composition; and
            4.   Are designed as an integral part of the facade. Plastic
awnings and canopies are prohibited.
      (2)   Lighting requirements. See §
194.113.
      (3)   Building orientation. Rear building facades shall not face a public
street. No loading spaces shall be permitted to face a street.
   (E)   Waiver of development requirements.
      (1)   Building design findings. The Plan Commission may grant a waiver of
the building design development requirements of division (D) above and approve
a building design which does not incorporate the salient features of the
Zionsville theme, or incorporate the architecture, design and overall aesthetic
exterior character of, a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek
Revival or Victorian architectural styles upon finding that:
         (a)   The building design represents an innovative use of building
materials or design, or site design features which will not be detrimental to
the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The proposed building is appropriate when compared to the
architecture, design and overall exterior character of other buildings on the
site and surrounding sites;
         (c)   The building design is consistent with and compatible with other
development located along the street; and
         (d)   The proposed building is consistent with the intent and purpose
of this chapter.
      (2)   Building materials findings. The Plan Commission may grant a waiver
of the building materials development requirements of division (D) above and
approve the use of alternate exterior building materials on any facade of a
building that is visible from a street upon finding that:
         (a)   The building materials utilized represent an innovative use of
said materials which enhance the overall aesthetic exterior character of the
building and will not be detrimental to the use or value of area properties;
         (b)   The building materials utilized are appropriate when compared to
the building materials utilized on other buildings on the site and surrounding
sites;
         (c)   The building materials utilized are consistent with and
compatible with other building materials utilized on, and with the overall
exterior character of other buildings and development located along the street;
and
         (d)   The building materials utilized are consistent with the intent
and purpose of this chapter.
   (F)   Development incentives.
      (1)   Front yard and front bufferyard reduction.
         (a)   Purpose. In order to facilitate urban development and improve
quality of landscaping in the built environment, the depth of a required front
yard or front bufferyard may be reduced as follows, if such reduction is
approved by the Plan Commission in connection with the review and approval of a
development plan.
         (b)   Minimums.
            1.   The minimum front yard and front bufferyard may be reduced to
a minimum of:
               a.   Front yards: 30 feet; and
               b.   Front bufferyards: 50 feet.
            2.   Provided, however, that, the landscaping required for said
yard shall be increased as follows:
               a.   Front yards: to Level B landscaping, per the landscaping
requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables A, B and C; and
               b.   Front bufferyards: increase the point value for the
landscaping required in a front bufferyard to a point value of 5.0 for each 100
lineal feet, per the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables B and C.
         (c)   Findings. The Plan Commission may approve such required depth of
front yard or front bufferyard reduction only upon finding that:
            1.   a.   The level of landscaping within the required front yard
shall meet or exceed Level B landscaping, per the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables A, B and C; or
               b.   The level of landscaping within the required front
bufferyard shall meet or exceed a point level of 5.0 for each 100 lineal feet,
per the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables B and C, the building shall be placed at the
reduced setback line.
            2.   The proposed development is appropriate to the site and its
surroundings; and
            3.   The proposed development is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   Use of required side and rear yards in integrated centers or
industrial parks.
         (a)   Purpose. In order to facilitate urban development and to enhance
the quality or landscaping in the built environment, the Plan Commission may,
in connection with the review and approval of a development plan, approve the
use of required side and rear yards which abut other required side or rear
yards of lots located within the same integrated center or industrial park for
parking areas, loading areas, interior drives, interior access drives or
outdoor storage.
         (b)   Findings. The Plan Commission may approve such use of required
side and rear yards only upon finding that:
            1.   a.   The level of landscaping within the required front yard
shall meet or exceed Level B landscaping, per the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter; or
               b.   The level of landscaping within the required front
bufferyard shall meet or exceed a point value of 5.0 per 100 lineal feet, per
the landscaping requirements of §
194.109 of this chapter.
            2.   The area of required foundation planting areas located along
the building, as required by §
194.109 of this chapter, has been increased to Level B plantings as set forth
in §
194.109 of this chapter, Table B;
            3.   The plant unit value contained in such enlarged foundation
planting areas shall have been increased to Level B plantings as set forth in §
194.109 of this chapter, Table B;
            4.   The proposed development is appropriate to the site and its
surroundings; and
            5.   The proposed development is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.32; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.072 RURAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The following performance standards shall apply to all industrial uses, in
addition to the previous requirements.
   (A)   Smoke.
      (1)   No industry in the I-1 District may emit more than ten smoke units
per hour per stack or smoke in excess of Ringelman No. 2. However, once during
any 24-hour period, for soot blowing, process purging and fire cleaning, each
stack may emit an additional ten smoke units, and during that period it may
emit smoke up to and including Ringelman No. 3.
      (2)   No industry in the I-2 District may emit more than 30 smoke units
per hour per stack or smoke in excess of Ringelman No. 2. However, once during
any 24-hour period, for soot blowing, process purging and fire cleaning, each
stack may emit an additional ten smoke units and, during that period, it may
emit smoke up to and Including Ringelman No. 3.
   (B)   Odor. No industrial use in any district may release an odor that is
detectable at the lot line.
   (C)   Toxic materials. No gases or fumes toxic to persons or injurious to
property shall be permitted to escape beyond the building in which it occurs.
   (D)   Glare and heat. No industrial use may cause heat at the property line
so intense as to be a public nuisance or hazard. No glare shall be seen from
any street or residential area.
   (E)   Vibration. No intense vibration shall be created or maintained by any
industrial use so as to be noticeable beyond the boundary lines of the tract on
which it is located.
   (F)   Noise and sound. At no boundary line of any residential or business
district may the sound level of any industrial use (excluding background noises
produced by sources not under the control of this chapter such as the operation
of motor vehicles) exceed 70 decibels. Noise is to be muffled so as not to be
objectionable due to intermittence, frequency or shrillness.
   (G)   Exceptions. Divisions (A) through (F) above, inclusive, do not apply
to:
      (1)   Site preparation or construction, maintenance, repair, alterations
or improvements of buildings, structures, equipment or other improvements on or
within the lot lines;
      (2)   The operation of motor vehicles or other facilities for the
transportation of personnel, materials or products; and
      (3)   Safety or emergency warning signals or alarms necessary for the
protection of life, limb or property.
   (H)   Special restrictions. Any industrial operation or activity must, in
addition to the above, conform with any applicable acts of the state and
federal government. Where the requirements of this chapter are more
restrictive, they shall take precedence. All relevant federal and state permits
or approvals are required prior to issuance of an improvement location permit.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.33)
§ 194.073 RURAL I-1: RURAL LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The I-1, Rural Light Industrial, District is
hereby established to accommodate light industrial uses within the town’s rural
area in which all operations, including storage of materials would be confined
within a building, and would include warehousing operations.
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements, Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.34)
§ 194.074 RURAL I-2: RURAL GENERAL INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The I-2, Rural General Industrial, District is
hereby established to accommodate all types of industrial uses within the
town’s rural area which may require enclosed or unenclosed spaces for storage,
manufacturing and fabricating.
   (B)   Tables. Please refer to the Rural Zoning District Tables:
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements, Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.35)
§ 194.075 URBAN SPECIAL USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. These districts are composed of uses which have unique
physical and operational characteristics which do not allow them to be easily
categorized into a specific land use type (residential, commercial,
industrial). Uses in these districts may be appropriate to and compatible with
a broader range of adjacent land uses. However, certain operational features of
the uses (i.e., parking, hours of operation, intensity of use) require that
they be scrutinized in their location within the town to ensure that these
operational features will not have an adverse impact on adjacent uses. Because
of this, a greater range of flexibility is built into the review of development
standards and all SU Districts require development plan review and approval by
the Plan Commission.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   SU-1, schools or school related facilities;
         (b)   SU-2, churches;
         (c)   SU-3, golf course, golf driving range;
         (d)   SU-4, airport or landing field;
         (e)   SU-7, charitable and philanthropic institutions;
         (f)   SU-8, buildings and grounds used by any department of town,
township, county, state or federal government;
         (g)   SU-9, cemeteries;
         (h)   SU-12, swimming pool, commercial;
         (i)   SU-13, community center;
         (j)   SU-14, library;
         (k)   SU-16, light and power substation, water tank and similar
structures;
         (l)   SU-17, radio or telecommunications receiving or broadcasting
towers, including wireless telecommunications facilities, and associated
accessory buildings; and
         (m)   SU-20, extracting of gravel, sand, peat and other raw materials.
      (2)   Special exception uses. Public utility structures and facilities,
including telephone exchanges and minor electrical substations.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards. All development permitted within the special
use districts shall conform to the development standards applicable to the
specified zoning district as follows:
Special Use District District Applicable Development Standards
Special Use District District Applicable Development Standards
SU-1                 B-O
SU-2                 B-O
SU-3                 B-3
SU-4                 I-3
SU-7                 B-O
SU-8                 B-2
SU-9                 B-O
SU-12                B-3
SU-13                B-1
SU-14                B-O
SU-16                I-1
SU-17                I-2, and per the requirements of §
                     194.070 of this chapter
SU-20                I-3, and per the requirements of division (E) below
 
   (D)   Development plan approval required. All lots located in a special use
(SU) district shall be subject to the filing of a development plan for review
and approval by the Plan Commission, as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter. The applicable development requirements shall be those
of the commercial or industrial district corresponding to the special use
district noted in division (C) above.
   (E)   Additional development requirements for the SU-20 District. In
addition to the regulations of divisions (B), (C) and (D) above, the additional
development requirements of this division (E) shall apply to the SU-20
District. In the event of conflict between this division (E) and the
regulations of divisions (B), (C) and (D) above, the most stringent
specifications shall govern.
      (1)   Intent. It is the intent of this division (E) to establish
reasonable and uniform limitations and controls for the production of sand,
gravel, borrow and other mineral or earthen materials through excavation or
mining to the extent permitted by applicable law. Restrictive limitations and
controls are deemed necessary and in the public interest to effect practices
which will provide for production of sand, gravel, borrow and other mineral or
earthen materials which will:
         (a)   Take into consideration the surface use of land;
         (b)   The value and character of the existing improvements in the
districts where such production is hereinafter permitted;
         (c)   The desirability of the area for residential or other permitted
uses; and
         (d)   Any other factor directly relating to the public health,
comfort, safety and general welfare in these districts.
      (2)   Filing procedures.
         (a)   The filing procedures and requirements of a development plan for
review and approval by the Plan Commission shall be as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
         (b)   The filing of an operational plan, per the requirements of
division (E)(5) below.
      (3)   Permit required. No extracting of gravel, sand, peat and other raw
materials shall occur unless an improvement location permit has been issued by
the town and a development plan and operational plan are approved by the Plan
Commission.
      (4)   Bonding.
         (a)   Prior to the issuance of an improvement location permit, as
required by division (E)(3) above, the applicant shall provide a corporate
surety bond for the faithful performance of all applicable requirements of this
chapter, including the operation and the completion and reclamation of the
extraction or mining operations in accordance with the approved site and
operational plan, as required by this chapter. Such improvement location permit
may be issued and bond filed for the total operation or for one or more phases
thereof, as shown on the site and operational plan. If the operation is to be
accomplished in phases, each new phase of the operation shall require a new
improvement location permit, site and operational plan and corporate surety
bond.
         (b)   The corporate surety bond shall be in an amount equal to 110% of
the estimated cost of performance of all applicable requirements of this
chapter, as determined by the town’s Engineer and be with surety approved by
the town. Said bond shall run jointly and severally to the town and any other
governmental agency requiring a similar bond. Said bond shall specify the time
for the completion of all of the applicable requirements of this chapter, and
shall specify the total operational area, or phase thereof, covered by the
bond.
      (5)   Operational plan. An operational plan shall detail the operational
area, or phase thereof, covered by the development plan. The operational plan
shall further detail the:
         (a)   Method of extraction or mining;
         (b)   Hours of operation;
         (c)   Storage of equipment;
         (d)   Stockpiling of materials; and
         (e)   Plan and timetable for reclamation of the real estate within the
operational area, or phase thereof, upon completion of extraction or mining
within the operational area, or phase thereof.
      (6)   Perimeter yards.
         (a)   The minimum required depth of required perimeter yards
surrounding the operation shall be 100 feet.
         (b)   No extraction or mining operation, or portion thereof, shall be
permitted within said perimeter yard.
      (7)   Landscaping. Landscaping of said perimeter yard shall conform to
Level C requirements as specified in §
194.109 of this chapter, Tables A, B and C. Said landscaping shall be installed
within six months of the commencement of any extraction or mining operations on
the real estate.
      (8)   Fencing. Fencing of the entire perimeter of the operational area,
or phase thereof, shall be required to ensure safety and restrict access. Said
fencing shall be located on or within ten feet of the lot line and shall be a
minimum of six feet in height, measured from grade, and shall be no higher than
ten feet in height, measured from grade. Said fencing shall be installed prior
to the commencement of any extraction or mining operations on the real estate.
      (9)   Extracting, mining. All extractions or mining shall either be made
to a water producing depth. Such depth shall be not less than eight, measured
from the low water mark, or graded or back filled with non-toxic, non-noxious
and non-flammable solids to assure the following.
         (a)   The excavated or mined area shall not collect and permit to
remain therein stagnant water.
         (b)   The surface of such area shall be graded or back filled as
necessary so as to reduce the peaks and depressions thereof to a surface which
shall result in a gently rolling topography to minimize erosion and which is in
substantial conformity to the immediately surrounding land area.
         (c)   The surface of the area noted in division (E)(9)(b) above is
landscaped in compliance with the approved development plan.
      (10)   Banks. The banks of all excavated or mined areas not graded or
back filled as provided in division (E)(9) above shall be sloped to the water
line at a slope which shall be not less than one and one- half feet horizontal
to one foot vertical. Said bank shall be surfaced with a minimum of six inches
of suitable soil and the same shall be either sodded or seeded with grass seed.
      (11)   Removal. Within six months of the completion of the extraction or
mining operations, all buildings, structures, stockpiles and equipment
associated with the operations shall be removed from the real estate.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.36)
§ 194.076 URBAN O-1: URBAN OPEN LAND DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The O-1: Open Land Districts are established to include land
being used for agricultural activities, flood plain, and other rural uses,
located near the periphery of the jurisdictional boundary, which is not
expected to develop for intensive urban or suburban uses within the near
future. It is the intent of this district to allow agricultural uses to
conserve the desirable characteristics of the land and to protect the open area
from the encroachment of scatter urban-type uses that may inhibit the overall
development of the community in accordance with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Primary uses.
         (a)   Agricultural uses; including agricultural crop production; tree
farms; agricultural livestock production and the harvesting, storage and
primary processing of agricultural products produced on the premises; storage
of farm vehicles, farm equipment and farm materials by the operator of such
farm;
         (b)   Single-family dwelling, limited to the farmstead for the
agricultural use;
         (c)   Residential facility for the developmentally disabled;
         (d)   Residential facility for the mentally ill, subject to the
provisions of §
194.100 of this chapter;
         (e)   Child care home (that is used as the primary residence of the
person who operates the child care home);
         (f)   Roadside food sales stand (sale of produce grown on the
premises); and
         (g)   Nature reserve or preserve, wildlife sanctuary.
      (2)   Special exception uses.
         (a)   Agricultural uses: confinement feeding yards;
         (b)   Communications/utilities:
            1.   Communication relay tower;
            2.   Public utility substation;
            3.   Public wells; and
            4.   Telecommunication tower.
         (c)   Recreation:
            1.   Private camp;
            2.   Campground;
            3.   Ball fields;
            4.   Country club;
            5.   Riding stable or multi-use rails (i.e., biking, cross country
skiing, hiking); and
            6.   Golf course (not including a golf driving range or miniature
golf course as the primary use).
         (d)   Industrial uses:
            1.   Liquid fertilizer storage and distribution (commercial);
            2.   Mineral extraction, borrow pit; and
            3.   Topsoil removal storage areas.
         (e)   Miscellaneous:
            1.   Cemetery; and
            2.   Commercial breeding and raising of non-farm fowl and animals;
kennel; sales barn for livestock sale; bed and breakfast.
      (3)   Accessory uses. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (4)   Home occupations. See §
194.099 of this chapter.
      (5)   Temporary uses. See §
194.096 of this chapter.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   Water and sewer requirements. Well water and septic systems may be
utilized in this district, subject to the approval of the county’s Health
Department or the state’s Board of Health.
      (2)   Minimum lot area. Five acres.
      (3)   Minimum lot width. 250 feet.
      (4)   Minimum lot frontage. 250 feet on a public street and gain direct
access from said public street.
      (5)   Maximum lot coverage. 10%.
      (6)   Maximum lot depth to width ratio. Four to one (4:1).
      (7)   Minimum yards and building setbacks.
         (a)   Front:
            1.   A minimum front yard and building setback measured from the
proposed right of- way shall be provided as follows:
               a.   Primary arterial street: 60 feet;
               b.   Secondary arterial street: 40 feet; and
               c.   Collector/local street/cul-de-sac or other street: 40 feet.
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan for the town or where the existing
right-of way is greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the
setback measurement.
         (b)   Side: a minimum side yard of 50 feet shall be provided along all
side lot lines.
         (c)   Rear: a minimum rear yard shall be provided along all rear lot
lines as follows:
            1.   Residential primary building: 50 feet;
            2.   Residential accessory building: 25 feet; and
            3.   Agricultural building: 150 feet. See also §
194.018 of this chapter.
      (8)   Maximum building height.
         (a)   Residential primary building: 35 feet;
         (b)   Residential accessory building: 22 feet; and
         (c)   Agricultural building-unlimited; provided that, for each
additional one foot over 35 feet in height, one additional foot shall be added
to the minimum yard and building setback requirements.
      (9)   Minimum main floor area. The minimum main floor area of the
residential primary building, exclusive of garage, carport, deck, patio and
open porches:
         (a)   One-story building: 1,500 square feet; and
         (b)   Two- or more story building: 1,000 square feet; provided that,
the total finished floor area shall be at least 1,500 square feet.
      (10)   Off-street parking. See §
194.095 of this chapter.
      (11)   Signs. See §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (12)   Vision clearance areas. See §
194.021 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.37)
§ 194.077 URBAN FP: URBAN FLOODPLAIN SECONDARY DISTRICT.
   See
Chapter 192 of this code of ordinances.
§ 194.078 MRO: URBAN U.S. HIGHWAY 421-MICHIGAN ROAD CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose, intent and authority.
      (1)   It is the purpose of the U.S. Highway 421-Michigan Road Corridor
Overlay Zone (the “Overlay Zone”) to promote and protect the public health,
safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare by providing for consistent
and coordinated treatment of the properties bordering U.S. Highway 421 (also
known as Michigan Road) in the town. The Plan Commission and Town Council, in
establishing this zone, do so in compliance with I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq. and
I.C. 36-7-4-1400 et seq.
      (2)   It is recognized that U.S. Highway 421 is an important corridor to
the town. Therefore, it is the further purpose of the Overlay Zone to promote
coordinated, quality development per the land use recommendations set forth in
the Master Plan; to establish basic standards for structures, landscaping and
other improvements on the properties within the Overlay Zone which promote high
quality, innovative site design and at the same time encourage efficient land
usage; to establish development standards which will encourage capital
investments for the development of those properties along and abutting U.S.
Highway 421; and to promote the steady flow of traffic.
      (3)   This Overlay Zone further seeks to foster development that will
provide this district with a special sense of place that will increase property
values, protect existing residential uses and attract new businesses. More
specifically, the creation of this special sense of place shall be encouraged
by means of a coordinated set of design principles for buildings, site
planning, landscaping and signs. These principles are intended to guide
individual development activities so that they will work together visually in
support of the common architectural theme described below.
   (B)   District boundaries. The boundaries of the Overlay Zone are hereby
established as shown on the Official Zone Map for the town. The boundaries
extend 400 feet on either side of the U.S. Highway 421 right-of-way, as shown
on INDOT’s plans numbered STP-1352(008), as they existed on 1-17-2000, for that
portion of U.S. Highway 421 which is now, or shall come to be, within the
boundaries of the town. The Official Zone Map for the town is officially
amended by the adoption of this chapter to include the Overlay Zone per the
boundaries set forth.
   (C)   Plan Commission approval. The Plan Commission must approve, approve
with conditions or disapprove the development plan for any tract o f land in
the Overlay Zone per the provisions of §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter, including, without limitation, any proposed
development in connection with a residential subdivision. However, development
plan approval by the Plan Commission is not required for single-family
dwellings to be constructed on individual single-family Lots within any
residential subdivision.
   (D)   Permitted uses. All uses which are permitted in a given site’s
underlying primary zoning districts, except those uses expressly excluded in
division (E) below, are permitted in the Overlay Zone.
   (E)   Permitted special exceptions. All special exceptions, which are
permitted (upon obtaining the grant of a special exception from the Board of
Zoning Appeals) in the underlying primary zoning district(s), except the uses
expressly excluded in division (E) below, are permitted in the Overlay Zone.
   (F)   Excluded uses. The following uses are prohibited in the Overlay Zone:
      (1)   Adult entertainment businesses;
      (2)   Amusement park;
      (3)   Bulk storage of petroleum products not used for on-site
manufacturing;
      (4)   Car washes;
      (5)   Carnivals, fairs, circuses;
      (6)   Disposal of radioactive materials;
      (7)   Drive-through facilities; exception: when the site has frontage on
U.S. Highway 421 and is within 1,320 feet of intersection of either CR 300
South or SR 32 (when measured from the edge of right-of-way), it is permissible
to have a drive-through facility as a land use.
         (a)   In all cases, drive-through facilities and/or service units,
including service window(s), menu board(s), vehicle aisles and/or the like
shall not be placed between the public right-of- way and the associated
building;
         (b)   Drive-through windows for banks, drugstores, and other uses
without menu boards shall be located at the rear of a building, and shall be
located in a manner where they cannot be seen from the public rights-of-way;
         (c)   Drive-through facilities for restaurants and other uses that
utilize a menu board shall be required to have the menu board located at the
rear of the building and be located in a manner where it cannot be seen from
public rights-of-way. The drive-through window may be located on the side of a
building, and the drive-through window lane exit area shall be screened from
the public right-of-way with a landscape island at the facility exit to screen
the drive-through lane and window. Drive-through facilities on either side of a
building that are visible to pass-by traffic shall be screened by a five-foot
wide landscape buffer of a length to cover the entire drive-through stacking
area;
         (d)   Alternate locations for drive-through windows, stalls, menu
boards, and/or associated auto-centric components may be considered by the Plan
Commission (PC) on a case-by-case basis when seeking development plan approval.
      (8)   Fertilizer manufacturing, stock yards, slaughtering, leather curing
and tanning;
      (9)   Flea market;
      (10)   Garbage disposal plant/sanitary landfill;
      (11)   Go-cart track;
      (12)   Grain elevator;
      (13)   Junk or salvage yard;
      (14)   Manufactured home dwelling sales;
      (15)   Mini-warehouses or self-storage facilities;
      (16)   Mobile home court;
      (17)   Outdoor storage, with the exception of propane tanks that are for
lease or purchase;
      (18)   Outdoor theater;
      (19)   Penal or correctional institution;
      (20)   Reclaiming processes involving materials or chemicals that are
considered dangerous to the health, safety and welfare of the general public as
determined by the state’s Board of Health or by the town;
      (21)   Refining or manufacturing of petroleum products;
      (22)   Refining of manufacturing of asphalt, cement, gypsum, lime, wood
preservatives;
      (23)   Roadside sales stand;
      (24)   Sand and gravel extraction or sales;
      (25)   Truck stop;
      (26)   Warehouses; and
      (27)   Water slide.
   (G)   Accessory buildings and uses. All accessory buildings and uses which
are permitted in the underlying primary zoning district(s) shall be permitted;
except that, any detached accessory building in any development plan shall be
architecturally compatible with the primary building(s) with which it is
associated.
   (H)   Minimum lot area.
      (1)   The minimum lot area required within the Overlay Zone is two acres
for non-residential uses and one-half acre for residential uses. All lots
within the Overlay Zone shall be subject to development plan approval, with the
exception of individual lots for single-family dwellings, as set forth in
division (B) above. For lots located only partially within the Overlay Zone, a
development plan shall be submitted to the Plan Commission for the entire tract
to be developed.
      (2)   If a parcel of land or subdivision lot was recorded prior to the
effective date of this chapter, and said parcel or lot does not contain the
minimum lot area required by this division (H), said parcel or lot (“undersized
lot”) may be used for any use permitted in the Overlay Zone; provided that:
         (a)   At the time of recordation of the undersized lot on the
effective date, the undersized lot met the requirements for minimum lot area
then in effect for a lot in the underlying primary zoning district(s);
         (b)   The owner of the undersized lot must include, up to the minimum
tract size, any adjoining vacant land (not separated by a street or public way)
owned, or owned by an affiliate, on or before the effective date or at the time
of application which, if combined with the undersized lot, would create a tract
which conforms, or more closely conforms, to the minimum tract size
requirements of this division (H); and
         (c)   All other development requirements applicable to the Overlay
Zone can be met. This division (H) does not preclude the sale or other transfer
of any parcel of land within a tract after the approval of a development plan
for the entire tract. However, the development of the parcel must still conform
to the development plan for the entire tract as approved or amended by the Plan
Commission, and all other applicable requirements contained in this chapter.
   (I)   Height and area requirements building height.
      (1)   Minimum: see §
194.060 of this chapter.
      (2)   Maximum: as specified in the primary underlying zoning District.
      (3)   Front yard for parcels with frontage on U.S. Highway 421 right-of-
way:
         (a)   Minimum: 30 feet, measured from the U.S. Highway 421 right-of-
way. This measurement shall include the mandatory 30-foot greenbelt; and
         (b)   Maximum: 120 feet, measured from the U.S. Highway 421 right-of
way. This measurement shall include the mandatory 30-foot greenbelt.
      (4)   Minimum side and rear yards.
         (a)   For a non-residentially zoned lot next to an existing R
district: 50 feet or two times the building height, whichever is greater. Side
and rear yards for residential lots, where adjacent to other residential lots,
shall be 15 feet.
         (b)   For a non-residentially zoned lot next to a business district:
15 feet. Side and rear yards for residential lots, where adjacent to business
districts, shall be 25 feet.
         (c)   For a non-residentially zoned lot next to an industrial
district: 20 feet. Side and rear yards for residential lots, where adjacent to
other residential lots, shall be 35 feet.
      (5)   Gross floor area.
         (a)   All principal business and industrial Buildings shall have a
minimum of 2,500 square feet of gross floor area, excluding the floor area of
any accessory buildings. Accessory buildings need not meet the minimum floor
area requirement. No single use, whether freestanding or contained in an
integrated center, shall exceed 60,000 square feet of gross floor area.
         (b)   No integrated center shall exceed 125,000 square feet of total
gross floor area.
         (c)   Primary residential structures shall meet the minimum floor area
specified in the underlying zoning district.
      (6)   There shall be a 30-foot wide greenbelt within the front yard of
all lots with frontage on U.S. Highway 421.
   (J)   Architectural design requirements. In reviewing the architectural
design of building(s) proposed to built in the Overlay Zone, factors to he
considered by the Plan Commission shall include, but are not limited to, the
following.
      (1)   Design theme. Buildings shall be designed with an overall
Zionsville theme consistent with or complementary to the Colonial, Federal,
Georgian, Victorian or Greek Revival periods. New Buildings are not required to
be imitative, but must incorporate the salient features of these architectural
styles. Preexisting buildings on adjoining lots shall not be a factor in the
design of new buildings.
      (2)   Building proportion. Buildings should avoid long, monotonous,
uninterrupted walls or roof planes.
      (3)   Building height. The height of new primary buildings shall be at
least one and one-half stories, or be designed to appear so from the front and
sides. Retail and office buildings are encouraged to be two stories or more in
height, with office or residential uses on the second floor. The minimum height
for all buildings shall be 20 feet, either at the roof line or at the top of
the parapet wall. Single-family dwellings shall have at least 50% of the
structure reaching one and one-half stories or 20 feet at the roof line.
      (4)   Building facades.
         (a)   Facades shall have a defined base or foundation, a middle or
modulated wall and a top formed by a pitched roof or articulated cornice, in
each instance appropriate to the building style. Buildings with continuous
facades that are 90 feet or greater in width shall be designed with offsets
(projecting or recessed) not less than eight feet deep, and at intervals of not
greater than 60 feet.
         (b)   Facades constructed of more than one material shall only change
material along horizontal or vertical lines (not diagonal lines). For material
changes at the horizontal line, the heavier material shall always be placed
beneath the lighter material. Front and side facades of buildings located on
corner lots shall be of the same materials and similarly detailed.
      (5)   Roofs.
         (a)   Pitched roofs. Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched
and only in the configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:
12 to 14:12. Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate, composition
asphalt shingle or standing seam metal panels. Shingle or panel color shall be
appropriate to the design of the building.
         (b)   Shed roofs. Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
         (c)   Flat roofs.
            1.   Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the selected
style of architecture, if edged by a railing or parapet, and if rooftop
mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually integrated
into the overall design of the building.
            2.   In no case shall rooftop mechanical equipment be visible from
adjoining R districts.
            3.   All vents, attic ventilators, turbines, flues and other roof
penetrations shall be painted to match the color of the roof or painted flat
black. Gutters and downspouts shall be appropriate to or visually integrated
with the selected architectural style of the structure.
            4.   Dormers, belvederes, cupolas and pergolas may be utilized as a
design element, so long as they are designed with the details, proportions,
style and materials consistent with the buildings selected architectural
design.
      (6)   Entrances. The main building or tenant space pedestrian entrances
shall be defined and articulated by architectural elements such as lintels,
pediments, pilasters, columns and other design elements appropriate to the
selected architectural style and details of the building as a whole. The
location, orientation, proportion and style of doors shall reflect the chosen
style of the building. Building facades for industrial and warehouse uses shall
be designed with a main entrance and at least two window openings associated
with this doorway.
      (7)   Windows. All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way it opens, the trim around it and whether it is embellished with
shutters must be consistent with the architectural style of the structure.
      (8)   Awnings. Fixed or retractable awnings are permitted if they:
complement a building’s architectural style, material, colors and details; do
not conceal architectural features (such as cornices, columns, pilasters or
decorative details); do not impair facade composition; and are designed as an
integral part of the facade. Metal, plastic or aluminum awnings are prohibited.
      (9)   Storefronts.
         (a)   Storefronts shall be integrally designed with overall facade
character. Ground floor retail, service and restaurant uses should generally
have large pane display windows; however, they shall not exceed 75% of the
total ground level (first floor) facade area.
         (b)   Buildings with multiple storefronts shall be of unified design,
through the use of common materials, architectural details, signs and lighting
consistent with the overall building style.
      (10)   Drive-through service units. Drive-through service units are
prohibited in the Overlay Zone. Exception: When the site has frontage on U.S.
Highway 421 and is within 1,320 feet of intersection of either CR 300 South or
SR 32 (when measured from the edge of right-of-way), it is permissible to have
a drive-through facility or its component drive-through service unit as a land
use. See "drive-through facilities" for additional criteria.
      (11)   Suitability of building materials. Unless otherwise approved by
the Plan Commission, building materials shall be consistent with or
complementary to those which replicate Colonial, Federal, Georgian, Victorian
and Greek Revival periods of American architecture, as follows.
         (a)   Exposed foundations shall be constructed of one or more of the
following:
            1.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the
architectural style;
            2.   Stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone and the like); or
            3.   Split-face block or architectural pre-cast concrete, if
surface looks like brick or stone.
         (b)   Facade walls shall be constructed of any combination of:
            1.   Stone;
            2.   Smooth cut cedar shingles;
            3.   Wood clapboard siding;
            4.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the
architectural style;
            5.   Wood beaded siding; or
            6.   Stucco with smooth finish, or dryvit (or equivalent), not to
exceed 20% of the overall non-window facade area.
      (12)   Topography. Design in relation to topography of the site, which
minimizes cut and fill and limits maximum onsite slope to 10%.
      (13)   Landscape design. Design of proposed landscaping in relation to
structures.
      (14)   Consistency with style and period. Overall aesthetics of the
proposed building, including color, are consistent with the architectural style
and period.
      (15)   Building orientation. The primary building shall be oriented to
U.S. Highway 421, so that the front of the building faces the highway. In the
case where there is more than one primary building on a lot, at least one
building shall be oriented to U.S. Highway 421. Where the primary building is
designed to have three or more users (such as the case of multiple lease
spaces), a maximum of two uses shall be oriented to U.S. Highway 421. Accessory
buildings (including residential garages, storage buildings and the like) shall
be located behind the primary building.
   (K)   Landscaping requirements.
      (1)   Landscape plan. The applicant shall submit a landscape plan to the
Plan Commission as part of the development plan application, per §
194.126 of this chapter.
      (2)   Areas to be landscaped.
         (a)   Greenbelt. The 30-foot greenbelt shall be composed of grass and
landscape areas. The incorporation of walkways and bikeways into the design is
encouraged; however, no parking areas, through roads, buildings, accessory
structures and the like shall be established within this area.
         (b)   Foundation plantings. Foundation plantings shall be included
along all sides of any building. The minimum width of the planting area shall
be five feet; except that, when adjoining a parking area located in the front
yard adjoining U.S. Highway 421, the minimum width shall be ten feet.
         (c)   Peripheral plantings. Minimum side and rear yard landscaping
shall occur per the requirements of the underlying primary zoning district.
         (d)   Parking lots. Per standards specified in §
194.060 of this chapter.
         (e)   Screening areas. All air conditioning units, HVAC systems,
exhaust pipes or stacks, overhead doors, legally non-conforming outside storage
areas, and satellite dishes shall be integrated into the overall building
design or screened from the U.S. Highway 421 right-of-way and adjoining
residential zones or uses, by means of walls, fencing, parapets, penthouse
screens, landscaping, camouflage or other approved method.
      (3)   Landscaping standards.
         (a)   The interior dimensions, specifications and design of any
planting area or planting median shall be sufficient to protect the landscaping
materials planted therein and to provide for proper growth. The following
minimum interior widths for planting areas shall be used:
            1.   Canopy trees: nine feet;
            2.   Ornamental trees: seven feet; and
            3.   Shrubs (only): five feet.
         (b)   All plant material proposed to be used in accordance with any
landscape plan shall meet the following specifications.
            1.   Shade trees: a minimum trunk diameter of two and one-half
inches at six inches above grade, a minimum height of eight feet, and a
branching height of not less than one-third or more than one-half of tree
height.
            2.   Ornamental trees: a minimum trunk diameter of one and one-half
inches at six inches above grade, a minimum height of six feet, and a branching
height of not less than one-third or more than one-half of tree height.
            3.   Evergreen trees: a minimum height of eight feet, and a width
of not less than three- fifths of the height.
            4.   Deciduous shrubs: a minimum height of 18 inches, no less than
six main branches upon planting and a mature height no greater than 36 inches.
            5.   Evergreen shrubs: a minimum height and spread of 18 inches,
maximum mature height of 36 inches.
         (c)   The primary landscaping materials used in the greenbelt shall be
shade trees, ornamental trees, shrubs, ground covers and grass.
            1.   A minimum of three shade trees and one ornamental tree shall
be provided per 100 linear feet of greenbelt.
            2.   Shade trees planted within the greenbelt parallel to the U.S.
Highway 421 right-of-way shall be spaced neither less than 15 feet apart, nor
more than 40 feet apart.
            3.   Existing shade trees within the greenbelt that have a minimum
trunk diameter of four and one-half inches at six inches above grade, are
encouraged to be preserved. For each shade tree that is preserved within the
greenbelt area, two fewer trees are required to be planted within the
applicable 100 linear feet.
         (d)   The primary landscaping materials used adjacent to buildings
shall be shrubs, ground covers and ornamental grasses.
         (e)   Parking lots.
            1.   Interior landscaping. A minimum of one shade tree and five
shrubs shall be planted within each parking lot for every seven spaces
provided, or not less than 20 trees per acre of parking. However, for buildings
with parking areas located in a front yard, with frontage directly on U.S.
Highway 421, a minimum of one shade tree and five shrubs shall be planted
within each parking lot for every five spaces provided or not less than 24
trees per acre of parking.
            2.   Parking lot perimeter planting. Where parking areas are
located in the front yard, with frontage directly on U.S. Highway 421, a six-
foot wide perimeter planting area shall be provided along the front and sides
of those areas.
               a.   The required planting unit for this area shall include two
shade trees, three ornamental trees and 30 shrubs per 100 linear feet.
               b.   The perimeter planting area shall be provided in addition
to the greenbelt area.
               c.   Existing shade trees within the greenbelt that have a
minimum trunk diameter of four and one-half inches at six inches above grade,
are encouraged to be preserved. For each shade tree that is preserved within
the greenbelt area, two fewer trees are required to be planted within the
applicable 100 feet.
            3.   Front and side parking. Parking areas within front and side
yards shall be completely screened from view. Such screening shall be subject
to Plan Commission approval.
      (4)   Landscaping installation and maintenance.
         (a)   Installation. All landscaping approved as part of the landscape
plan portion of development plan approval shall be installed prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy. If it is not possible to install the
required landscaping because of weather conditions, the property owner shall
post a bond prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for an amount
equal to 125% of the total installed cost of the required landscaping.
         (b)   Maintenance. It shall be the responsibility of the owners and
their agents to ensure proper maintenance of all trees, shrubs and other
landscaping approved as part of the landscape plan portion of development plan
approval in accordance with the standards set by this chapter. This is to
include, but is not limited to, replacing dead plantings with identical
varieties or a suitable substitute approved by the Building Commissioner,
irrigation and mulching of planting areas, and keeping the area free of refuse,
debris, rank vegetation and weeds.
         (c)   Changes after approval. See §
194.127 of this chapter.
         (d)   Inspection. The Building Commissioner or his or her designee may
visit any tract within the Overlay Zone to inspect the landscaping and check it
against the approved plan on file.
   (L)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   Parking spaces required, and the dimensions of those parking
spaces: see §
194.108 of this chapter.
      (2)   Landscaping standards: see division (K) above.
      (3)   Parking lots shall be designed to provide coordinated access to
parking areas on adjoining tracts or parcels within the Overlay Zone,
preferably via a frontage road network. Sites utilizing front-loaded parking
areas shall provide for continuous access across the rear of the site to
adjoining tracts or parcels. As part of the development plan submission. The
petitioner shall provide a site circulation plan that illustrates to the Plan
Commission how coordinated access will occur relative to the overall U.S.
Highway 421 Corridor.
      (4)   Circulation plan that illustrates to the Plan Commission how
coordinated access will occur relative to the overall U.S. Highway 421
Corridor.
      (5)   All parking areas and drives (including residential driveways)
shall be paved with asphalt or concrete. Brick pavers or other decorative
pavements may be used as accents in parking area design. Poured-in-place
concrete curbs shall be used.
      (6)   Parking within font yard setbacks shall be discouraged and limited
to a maximum of two rows of the total required parking. Parking within the
front yard setbacks shall be subject to minimum greenbelt width, minimum
bufferyard requirements and maximum building setback standards.
   (M)   Lighting requirements. See §
194.113.
   (N)   Access to individual tracts. The purpose of this section is to make
the closing of all curb cuts along U.S. Highway 421 possible by establishing a
common access road to the rear parking lots of all tracts within the Overlay
Zone. Frontage streets and common entrances shared by several properties and
development shall be encouraged and may be required at the discretion of the
Plan Commission. In those cases where tracts can be accessed via connection to
a primary or secondary arterial street, local street or adjoining parking lot,
curb cuts shall not be established on U.S. Highway 421. The Plan Commission
shall encourage maximum distances between curb cuts to U.S. Highway 421 in
cooperation with the state’s Department of Transportation. Bicycle and
pedestrian circulation to and through the site shall be coordinated with
vehicular access, greenbelt design and parking.
   (O)   Other requirements.
      (1)   Trash collection. Trash collection and recycling areas shall be
enclosed and screened on all sides, with a minimum six-foot tall opaque wall.
Trash collection and recycling areas shall be in the rear of all buildings.
      (2)   Loading areas. Loading areas and trash collection areas shall be
permitted per the needs of the business establishments and shall be identified
on the development plan. Loading spaces and overhead doors shall face to the
rear of all buildings. Should a loading space be located adjacent to or visible
from a public right-of-way, or established on the side of a building through
any circumstance. It shall be screened per Plan Commission approval.
      (3)   Emergency access. All emergency access areas and facilities shall
be shown on the site plan and reviewed by the town’s Fire Chief.
      (4)   Signs. A sign plan for the proposed development shall be submitted
to the Plan Commission for its approval as part of the development plan
application. Signs for each proposed use shall be uniform in character as to
color and architectural design as approved by the Plan Commission. Should a
development plan-approved sign plan be replaced with a new design, the amended
sign plan must go before the Plan Commission for review and approval.
Individual signs which conform to both §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter and to the approved sign plan shall not require further
approval. However, such signs shall require an improvement location permit.
      (5)   Conforming uses. A development plan shall be submitted to the Plan
Commission for its approval when a legally established non-conforming use is
changed to a conforming use and when either:
         (a)   Any new building is to be constructed; or
         (b)   Any existing building or site development (including addition of
parking lot) is expanded by more than 30%.
      (6)   Non-conforming uses. A development plan shall be submitted to the
Plan Commission for its approval when a legally established non-conforming use
is altered as follows:
         (a)   A building has been more than 60% destroyed;
         (b)   Any expansion of a building or site development (including
addition of parking lot). Normal maintenance and repair is exempt from the
development plan approval requirement; or
         (c)   If property or building is vacant for more than year.
   (P)   Application procedure. See §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
   (Q)   Validity of approval of the application by the Plan Commission.
      (1)   An approved development plan petition shall be valid for two years
from the date of approval.
      (2)   If construction of the building(s) has (have) not started at the
end of the two-year period, the development plan request shall be re-submitted
to the Plan Commission for consideration and disposition.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.39; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016; Ord.
2016-23, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 194.079 RURAL: OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Purpose, intent and authority.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide for overlay districts,
establish consistent procedures for their establishment and to foster the
purposes of this chapter.
      (2)   The intent of overlay districts is to give the town a tool to
address specifically identified areas of the jurisdiction that require special
attention and guidance. In addition to the zoning ordinance purposes, the
general purposes of overlay districts are to promote coordinated, quality
development per the land use recommendations set forth in the Comprehensive
Plan; to establish basic development standards for structures, landscaping and
other improvements on the properties within overlay districts which promote
high quality and innovative site design while at the same time encourage
efficient land usage; and to establish development standards which will
encourage capital investments for the development of those properties within
overlay districts.
      (3)   The authority to establish overlay districts is based on the goals
and objectives of the town’s Comprehensive Plan and I.C. 36-7-4-600.
   (B)   Establishment of overlay districts
      (1)   The establishment of an overlay district shall be a combination of
a zoning text amendment and a zoning map amendment and shall be processed
concurrently. To simplify the process, the public hearings shall be advertised
and held together; when considering the overlay district establishment, the
town and the legislative body shall consider the recommendations together, the
legislative body’s certifications shall be combined, and the adopting
ordinances shall be combined.
      (2)   The town or any participating legislative body of the jurisdiction
shall only initiate overlay districts. I.C. 36-7-4-602(b) and (c) and I.C. 36-
7-4-607 and 36-7-4-608 shall govern the procedure for the establishment of
overlay districts.
   (C)   U.S. Highway 421 - Michigan Road Corridor Overlay District.
      (1)   Purpose, intent and authority.
         (a)   It is the purpose of the U.S. Highway 421 - Michigan Road
Corridor Overlay District (the “Overlay District”) to promote and protect the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare by providing
for consistent and coordinated treatment of the properties bordering U.S.
Highway 421 (also known as Michigan Road) in the unincorporated areas of Boone
County, Indiana. The town, in establishing this district, does so in compliance
with I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq. and I.C. 36-7-4-1400 et seq.
         (b)   It is recognized that U.S. Highway 421 is an important corridor
to the town. Therefore, it is the further purpose of the Overlay District to
promote coordinated, quality development per the land use recommendations set
forth in the Comprehensive Plan; to establish basic standards for structures,
landscaping, and other improvements on the properties within the Overlay
District which promote high quality, innovative site design and at the same
time encourage efficient land usage; to establish development standards which
will encourage capital investments for the development of those properties
along and abutting U.S. Highway 421; to promote the steady flow of traffic;
and, to promote the quality, scale and character of development consistent with
the land uses envisioned in the Comprehensive Plan.
         (c)   This Overlay District further seeks to foster development that
will provide this district with a special sense of place that will increase
property values, protect existing residential uses, and attract new businesses.
More specifically, the creation of this special sense of place shall be
encouraged by means of a coordinated set of design principles for buildings,
site planning, landscaping and signs. These principles are intended to guide
individual development activities so that they will work together visually in
support of the common architectural theme described below.
      (2)   District boundaries. The boundaries of the Overlay District are
hereby established as shown on the official zoning maps for the town. The
boundaries extend 400 feet on either side of the U.S. Highway 421 right-of-way,
as shown on INDOT’s plans numbered STP-135-2(008), as they existed on 1-17-
2000, for that portion of U.S. Highway 421 south of 121st Street (also known as
Greenfield Road or County Road 550 South) and as it existed on 1-1-2003 for
that portion of U.S. Highway 421 north of 121st Street within the county. The
official zoning maps for the county are officially amended by the adoption of
this chapter to include the Overlay District per the boundaries set forth.
      (3)   Town approval. The town must approve, approve with conditions or
disapprove the development plan for any tract of land in the Overlay District
including, without limitation, any proposed development in connection with a
residential subdivision. However, development plan approval by the town is not
required for single-family dwellings to be constructed on individual single-
family lots within any residential subdivision.
      (4)   Permitted uses. All uses which are permitted in a given site’s
underlying primary zoning districts, except those uses expressly excluded are
permitted in the Overlay District.
      (5)   Permitted special exceptions. All special exceptions, which are
permitted (upon obtaining the grant of a special exception from the Board of
Zoning Appeals) in the underlying primary zoning district(s), except the uses
expressly excluded are permitted in the Overlay District.
      (6)   Excluded uses. The following uses are prohibited in the Overlay
District:
         (a)   Adult entertainment businesses;
         (b)   Amusement park;
         (c)   Bulk storage of petroleum products not used for on-site
manufacturing;
         (d)   Car washes;
         (e)   Carnivals, fairs, circuses;
         (f)   Confined feed operations;
         (g)   Disposal of radioactive materials;
         (h)   Drive-through facilities; exception: when the site has frontage
on U.S. Highway 421 and is within 1,320 feet of intersection of either CR 300
South or SR 32 (when measured from the edge of right-of-way), it is permissible
to have a drive-through facility as a land use.
            1.   In all cases, drive-through facilities and/or service units,
including service window(s), menu board(s), vehicle aisles and/or the like
shall not be placed between the public right-of-way and the associated
building;
            2.   Drive-through windows for banks, drugstores, and other uses
without menu boards shall be located at the rear of a building, and shall be
located in a manner where they cannot be seen from the public rights-of-way;
            3.   Drive-through facilities for restaurants and other uses that
utilize a menu board shall be required to have the menu board located at the
rear of the building and be located in a manner where it cannot be seen from
public rights-of-way. The drive-through window may be located on the side of a
building, and the drive-through window lane exit area shall be screened from
the public right-of-way with a landscape island at the facility exit to screen
the drive-through lane and window. Drive-through facilities on either side of a
building that are visible to pass-by traffic shall be screened by a five-foot
wide landscape buffer of a length to cover the entire drive-through stacking
area;
            4.   Alternate locations for drive-through windows, stalls, menu
boards, and/or associated auto-centric components may be considered by the Plan
Commission (PC) on a case- by-case basis when seeking development plan
approval.
         (i)   Fertilizer manufacturing, stock yards, slaughtering, leather
curing and tanning;
         (j)   Flea market;
         (k)   Garbage disposal plant/sanitary landfill;
         (l)   Go-cart track;
         (m)   Grain elevator;
         (n)   Junk or salvage yard;
         (o)   Manufactured home dwelling sales;
         (p)   Mini-warehouses or self-storage facilities;
         (q)   Mobile home court;
         (r)   Off-premises (outdoor advertising);
         (s)   Outdoor storage, with the exception of propane tanks that are
for lease or purchase;
         (t)   Outdoor theater;
         (u)   Penal or correctional institution;
         (v)   Reclaiming processes involving materials or chemicals that are
considered dangerous to the health, safety and welfare of the general public as
determined by the state’s Board of Health or by the county’s Health Department;
         (w)   Refining or manufacturing of petroleum products;
         (x)   Refining of manufacturing of asphalt, cement, gypsum, lime, wood
preservatives;
         (y)   Roadside sales stand;
         (z)   Sand and gravel extraction or sales;
         (aa)   Truck stop;
         (bb)   Warehouses; and
         (cc)   Water slide.
      (7)   Accessory buildings and uses. All accessory buildings and uses
which are permitted in the underlying primary zoning district(s) shall be
permitted; except that, any detached accessory building in any development plan
shall be on all sides the same building proportions, architectural features,
construction, materials and in general to be architecturally compatible with
the primary building(s) with which it is associated.
      (8)   Minimum lot area. The minimum lot area required within the Overlay
District shall be those dictated by the requirements of the underlying zoning
district. All lots within the Overlay District shall be subject to development
plan approval, with the exception of individual lots for single-family
dwellings. For lots located only partially within the Overlay District, a
development plan shall be submitted to the town for the entire tract to be
developed and the entire tract shall be subject to the requirements of these
ordinances.
      (9)   Height and area requirements.
         (a)   Building height: see §
194.082, Table 3.
         (b)   Front yard for parcels with frontage on U.S. Highway 421 right-
of-way:
            1.   Minimum: 30 feet, measured from the U.S. Highway 421 right-of-
way. This measurement shall include the mandatory 30-foot landscape buffer; and
            2.   Maximum: 120 feet, measured from the U.S. Highway 421 right-
of-way. This measurement shall include the mandatory 30-foot landscape buffer.
         (c)   Minimum side and rear yards: as specified in the primary
underlying zoning district;
         (d)   Gross floor area.
            1.   All principal business and industrial buildings shall have a
minimum of 2,500 square feet of gross floor area, excluding the floor area of
any accessory buildings. Accessory buildings need not meet the minimum floor
area requirement.
            2.   Primary residential structures, however, shall meet the
minimum floor area specified in the underlying zoning district.
         (e)   Landscape buffer: there shall be a 30-foot wide landscape buffer
within the front yard of all lots with frontage on U.S. Highway 421.
      (10)   Architectural design requirements. In reviewing the architectural
design of building(s) proposed to be built in the Overlay District, factors to
be considered by the town shall include, but are not limited to, the following.
         (a)   Design theme. Buildings shall be designed with an overall theme
consistent with or complementary to the Colonial, Federal, Georgian, Victorian
or Greek Revival periods. New buildings are not required to be imitative, but
must incorporate the salient features of these architectural styles. Pre-
existing buildings on adjoining lots shall not be a factor in the design of new
buildings.
         (b)   Building proportion. Buildings should avoid long, monotonous,
uninterrupted walls or roof planes.
         (c)   Building height. The height of new primary buildings shall be at
least one and one-half stories, or be designed to appear so from the front and
sides. Retail and office buildings are encouraged to be two stories or more in
height. The minimum height for all buildings shall be 20 feet, either at the
roof line or at the top of the parapet wall. Single-family dwellings shall have
at least 50% of the structure reaching one and one-half stories or 20 feet at
the roof line.
         (d)   Building facades. Facades shall have a defined base or
foundation, a middle or modulated wall, and a top formed by a pitched roof or
articulated cornice, in each instance appropriate to the building style.
Buildings with continuous facades that are 90 feet or greater in width, shall
be designed with offsets (projecting or recessed) not less than eight feet
deep, and at intervals of not greater than 60 feet. Facades constructed of more
than one material shall only change material along horizontal or vertical lines
(not diagonal lines). For material changes at the horizontal line, the heavier
material shall always be placed beneath the lighter material. Front and side
facades of buildings located on corner lots shall be of the same materials and
similarly detailed.
         (e)   Roofs.
            1.   Pitched roofs. Roofs shall be simply and symmetrically pitched
and only in the configuration of gables and hips, with pitches ranging from 4:
12 to 14:12. Pitched roofs shall be clad in wood shingles, slate, composition
asphalt shingle or standing-seam metal panels. Shingle or panel color shall be
appropriate to the design of the building.
            2.   Shed roofs. Shed roofs are permitted only when the ridge is
attached to an exterior wall of a building, with pitches ranging from 4:12 to
14:12.
            3.   Flat roofs. Flat roofs are permitted when consistent with the
selected style of architecture, if edged by a railing or parapet, and if
rooftop mechanical equipment is either camouflaged on all sides or visually
integrated into the overall design of the building. In no case shall rooftop
mechanical equipment be visible from adjoining residential districts or from
U.S. Highway 421. All vents, attic ventilators, turbines, flues and other roof
penetrations shall be painted to match the color of the roof or painted flat
black. Gutters and downspouts shall be appropriate to or visually integrated
with the selected architectural style of the structure. Dormers, belvederes,
cupolas and pergolas may be utilized as a design element, so long as they are
designed with the details, proportions, style and materials consistent with the
buildings selected architectural design.
         (f)   Entrances. The main building or tenant space pedestrian
entrances shall be defined and articulated by architectural elements such as
lintels, pediments, pilasters, columns and other design elements appropriate to
the selected architectural style and details of the building as a whole. The
location, orientation, proportion and style of doors shall reflect the chosen
style of the Building. Building facades for industrial and warehouse uses shall
be designed with a main entrance and at least two window openings associated
with this doorway.
         (g)   Windows. All window design shall be compatible with the style,
materials, color, details and proportion of the building. The number of panes,
the way it opens, the trim around it and whether it is embellished with
shutters must be consistent with the architectural style of the structure.
         (h)   Awnings. Fixed or retractable awnings are permitted if they
complement a building’s architectural style, material, colors and details; do
not conceal architectural features (such as cornices, columns, pilasters or
decorative details); do not impair facade composition; and are designed as an
integral part of the facade. Metal, plastic or aluminum awnings are prohibited.
         (i)   Storefronts. Storefronts shall be integrally designed with
overall facade character. Ground floor retail, service and restaurant uses
should generally have large pane display windows; however, they shall not
exceed 75% of the total ground level (first floor) facade area. Buildings with
multiple storefronts shall be of unified design, through the use of common
materials, architectural details, signs and lighting consistent with the
overall building style.
         (j)   Drive-through service units. Drive-through service units are
prohibited in the Overlay District. Exception: When the site has frontage on
U.S. Highway 421 and is within 1,320 feet of intersection of either CR 300
South or SR 32 (when measured from the edge of right-of-way), it is permissible
to have a drive-through facility or its component drive-through service unit as
a land use. See "drive-through facilities" for additional criteria.
         (k)   Suitability of building materials. In order to create variation
and interest in the built environment, all new buildings or building additions
shall use the exterior building materials specified below. Building materials
shall be consistent with or complementary to those which replicate Colonial,
Federal, Georgian, Victorian and Greek Revival periods of American
architecture, as follows:
            1.   Exposed foundations shall be constructed of one or more of the
following:
               a.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the
architectural style;
               b.   Stone (limestone, granite, fieldstone and the like); or
               c.   Split-face block or architectural pre-cast concrete, if
surface looks like brick or stone.
            2.   Facade walls shall be constructed of any combination of:
               a.   Stone;
               b.   Smooth cut cedar shingles;
               c.   Wood clapboard siding;
               d.   Brick in a color historically consistent with the
architectural style;
               e.   Wood beaded siding; or
               f.   Stucco with smooth finish, or external insulation and
finish system (E.I.F.S.); not to exceed 20% of the overall non-window facade
area.
            3.   The exterior building material selection shall be supplemented
by the use of multiple colors, textures (e.g., rough, smooth, striated and the
like) or architectural elements, (quions, pilasters, soldier courses, friezes,
cornices, dentils and the like) on facades visible from the street. (See also
division (C)(23) below.)
      (11)   Topography. Design in relation to topography of the site, which
minimizes cut and fill and limits maximum on-site slope to 10%.
      (12)   Landscape design. Design of proposed landscaping in relation to
structures.
      (13)   Consistency with style and period. Overall aesthetics of the
proposed building, including color, are consistent with the architectural style
and period.
      (14)   Building orientation. The primary building(s) shall be oriented to
U.S. Highway 421, so that the front of the building faces the highway. Where
the primary building is designed to have three or more users (such as the case
of multiple lease spaces), a maximum of two uses shall be oriented to U.S.
Highway 421. Accessory buildings (including residential garages, storage
buildings and the like) shall be located behind the primary building. No
primary or accessory building shall have service doors, garage doors, loading
doors or similar service entrances opening toward or oriented to U.S. Highway
421.
      (15)   Landscaping requirements.
         (a)   Landscape plan. The applicant shall submit a landscape plan to
the town as part of the development plan application, per §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
         (b)   Areas to be landscaped.
            1.   Landscape buffer. The 30-foot landscape buffer shall be
composed of grass and landscape areas. The incorporation of walkways and
bikeways into the design is encouraged; however, no parking areas, through
roads, buildings, accessory structures and the like shall be established within
this area.
            2.   Foundation plantings. Foundation plantings shall be included
along all sides of any building. The minimum width of the planting area shall
be five feet; except that, when adjoining a parking area located in the front
yard adjoining U.S. Highway 421, the minimum width shall be ten feet.
            3.   Peripheral plantings. Minimum side and rear yard landscaping
shall occur per the requirements of the underlying primary zoning district.
            4.   Parking lots. Per standards specified in this chapter.
            5.   Screening areas. All air conditioning units, HVAC systems,
exhaust pipes or stacks, overhead doors, legally non-conforming outside storage
areas, and satellite dishes shall be integrated into the overall building
design or screened from the U.S. Highway 421 right-of-way and adjoining
residential districts or uses, by means of walls, fencing, parapets, penthouse
screens, landscaping, camouflage or other approved method.
         (c)   Landscaping standards.
            1.   The interior dimensions, specifications and design of any
planting area or planting median shall be sufficient to protect the landscaping
materials planted therein and to provide for proper growth. The following
minimum interior widths for planting areas shall be used:
               a.   Canopy trees: nine feet;
               b.   Ornamental trees: seven feet; and
               c.   Shrubs (only): five feet.
            2.   All plant material proposed to be used in accordance with any
landscape plan shall meet the following specifications.
               a.   Shade trees: a minimum trunk diameter of two and one-half
inches at six inches above grade, a minimum height of eight feet and a
branching height of not less than one-third or more than one-half of tree
height.
               b.   Ornamental trees: a minimum trunk diameter of one and one-
half inches at six inches above grade, a minimum height of six feet and a
branching height of not less than one-third or more than one-half of tree
height.
               c.   Evergreen trees: a minimum height of eight feet, and a
width of not less than three-fifths of the height.
               d.   Deciduous shrubs: a minimum height of 18 inches, no less
than six main branches upon planting, and a mature height no greater than 36
inches.
               e.   Evergreen shrubs: a minimum height and spread of 18 inches,
maximum mature height of 36 inches.
            3.   Landscape buffer: the primary landscaping materials used in
the landscape buffer shall be shade trees, ornamental trees, shrubs, ground
covers and grass.
               a.   A minimum of three shade trees and one ornamental tree
shall be provided per 100 linear feet of landscape buffer.
               b.   Shade trees planted within the landscape buffer parallel to
the U.S. Highway 421 right-of-way shall be spaced neither less than 15 feet
apart nor more than 40 feet apart.
               c.   Existing shade trees within the landscape buffer that have
a minimum trunk diameter of four and one-half inches at six inches above grade,
are encouraged to be preserved. For each shade tree that is preserved within
the landscape buffer area, two fewer trees are required to be planted within
the applicable 100 linear feet.
            4.   Foundation plantings: the primary landscaping materials used
adjacent to buildings shall be shrubs, ground covers and ornamental grasses.
            5.   Parking lots.
               a.   Interior landscaping. A minimum of one shade tree and five
shrubs shall be planted within each parking lot for every seven spaces
provided, or not less than 20 trees per acre of parking. However, for buildings
with parking areas located in a front yard, with frontage directly on U.S.
Highway 421, a minimum of one shade tree and five shrubs shall be planted
within each parking lot for every five spaces provided, or not less than 24
trees per acre of parking.
               b.   Parking lot perimeter planting. Where parking areas are
located in the front yard, with frontage directly on U.S. Highway 421, a six-
foot wide perimeter planting area shall be provided along the front and sides
of those areas.
                  i.   The required planting unit for this area shall include
two shade trees, three ornamental trees and 30 shrubs per 100 linear feet.
                  ii.   The perimeter planting area shall be provided in
addition to the landscape buffer area.
                  iii.   Existing shade trees within the landscape buffer that
have a minimum trunk diameter of four and one-half inches at six inches above
grade, are encouraged to be preserved. For each shade tree that is preserved
within the landscape buffer area, two fewer trees are required to be planted
within the applicable 100 feet.
               c.   Front and side parking. Parking areas within front and side
yards shall be completely screened from view. Such screening shall be subject
to town approval.
               d.   Landscaping installation and maintenance.
                  i.   Installation. All landscaping approved as part of the
landscape plan portion of development plan approval shall be installed prior to
the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. If it is not possible to install
the required landscaping because of weather conditions, the property owner
shall post a bond prior to the issuance of the certificate of occupancy for an
amount equal to 125% of the total installed cost of the required landscaping.
                  ii.   Maintenance. It shall be the responsibility of the
owners and their agents to ensure proper maintenance of all trees, shrubs and
other landscaping approved as part of the landscape plan portion of development
plan approval in accordance with the standards set by this chapter. This is to
include, but is not limited to, replacing dead plantings with identical
varieties or a suitable substitute approved by the town, irrigation and
mulching of planting areas and keeping the area free of refuse, debris, rank
vegetation and weeds.
                  iii.   Changes after approval. See §§
194.200 through
194.202 of this chapter.
                  iv.   Inspection. The town or its designee may visit any
tract within the Overlay District to inspect the landscaping and check it
against the approved plan on file.
      (16)   Parking requirements.
         (a)   Parking spaces required, and the dimensions of those parking
spaces.
         (b)   Landscaping standards: see above.
         (c)   Parking lots shall be designed to provide coordinated access to
parking areas on adjoining tracts or parcels within the Overlay District,
preferably via a frontage road network. Sites utilizing front-loaded parking
areas shall provide for continuous access across the rear of the site to
adjoining tracts or parcels. As part of the development plan submission, the
petitioner shall provide a site circulation plan that illustrates to the town
how coordinated access will occur relative to the overall U.S. Highway 421
Corridor.
         (d)   All parking areas and drives (including residential driveways)
shall be paved with asphalt or concrete. Brick pavers or other decorative
pavements may be used as accents in parking area design. Poured-in-place
concrete curbs shall be used.
         (e)   Parking within front yard setbacks shall be discouraged and
limited to a maximum of two rows of the total required parking. Parking within
the front yard setbacks shall be subject to minimum landscape buffer width,
minimum bufferyard requirements and maximum building setback standards.
      (17)   Lighting requirements. See §
194.113.
      (18)   Access to individual tracts.
         (a)   The purpose of this section is to make the closing of all curb
cuts along U.S. Highway 421 possible by establishing a common access road to
the rear parking lots of all tracts within the Overlay District. Frontage
streets and common entrances shared by several properties and developments
shall be strongly encouraged, especially in those cases where tracts can be
accessed via connection to a primary or secondary arterial street, local
street, or adjoining parking lot.
         (b)   The town shall encourage maximum distances between curb cuts to
U.S. Highway 421 in cooperation with the state’s Department of Transportation.
Bicycle and pedestrian circulation to and through the site shall be coordinated
with vehicular access, landscape buffer design and parking.
      (19)   Other requirements.
         (a)   Trash collection. Trash collection and recycling areas shall be
enclosed and screened on all sides, with a minimum six-foot tall opaque wall.
Trash collection and recycling areas shall be in the rear of all buildings.
         (b)   Loading areas. Loading areas and trash collection areas shall be
permitted per the needs of the business establishments and shall be identified
on the development plan. Loading spaces and overhead doors shall face to the
rear of all buildings. Should a loading space be located adjacent to or visible
from a public right-of-way, or established on the side of a building through
any circumstance, it shall be screened per town approval.
         (c)   Emergency access. All emergency access areas and facilities
shall be shown on the site plan and reviewed by the town’s Fire Department.
         (d)   Signs. A sign plan for the proposed development shall be
submitted to the town for approval as part of the development plan application.
Signs for each proposed use shall be uniform in character as to color and
architectural design as approved by the town. Should a development plan-
approved sign plan be replaced with a new design, the amended sign plan must go
before the town for review and approval. Individual signs that conform to this
chapter and to the approved sign plan shall not require further approval,
however, such signs shall require an improvement location permit.
         (e)   Conforming uses. A development plan shall be submitted to the
town for its approval when a legally established non-conforming use is changed
to a conforming use and when either:
            1.   Any new building is to be constructed; or
            2.   Any existing building or site development (including addition
of parking lot) is expanded by more than 30%.
         (f)   Non-conforming uses. A development plan shall be submitted to
the town for its approval when a legally established non-conforming use is
altered as follows:
            1.   A building has been more than 60% destroyed;
            2.   Any expansion of a building or site development (including
addition of parking lot). Normal maintenance and repair is exempt from the
development plan approval requirement; and
            3.   If property or building is vacant for more than year.
      (20)   Off-premises (outdoor advertising) signs. Off-premises signs will
not be allowed in the U.S. Highway 421 Overlay District.
      (21)   Application procedure.See §
194.125 of this chapter.
      (22)   Validity of approval of the application by the town.
         (a)   An approved development plan petition shall be valid for two
years from the date of approval.
         (b)   If construction of the building(s) has (have) not started at the
end of the two-year period, the development plan request shall be re-submitted
to the town for consideration and disposition.
      (23)   Waiver of development requirements.
         (a)   Building materials findings. The town may grant a waiver of the
building materials development requirements and approve the use of alternate
exterior building materials on any facade of a building upon finding that:
            1.   The building materials utilized represent an innovative use of
said materials which enhance the overall aesthetic exterior character of the
building and will not be detrimental to the use or value of area properties;
            2.   The building materials utilized are appropriate when compared
to the building materials utilized on other buildings on the site and
surrounding sites;
            3.   The building materials utilized are consistent with and
compatible with other building materials utilized on, and with the overall
exterior character of, other buildings and development located along the
street; and
            4.   The building materials utilized are consistent with the intent
and purpose of this chapter.
         (b)   Architectural design findings. The town may grant a waiver of
the architectural design requirements of section of this chapter and approve an
architectural design which does not incorporate the overall theme or
incorporate the architecture, design and overall aesthetic exterior character
of a building consistent with the Georgian, Federal, Greek Revival or Victorian
architectural styles upon finding that:
            1.   The Architectural design represents an innovative use of
building materials or design, or site design features which will not be
detrimental to the use or value of area properties;
            2.   The proposed building is appropriate when compared to the
architecture, design and overall exterior character of other buildings on the
site and surrounding sites;
            3.   The building design is consistent with and compatible with
other development located along the street; and
            4.   The proposed building is consistent with the intent and
purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.40; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016; Ord.
2016-23, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 194.080 RURAL AZ: RURAL AIRPORT ZONING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The AZ, Rural Airport Zoning, District is hereby
established to include airports and heliports and all other facilities and uses
appropriate and common with the taking off and landing of aircraft along with
storage and servicing of such aircraft.
   (B)   Tables.
      (1)   Table 1: Land Use Districts;
      (2)   Table 2: Authorized Uses;
      (3)   Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family;
      (4)   Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings;
      (5)   Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements, Mobile Home Parks
Established after 1-1-1999; and
      (6)   Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential
Requirements.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.41)
§ 194.081 DISTRICTS.
   The jurisdiction area is hereby classified and divided into districts
designated in Table 1, Land Use Districts:
Table 1: Land Use Districts
Table 1: Land Use Districts
Conservation and Agriculture Districts
                                          This district is established to
C   Conservation                          emphasize the conservation of
                                          existing natural resources.
                                          This district is established to
                                          restrict non-agriculturally related
AP  Agricultural Preservation             land uses. Residential development
                                          may occur at a substantially
                                          decreased rate than other districts.
                                          The Agricultural Zoning District is
                                          intended to maintain the rural and
                                          scenic qualities of the county by
                                          preserving farm land and significant
                                          open lands while allowing landowners
                                          a reasonable return on their
                                          holdings. It is further intended to
                                          provide for controlled rural
                                          residential growth beyond the limits
                                          of the urban service districts of the
                                          City of Lebanon, while maintaining
                                          the viability of existing county
                                          agricultural activities, providing
                                          for farming opportunities for future
                                          farmers, allowing current farmers to
                                          realize the monetary value of their
                                          land, protecting historic, scenic or
AG  General Agricultural                  environmentally sensitive areas and
                                          ensuring that rural residential
                                          growth can be adequately served by
                                          public roadways, fire and police
                                          protection, and public schools,
                                          without requiring unplanned and/or
                                          inordinate public expenditures. To
                                          achieve this intent, the Agricultural
                                          District is designated to (a)
                                          minimize the loss of farm lands and
                                          significant open lands to residential
                                          uses through the establishment of
                                          contiguous parcels of non-residential
                                          acres, and (b) maximize the
                                          clustering of rural residential lots
                                          on the least number of acres located
                                          on existing farm lands and
                                          significant open lands.
                                          This district is established to
                                          maintain and conserve a rural,
                                          country-like atmosphere and to
                                          encourage equestrian uses rather than
                                          residential uses. Residential
                                          development may occur, but is
RE  Rural Equestrian                      secondary to the rural equestrian
                                          purpose of this district. Further,
                                          the lot area requirements of this
                                          district are more restrictive than
                                          established residential districts;
                                          typically at a density of 1 home per
                                          3 acres.
                                          This district is designed to include
                                          airports and heliports and all other
                                          facilities and uses appropriate and
AZ  Airport Zoning                        common with the taking off and
                                          landing of aircraft along with
                                          storage and servicing off such
                                          aircraft.
Residential Districts
                                          This is a low-density suburban
                                          residential district. The lot area
                                          and minimum floor area requirements
R-1 Low Density Single-Family Residential are larger than the other residential
                                          districts. Development in this
                                          district is typically at a density of
                                          less than 1 home per 2 acres.
                                          This is a low-density single-family
                                          district, which could include two-
                                          family dwellings by Development Plan
                                          Approval. This district is primarily
                                          suited for suburban residential
R-2 Low Density Single-Family and Two-    development in areas contiguous to
    Family Residential                    the urban centers of the county.
                                          Development in this district
                                          typically ranges from 0.50 homes per
                                          acre (without public water and public
                                          sewer) to 1.75 homes per acre (with
                                          public water and public sewer).
                                          This is a medium density single-
                                          family district, which may include
                                          two- family dwellings by development
                                          plan approval. Development in this
R-3 Medium Density Single- Family and     district typically ranges from 1.75
    Two-Family Residential                homes per acre to 3 homes per acre.
                                          In this district, residential
                                          development at these densities
                                          requires connection to public water
                                          and public sewer utilities.
                                          This district is established for
                                          high-density single-family dwellings
                                          and may include two-family dwellings
                                          by development plan approval. Single-
                                          and two-family development in this
                                          district typically ranges from 3
R-4 High Density Single-Family and Two-   homes per acre to 4.25 homes per
    Family Residential                    acre. Two-family development
                                          typically ranges from 7 units per
                                          acre to 12 units per acre. In this
                                          district, single- and two-family
                                          development at these densities
                                          requires connection to public water
                                          and public sewer utilities.
                                          This is a high-density multi-family
                                          district. Development in this
                                          district is typically at a density of
MF  High Density Multi-Family Residential 7 to 12 dwelling units per acre.
                                          Development in this district requires
                                          connection to public water and public
                                          sewers.
Commercial Districts
                                          This district is designed and located
                                          in neighborhoods to accommodate the
                                          primary needs of that locality. This
LB  Local Business                        district would place convenience and
                                          necessity facilities close to
                                          consumers in limited areas close to
                                          residences.
                                          This district is established as a
                                          buffer generally between commercial
PB  Professional Business                 and residential districts permitting
                                          selected business and professional
                                          uses having limited contact with the
                                          public.
                                          This district is designed to address
                                          the needs of existing and future
                                          downtown development. This district
UB  Urban Business                        carries virtually all of the
                                          characteristics of the GB District
                                          but without setbacks, bufferyards or
                                          other design requirements common to
                                          suburban development.
                                          This district is designed to include
                                          central business districts in
GB  General Business                      established urban places. This
                                          district would be used for most types
                                          of business and service uses.
                                          This district is established to
                                          include areas adjacent to interstate
AB  Accommodation Business                interchanges and is designed to serve
                                          the needs of the public traveling on
                                          these major thoroughfares.
Industrial Districts and PUDs
                                          This district is established to
                                          accommodate light industrial uses in
I-1 Light Industrial                      which all operations, including
                                          storage of materials would be
                                          confined within a building, and would
                                          include warehousing operations.
                                          This district is established for all
                                          types of industrial uses requiring
I-2 General Industrial                    both enclosed and unenclosed spaces
                                          for storage, manufacturing and
                                          fabricating.
                                          This district is established to
                                          encourage improved land development
                                          and building site design, to
                                          encourage and allow a variety of
PUD Planned Unit Development              innovative uses, building types and
                                          arrangements, to allow development of
                                          land areas so planned, located or
                                          situated as to merit and justify
                                          consideration as a PUD District.
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.42)
§ 194.082 AUTHORIZED USES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The uses permitted in the districts established by this chapter are shown in
Table 2, Authorized Uses. Where the district column is marked with an “X”, the
use is permitted. Where the district column is marked with an “S”, the use may
be permitted only as a special exception. Where the district column is marked
with a “D”, the use may be permitted only after approval of a development plan
by the APC.
   (A)   Where a district column is marked with an “SW”, the use may be
permitted by Special Exception approval from the BZA subject to the issuance of
a license or operating permit as approved by the county’s Solid Waste
Management District. Where a district column is marked with an “XW”, the use is
permitted by right in the zoning district, but is subject to the issuance of a
license or operating permit as approved by the county Solid Waste Management
District.
   (B)   For uses not listed, the Director shall attempt to determine if the
requested use is similar to a permitted use. If the proposed use is determined
to be similar to a permitted use, the permit shall be issued. If the Director
determines that the use is not similar, then the application shall be denied.
In case of uncertainty, the Director may refer the request for clarification or
classification to the BZA for consideration in accordance with the provisions
of the section on uses not listed under the duties of the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
Table 2: Authorized Uses
 C AP AG RE R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 MF AB LB GB UB PB I-1 I-2 AZ
Table 2: Authorized Uses
                                                   C AP AG RE R- R- R- R- MF AB LB GB UB PB I- I- AZ
                                                              1  2  3  4                    1  2
Education
Art and music schools                                                              X  X  X
Colleges and universities                                     S  S  X  X  X                 S
Elementary and secondary schools                        D     X  X  X  X  X     X  X  X  X
Junior colleges and technical institutes                      S  S  X  X  X
Libraries and information centers                       D     X  X  X  X  X
Trade or business school                                                           X  S  S  X
Non-Industrial Farm, Agricultural, Animal Related Uses
Animal day care facility                                S                       X  X  X     X  X
Commercial greenhouse                                S  X                          X        X  X
Kennel, small                                           S                       X  X        S  S
Kennel, large                                           S                                   S  S
Kennel, unlimited                                       S                                   S  S
Roadside produce stand                               S  X                       X  X        X  X
Sale barn for livestock                              S  X                                   S  X
Veterinary animal hospital                              S                          X  X  X  X  X
Farm                                               X X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X     X  X  X
Hay, grain, feed stores                              X  X                       X  X        X  X
Landscape contractor                                 S  S                       S  S        S  S
Plant nursery                                        S  X                       X  X        X  X
Government
Penal or correctional institution                                                  S        S  S
Police, postal or fire station                          D     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Municipal or government buildings                       D     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Publicly owned park or recreational facility       X X  D     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Industrial Uses
Anhydrous ammonia or similar liquefied fertilizer    S  S                                   S  X
storage and distribution
Auction sales yard (excluding livestock)                                           S        S  X
Commercial facility for breeding non- farm fowl      X  X                                   S  X
and animals
Confined feeding                                     X  X
Contractors storage                                                                         S  X
Industrial, general                                                                            X
Junk Yard                                                                                   S  X
Light industrial park                                                                       X  X
Liquefied petroleum gas, bottled gas dealers                                                S  X
Manufacturing, use or storage of explosives                                                 S  S
Mineral extraction                                   S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S
Open material storage                                                                       S  X
Petroleum tank farm                                                                         S  X
Slaughter house                                      S  S                                   S  X
Truck freight terminal                                                                      X  X
Warehouse (general)                                                                S        X  X
Warehouse (grain storage)                            S  S                          S        S  X
Wholesale produce terminal                              S                          S        X  X
Farm product processing food processing                                            X  X     X  X
Fuel dealers                                                                       X        X  X
Light industry                                                                              X  X
Linen supply                                                                       S        X  X
Warehousing, storage or recycling of hazardous       *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *     *  *  *
waste
Warehousing, storage or recycling of radioactive     *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *     *  *  *
waste
Wholesale business                                                                 X        X  X
Non-Profit Membership Organizations
Business associations                                                              X  X  X  X  X
Charitable institutions                                                            X  X  X  X  X
Church or temple                                        D     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Civic, social, religious, political or fraternal                                   X  X  X  X  X
organizations
Recreation, Amusement, Tourism
Fairgrounds                                             X                                   X  X
Golf and country clubs                                        X  X  X  X  X                 X  X
Golf driving range and miniature golf course                                 X     X        X  X
Hotel or motel                                                               X     X  X     X
Outdoor recreation facility                          S  S                                   S  S
Outdoor shooting range, public or private            S  S                                   S  X
Public camp ground or recreational vehicle park      S  S                       S        S  S  S
Race Track                                                                                  S  X
Stable, Private                                      X  X  X  X  X  S                       X  X
Stadium, coliseum                                                                           X  X
Theater, Outdoor                                        S                                   X  X
Bed and breakfast                                       S     S  S  S  S  S  X  S  X  X
Billiard and pool establishments                                                   X  X
Bowling alleys                                                                     X  X     X
Dance halls, studios and schools                                                   X  X
Indoor recreation facility                                                         X     X  X  X
Lodge or private club                                                              X  X     X
Motion picture theater                                                             X  X
Museum and art gallery                                                             X  X  X
Public golf course                                            X  X  X  X  X
Seasonal hunting and fishing lodge                   X  D
Skating                                                                            X        X
Stable, public                                          X  S                       X        X  X
Residential
Day care center                                      S  S              S  S     X  X  X  X  X  X
Minor residential subdivision                           S  S  X  X  X  X     X  X  X  X  X  S  S
Mobile home park                                              D  D  D  D
Customary home occupation (accessory use)            X  X  S  S  S  S  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Domestic crafts                                      X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Assorted fabric services excluding dry cleaner       X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Woodworking services                                 X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Hair grooming, home catering and internet sales      X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Law, medicine, architecture, engineering,            X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
accounting
Academic and cultural arts tutoring                  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Consultation only- insurance office, planning,       X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
real estate, notary public, manufacturer’s agent
Dwelling - multi-family                                                   D     D  D  D  D
Dwelling - single-family                                S  X  X  X  X  X     X  X  X  X  X  S  S
Dwelling - two- family                                           D  D  D     D  D  D  D  D
Farm seasonal worker housing                         X  X                                   X  X
Fraternity, sorority or student housing                                D  D        D
Group residential facility                                       S  X  X  X     X  X  X     S
Major residential subdivision                              S  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  S  S
Nursing home                                                           D  D     D  D     D  D
Orphanage                                                           D  D  D              D
Temporary mobile home                                X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X     X  X  X
Retail, trade, food stores
Drive-in restaurant / fast food                                              S  S  X  X
Cafeteria, restaurant                                                        X  X  X  X           S
Candy, nut and confectionary                                                 X  X  X  X
Carry out restaurant                                                         S  S  X  X
Dinner theater                                                                     X  X
Fruits and vegetables                                                        X  X  X  X
Grocery, bakery, meat and fish, dairy products,                                 X  X  X
health foods
Night club                                                                   X     X  X
Tavern                                                                          S  X  X
Retail, Trade, General Merchandise
Shopping center                                                                 D  D  D
Antique store                                                                   S  X  X
Apparel shop, shoes, custom tailoring                                           X  X  X
Bait sales                                                                      X  X  X
Bicycle shops                                                                   X  X  X
Boat sales                                                                         X  S
Book and stationary store                                                       X  X  X  S
Camera and photographic supply                                                     X  X
China, glassware, metal ware                                                    S  X  X
Department store                                                                   X  X     X
Drapery, curtain and upholstery                                                    S  X  X
Drug store                                                                      S  X  X  S
Electrical supply store                                                            X  X     X  X
Farm and garden supply                                                             X  X     X
Farm implements and equipment sales                                                X        X  X
Floor coverings                                                                 S  X  X
Florists, furriers                                                              X  X  X
Gift, novelty and souvenir shops                                             S     X  X
Hardware or variety store                                                       X  X  X     X
Hobby, toy and game shops                                                          X  X
Household appliances, furniture                                                 S  X  X
Jewelry store                                                                      X  X
Liquor store                                                                    S  X  X
Lumber and building materials                                                      X        S  X
Monument sales                                                                     X  X     X
Music and video stores                                                          S  X  X
News dealers                                                                 X  X  X  X  X
Paint, glass and wallpaper                                                         X  X     X
Pet shops                                                                          X  X
Plumbing, heating and air conditioning dealer                                      X  X     X  X
Sporting goods                                                                     X  X
Studio business                                      S  S  S     S  S  S  S     X  X  X  X
Tobacco sales                                                                   X  X  X
Services, General
Accounting, auditing and bookkeeping service                                       X  X  X  X  X
Adult entertainment businesses
Advertising agencies                                                               X  X  X
Agricultural credit institutions                                                X  X  X  X
Attorney services                                                               X  X  X  X
Auto license bureaus                                                            X  X  X  X
Banks and branch banks                                                          X  X  X  X  X
Blueprinting and photocopying                                                   S  X  X     X
Bond and mortgage company, savings and loan,                                    X  X  X  X
installment sales, finance
Clothing rental                                                                    X  X
Coin-operated laundry and dry cleaning                                          X  X  X
Collection agencies                                                                X  X  X
Commercial testing laboratories                                                    X        X  X
Counselor-at-law                                                                X  X  X  X
Detective agencies and protective services                                         X  X  X
Diaper service                                                                     X  S     X
Disinfecting and exterminating services                                            X  X
Dressmaking                                                                     X  X  X
Electrical repair shop                                                          S  X  X     X  X
Engineering and architectural service                                              X  X  X  X  X
Insurance agents, brokers and service                                           X  X  X  X
Newspaper publishing                                                               X  X  X  X
Private employment agencies                                                        X  X  X
Professional office                                                             X  X  X  X  X
Real estate service                                                                X  X  X  X
Reupholster and furniture repair                                                S  X  X     X  X
Shoe repair                                                                     X  X  X
Stenographic service                                                               X  X  X
Stock brokers and dealers                                                       X  X  X  X
Tailoring and pressing shops                                                    X  X  X     X
Temporary help supply services                                                     X  X  X
Watch, clock and jewelry repair                                                 S  X  X
Services, Medical
Convalescent homes                                                     D  D              D
Clinic                                                                          X  X  X  X
Hospitals                                                              X  X     X        X
Blood banks                                                                        X  X  X
Life care facility                                                     X  X              X  X
Medical and dental laboratories                                                    X  X  X
Medical office                                                                  X  X  X  X
Services, Personal
Cemetery or crematory                                X  X                                   X  X
Barber shop, beauty shop                                                        X  X  X  X
Mortuary                                                                           X  X  X
Photographic studio                                                                X  X
Reducing and health salons                                                         X  X     X
Solid Waste Disposal Facilities
Compost/digester facility                            SW SW                                  SW SW
Composting facility                                  XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW SW SW SW    XW XW XW
Construction/                                           SW                                  SW SW
demolition site
Incinerator                                          SW SW                                  SW SW
Resource recovery facility                           SW SW
Sanitary landfill, privately owned                      SW                                  SW SW
Sanitary landfill, publicly owned                       XW                                  XW XW
Transfer station                                     SW SW                                  XW XW
Landfill, hazardous waste or radioactive waste          *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *     *  *  *
Long-term permitted clean fill disposal site            XW XW XW SW             SW XW    XW XW XW
Long term permitted clean fill processing site          XW XW XW SW          SW SW XW    XW XW XW
Restricted waste site                                   XW *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *     *  *  *
Temporary permitted clean fill disposal site            XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW    XW XW XW
Temporary permitted clean fill land reclamation         XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW    XW XW XW
site
Temporary permitted clean fill processing site          XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW XW    XW XW XW
Utilities, Transportation, Communications/Vehicle Dealers, Repair and Services
Airport or heliport                                     S                                S  S  X
Public water wells, water stations, filtration     S X  X     X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
plants, reservoirs and storage tanks
Telephone exchange or public utility station       S S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  X  X  X  X  X  X
Wireless communication facility                      S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S  S
Mass transit station                                    X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Off-premises signs                                                           X     X        X  X
Radio or television station or studio                                              X     X  X  X
Transmission lines for utilities                   S X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Automatic car wash                                                           X  S  X  X     X  X
Parking lot                                                                  X  X  X  X  X  X  X
Truck service center                                                         X     X  S     X  X
Automobile body shop and painting                                                  S  S     S  X
Automobile or motorcycle sales                                                     X  X     X  X
Automobile parts supply                                                            X  X     X
Automobile repair, service station                                           X  S  X  X     X  X
Mobile home, travel trailer, camper sales and                                      X  S     X  X
service
Parking garage                                                                     X  X  X  X  X
Passenger car rental                                                         S     X  X     X  X
Storage and dismantling of disabled vehicles                                                   X
Tire, battery and accessory dealers                                          S  S  X  X     X
Truck sales, rental, leasing, repair                                               X  X     X  X
Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family
Zoning District AG RE R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 LB UB GB PB AB
Table 3: Residential Uses and Requirements, Single-Family
Zoning    AG    RE    R-1    R-2   R-3   R-4   LB    UB    GB    PB    AB
District
Maximum
height of 35    35    35     35    35    35    35    35    35    35    35
buildings
Minimum ground floor area
One-story 1,200 1,200 1,200  1,200 900   900   900   900   900   1,200 900
Multi-    900   900   900    900   750   750   750   750   750   900   750
story
Minimum acres required per dwelling unit
Minimum
acreage   2     3     2      2     2     2     2     2     2     2     2 acres
on well/  acres acres acres  acres acres acres acres acres acres acres
septic
Minimum
acreage   2     3     1 acre 0.6   0.33  0.23  0.23  0.23  0.23  0.23  0.23
on        acres acres        acre  acre  acre  acre  acre  acre  acre  acre
utilities
Maximum
lot       50%   50%   60%    60%   70%   70%   70%   70%   70%   70%   70%
coverage
Minimum primary structure width: 18 feet in all districts.
Lot width to depth ratio: (3:1).
(All newly created residential lots in all the above zoning districts, will
not establish a lot depth which is 3 times greater than the lot width).
Minimum lot area: 5,000 square feet in all districts with public sewers. 2
acres in all districts without public sewers, and 3 acres in the re district,
with or without public.
Public water and public sewer connection: required in all districts for lots
that are less than one acre in size.
Utility connection: required for major residential subdivisions with 15 lots
or more.
Road frontage: 45 feet in all districts: (in subdivisions, up to 20% of total
lots may reduce road frontage by up to 20%).
Minimum front yard (unincorporated areas): in all districts, 20 feet from the
right-of-way or 70 feet from the center of the road, whichever is greater (not
applicable to flag lots).
Minimum rear yard for primary structures: 20 feet in all districts.
Minimum rear yard for accessory structures: 5 feet in all districts.
Minimum side yard: 5 feet in all districts, except the agricultural district.
(For agricultural district, see §
194.111 RURAL PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS (L) Bufferyards, Rural
Bufferyard Requirements Table)
Number of parking spaces per lot: 2 in all districts.
Minimum spacing between dwellings created in the agricultural district: 140
feet.
 
Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings
Zoning District R-2 R-3 R-4 MF LB UB GB PB AB
Table 4: Residential Uses and Requirements, Two-Family and Multi-
Family Dwellings
Zoning District             R-2  R-3 R-4  MF  LB   UB   GB   PB   AB
Maximum density (units per acre)
Two-family dwellings        1.75 3   4.25 NA  4.25 4.25 4.25 4.25 4.25
Multi-family dwellings      NA   NA  NA   7   20   20   20   20   12
Maximum height of buildings 35   35  50   50  50   50   50   50   50
Minimum ground floor area (per dwelling unit)
One-story                   900  700 700  700 700  500  500  700  700
Multi-story                 450  400 400  400 400  350  350  400  400
Minimum front yard in all districts: 20 feet.
Minimum side and rear yard in all districts: 10 feet.
Number of parking spaces per dwelling unit in all districts: 2.
Public water and public sewer connection required in all districts for
all development.
 
Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements, Mobile Home Parks Established
after 1-1-1999
Zoning District R-1 R-2 R-3
Table 5: Residential Uses and Requirements, Mobile Home Parks Established
after 1-1-1999
Zoning District                         R-1   R-2 R-3
Units per acre                          2     4   6
Minimum lot area in all districts: 5 acres.
Minimum area per unit in all districts: 5,000 square feet.
Minimum ground floor area (square feet) 1,000 900 900
Minimum structure width: 12 feet in all districts.
Minimum structure length: 70 feet in all districts.
Minimum front yard: 20 feet in all districts.
Minimum side and rear yard: 10 feet in all districts.
Minimum distance between buildings (primary and/or accessory): 10 feet in
all districts.
Minimum distance from building to road (feet): 20 feet in all districts.
Number of parking spaces (per dwelling unit): 2 in all districts.
Public water and public sewer connection required in all districts: yes.
 
 
Table 6: Commercial, Industrial and Other Non-Residential Requirements
Zoning District       AG, R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, MF AB LB GB UB PB CR I-1 I-2 IR
Maximum height of     25                         35 35 75 75 35 25 75  75  35
buildings
Minimum road frontage 45                         45 45 45 NA 45 45 45  45  45
Minimum front yard    20                         20 20 20 NA 20 20 20  20  20
Minimum side yard     10                         10 10 10 NA 10 10 10  10  10
Minimum rear yard     10                         10 10 10 NA 10 10 10  10  10
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 2.43; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
§ 194.095 URBAN ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses shall be permitted in all zoning districts;
provided, however, that, the primary use which is supported by the accessory
use is a permitted use within the district to which a lot is zoned.
      (2)   Accessory uses shall not be permitted on a lot prior to the
erection of the primary building.
      (3)   Accessory uses shall be customarily incidental, and subordinate to,
and commonly associated with, the operation of the primary use of the lot.
      (4)   By way of example only, some typical accessory uses are: garages;
carports; porches; decks; awnings; canopies; mini-barns; storage sheds; fences;
patios; outdoor fireplaces; bathhouses; cabanas; children’s playhouses; swings;
game courts, including tennis or basketball courts; parking areas; signs;
swimming pools; hot tubs; radio sending and receiving antennas; satellite dish
antennas;’ and storage buildings.
   (B)   Development standards for accessory uses.
      (1)   Accessory uses shall comply with all development standards of the
applicable zoning district unless an exception is specifically provided for in
§
194.019 of this chapter.
      (2)   Accessory uses shall not encroach upon any:
         (a)   Platted easement; or
         (b)   Recorded easements for, infrastructure, utilities or drainage,
or for access to such infrastructure, utilities or drainage; unless
specifically authorized by the terms of such platted easement or recorded
easement, or by written consent of the agency in whose favor the easement is
granted.
      (3)   Fences (including wood, chain link, solid, architectural screen,
lattice-work or masonry):
         (a)   Maximum height above grade:
            1.   Shall not exceed 48 inches in a required front yard;
            2.   Shall not exceed six feet in a required side or rear yard;
            3.   Shall not exceed eight feet if located outside of the minimum
required yards, but within the buildable area of a lot;
            4.   Fence posts may exceed the six-foot maximum height by one foot
(see Figure 5, Diagram 1); and
            5.   Shall include in the height measurement any grade mounding,
inconsistent with the ground level of the land surrounding the fence, which
increases the height of the fence. (See Figure 5, Diagram 2.)
         (b)   Shall comply with all vision clearance area requirements of this
chapter, §
194.021 of this chapter;
         (c)   Shall not contain barbed wire, razor wire and similar type wires
as a part of the fence, except in the O-1 District, where it may be used only
in conjunction with an agricultural use; and
         (d)   Shall not be electrified in any manner which could intentionally
provide for an electrical shock if touched, except in the O-1 District, where
it may be used only in conjunction with an agricultural use.
   (C)   Additional development standards for accessory uses in any R district.
Accessory uses permitted in any R-SF-1, R-SF-2, R-SF-3, R-SF-4, R-MF-1, R-MF-
2 and R-V District shall also comply with the following additional development
standards.
      (1)   Accessory buildings.
         (a)   The total square foot area of all accessory buildings on a lot
shall not exceed 50% of the finished floor area of the primary building.
Exception: in the R-V District, a detached garage may exceed the 50%
calculation above; provided that:
            1.   It is the only accessory building on the lot;
            2.   The maximum dimensions of the garage shall not exceed 24 feet
by 30 feet; and
            3.   The total square footage of the garage is less than or equal
to the finished floor area of the primary building.
         (b)   The total number of accessory buildings on a lot shall not
exceed two accessory buildings.
         (c)   The minimum side yard requirements for accessory building shall
comply with the minimum side yard setback requirements of the district in which
it is located including aggregate.
      (2)   Swimming pools or hot tubs.
         (a)   A swimming pool or hot tub shall not be located between any
front lot line and the established front building line.
         (b)   A swimming pool or hot tub shall not be located in any required
side or rear yard.
         (c)   The swimming pool or hot tub shall be enclosed by either: a
fence, which shall be adequate to prevent persons, children or animals from
harm, and shall be equipped with a self closing. self-latching gate; or a
safety pool cover complying with the provisions of I.A.C. 20-4-27(c). If a
fence is utilized, such fence shall:
            1.   If erected at grade, be not less than five feet in height; or
            2.   If erected on the deck of an above ground pool or hot tub, not
be less than 36 inches in height measured from the surface of the deck.
         (d)   No pool or hot tub shall be erected or constructed unless
adequate distance from overhead electrical wires is provided in accordance with
the National Safety Code and the National Electrical Code, current editions.
         (e)   Swimming pools or hot tubs, situated on a lot where the primary
building is not occupied for periods of 30 consecutive days or more, shall be
equipped with a cover adequate to prevent persons, children or animals from
danger or harm.
         (f)   All swimming pools or hot tubs, including associated decking and
aprons, shall be included in the calculation of maximum lot coverage.
      (3)   Patios, porches, gazebos and decks. Patios, porches, gazebos and
decks shall comply with all maximum lot coverage, minimum yards and building
setback, and maximum building height regulations of the applicable zoning
district for primary buildings.
         (a)   Lot coverage credit. (Permitted in any R-SF-1, R-SF-2, and R-
V District) A onetime credit of 2% additional lot coverage may be sought and
utilized for at grade patio if constructed with approved pervious material
(inclusive of gravel, decking, and pavers, and in no case exceeding a height
greater than six inches from the natural grade established by the overall
parcel).
      (4)   Satellite dish antennas.
         (a)   The regulations of this division (C)(4) shall apply to satellite
dish antennas in all R districts which are greater than one meter (39.37
inches) in diameter. These regulations are intended to allow satellite dish
antennas to be located in a manner that:
            1.   Does not unreasonably delay or prevent the installation,
maintenance or use of the antenna;
            2.   Does not unreasonably increase the cost of installation,
maintenance or use of the antenna; or
            3.   Preclude reception of an acceptable quality signal.
         (b)   The regulations of this division (C)(4) are intended to
accomplish the following specific and clearly defined health, safety and
aesthetic objectives:
            1.   To promote the public health and safety by providing criteria
for the placement of satellite dish antennas greater than one meter (39.37
inches) in diameter which ensure that all such installations are performed in a
manner which limits endangerment of life and property on the site and on
surrounding properties if the antennas should collapse or are felled by ice or
high winds; and
            2.   To ensure the aesthetic harmony of residential areas by
providing for a harmonious streetscape, consistent with the Comprehensive Plan,
uncluttered by non-residential structures, including guy wires, poles, masts,
cables or other appurtenances which can create a visual blight offensive to
those who reside, work or travel in the town.
         (c)   The following regulations are intended to meet the above
objectives without unnecessarily burdening the federal interests in ensuring
the availability of satellite services and in promoting fair and effective
competition among competing communication service providers. In any R district,
satellite dish antennas greater than one meter (39.37 inches) in diameter shall
be permitted provided that:
            1.   If ground-mounted, satellite dish antennas shall:
               a.   Not be located in any required front, side or rear yard, or
between the established front building line and the front lot line; and
               b.   Not exceed the maximum building height allowed for an
accessory structure.
            2.   If roof-mounted, satellite dish antennas shall:
               a.   Not exceed the maximum building height limit allowed for a
primary building;
               b.   Not extend beyond the horizontal limits of the roof area;
and
               c.   Be installed in accordance with plans certified by a
registered civil or structural engineer that the proposed installation complies
with the standards listed in §§ 623.0 and 624.0 of the BOCA Basic Building
Code. Furthermore, written documentation of such compliance, include load
distribution within the building’s support structure shall be furnished.
         (d)   No requirement contained in this division (C)(4) shall be
enforced to the extend it:
            1.   Unreasonably delays or prevents installation, maintenance or
use of an antenna;
            2.   Unreasonably increases the cost of installation, maintenance
or use of an antenna; or
            3.   Precludes reception of an acceptable quality signal by an
antenna.
   (D)   Additional development standards for accessory uses in the R-MF-1, R-
MF-2 and all commercial and industrial districts. No accessory use or structure
shall be permitted in any required front, side or rear yard unless specifically
authorized by the applicable zoning district regulations. In addition, the
following accessory uses shall also comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Trash containers exceeding 36 cubic feet shall:
         (a)   Be screened on all four sides within a solid-walled or opaque
fenced enclosure with gate not less than six feet, nor greater than eight feet,
in height above grade;
         (b)   Be located behind the front building line; and
         (c)   Not be located in any required yard or required bufferyard.
      (2)   Parking areas shall comply with the off-street parking regulations
of §
194.108 of this chapter.
      (3)   Loading areas shall comply with the off-street loading regulations
of §
194.109 of this chapter.
      (4)   Signs shall comply with the sign regulations of §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (5)   Gasoline dispensers shall not be located within any required front,
side or rear yard and shall be provided with adequate on-site maneuverability
for both customer vehicles and supply vehicles (bulk delivery) so as to avoid
any interference with through traffic on any public right-of-way.
   (E)   Underground facilities. Underground facilities, excluding utilities,
shall not be located in or under any required front, side or rear yard. (See
also §
194.017 of this chapter.)
   (F)   Game courts. Game courts shall not be located in any required front,
side or rear yard, or between the established front building line and the front
lot line. However, a basketball goal may be located in a driveway or interior
access drive in any R district, so long as the game court for the basketball
goal does not encroach into a public street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-835.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.1; Ord. 2017-17, passed 12-4-2017; Ord.
2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 194.096 URBAN TEMPORARY USES, STRUCTURES AND BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Permits required. A temporary use, structure or building which is in
compliance with the provisions of this section, shall be allowed in any
district. A temporary use, structure or building which will be converted into a
permanent primary or accessory use after the cessation of the temporary use
shall be required to obtain an improvement location permit prior the
establishment of the use or the construction of any structure or building. A
temporary use, structure or building which will be removed from the site upon
cessation of the temporary use shall be exempt from the requirements of this
chapter to obtain an improvement location permit.
   (B)   Permitted temporary uses, structures and buildings. By way of example
only, permitted temporary uses, structures and buildings include construction
trailers, sales offices, model homes, garage sales and seasonal retail sales.
   (C)   Duration. Except for garage sales, seasonal retail sales, and mobile
classrooms, a temporary use, structure or building shall be permitted for an
initial period not to exceed one year, which may be renewed for an additional
one-year period by the Building Commissioner upon showing of good cause.
   (D)   Compliance with development standards. Any temporary use, structure or
building shall comply with all applicable development standards and setback
requirements in the district in which the temporary use, structure or building
is located.
   (E)   Cessation of use. All structures, buildings or debris associated with
the temporary use shall be removed from the site immediately upon completion or
cessation of the temporary use.
   (F)   Additional regulations for garage sales. Notwithstanding any
regulations above to the contrary, a garage sale may be conducted only on a
premises subject to the following additional regulations.
      (1)   A garage sale may be conducted two times each calendar year and
shall not exceed three consecutive days in duration.
      (2)   A garage sale shall only be conducted during the hours from sunrise
to sunset.
      (3)   All personal property exhibited outdoors during a garage sale shall
be placed within a building or structure or otherwise removed from the premises
immediately following the end of the garage sale.
      (4)   Garage sale signs shall comply with the applicable provisions of §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (5)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit one or more
owners from conducting a combined garage sale on one of the premises owned by
the participants; provided that, there is compliance with all other provisions
of this section.
   (G)   Additional regulations for temporary seasonal retail sales uses. Any
temporary seasonal retail sales use, structure or building shall also comply
with the following regulations.
      (1)   The temporary seasonal retail sales use shall be located in a
zoning district which would permit it as a permanent use on the real estate.
      (2)   The use or structure shall comply with all setback requirements for
a primary building on the site.
      (3)   A minimum of three off-street parking spaces shall be provided on-
site for the temporary seasonal retail sales use.
      (4)   The location of the temporary seasonal retail sales use and its
required amount of parking spaces shall not interfere with any required parking
spaces or safe and efficient flow of vehicular and pedestrian traffic around
the parking area for the permanent primary use of the site.
      (5)   Signs for the temporary seasonal retail sales shall comply with the
provisions of the sign regulations for freestanding identification signs for a
single use site, and for building identification signs.
      (6)   Notwithstanding the provisions above to the contrary, seasonal
retail sales uses shall not exceed 60 days in duration.
   (H)   Additional regulations for mobile classrooms. Mobile classrooms shall
be permitted only as a temporary use in compliance with the following
requirements.
      (1)   Mobile classrooms shall be for use by a religious use or school
only.
      (2)   Mobile classrooms shall be permitted by the grant of a special
exception by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (3)   Applicants for a special exception shall submit a site plan in
compliance with the provisions of §
194.126 of this chapter at the time of filing a petition for special exception.
      (4)   Special exceptions for mobile classrooms shall be conditioned upon
the applicant making progress towards accomplishing the goals of development
indicated the site plan within a reasonable period of time as established by
the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (5)   Special exceptions for mobile classrooms shall be reviewed annually
by the Board of Zoning Appeals to determine if the applicant is making progress
towards accomplishing the goals of development indicated on the site plan.
   (I)   Additional regulations for temporary construction offices or real
estate sales trailer. A temporary ILP for a temporary construction office, real
estate sales trailer shall be valid for a maximum of one year from its
issuance. An extension of time, not to exceed six months, may be granted by the
Building Commissioner for good cause shown. Said request for extension shall be
filed with the Building Commissioner prior to the termination date of the
temporary ILP.
      (1)   Adequate access and parking areas shall be provided. Such access
and parking areas shall not interfere with traffic movement on abutting or
adjacent streets.
      (2)   No public address systems or other noise producing devices shall be
permitted.
      (3)   No floodlights or other exterior lighting, beyond that commonly
associated with the use of the site, shall be permitted or directed upon the
premises.
      (4)   No later than 30 days after the termination date of the temporary
construction office, temporary real estate sales trailer the site must be
returned to as nearly as reasonably possible to its original condition, or an
improvement location permit obtained for either any improvements which are to
remain, or for additional, permanent development of the site.
      (5)   Temporary real estate sales office trailer:
         (a)   Shall be for a temporary period of one year from the date of
grant or upon completion of the model home, whichever occurs first. The
temporary real estate sales office trailer shall be removed from the property
not later than one year from obtaining an improvement location permit, in the
event that said temporary real estate sales office trailer has not been removed
within said one-year period, or upon completion of the model home, the
petitioner shall be in violation of this chapter and enforcement may ensue;
         (b)   A gravel parking area for not less than three cars shall be
installed on the property prior to commencement of the temporary real estate
sales office trailer;
         (c)   All temporary off-street parking shall be removed upon the
removal of the temporary real estate sales office trailer, and the property
shall be returned to its undeveloped state in preparation for the future
construction of a single-family dwelling in frail compliance with the
provisions of the applicable district and plat, filed with the office of the
Recorder of the county; and
         (d)   The temporary real estate sales office trailer shall be skirted
and landscaped around the base to enhance the appearance. A landscape plan
shall be submitted for review and approval by the Building Commissioner prior
to the issuance of an improvement location permit landscaping shall be
installed in compliance with the approved landscape plan.
   (J)   Model homes. A temporary improvement location permit may be issued for
the use of one model home in an approved subdivision. This improvement location
permit will be reviewed annually, upon request, prior to the expiration of each
one year period by the Building Commissioner for a one year renewal. The
Building Commissioner may administratively issue the renewal provided there
have been no registered violations or infractions with the utilization of the
model home. Violations and/or infractions shall be verified by the Building
Commissioner upon site inspection and completion of a filed written report. If
a homeowners association has been established, a letter of recommendation for
approval from the homeowners association must accompany the renewal request. If
the improvement location permit renewal request is denied by the Building
Commissioner, the applicant may appeal this decision to the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
      (1)   Adequate access and parking areas shall be provided. Such access
and parking areas shall not interfere with traffic movement on abutting or
adjacent streets.
      (2)   No public address systems or other noise producing devices shall be
permitted.
      (3)   No floodlights or other exterior lighting, beyond that commonly
associated with the use of the site, shall be permitted or directed upon the
premises.
      (4)   Signage shall be pursuant to §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter.
      (5)   Temporary real estate sales office in a model home:
         (a)   The location of the temporary sales office shall be contained
entirely within the model home located on the lot;
         (b)   Shall be for a period of one year from the date of approval of
improvement location permit for model home and may run concurrently.
Accordingly, in the event that said temporary sales office located in the model
home has not been removed on or before the expiration of the model home
improvement location permit, the applicant shall be in violation of this
approval and enforcement may ensure. Upon expiration and removal of the
temporary sales office from the model home, the model home shall revert to and
be utilized specifically as a single-family residence only; and
         (c)   Any temporary off-street parking, installed specifically to
serve the sales office/model home, shall be removed upon the removal of the
temporary real estate sales office from the structure.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.2; Ord. 2009-02, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 194.097 RURAL PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Use. No building or land shall be used, and no building shall be
erected, reconstructed or structurally altered, which is used for any purpose
other than a use which is permitted and specified in a district in which such
building or land is located, and which is in accordance with the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be operated and maintained under
the same ownership and on the same lot or contiguous lot as the primary use.
   (C)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures shall be permitted in all
zoning districts; provided, the following requirements have been met.
      (1)   Accessory structures shall not be erected prior to the primary
structure, except structures which classify as farm buildings, as stated under
the definitions section of this chapter.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall be clearly subordinate in height, area,
bulk extent and purpose to the primary structure.
      (3)   The following accessory structures are permitted in all districts
and may be installed in any required yard without an ILP: landscape vegetation,
swing sets, children’s tree houses, bird baths, bird houses, curbs, fences,
lamp posts, mail boxes, name plates, parking spaces, utility installations for
local services, retaining walls, walks, drainage installations, housing for
domestic pets provided it is not for profit and does not constitute a kennel as
defined in this chapter.
      (4)   Any accessory structure which is classified as a farm building, as
determined by this chapter, shall be only required to secure an ILP.
      (5)   Wireless communications facilities are permitted in all districts
and may be installed without an ILP; provided, they are co-located upon an
existing or pre-approved wireless communication facility, or they are no taller
than 15 feet and visually integrated or camouflaged against a structure other
than another antenna.
      (6)   The following accessory structures are permitted in all zoning
districts and require an application for an ILP certifying that all applicable
requirements of this chapter have been met:
         (a)   Buildings such as garages, carports, enclosed patios, bath
houses, gazebos, cabanas, greenhouses, storage sheds, stables and other
structures over 50 square feet in area;
         (b)   Home occupation structures in accordance with this chapter;
         (c)   In-ground swimming pools subject to a five-foot high fence
placement around the pool area and/or a mechanical pool cover over the pool;
         (d)   Signs as set forth in this chapter; and
         (e)   Antennas and amateur radio towers over 30 feet in height
measured from the roofline.
   (D)   Temporary uses. Temporary uses shall be permitted in all zoning
districts subject to approval by the Director based on his or her decision that
the use will not detrimentally affect the health, welfare, safety or morals of
the neighborhood under consideration for such use.
      (1)   The following are general provisions that must be met before
approval:
         (a)   The duration of a permit is stated herein, however, the Director
may renew such permit for a use in 30-day increments if so requested;
         (b)   Temporary uses shall be subject to all of the regulations of the
applicable zoning district;
         (c)   Adequate access and off-street parking facilities shall be
provided;
         (d)   Public address systems shall not be used in areas of
concentrated residential development;
         (e)   Floodlights and other lighting shall be directed upon the
premises and shall not be detrimental to adjoining properties;
         (f)   Signs shall not flash or blink or resemble traffic and emergency
warning signals; and
         (g)   Upon termination, the lot shall be put in a clean condition
devoid of trash and remnants of the temporary use.
      (2)   The following are permitted temporary uses subject to the issuance
of an ILP and a certificate of occupancy:
         (a)   Temporary office; and
         (b)   Model home or model apartment.
      (3)   The following are permitted temporary uses subject to the issuance
of an ILP:
         (a)   Incidental signs on the same property, necessary for the sale,
rental, or lease of;
         (b)   Announcement signs necessary to explain the character of a
building enterprise for a maximum of 18 months;
         (c)   Mobile homes as emergency shelters when needed until
construction or emergency ends; and
         (d)   Other uses deemed temporary by the BZA subject to all conditions
the BZA may deem necessary.
      (4)   The following are permitted temporary uses that do not require an
ILP or certificate of occupancy:
         (a)   Parking area designated for a special event for a maximum of 30
days; and
         (b)   Other uses deemed temporary by the BZA subject to all conditions
the BZA may deem necessary.
   (E)   Lots. Every primary structure hereafter erected shall be located on an
individual lot which fronts on a street or private drive. No building or
structure shall hereafter be erected or located on a lot unless such lot
conforms with the lot area regulations of the District in which it is located
or in accordance with §
194.019 of this chapter.
   (F)   Conversions.
      (1)   Structures originally designed for occupancy by two families or
less converted to occupancy by more than two families shall secure an ILP. Such
structures shall show no evidence of change to indicate the extra dwelling
units.
      (2)   All fire escapes or stairways leading to a second or higher floor
shall be completely enclosed within the converted building.
   (G)   Buildings relocated. No buildings or structures shall be moved from
one lot or premises to another unless such building conforms to the regulations
of the district to which such building shall be moved and an ILP has been
secured.
   (H)   Building height. All buildings hereafter shall comply with the height
regulations of the district in which it is located, with the exception of the
following.
      (1)   A farm building may be erected or changed to any height necessary
for its operation, however, any new structure regardless of height shall secure
an ILP.
      (2)   Spires and church steeples may be erected or changed to any height
that is not otherwise prohibited.
   (I)   Yards.
      (1)   Architectural features (cornices, chimney, eave, sill, canopy or
similar feature) or open platforms, porches or landings may extend into a
required side or rear yard not more than two feet, and may project into a
required front yard not more than three feet.
      (2)   In the case of a through or corner lot, any property line abutting
a street shall be considered a front property line and the setback from that
line shall conform to the front yard setback regulations of that district.
Corner lots shall have two front yard setbacks and two side yard setbacks.
      (3)   Where 25% or more of the lots in a block are occupied by buildings,
the average setbacks of such buildings determine the front yard setback in the
block. If there are no other buildings within 330 feet of the proposed building
in either direction, then the standard setback for the District shall apply.
      (4)   Front yard setback lines established in recorded subdivisions
establish the front yards in such subdivisions; provided that, after the
adoption of this chapter, no subdivision shall be platted with building setback
lines less than the required front yard of the district in which it is located.
      (5)   One-half of an alley, abutting the rear or side of a lot may be
included in the rear yard setback or side yard setback, respectively, but such
alley space shall not be included for loading and unloading berths.
   (J)   Restrictions along streams. (See Storm Drainage, Erosion and Sediment
Control Ordinance.)
      (1)   No permanent structures may be erected and, if erected in violation
of this division (J), no such structure may be used if the location is within
75 feet of the centerline of any legal tile ditch, or within 75 feet of the
existing top edge of any legal open ditch as determined by the town’s Surveyor.
      (2)   No authorization of a use, under this chapter, includes the
authority to discharge liquid or solid wastes into public waters except as
permitted under the Stream Pollution Control Law (Acts 1943, Ch. 214, as
amended). Plans and specifications for proposed public or district sewage or
other waste treatment and disposal facilities must be approved by the Stream
Pollution Control Board of the state, except when connecting to a public sewer
utility.
   (K)   Flood protection. Structures shall be permitted in accordance with
federal and state requirements and
Ch. 192 of this code of ordinances pertaining to construction in flood hazard
areas.
   (L)   Bulk storage. In any district, structures, buildings or above ground
tanks, used for bulk storage of flammable or explosive liquids, gases or other
materials shall not be located closer than 50 feet to the property line.
Additional information regarding evidence of safety measures may be required in
order to determine the public safety therein.
   (M)   Outside storage. A landscape contractor located in an agricultural
district may store equipment and materials used in the business on the property
as long as the equipment and non-plant materials are stored in an enclosed
structure and no retail sales occur on the property.
   (N)   Lighting. See §
194.113.
   (O)   Trash receptacles. In any district, non-pedestrian, outdoor trash
receptacles used for non- agricultural or non-residential uses shall be
completely screened from view by the use of either solid fencing or evergreen
vegetation. Such receptacles shall not be visible from the street front or any
adjacent residential use during any time of the year.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.3; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.098 URBAN HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to provide for home
occupations that conform to the standards set forth below. The standards in
this section are intended to ensure compatibility of home occupations with
other permitted uses and with the residential character of the neighborhood
plus clearly establishing the secondary or incidental status of home
occupations in relation to the primary use for dwelling purposes.
   (B)   Required conditions. Home occupations shall be permitted in all
residential districts subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Home occupations shall be limited to family members residing within
the dwelling and who make the dwelling their primary place of residence. The
employment of one non-resident employee also shall be permitted.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
incidental and subordinate to the use for residential purposes by the
occupants. No more than 25% of the gross floor area of the dwelling unit shall
be used in the conduct of the home occupations.
      (3)   There shall be no structural alterations to the interior of the
dwelling to accommodate a home occupation which would render the dwelling
undesirable for residential use.
      (4)   There shall be no structural additions, enlargements or exterior
alterations changing the residential appearance of the dwelling or the lot or
other visible indications of the conduct of the home occupation.
      (5)   There shall be no additional or separate entrance added to the
dwelling for the purpose of conducting the home occupation.
      (6)   There shall be no internal or external alterations, construction
features or use of electrical or mechanical equipment which would change the
fire rating of the structure.
      (7)   There shall be no outside storage or outside display of any kind
related to the home occupation.
      (8)   (a)   All aspects of the home occupation shall be conducted within
the dwelling structure in which the occupant makes his or her residence.
         (b)   No home occupation shall be conducted in any detached accessory
building.
      (9)   There shall be no traffic generated by a home occupation which is
greater in volume than that which would be normally expected in the residential
area in which the home occupation is located.
      (10)   There shall be no equipment or process used in the home occupation
which creates noise, vibration, glare, smoke, fumes, odors or electrical
interference detectable to the normal senses at any point beyond the lot line.
      (11)   There shall be no electrical or mechanical equipment utilized in
the home occupation which will create any visual or audible interference with
radio or television reception or which will cause fluctuations in line voltage
off the premises.
      (12)   The home occupation shall not involve the use of commercial
vehicles for delivery of materials to or from the premises other than vehicles
normally associated with residential home delivery (i.e., postal or united
parcel vehicles). See also §
194.240 of this chapter.
      (13)   The home occupation shall not involve the use of on-premises signs
which call attention to the fact that the dwelling is being used for business
purposes.
      (14)   The dwelling shall not be altered in its appearance and the home
occupation shall not be conducted in such a manner as to differentiate the
dwelling from the residential character of the area by either use of colors,
materials, construction, separate entrances, lighting, signs or other means.
      (15)   No stock in trade (except for articles produced on the premises by
residents of the dwelling) shall be displayed or sold upon the premises.
   (C)   Prohibited home occupations. The following uses, by the nature of the
investment or operation, have a pronounced tendency, once started, to rapidly
increase beyond the limits specified above for home occupations and impair the
use, value and quiet enjoyment of adjacent residential properties. Therefore,
the uses specified below shall not be permitted as home occupations:
      (1)   Antique, book or gift shop;
      (2)   Appliance repair, large or small;
      (3)   Auto vehicle repairs, major or minor;
      (4)   Bed and breakfast;
      (5)   Contractor (other than a personal office; see division (B)(7)
above);
      (6)   Dance studio;
      (7)   Freight, trucking or shipping;
      (8)   Lawn mower or bicycle repair;
      (9)   Medical or dental clinic;
      (10)   Painting of vehicles, trailers, boats and the like;
      (11)   Photo developing (see also division (D)(8) below);
      (12)   Private schools with organized classes;
      (13)   Restaurants, eating or drinking establishments;
      (14)   Television or radio repair;
      (15)   Tool or equipment rental;
      (16)   Tooling, welding or machine shop;
      (17)   Veterinary clinic, kennel or stable; and
      (18)   Any use not in compliance with the intent and conditions set forth
in this section.
   (D)   Permitted home occupations. By way of example, the following uses,
when conducted in compliance with the conditions set forth above, qualify as
permitted home occupations:
      (1)   Artist’s, musician’s or writer’s studio;
      (2)   Barber or beautician;
      (3)   Cake making or decorating (not a catering facility);
      (4)   Child care for five or less children at any time;
      (5)   Dressmaking, millinery, sewing or tailoring;
      (6)   Home school;
      (7)   Personal office for a(n):
         (a)   Accountant;
         (b)   Architect;
         (c)   Broker;
         (d)   Consultant;
         (e)   Contractor;
         (f)   Engineer;
         (g)   Insurance agent;
         (h)   Lawyer;
         (i)   Planner;
         (j)   Real estate agent;
         (k)   Sales representative; and
         (l)   Notary public.
      (8)   Photography studio (darkroom development involving chemicals not
permitted);
      (9)   Services provided by clergy;
      (10)   Teaching or tutoring, including musical instruments or dance, when
limited to one pupil at a time;
      (11)   Washing or ironing for others (not a commercial laundry or
laundromat);
      (12)   Weaving; and
      (13)   Other uses that comply with the intent and conditions set forth in
this section.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.4)
§ 194.099 RURAL HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   All persons conducting home occupations shall register the home occupation
with the town on forms provided by the Clerk-Treasurer’s Office.
   (A)   Home occupations. A home occupation shall be permitted when said
occupation conducted on residentially used premises is considered customary and
traditional, incidental to the principal use of the premises as a residence,
and not construed as a business. Permitted home occupations shall not adversely
affect the residential character of the district or interfere with the
reasonable enjoyment of adjoining properties. Permitted home occupations shall
be of a personal service nature limited to domestic crafts and professional
service.
 
Table 7: Permitted Types of Home Occupations
Permitted    Domestic crafts, dressmaking, millinery, sewing, weaving, tailoring,
uses         ironing, washing, custom home furnishings work, carpentry work, furniture
             repair, hair grooming.
Permitted    Law, medicines, architecture, engineering, accounting, planning, real
uses, but    estate, insurance, notary public, manufacturer’s agent, clergy, writing,
limited to   music, painting, photography, academic tutoring, outdoor instructional
advice and   studio for one student at a time.
consultation
             Real estate office, insurance office, clinic, doctor’s office dress shop,
Prohibited   millinery shop, funeral home, bed and breakfast. Outdoor instructional
uses         studios for more than one student at a time, day care center, animal
             hospital, kennel, trailer rental and all uses associated with vehicles
             dealers, repair and services.
 
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   The primary use of the primary structure or dwelling unit shall
remain residential and the operator of the home occupation shall remain a
resident in the dwelling unit.
      (2)   A home occupation and all activities and materials related to such
occupation may be permitted in a single accessory structure; provided that,
such structure is subordinate to the primary residence in terms of height,
setback, area and bulk and compatible with the primary residence in terms of
materials.
      (3)   The operator conducting the home occupation shall be the sole
entrepreneur, and he or she shall not employ any other person other than a
member of the immediate family residing in the residence and one non-family
member.
      (4)   No structural additions, enlargements or exterior alterations
changing the residential appearance to a business appearance shall be
permitted.
      (5)   No more than 25% of the floor area of any one story of the dwelling
unit shall be devoted to such home occupation.
      (6)   Outside storage of machinery, equipment or materials shall not be
permitted.
      (7)   No additional and separate entrance incongruent with the
residential structural design shall be constructed for the purpose of
conducting the home occupation.
      (8)   No provision for more than two extra off-street parking or loading
facilities, other than the requirements and permitted facilities of the zone
district, shall be permitted. No part of a minimum required setback distance
shall be used for off-street parking or lading facilities and no additional
driveway to serve such home occupations shall be permitted.
      (9)   No display of goods or external evidence of the home occupation
shall be permitted, except for signs in accordance with the sign section of
this chapter.
      (10)   No stock in trade for commodities, other than those prepared,
produced or created on the premises by the operator of the home occupation,
shall be kept or sold on the premises.
      (11)   No electrical or mechanical equipment shall interfere with local
radio communications and television reception, or cause fluctuation in line
voltage off the premises.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.5)
§ 194.100 URBAN SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR THE MENTALLY
ILL.
   A residential facility for the mentally ill, as defined in this chapter, and
by I.C. 12-7-2-167 may not be located within 3,000 feet of another residential
facility for the mentally ill, as measured between lot lines.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.6)
§ 194.101 URBAN SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Intent. In the development and adoption of this section, it is
recognized that there are some adult entertainment business uses which, due to
their very nature, have certain objectionable operational characteristics
particularly when located in close proximity to residential neighborhoods,
thereby having a deleterious impact upon property values and the quality of
life in such surrounding areas. It has been acknowledged by communities across
the nation that state and local governmental entities have a special concern in
regulating the operation of such adult entertainment businesses under their
jurisdiction to ensure that these adverse effects will not contribute to the
blighting or down grading of adjacent neighborhoods. The special regulations
deemed necessary to control the undesirable externalities arising from these
adult entertainment businesses are set forth below. The purpose of these
controls and regulations is to preserve the integrity and character of
residential neighborhoods, to deter the spread of urban blight and to protect
minors from the objectionable operational characteristics of these adult
entertainment business uses by restricting their close proximity to churches,
parks, schools, day care and child care facilities and residential areas.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   The establishment, enlargement, reconstruction, resumption or
structural alteration of any adult entertainment business shall be prohibited
if such adult entertainment business is within 1,000 feet of two other such
adult entertainment businesses or within 600 feet of any existing church,
school, day care facility, child care facility, park, agricultural district or
R district within the corporate limits of the town.
      (2)   Provided further that, no adult entertainment business shall be
established, enlarged, reconstructed, resumed or structurally altered unless
the site or proposed site is located in an I-2, General Industrial District, or
I-3, Heavy Industrial District and has been approved as a special exception use
by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   Measurement of distances. The distance between one adult entertainment
business and another adult entertainment business shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
closest exterior structural wall of each such business. The distance between an
adult entertainment business, and any church, school, park, day care facility,
child care facility, agricultural district or residential district shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the closest exterior structural wall of the adult entertainment
business to the nearest lot line of the church, school, day care facility,
child care facility, park, agricultural district or R district.
   (D)   Exterior display. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter
to the contrary, all exterior displays for an adult entertainment business
shall comply with the following regulations.
      (1)   Observation. No adult entertainment business shall be conducted in
any manner that permits the observation of any material depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by
display, decorations, sign, show window or other opening from any public right-
of-way.
      (2)   Number of signs. Not more than one business wall sign shall be
permitted for an adult entertainment business and said business wall sign shall
be permitted only on the front facade of the building. In addition to the one
permitted business wall sign, an adult entertainment business may be permitted
not more than one ground sign structure if it is permitted by §§
194.160 through
194.169 of this chapter and any amendments thereto, and which meets all of the
requirements of the zoning district in which it is located. All other sign
structures shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Sign surface area. The sign surface area of a business wall sign
for an adult entertainment business shall not exceed an amount equal to 5% of
the front building facade of the first floor elevation (first ten feet) of the
premises occupied by the adult entertainment business, or 100 square feet,
whichever is the lesser. The maximum sign surface area of a ground sign
structure, where permitted, shall not exceed one square foot for each lineal
foot of frontage of the lot, or 24 square feet, which is the lesser.
      (4)   Illumination. Lighting, signs and sign structures may be
illuminated; provided, however, such illumination shall not be by way of
exterior lighting (e.g., spot or flood lights).
   (E)   Continuation of non-conforming use. This section is subject to the
provisions of §
194.019 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.7)
§ 194.102 URBAN SPECIAL REGULATIONS FOR WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.
   (A)   Application. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, and
in addition to other applicable provisions, wireless telecommunications
facilities, when such are permitted by federal law and the laws of the state,
shall be regulated and governed by the use regulations and requirements of this
section. However, this section shall not apply, nor be construed to apply, to
amateur radio operators who are licensed to operate a radio or transmitter by
the Federal Communications Commission under Part 97 of the Federal
Communications Commission’s rules.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   Wireless telecommunication facilities are hereby declared special
exception uses in all districts contained in this chapter.
      (2)   The applicant for a wireless telecommunication facility special
exception shall demonstrate that they have exhausted all efforts to locate the
proposed telecommunications antennas upon existing buildings or structures in
the geographical area of the proposed telecommunications antennas. The
applicant shall submit a master plan for its wireless telecommunication
facilities throughout the town. The master plan shall demonstrate efforts to
minimize the size and number of telecommunications antenna locations throughout
the geographical area, taking into consideration existing technology.
      (3)   The placement of telecommunications antennas upon existing
telecommunications towers may be administratively approved by the Building
Commissioner.
   (C)   Development standards.
      (1)   In addition to complying with the requirements for a special
exception use for the zoning district of the property, all wireless
telecommunications facilities shall comply with the following additional
requirements.
         (a)   The maximum height of a telecommunications tower, including
antenna array, shall not exceed 120 feet above grade.
         (b)   No new telecommunications towers shall be located within 5,000
feet from another telecommunications tower.
         (c)   All guys and guy anchors shall be located within the buildable
area of the lot and shall not be located within any front, side or rear yard
setback or front, side or rear bufferyard setback and, in any event, no closer
than five feet to any lot line.
         (d)   The base of a telecommunications tower and all guy anchors shall
be enclosed by security fencing.
         (e)   Equipment buildings must be similar in color and character to
the main or adjoining building or structure or blend with the landscaping and
other surroundings immediately adjacent to the equipment building and shall be
screened by a chain link or wrought iron fence with landscaping installed in
compliance with the provisions of §
194.109 of this chapter for Level B landscaping requirements.
         (f)   A telecommunications tower shall be erected and operated in
compliance with the most current Federal Communication Commission and Federal
Aviation Administration rules and regulations and other applicable federal and
state standards.
         (g)   A telecommunications tower shall be used by three or more
wireless communications providers; or providers including providers such as
cellular or PCS providers using Antenna with no more than three degrees of
twist and sway at the top elevation and the owner of the telecommunications
tower and the property on which it is located must certify to the town that the
antenna is available for use by another wireless telecommunications provider on
a reasonable and non- discriminatory basis and at a cost not exceeding the
market value for the use of the facilities. If a portion of the
telecommunications tower is to be leased to other wireless communications
providers, the portions of the actual or proposed lease that demonstrate
compliance with the requirements of this division (C)(1) shall be submitted
with the application for special exception.
         (h)   All telecommunications towers shall be of a tapering monopole
construction, except that another type telecommunications tower may be allowed
upon showing that the alternate type of telecommunications tower would cause
less visual impact on surrounding property than a similar monopole structure.
         (i)   No lettering, symbols, images, trademarks, signs or advertising
shall be placed on or affixed to any part of a telecommunications tower,
antenna array or antenna, other than as required by FCC regulations regarding
Telecommunications Tower registration or other applicable law.
         (j)   The need for the requested site and the nature of any existing
sites shall be documented and the manner in which the placement will promote
the town’s telecommunications policies shall be demonstrated.
         (k)   Telecommunications towers shall be constructed to minimize
potential safety hazards. Telecommunications towers shall be constructed so as
to meet or exceed the most recent EIA-222 standards, and prior to issuance of a
building permit, the Building Inspector shall be provided with an engineer’s
certification that the telecommunications tower’s design meets or exceeds those
standards. Guyed telecommunications towers shall be located in such a manner
that if the telecommunications tower should fall along its longest dimension,
the telecommunications tower will remain within the lot lines and avoid
habitable structures, public streets, utility lines and other
telecommunications towers.
         (l)   Telecommunications towers and equipment buildings shall be
located: to minimize their number, height and obtrusiveness; to minimize visual
impacts on the surrounding area; and, in accordance with the following town’s
telecommunications policies:
            1.   Ensure that the height of telecommunications towers have the
least visual impact and is no greater than required to achieve service area
requirements and potential) collocation, when visually appropriate;
            2.   Demonstrate that the selected site for a new
telecommunications tower provides the least visual impact on residential areas
or the public way and illustrate that the selected site provides the best
opportunity to minimize the visual impact of the proposed facility;
            3.   Site telecommunications towers to minimize being visually
solitary or prominent when viewed from residential areas or the public way. The
telecommunications tower should be obscured by vegetation, tree cover,
topographic features and buildings or other structures to the maximum extent
feasible;
            4.   Place telecommunications towers to ensure that historically
significant landscapes are protected. The views of and vistas from
architecturally or historically significant structures should not be impaired
or diminished by the placement of telecommunications towers; and
            5.   The Board of Zoning Appeals may grant a special exception
which does not fully comply with the telecommunications policies contained
herein for telecommunications towers when the Board of Zoning Appeals
determines that such a grant better accomplishes the telecommunications
policies set out in this division (C)(1) than would a strict application of
these telecommunication policies. Such deviations from the town’s
telecommunications policy shall be no greater than necessary to accomplish
those policies.
         (m)   No signals or lights or illumination shall be permitted on
telecommunications towers unless required by the Federal Communications
Commission, the Federal Aviation Administration or the town.
         (n)   If any additions, changes or modifications are to be made to a
telecommunications tower, the Building Commissioner shall have the authority to
require proof, through the submission of engineering and structural data, that
the addition, change or modification conforms to structural wind load and all
other requirements of the current Building Code adopted by the town.
         (o)   Telecommunications towers which have not been used for a period
of one year shall be removed. The last telecommunication service provider to
use a telecommunications tower shall notify the Building Commissioner or his or
her designee within 30 days that use of a telecommunications tower has been
discontinued.
         (p)   All telecommunications towers shall comply with all ordinances
of the town not in conflict with this section.
      (2)   Antennas mounted on existing buildings or structures.
         (a)   Roof-mounted telecommunications antennas are allowed on non-
residential buildings in all zoning districts without further zoning
proceedings; provided, a non-whip antenna does not exceed the height of the
building by more than ten feet and is screened from view from any adjacent
public right-of-way and provided a whip antenna does not exceed the height of
the building by more than 15 feet and is located no closer than 15 feet to the
perimeter of the building. Prior to installation of a roof mounted
telecommunications antenna, the Building Inspector shall be provided with an
engineer’s certification that the roof will support the proposed
telecommunications antenna and associated roof-mounted equipment. Roof-mounted
telecommunications antenna and associated equipment shall be screened with
enclosures or facades having an appearance that blends with the building on
which they are located or by locating them so that they are not visible from an
adjacent public right-of-way.
         (b)   Building-mounted telecommunications antennas of the non-whip
antenna type are allowed on non-residential buildings in all zoning districts
without further zoning proceedings; provided, the non-whip antenna is mounted
flush with the exterior of the building so that it projects no more than 30
inches from the surface of the building to which it is attached and the non-
whip antenna’s appearance is such as to blend with the surrounding surface of
the building.
         (c)   Associated equipment shall be placed either within the same
building or in a separate building which matches the existing building in
character and building materials or blends with the landscaping and other
surroundings immediately adjacent to the separate building housing the
equipment. Associated equipment for roof-mounted telecommunications antennas
may be located on the roof of the building if it is screened from view from any
adjacent public right-of-way.
         (d)   Telecommunications antennas are allowed without further zoning
proceeding on existing utility. Lighting, telecommunications towers and sign
structures exceeding 50 feet in height above grade; provided that, the
telecommunications antenna does not exceed the height of the structure by more
than ten feet if a non-whip antenna or 15 feet if a whip antenna. Existing
structures may be rebuilt if necessary to support the load of the new
telecommunications antenna without further zoning proceedings if the rebuilt
structure is substantially similar in appearance to the existing structure it
replaces.
         (e)   Telecommunications antennas located on existing buildings or
structures are not subject to the 5,000-foot separation requirement.
         (f)   When an application for an improvement location permit to locate
a telecommunications antenna on an existing building or other structure is
made, the Director shall be provided with color photo simulations showing the
site of the existing structure with a photorealistic representation of the
proposed telecommunications antenna and the existing structure or any proposed
reconstruction of the structure as it would appear viewed from the closest
residential property and from adjacent public right-of-way. The applicant shall
also submit photographs of the same views showing the current appearance of the
site without the proposed telecommunications antenna.
      (3)   Telecommunications antennas shall not be constructed or used within
the town without all approvals and permits first having been secured.
      (4)   Within 30 days of the enactment of this chapter, and during each
January thereafter, providers of personal wireless services, as that term is
defined by federal law, operating in the town shall provide the town with their
respective master plan for wireless telecommunications facilities, including
detailed maps, showing the precise locations and characteristics of all
telecommunications antennas and telecommunications towers serving any portion
of the town and indicating coverage areas for current and future
telecommunications antennas and telecommunications towers and shall provide the
town with any updates to the above documents. Updated documents shall be
provided to the town within three months of their creation.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.8)
§ 194.103 RURAL SPECIAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minor subdivisions and single-family homes in the AG District.
Application for minor residential subdivisions and single-family homes are
brought before the Board of Zoning Appeals and considered a restricted use for
the purpose of thorough review on a site-by-site basis. A variance may be
requested from the requirements of Table 3 and any other sections of this
chapter at the written request of the applicant at the time of filing for
special exception or variance before the BZA. The following procedures and
restrictions shall be considered.
      (1)   Approval. Minor subdivision approval shall be in accordance with
the applicable section of Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances. Single-family
homes in the AG District shall be in accordance with the procedure set forth
for special exception.
      (2)   Driveways. In order to prevent strip lot development and preserve
rural character, it is necessary to encourage the sharing of driveways.
         (a)   New driveways for minor subdivisions in the AG District shall be
in accordance with Table 3 of this chapter. Lots shall share a common driveway
cut when possible.
         (b)   When applicable, new driveways in the AG District shall be along
the property line to make it possible to share the driveway with an adjoining
lot in the future. In addition, the commitment may be required that the owner
share the driveway when necessary.
      (3)   Cluster design. In order to preserve agricultural ground, minor
subdivisions in the AG District shall be laid out in a cluster design. This is
best accomplished by contiguously grouping the lots in such a manner so as to
consume the least amount of land possible given the constraints of the
landscape.
      (4)   Buffering. In order to protect residential uses from agricultural
activities and vice-versa, the perimeter of the minor subdivision and lots for
single-family homes in the AG District shall have bufferyard.
      (5)   Commitments. In order to protect residential uses from agricultural
activities and vice-versa, commitments may be required by the BZA at the time
of special exception approval in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-921. Such
commitments must be recorded with the office of the county’s Recorder prior to
the issuance of an ILP. Commitments mandated by the BZA may include, but are
not limited, to the following:
         (a)   Right-to-Farm Law of Indiana. The applicant for the special
exception acknowledges and/or agrees that agricultural uses are permitted in
the surrounding area, no agricultural or agri-business operation in the area
shall be or become a nuisance, and to not object to the continuation of any
such agricultural or agri-business operation in the surrounding area as long as
such operation does not constitute a nuisance.
         (b)   Future residential subdivision. After the granting of the
initial special exception and prior to the applicant further subdividing the
subject property beyond such approval, he or she shall make application for an
additional special exception in order that the BZA may review the request and
ensure that such further subdivision is in accordance with this chapter and
meets the standards for such special exception.
   (B)   Adult entertainment businesses. All adult entertainment businesses
shall be required to comply with the following standards.
      (1)   Intent. In the development and adoption of this section, it is
recognized that there are some adult entertainment business uses which due to
their very nature have certain adverse secondary effects in the form of
objectionable operational characteristics particularly when located in close
proximity to residential neighborhoods, thereby having a deleterious impact
upon property values and the quality of life in such surrounding areas. It has
been acknowledged by communities across the nation that state and local
governmental entities have a special concern in regulating the operation of
such adult entertainment businesses under their jurisdiction to ensure that
these adverse secondary effects will not contribute to the blighting or
downgrading of adjacent neighborhoods. The special regulations deemed necessary
to control the undesirable externalities arising from these adult entertainment
businesses are set forth below. The purpose of these controls and regulations
is to preserve the integrity and character of residential neighborhoods, to
deter the spread of urban blight and to protect minors from the objectionable
operational characteristics of these adult entertainment business uses by
restricting their close proximity to churches, parks, fairgrounds, schools, day
care centers and residential areas, including AG districts.
      (2)   Prohibitions. The establishment of an adult entertainment business,
as defined, shall be prohibited if such adult entertainment business is within
1,000 feet of another such adult entertainment business or within 600 feet of
any existing church, school, day care center, park, fairground, AG District or
R district within the jurisdiction of the town’s Plan Commission.
      (3)   Measurement of distances. The distance between one adult
entertainment business and another adult entertainment business shall be
measured in a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the closest exterior structural wall of each such business. The
distance between an adult entertainment business, and any church, school, park,
fairground, day care center, AG District or R district shall be measured in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
closest exterior structural wall of the adult entertainment business to the
nearest lot line of the church, school, day care center, park, fairground, AG
District or R district.
      (4)   Exterior display. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
chapter to the contrary, all exterior displays for an adult entertainment
business shall comply with the following regulations.
         (a)   General. No adult entertainment business shall be conducted in
any manner that permits the observation of any material depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by
display, decorations, sign, show window or other opening from any public right-
of-way.
         (b)   Number of signs. Not more than one wall sign shall be permitted
for an adult entertainment business and said wall sign shall be permitted only
on the front facade of the building. In addition to the one permitted wall
sign, an adult entertainment business may be permitted not more than one
freestanding sign, and which meets all of the requirements of the zoning
district in which it is located.
         (c)   Sign surface area. The maximum sign area of a wall sign for an
adult entertainment business shall not exceed an amount equal to 5% of the
front building facade of the first floor elevation (first ten feet) of the
premises occupied by the adult entertainment business, or 100 square feet,
whichever is the lesser. The maximum combined sign area of a freestanding sign
shall not exceed one square foot for each lineal foot of frontage of the lot,
or 24 square feet, which is the lesser.
         (d)   Lighting. Signs and sign structures may be illuminated;
provided, however, such illumination shall not be by way of exterior lighting
(e.g., spot or floodlights).
      (5)   Continuation of non-conforming uses. This part is subject to the
provisions of §
194.019 of this chapter.
   (C)   Airport uses. The following uses and facilities are considered to be
appropriate and common for the safe and efficient take-off and landing of
aircraft and are hereby permitted with any airport or heliport. However, if a
runway is extended, or direction of a runway is changed, the owners shall
petition the town’s Plan Commission for approval:
      (1)   Runways with a maximum 60,000-pounds weight limit;
      (2)   Storage hangars;
      (3)   Service hangars;
      (4)   Landing lights;
      (5)   Taxi-ways;
      (6)   On-premises illuminated signs (see Table 11);
      (7)   Terminals/offices;
      (8)   One on-site employee residence;
      (9)   Terminal navigational aids;
      (10)   Tie-downs;
      (11)   Weather gauge instruments;
      (12)   Beacons;
      (13)   Fuel storage tanks and pumping systems;
      (14)   Flight school;
      (15)   Meeting facilities; and
      (16)   Employee break room/kitchenette.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.9)
§ 194.104 URBAN PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Scope and applicability. All new uses established after the effective
date of this chapter shall comply with the following performance standards. Any
use in existence prior to the date of this chapter shall not be altered or
modified so as to conflict with the following performance standards.
   (B)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Vibration. No use shall cause earth vibration or concussions
detectible beyond the lot lines without the aid of instruments.
      (2)   Smoke, dust and particulate matter. Smoke, dust and particulate
matter and any other airborne material shall not exceed the limits established
by the state’s Department of Environmental Management Rules regarding fugitive
dust.
      (3)   Noxious matter. No use shall discharge across lot lines any
noxious, toxic or corrosive matter, fumes or gases in such concentration as to
be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause
injury to property.
      (4)   Odor. No use shall emit across lot lines odors in such quantities
as to be readily detectible at any point along the lot lines and as to be
detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause injury
to property.
      (5)   Noise.
         (a)   No use shall produce noise in such a manner as to endanger the
public health, safety or welfare or cause injury to property. Operational or
production noise shall be muffled so as not to become detrimental due to
intermittence, beat frequency, shrillness or vibration.
         (b)   Sound levels shall be measured with a sound level meter and
associated octave band filter manufactured according to standards prescribed by
the American Standards Association. Measurements shall be made using the flat
network of the sound level meter. Impulsive type noises shall be subject to the
performance standards hereinafter prescribed; provided that, such noises shall
be capable of being accurately measured with such equipment. Noises capable of
being so measured; for the purposes of this section, shall be those noises
which cause rapid fluctuations of the needle of the sound level meter with a
variation of no more than plus or minus two decibels (dB). Noises incapable of
being so measured, such as those of an irregular and intermittent, shall be
controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
         (c)   At no point on the boundary of an R district, special use
district, business district, or industrial district shall the sound pressure
level of any operation or plant, other than background noises produced by
sources not under control of this section, such as the operation of motor
vehicles or other transportation facilities, exceed the decibel (dB) limits in
the octave bands designated as follows.
Octave Band Frequency  Along Residential or Special
(Cycles per Second)    Along Business or Industrial District Boundaries (dB)
                       Use District Boundaries (dB)
Octave Band Frequency  Along Residential or Special
(Cycles per Second)    Along Business or Industrial District Boundaries (dB)
                       Use District Boundaries (dB)
0 to 74                72                           79
75 to 150              67                           74
151 to 300             59                           66
301 to 600             52                           59
601 to 1,200           46                           53
1,201 to 2,400         40                           47
2,401 to 4,800         34                           41
Above 4,800            32                           39
 
      (6)   Heat. No use shall produce heat creating a hazard perceptible from
any point beyond the lot lines.
      (7)   Light/glare. See §
194.113.
      (8)   Waste. No use shall accumulate within the lot or discharge beyond
the lot lines any waste matter, whether liquid or solid, in violation of the
applicable standards and regulations of the county’s Health Department, the
state’s Board of Health, the Stream Pollution Control Board of the state, in
such a manner as to endanger the public health, safety or welfare or cause
injury to property.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.10; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.105 URBAN OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Parking for buildings, structures or uses. All new development,
building additions or conversions of use for which an improvement location
permit is required by this chapter shall provide required off-street parking
areas in accordance with the following regulations.
   (B)   Existing parking areas. Off-street parking areas shall not be reduced
below the minimum requirement for such use as required by this chapter. Any
off-street parking areas existing prior to the effective date of this chapter
which were already below the standards established by this chapter shall not be
further reduced.
   (C)   Location of parking areas. Off-street parking areas shall be located
on the same lot, within the same integrated center, or within 300 feet of the
building or use served by the off-street parking area. Off-street parking for
any use shall be located within a zoning district which permits the use for
which the off-street parking is required.
   (D)   Design and construction of parking areas. The following standards
shall apply to the design of off-street parking areas required by this chapter
in all districts (except for single-family dwellings and agricultural uses
located in the O-1 District).
      (1)   Standard parking schemes. The layout of all parking areas shall be
in compliance with the requirements set forth in Table 8 below.
      (2)   Surface of parking areas. All required off-street parking areas and
the ingress/egress to and from such off-street parking areas shall be hard
surfaced with asphalt, concrete or other material to provide a dust-free
surface. A gravel surface may be used for a period not to exceed six months
after the commencement of the use for which the parking area is provided, where
ground or weather conditions are not immediately suitable for permanent
surfacing as specified herein.
      (3)   Distance from buildings in business and industrial districts. All
parking spaces, parking areas and interior access drives located in any
business and industrial district shall maintain a minimum five-foot separation
from the wall of a building.
      (4)   Definition of parking spaces. All parking spaces shall be provided
with wheel stops or other devices to ensure that motor vehicles do not encroach
beyond the parking area or into a required yard.
   (E)   Minimum number of off-street parking spaces. Off-street parking for
all uses shall be provided in accordance with the minimum requirements set
forth in Table 8 below. When the computation of required parking spaces results
in a fraction of one-half or greater, the number of required parking spaces
shall be rounded up to the next whole number. Exception: The total number of
off-street parking spaces required for any use in and within 600 feet or one
parcel, whichever is less, of the VBD District shall be reduced by 50%.
   (F)   Required parking for the disabled. Every parking lot and parking
garage available to the public shall have parking spaces reserved for the use
of physically handicapped persons according to the following schedule (as
required by ADA Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities, Ch.
4.1.2(5)(a), published in the Federal Register, Volume 56, No. 144, dated 7-26-
1991):
Total Parking Spaces Required Minimum Number of Reserved Spaces
Total Parking Spaces Required Minimum Number of Reserved Spaces
1 - 25                        1
26 - 50                       2
51 - 75                       3
76 - 100                      4
101 - 150                     5
151 - 200                     6
201 - 300                     7
301 - 400                     8
401 - 500                     9
501 - 1,000                   2% of the total number of parking spaces
1,011 and over                20, plus 1 for each 100 spaces over 1,000
 
 
Table 8: Parking Lot Design
Angle of Parking Width of Parking Depth of Parking Space Width of Maneuvering
Space            Space                                   Aisle
61 degrees - 90  9’-0”        18’-0”             24’-0”
degrees
46 degrees - 60  9’-0”        18’-0”             18’-0”
degrees
45 degrees       8’-6”        18’-0”             15’-0”
Parallel         8’-0”        22’-0”             12’-0”
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-837.jpg]
 
 
Table 9: Required Off-Street Parking
Use Requirement Minimum Parking
Table 9: Required Off-Street Parking
Use Requirement                                                                  Minimum Parking
1. Any business, recreational enterprise involving the assembling of persons (unless otherwise specified in this table)
   a. Indoor                                                                  1 parking space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area
                                                                                 1 parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area, plus 1 parking
   b. Outdoor                                                                 space for each 600 square feet of site area accessible to the public,
                                                                                 exclusive of the parking area
2. Automobile sales
   a. Major                                                                   1 parking space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space
                                                                                 for each 7,000 square feet of outdoor display area
   b. Minor                                                                   1 parking space for each 1,000 square feet of show room space and 1 space
                                                                                 for each service bay
3. Truck, bus, boat, recreational vehicle or recreational vehicle or motorcycle  1 parking space for each 500 square feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space
sales or rental                                                                  for each 7,000 square feet of outdoor display area
4. Banking, savings and loan, credit union
   a. Combined drive-through                                                  1 parking space for each walk-in facility’s 250 square feet of gross floor
                                                                                 area
   b. Drive-through facility only                                             1 parking space for each drive-up bay
   c. Walk-in facility only                                                   1 parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
                                                                                 4 parking spaces for each alley/lane; if, in addition, there are other uses
                                                                                 or accessory uses located within or operated in conjunction with the bowling
                                                                                 alley, such as restaurants, night clubs and the like, additional parking
5. Bowling alleys                                                                spaces, calculated based upon the parking requirements for that specific
                                                                                 use, shall be provided (calculation shall be based upon the total square
                                                                                 feet of gross leasable floor area for uses located within or operated in
                                                                                 conjunction with the bowling alley
6.   a. Religious uses, including church, synagogue or temple                 1 parking space for each 4 permanent seats in the sanctuary
   b. Auditorium, assembly halls, recital halls                               1 parking space for each 4 seats at maximum capacity calculated pursuant to
                                                                                 Fire Code
7. Community centers, museums, CMC clubs and philanthropic institutions          1 parking space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area
                                                                                 3.5 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area; parking
8. Convenience store                                                             spaces at gasoline pumps may be included in the calculation of required
                                                                                 parking
9. Day nurseries, child care centers, kindergartens, nursery schools             1 parking space for each 8 pupils based upon maximum capacity
10. Fire station                                                                 3 parking spaces for truck bay, plus a minimum of 3 additional parking
                                                                                 spaces
11. Furniture/floor or wall covering store                                       1 parking space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area
12. Gasoline service stations, tire and auto service center, automobile repair,  1 parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area devoted to
other auto service functions                                                     retail sales, plus 2 spaces per service bay, (a service bay shall not be
                                                                                 considered a parking space), plus 3 customer spaces
13. Gasoline service station convenience store                                   Same as (7) Convenience store
14. Grocery, supermarket                                                         1 parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
                                                                                 1 parking space for each 300 square feet of gross floor area, plus 1 parking
15. Hardware, paint, home improvement store                                      space for each 1,000 square feet of the facility devoted to outside
                                                                                 operations or storage, exclusive of the parking area
16. Health spa, fitness center                                                   a. 1 parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
                                                                                 b. If, in addition, there are other uses or accessory uses located within or
                                                                                 operated in conjunction with the health spa or sports club. such as dining
                                                                                 areas, restaurants, night clubs, retail stores and the like, additional
                                                                                parking spaces, ca1culated based upon the parking requirements for that
                                                                                 specific use, shall be provided (calculation shall be based upon the total
                                                                                 square feet of gross leasable floor area for such uses located within or
                                                                                 operated in conjunction with the health spa or sports club)
17. Hotels, motels                                                               a. 1 parking space for each rental sleeping unit
                                                                                 b. If, in addition to sleeping units, there are other uses or accessory uses
                                                                                 located within or operated in conjunction with the hotel or motel, such as
                                                                                 ballrooms, meeting rooms, dining areas, retail stores, auditoriums,
                                                                                restaurants, night clubs and the like, additional parking spaces, calculated
                                                                                 based upon the parking requirements for that specific use, shall be provided
                                                                                 (calculation shall be based upon the total square feet of gross leasable
                                                                                 floor area for such uses located within or operated in conjunction with the
                                                                                 hotel or motel)
18. Library                                                                      1 parking space for each 400 square feet of gross floor area
19. Medical, dental, optometrists, clinics offices                               1 parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area
                                                                                 1 parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area devoted to
20. Mini-warehouses                                                              office space, plus 1 parking space per resident/manager, plus 1 parking
                                                                                 space for each 30 storage units; required off-street parking spaces shall
                                                                                 not be utilized as rental or leased spaces
21. Miniature golf                                                               4 parking spaces for each golf hole, plus 1 space per each 100 square feet
                                                                                 devoted to accessory retail or amusement establishments
22. Mortuary, funeral home, crematories                                          1 parking space for each 50 square feet of floor area in parlors and
                                                                                 assembly rooms
23. Nursing care, convalescent home, hospital, sanitariums, rehabilitation       1 parking space for each 2 patient beds
centers
24. Office business use, general (to include, but not be limited to, business-
professional office, post office-office park, research center offices for an     3.5 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area.
industrial use)
                                                                                 4 parking spaces per game court, plus 1 parking space for each 200 square
25. Tennis-racquet club                                                          feet of the remaining gross floor area in the building devoted to office or
                                                                                 retail activities
26. Residential
   a. Single-family dwelling (including individual mobile dwellings) and two- 2 parking spaces per dwelling unit
family dwellings
   b. Multi-family dwellings                                                  2 parking spaces per dwelling unit for the first 50 dwelling units, plus
                                                                                 1.75 parking spaces for each additional dwelling unit over 50
27. Restaurant
   a. Family (dine in only)                                                   1 parking space per each 3 customer seats (including outdoor seating areas)
                                                                                 (minimum of 5 parking spaces required)
   b. Fast food, with or without drive-through                                1 parking space per each 5 customer seats (minimum of 5 parking spaces
                                                                                 required)
   c. Fast food, drive-through only (no seating)                              1 parking space per 100 square feet of gross floor area (minimum of 4
                                                                                 parking spaces required)
28. Taverns and night clubs                                                      1 parking space per each 75 square feet of gross floor area
                                                                                 3.5 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross leasable floor area
29. Retail or business uses, individual, freestanding uses: including, but       shall be required for any individual, freestanding retail or service
limited to: bakeries; drug stores; beauty and barber shops; liquor stores;       business use unless listed separately in this section, in which case the
laundromats; photo studios; jewelry, gift, appliance and similar stores;         parking requirement noted for that specific use shall be utilized; provided,
personal service shops                                                           however, that, in no case shall any individual use provide less than 5
                                                                                 parking spaces
                                                                                 a. If the total gross leasable floor area of an integrated center is less
30. Retail or service business uses, integrated centers                          than 400,000 square feet, 4 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of
                                                                                 gross leasable floor area shall be required
                                                                                 b. If the total gross leasable floor area of an integrated center is greater
                                                                                than 400,000 square feet, but less than 600,000 square feet, 4.5 parking
                                                                                 spaces for each 1,000 square feet of gross leasable floor area shall be
                                                                                 required
                                                                                 c. If the total gross leasable floor area of an integrated center is greater
                                                                                than 600,000 square feet, 5 parking spaces for each 1,000 square feet of
                                                                                 gross leasable floor area shall be required
                                                                                 Provided however:
                                                                                 (1) in no case shall any individual use provide less that 5 parking spaces:
                                                                                 and,
                                                                                (2) The following individual uses: grocery store; theaters-motion picture or
                                                                                 legitimate, bowling alley; or night club; shall provide parking spaces as
                                                                                 required for the individual use by this section and such of the gross
                                                                                 leasable area calculation of the integrated center
31. Skating rink (roller rink)                                                   1 parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor area in the building
                                                                                 1 parking space for each 100 square feet of gross floor area in the
32. Schools: business, trade or business                                         building, or 1 parking space per each 25 square feet of classrooms,
                                                                                 whichever provides the greatest number of spaces
33. Theater, indoor                                                              1 parking space for each 3 seats
                                                                                 a. 1 parking space for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area devoted to
                                                                                 such use
34. Assembly, manufacturing or similar industrial use                            b. If, in addition, there is space devoted to office retail, or other uses
                                                                                 specified elsewhere in these regulations, parking required for such
                                                                                 additional use shall also be provided
                                                                                 a. 1 parking space for each 3,000 square feet of gross floor area
35. Distribution, warehouse or similar use                                       b. If, in addition, there is space devoted to office. Retail or other uses
                                                                                 specified elsewhere in these regulations, parking required for such
                                                                                 additional use shall be provided
                                                                                 For any use not specified above, specific requirements shall be determined
36. Uses not specified                                                           by the Building Commissioner and shall be based upon requirements for
                                                                                 similar uses, expected demand and traffic generated by the proposed use and
                                                                                 other information from appropriate traffic engineering and planning criteria
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.11; Ord. 2016-23, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 194.106 URBAN OFF-STREET LOADING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Loading for buildings, structures or uses. All business or industrial
development or conversions of use for which an improvement location permit is
required by this chapter shall provide off-street loading areas in accordance
with the following regulations.
   (B)   Design and construction of loading areas. The following standards
shall apply to the design of off-street loading areas.
      (1)   Loading space dimensions. A required or excess off-street loading
space shall be at least 12 feet in width by at least 55 feet in length,
exclusive of aisle and maneuvering space, and shall have a vertical clearance
of at least 15 feet.
      (2)   Minimum aisle width. Each required off-street loading space shall
open directly upon an aisle or interior access drive with a width of at least
35 feet and creating a total maneuvering area, inclusive of the loading space,
of at least 105 feet, unless subject to the provisions of division (B)(3)
below.
      (3)   Maneuvering area. Each maneuvering area, aisle and interior access
drive shall be so designed and (excess loading areas) located as to provide
safe and efficient ingress/egress to each loading space and so that trucks do
not back from or into a public street, or onto an adjoining property (unless
the subject property and the adjoining property are located within the same
industrial park and such maneuvering area is subject to a recorded easement
allowing such maneuvering).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-839.jpg]
 
   (C)   Design of excess loading areas. Any use which provides loading spaces
at a rate of greater than four loading spaces and more than two times the
minimum required by this chapter shall provide a total maneuvering area of at
least 105 feet which is separate and distinct from the minimum aisle width
requirement of 35 feet.
   (D)   Location of off-street loading spaces.
      (1)   All loading spaces shall be located on the same lot as the use
served.
      (2)   All loading spaces shall be oriented toward a side or rear lot
line.
      (3)   No loading space shall be located between the front lot line and
the front line of any portion of the building served.
      (4)   No loading space shall be located in a required side or rear yard
or required side or rear bufferyard.
   (E)   Use of loading area. Space allocated for required or excess off-street
loading spaces and associated maneuverability shall not be used to satisfy off-
street parking space requirements.
   (F)   Surface of loading areas. All off-street loading areas and the
ingress/egress to and from such off-street loading areas shall be hard surfaced
with asphalt, concrete or other material to provide a dust-free surface. A
gravel surface may be used for a period not to exceed six months after the
commencement of the use for which the loading area is provided, where ground or
weather conditions are not immediately suitable for permanent surfacing as
specified herein.
   (G)   Minimum number of off-street loading spaces. Off-street loading spaces
for all uses shall be provided in accordance with the minimum requirements set
forth in Table 9 of this chapter.
 
Table 10: Required Off-Street Loading
Gross Floor Area of Building (Square Feet) Required Number of Loading Spaces
<10,000                                    0
10,000 - 40,000                            1
40,000 - 100,000                           2
100,000 - 200,000                          3
Each Additional 200,000                    1 additional or portion thereof
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.12)
§ 194.107 URBAN REQUIREMENTS FOR DRIVE-THROUGH OFF-STREET STACKING SPACES.
   (A)   General provisions. The purpose of off-street stacking space
regulations is to promote public safety by alleviating on-site and off-site
traffic congestion from the operation of a facility which utilizes a drive-
through service unit (“service unit”). any use having a service unit shall
provide required off-street stacking spaces (“stacking spaces “) as follows:
      (1)   Each stacking space shall be not less than eight and one-half feet
in width and 17-1/2 feet in length, with additional stacking spaces for
necessary turning and maneuvering.
      (2)   The area required for stacking spaces shall be exclusive of and in
addition to any required parking space, loading space, driveway, aisle and
required yard, unless specifically noted.
      (3)   A parking space at any component of a service unit (window, menu
board, order station or service bay) shall be considered to be a stacking
space.
      (4)   An area reserved for stacking spaces shall not double as a
circulation driveway or maneuvering area.
      (5)   Sites with stacking spaces shall include an exclusive bypass aisle,
driveway or other circulation area in the parking lot design to allow vehicles
to bypass the stacking area.
      (6)   A service unit may project up to one foot into the stacking area.
      (7)   A service unit shall not be permitted on the side or rear of a
building, or within the side or rear yard of a building, which abuts an R
district, SU-1 (Church), SU-2 (School), District unless the side or rear
setback of each component of a service unit is located more than 100 feet from
the R, SU-1 or SU-2 Districts.
      (8)   Service units may contain more than one component part. Service
units may contain such components as menu board(s), order stations, pay
windows, food/service pickup windows or service bays. The final component of a
service unit shall be the last component reached before exiting the service
unit. In the case of car washes, the final component of a service unit is the
entrance to the car wash building itself.
   (B)   Site plan submission.
      (1)   All stacking spaces and circulation pattern(s) shall be
demonstrated on the site plan that is submitted at the time of filing for an
improvement location permit.
      (2)   The submitted site plan shall also delineate:
         (a)   All existing and proposed points of ingress and egress,
circulation and maneuvering areas, off-street parking and loading areas; and
         (b)   Separately tabulate the number of required off-street parking,
loading and stacking spaces in a conspicuous place on the plan for easy
reference.
Use/Facility Number of Stacking Spaces Required
Use/Facility                                    Number of Stacking Spaces
                                                Required
                                                6 stacking spaces, measured
                                                from the final component of
1. Bank (including ATMs)                        each service unit; 1 stacking
                                                space after the final component
                                                of each service unit
                                                Before the ticket service
                                                window or area, stacking spaces
                                                shall be equal to 20% of the
2. Drive-in theater                             total off-street parking
                                                capacity of the theater. The
                                                inbound reservoir area shall
                                                not connect or conflict in any
                                                way with exit driveways
3. Car wash (as either a primary use or as an accessory use)
                                                3 stacking spaces, measured
                                                from the final component of
   a. Self-service or hand wash              each service unit; 2 stacking
                                                spaces after the final
                                                component of each service unit
                                                20 stacking spaces, measured
                                                component of each service unit;
                                                6 stacking spaces reserved to
                                                vacuuming or drying of vehicles
   b. Semi-or fully automatic                may count in the exit stacking
                                                space figure; parking spaces
                                                not required in the calculation
                                                for minimum required off-street
                                                parking may be utilized for the
                                                stacking space calculation
4. Restaurants                                  Total number of stacking spaces
                                                required
                                                6 stacking spaces, measured
                                                from the final component of the
   One                                       service unit; 2 stacking spaces
                                                after the final component of
                                                the service unit
                                                8 stacking spaces, measured
                                                from the final component of
   Two                                       each service unit; 2 stacking
                                                spaces after the final
                                                component of each service unit
                                                4 stacking spaces, measured
   For each additional drive-through service from the final component of
unit                                            each service unit; 1 stacking
                                                space after the final component
                                                of each service unit
5. All other facilities utilizing a drive-      3 stacking spaces, measured
through service unit, including, but not        from the final component of the
limited to, laundry and dry cleaning stations,  service unit; one stacking
photo drop off/pick-up stations, automobile oil space after the final component
change or lubrication facilities or drug stores of each service unit
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.13)
§ 194.108 URBAN REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL PRIVATE STREETS, INTERIOR ACCESS DRIVEWAYS
AND INTERIOR ACCESS DRIVES.
   All private streets, interior access driveways and interior access drives
shall be developed to the following standards.
   (A)   Minimum pavement width avai1able for through traffic, exclusive of
parking spaces:
      (1)   Residential districts:
 
1-way traffic, no parking                   12 feet
1-way traffic, parking on one or both sides 24 feet
2-way traffic, no parking                   20 feet
2-way traffic, parking on one or both sides 24 feet
 
      (2)   Business or industrial districts:
 
1-way traffic, no parking                   18 feet
1-way traffic, parking on one or both sides 30 feet
2-way traffic, no parking                   24 feet
2-way traffic, parking on one or both sides 36 feet
 
   (B)   Minimum pavement depth and materials for through traffic widths noted
in division (A) above, exclusive of parking areas, shall be those specified by
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances; provided, however, curbing shall not be
required. The requirements for minimum pavement depth and materials listed in
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances are incorporated into this chapter by
reference. Two copies of the subdivision control regulations are on file and
available for public inspection in the office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the
town.
   (C)   Private streets, interior access driveways, and interior access drives
shall be privately maintained in good repair and reasonably free of chuckholes,
standing water, weeds, dirt, trash, debris, mud, ice and snow by the owner,
project management, owner’s association or other similar organization.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.14)
§ 194.109 URBAN LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Intent. Landscaping of required yards and required bufferyards is an
essential element of the design of a site with respect to promoting the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of the town.
Landscaping is intended to lessen the impact of development on the environment
by reducing glare and heat buildup, promoting the creation of landscape islands
for pedestrian safety, to break up large expanses of pavement, and to reduce
storm water run-off. Landscaping provides a critical buffering effect between
higher intensity districts and lower intensity districts (e.g., typically
between business or industrial districts and abutting or adjacent residential
and specific special use (SU) districts).
   (B)   Landscaping of required front, side and rear yards, required front,
side and rear perimeter yards, and required front, side and rear bufferyards in
all business, industrial and multi-family residential districts.
      (1)   Required front, side and rear yards in business and industrial
districts shall be landscaped in compliance with the following.
         (a)   Required front yard. Landscaping in the required front yard
shall consist of trees planted in accordance with one of the following
alternatives.
            1.   If deciduous shade (overstory) trees are used: there shall be
one tree planted at a maximum of every 40 feet on center of linear distance
along all required front yards. These required trees may be grouped together in
the required front yard; however, in no case shall spacing between the trees
exceed 80 feet.
            2.   If deciduous ornamental (understory) trees are used: there
shall be one tree planted at a maximum of every 25 feet on center of linear
distance along all required front yards. These required trees may be grouped
together in the required front yard; however, in no case shall spacing between
the trees exceed 50 feet.
         (b)   Required side yard and required rear yard. Landscaping in the
required side yard and required rear yard shall consist of trees planted in
accordance with one of the following alternatives.
            1.   If deciduous shade (overstory) trees are used: there shall be
one tree planted at a maximum of every 50 feet on center of linear distance
along all required side yards and required rear yards. These required trees may
be grouped together in the required side yard and required rear yard; in no
case shall spacing between the trees exceed 80 feet.
            2.   If deciduous ornamental (understory) trees are used: there
shall be one tree planted at a maximum of every 35 feet on center of linear
distance along all required side yards and required rear yards. These required
trees may be grouped together in the required side yard and required rear yard;
however, in no case shall spacing between the trees exceed 50 feet. Deciduous
shade trees and deciduous ornamental trees may be grouped together in the
required yards, however, in no case shall spacing between a deciduous shade
tree and a deciduous ornamental tree exceed 50 feet. The minimum size of all
required landscape plant materials, at the time of planting, shall comply with
the plant sizes listed in Table 12.
      (2)   Required front, side and rear bufferyards in all business and
industrial districts, and front, side and rear perimeter yards in the R-MF-
1 and R-MF-2 Districts shall be landscaped in compliance with the requirements
of Table 12.
   (C)   Foundation planting in business and industrial districts (except the
VBD, Village Business District).
      (1)   Foundation planting areas shall be required for all new buildings
and building additions in all business and industrial districts (except the
VBD-Village Business District).
      (2)   In the case of a single use site or a primary building in an
integrated center located on a business district, foundation planting areas are
required along the front and side of the building. In the case of a building
located on an outlot in a business district or any building located in an
industrial district, the front, side and rear of the building shall have
foundation planting areas.
      (3)   Foundation planting areas shall be subject to the following
requirements.
         (a)   Foundation planting areas shall be calculated individually for
each applicable front, side or rear of a building and shall be located along
such front, side or rear of a building (except for those portions of the front
or side of a building devoted to pedestrian ingress/egress, vehicular ingress/
egress, loading or drop-off zones).
         (b)   Foundation planting areas shall have a total area in square feet
of not less than two feet times the length of the wall (two feet by length of
wall equals area for foundation planting) to which the foundation planting is
oriented.
         (c)   Foundation planting areas shall be located:
            1.   Adjacent to the building; or
            2.   So as to begin within ten feet of the building (in the case of
a sidewalk which runs adjacent to the building).
         (d)   Foundation planting areas shall maintain a minimum depth in the
smallest dimension of six feet.
         (e)   Foundation planting areas shall be landscaped with grass and
shrubbery, trees or hedge, or in combination with other suitable ground cover
materials and maintained as a foundation planting strip in compliance with the
requirements for a Level A plantings as set forth in Table 12.
   (D)   Parking lot landscaping in business and industrial districts.
      (1)   Interior parking lot landscaping in business and industrial
districts.
         (a)   All new surface parking lots and expanded surface parking lots
(except for semi-truck loading and maneuvering areas and parking areas) located
in any business or industrial district shall include at least one interior
landscape island measuring eight feet by 18 feet minimum for every 15 parking
spaces. Each interior landscape island shall contain at least one deciduous
shade (overstory) tree, deciduous ornamental (understory) tree or evergreen
tree. All trees shall comply with the size at time of planting as indicated in
Table 12.
         (b)   Space devoted to interior landscape islands shall be in addition
to any required front, side or rear yards, required front, side or rear
bufferyards, or required foundation plantings.
         (c)   The area devoted to interior landscape islands may be located
individually in the interior of the parking lot or may be aggregated into one
or more landscape areas. When located individually, interior landscape islands
shall be located so as to define vehicular and pedestrian traffic patterns.
When aggregated into one or more landscape areas, interior landscape islands
shall function to:
            1.   Preserve existing trees;
            2.   Create boulevard treatments;
            3.   Create landscape features;
            4.   Create common open space areas for passive recreational
activities; or
            5.   Define vehicular and pedestrian traffic patterns.
         (d)   Each tree shall be a minimum of two and one-half feet away from
the outside of any permanent barrier of a landscaped area or edge of the
parking area.
      (2)   Perimeter landscaping of parking lots in business and industrial
districts. In addition to landscaping provided in required yards and required
bufferyards, if a parking area is located between a building and a required
front yard or between a building and a required front, side or rear bufferyard.
The side of the parking area facing the front yard or the front, side or rear
bufferyard shall be screened by:
         (a)   A compact hedge row located between the front yard or a
bufferyard and the edge of the parking area planted three feet on-center and
between 24 inches and 30 inches in height at the time of planting; or
         (b)   Hedge plants in combination with: an ornamental, decorative
fence or masonry wall or earthen berm; provided that, the plant unit value of
the hedge, wall or berm equals one and one-half.
NOTE: Each sample area represents a total length of 400 feet. Depth of the
sample areas varies for illustrative purposes only. Trees indicated are at full
growth, not at time of planting.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-841.jpg]
 
Table 11: Bufferyard and Perimeter Yard Landscaping (Table A)
Zoning Of Subject Property
     R-   R-   R-   R-       R-   R-MF-
 O-1 SF-1 SF-2 SF-- SF-4 R-V MF-1 2     BO B-1 B-2 B-3 VBD I-ORT I-1 I-2 I-3 SU
               3
Table 11: Bufferyard and Perimeter Yard Landscaping (Table A)
Zoning Of Subject Property
           O- R-  R-  R-  R-  R- R-  R-                     I-
           1  SF- SF- SF- SF- V  MF- MF- BO B-1 B-2 B-3 VBD ORT I-1 I-2 I-3 SU
              1   2   -3  4      1   2
O-1        NR NR  NR  NR  NR  NR A   A   A  A   B   C   A   B   B   C   C   * *
                                                        (1)
R-SF-1     NR NR  NR  NR  NR  NR B   B   B  B   C   C   A   B   B   C   C   * *
                                                        (1)
R-SF-2     NR NR  NR  NR  NR  NR B   B   B  B   C   C   A   B   B   C   C   * *
                                                        (1)
R-SF-3     NR NR  NR  NR  NR  NR B   B   B  B   C   C   A   B   B   C   C   * *
                                                        (1)
                                                        A
R-SF-4     NR NR  NR  NR  NR  NR B   B   B  B   C   C   (1) B   B   C   C   * *
                                                        A
R-V        NR NR  NR  NR  NR  NR B   B   B  B   C   C   (1) B   B   C   C   * *
                                                        A
R-MF-1     NR NR  NR  NR  NR  NR A   A   B  B   B   C   (1) B   B   B   C   * *
                                                        A
R-MF-2     NR NR  NR  NR  NR  NR A   A   B  B   B   C   (1) B   B   B   C   * *
Interstate A  A   A   A   A   A  A   A   A  A   A   A   NR  A   A   A   A   * *
Freeway
NOTES TO TABLE:
NR = Landscaping/screening not required
A= Level A
B = Level B
C = Level C
* =Perimeter yards for the R-MF-1 and R-MF-2 Districts, when located adjacent
to all other districts not listed on Table 12 shall be landscaped at Level A
** = Landscaping shall be provided based upon the “Applicable District
Development Standards” listed in §
194.057(C) of this chapter for each special use district
(1) = Applicable only to side or rear bufferyards
 
Table 12: Levels of Plantings - Bufferyards and Perimeter Yards (Table B)
Level A = Any combination of plants selected from the plant categories listed
below, which equals or exceeds a plant unit value of 2 for each 100 lineal
feet; provided that, at least 50% of the required plant unit value shall be
derived from deciduous shade (overstory) trees, deciduous ornamental
(understory) trees, evergreen trees or evergreen trees - narrow spread.
Level B = Any combination of plants selected from the plant categories listed
below, which equals or exceeds a plant unit value of 3 for each 100 lineal
feet; provided that, at least 25% of the required plant unit value shall be
derived from deciduous shade (overstory) trees or deciduous ornamental
(understory) trees and at least 25% of the plant unit value shall be derived
from evergreen trees or evergreen trees - narrow spread.
Level C = Any combination of plants selected from the plant categories listed
below, which equals or exceeds a plant unit value of 4 for each 100 lineal
feet; provided that, at least 25% of the required plant unit value shall be
derived from deciduous shade (overstory) trees or deciduous ornamental
(understory) trees and at least 50% of the plant unit value shall be derived
from evergreen trees or evergreen trees - narrow spread.
Table 13: Plant Unit Values (Table C)
Plant Categories Plant Unit Value
Table 13: Plant Unit Values (Table C)
Plant Categories                            Plant Unit Value
(Minimum Size at Time of Planting)
Deciduous shade (overstory)                 0.50
   (2-1/2” caliper at 6” above the ground)
Deciduous ornamental (understory) tree      0.40
   (91-1/2” caliper at 6” above the ground)
Evergreen tree (6’ high)                  0.40
Evergreen tree-narrow spread (4’ high)    0.25
Hedge plant (24” - 30” high)            0.05
 
   (E)   Ground cover within required landscaping. All landscaping required
above shall, at a minimum, consist of living vegetation (i.e., trees and
shrubs) and grasses or ground cover materials, or preserved existing natural
vegetation (i.e., thickets). Landscape stone may be used as a landscaping
accent, but shall not exceed 20% of the area of the required landscape area in
which it is used.
      (1)   Exception(s): Substitution of all mulch within the defined area
mentioned above for landscape stone may occur if:
         (a)   Minimum number of required plantings are dispersed evenly
throughout the defined area, or
         (b)   Building facade is located on a non-frontage elevation.
   (F)   Wall, fence or berm. In addition to living vegetation required above,
landscaping in a required yard, required bufferyard or required perimeter yard
may include a fence, wall or berm as regulated below.
      (1)   Fence or wall in a front yard. An ornamental, decorative fence or
masonry wall may be used in conjunction with required front yard or required
front bufferyard landscaping. Any fence or wall used in a front yard shall not
exceed three feet in height if solid or six feet in height if the sight barrier
is less than 50%. Any fence or wall which maintains a height of between 30
inches and three feet if solid or between five feet and six feet if the sight
barrier is less than 50% shall count as up to a 50 plant unit value for each
100-foot increment against the required plant unit value specified by Table 12.
Chain link may be used as a fencing material, however, a chain link fence shall
not count as a plant unit value.
      (2)   Berm in a front yard or front bufferyard. An undulating earthen
berm. may be used in conjunction with required front yard or required front
bufferyard landscaping. Any berm used in a front yard shall have a maximum
height not to exceed three feet when located in a multi-family residential or
business district or five feet when located in an industrial district, shall
have a minimum crown width of two feet and shall have a side slope of not
greater than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical (3:1). Any berm shall
be planted and covered with live vegetation. A retaining wall may be used on
the side of the berm facing away from the public right-of-way. Any berm which
maintains its maximum height for a minimum of 60% of the lineal distance of
each 100-foot increment of the yard shall count as up to a 0.50 plant unit
value for each 100-foot increment against the required plant unit value
specified by Table 12.
      (3)   Fence or wall in a side or rear yard or side or rear bufferyard. An
ornamental, decorative fence or masonry wall may be used in conjunction with
required side or rear yard, required side or rear bufferyard, or required side
or rear perimeter yard landscaping. Any fence or wall used in a side or rear
yard or side or rear bufferyard shall not exceed six feet in height. Any fence
or wall which maintains a height of between four feet and six feet shall count
as up to a 0.50 plant unit value for each 100-foot increment against the
required plant unit value specified by Table 12. Chain link may be used as a
fencing material, however, a chain link fence shall not count as a plant unit
value.
      (4)   Berm in a side or rear yard or side or rear bufferyard. An
undulating earthen berm, may be used in conjunction with required side or rear
yard, required side or rear bufferyard, or required side or rear perimeter yard
landscaping. Any berm used in a side or rear yard or side or rear bufferyard
shall have a maximum height not to exceed six feet, shall have a minimum crown
width of two feet and shall have a side slope of not greater than three feet
horizontal to one foot vertical (3:1). Any berm shall be planted and covered
with live vegetation. A retaining wall may be used on the side of the berm
facing away from the side or rear lot line. Any berm which maintains its
maximum height for a minimum of 60% of the lineal distance of each 100-foot
increment of the yard shall count as up to a 0.75 plant unit value for each 100
lineal feet against the required plant unit value specified by Table 12.
   (G)   Installation of landscaping. All landscaping required by this section
shall be:
      (1)   Installed prior to commencement of the use on the real estate; or
      (2)   If seasons and weather conditions are not appropriate for the
installation of landscaping immediately prior to commencement of the use, all
landscaping required by this section shall be installed by the end of the next
planting season after the use is commenced.
   (H)   Maintenance of landscaping. The owner or property manager shall:
      (1)   Maintain all required landscaping by keeping lawns mowed, all
plants maintained as disease-free, and planting beds groomed, except in areas
of preserved existing natural vegetation (i.e., thickets); and
      (2)   Replace any required planting, which is removed or dies after the
date of planting. Such replacement shall occur during the next planting season.
   (I)   Credit for preservation of existing trees.
      (1)   In order to encourage the preservation of existing stands of trees
or tree rows and to enhance the quality of the built environment, the Plan
Commission may approve an alternative landscape plan which utilizes the
designation of one or more tree save areas in lieu of new plantings within a
required yard, a required perimeter yard, a required bufferyard, foundation
plantings or interior landscape islands in parking lots.
      (2)   A 0.25 plant unit value credit shall be given for every two caliper
inches of trees saved per 100-foot increment. The credit shall count towards
the required new plantings within such 100-foot increment of a required yard, a
required perimeter yard, a required bufferyard, foundation plantings or
interior landscape islands in parking lots.
      (3)   An alternative landscape plan which utilizes the designation of a
tree save area shall:
         (a)   Provide that, all trees which are to be preserved in a tree save
area shall be maintained without injury and with sufficient area for the root
system to sustain the tree;
         (b)   Provide that, protective care and physical restraint barriers at
the drip line, such as temporary protective fencing, shall be provided in the
tree save area to prevent alteration, compaction or increased depth of the soil
in the root system area prior to and during groundwork and construction; and
         (c)   Provide that, in the event trees designated for saving in the
tree save area are damaged during construction or die within three years of
completion of construction on the site, replacement trees shall be planted in
the designated tree save area to equal the credited plant unit value of the
tree which was damaged or which died.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.15; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 194.110 RURAL: MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Permanent placement. Manufactured homes shall be permitted provided
the following requirements and limitations are met.
      (1)   All zoning regulations pertaining to the individual site shall be
met.
      (2)   The minimum area of a structure shall conform with the square
footage requirements established in the residential uses and requirements
table.
      (3)   The structure shall be attached and anchored to a permanent
foundation in conformance with the appropriate Building Code and with
manufacturer’s installation specifications.
      (4)   The entire area between the floor joists of the structure and the
underfloor grade shall be completely enclosed with a permanent perimeter
enclosure constructed in accordance with the terms of the appropriate Building
Code; the manufacturer’s installation specifications; and requirements set
forth by the state’s Administrative Building Council.
      (5)   The structure shall possess all necessary building, water and
sewage disposal permits prior to placement of the structure upon the lot.
      (6)   The wheels, axles and hitches shall be removed.
      (7)   The structure shall be covered with an exterior material
customarily used on site-built structures.
      (8)   The roof of the structure shall be shingled and pitched, rather
than flat.
      (9)   In areas outside of a mobile home park, manufactured homes shall
have a width no less than 18 feet to be considered compatible with surrounding
conventional construction.
   (B)   Temporary residential occupancy.
      (1)   During construction. In all zoning districts, a permit may be
issued for the temporary placement and occupancy of a manufactured or mobile
home outside of a mobile home park, to a person intending to build a permanent
residence on the property. The temporary permit is for a period of two years
and may be renewed for an additional one-year period if construction of the
dwelling has started, but has not been completed.
      (2)   Health issue. A permit may also be issued to an applicant whose own
health or the health of another necessitates care, and where the facts show
that an unnecessary hardship would occur if not permitted to locate a
manufactured or mobile home adjacent to the residence of one who is able to
provide such care or in need of such care. The permit would be for the lifetime
of the person needing care and is renewable every fourth year from the date of
issuance.
      (3)   Regulations. The following regulations shall apply to the temporary
occupancy of a manufactured or mobile home:
         (a)   The structure is to be located on the same property as an
existing residence or located on property on which a permanent residence with a
valid ILP is intended to be built within two years;
         (b)   The structure should be served by the same address, water supply
and sewage facilities serving the existing residence or the residence under
construction, subject to the approval of the county’s Board of Health;
         (c)   The structure shall remain on its wheels and shall not be placed
on a permanent foundation;
         (d)   Applicable front, side and rear yard regulations of the district
in which it is located are to be observed;
         (e)   Occupancy of the structure is restricted to relatives, persons
employed in the care of the property owner (employed on the premises of the
property owner) or the owner of the property who intends to construct a
permanent residence;
         (f)   The structure used for temporary occupancy shall have a ground
floor area greater than 500 square feet;
         (g)   The manufactured or mobile home shall be tied down as per the
requirements of the One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code or the manufacturer’s
recommendation;
         (h)   The perimeter of the manufactured or mobile home shall be
completely enclosed, except for access and ventilation openings. The perimeter
enclosure may consist of skirting materials installed in accordance with the
manufacturer’s installation specifications and secured as necessary to provide
stability, minimize vibrations and minimize susceptibility to wind damage and
to provide adequate insulation to protect exposed piping. Perimeter enclosures
other than skirting shall meet requirements of the One- and Two-Family Dwelling
Code and the requirements set forth by the Fire and Building Department of the
town.
   (C)   Temporary non-residential occupancy. Mobile homes, trailers or vans
may be utilized as contractor’s offices, watchman’s shelters or tool and
equipment storage on the project site and only during the period of
construction.
   (D)   Permanent residential occupancy. Mobile homes may be permanently
occupied when located in a mobile home park. Such mobile home park shall have
an approved development plan and be developed in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter. Mobile homes for permanent occupancy shall meet
the standards in Table 5, and mobile home parks shall have the following
requirements.
      (1)   The placement of any mobile home requires a building permit.
      (2)   No electric lines shall pass over any mobile home.
      (3)   All mobile homes shall be skirted prior to being occupied.
      (4)   When applicable by the terms of this chapter, accessory structures
for storage on individual sites are subject to all applicable setback
requirements and require a building permit.
      (5)   Driveways shall be provided on the site where necessary for
convenient access to service entrances of buildings, to delivery and collection
points for refuse and other material, and elsewhere as needed.
      (6)   Resident parking shall be provided either on the trailer site or in
common parking facilities, and shall be designed so as not to interfere with
pedestrian walkways and to allow adequate space for visitor parking either
along the street or in common parking areas.
      (7)   (a)   Where possible, walkways leading to frequently used public
facilities should be through interior areas removed from the vicinity of
streets. Public pedestrian sidewalks should be at least four feet in width and
paved with a suitable material for use in all-weather conditions.
         (b)   Individual walkways shall be provided from a public walkway,
street or parking area to the individual mobile home stands. These walkways
shall be at least one and one-half feet in width and should be paved with a
suitable material for use in all-weather conditions.
      (8)   Covenants shall be submitted and recorded with the development plan
approval of the mobile home park. Such covenants must contain/address the
following.
         (a)   The mobile home park owner shall furnish each occupant of a
mobile home site with a copy of the recorded covenants.
         (b)   The placement or replacement of each mobile home shall be in
accordance with and shall follow the procedures set forth by this chapter.
         (c)   When applicable by the terms of this chapter, accessory
structures are subject to all applicable site setbacks and require a building
permit.
         (d)   It shall be the responsibility of the mobile home park owner to
see that all sites and open spaces are kept in a neat and orderly condition at
all times.
         (e)   In order not to impede safety vehicles, no on-street parking of
boats, trailers, semi-trucks and the like shall be permitted.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.16)
§ 194.111 RURAL PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   To reduce traffic problems and hazards by eliminating unnecessary
on-street parking and loading. Every use of land, except those located in the
Rural UB District, must include on-premises parking and loading sufficient for
the needs normally generated by the use, as provided by this section.
      (2)   Off-street parking spaces shall be used only for the parking of
vehicles of occupants, patrons, visitors or employees and shall not be used for
any kind of loading, sales, servicing or continuous storage of vehicles for
more than 48 hours.
      (3)   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any type without plates in an
inoperable condition so as to be deemed dead storage shall be prohibited in
residential districts other than in completely enclosed buildings and shall not
be parked or stored in any district unless specifically authorized under the
terms of this chapter.
      (4)   Space allotted to loading berths and loading areas shall not be
used to satisfy parking space requirements.
   (B)   Non-conforming parking, enlargement or alteration of existing
structure.
      (1)   No use lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
section shall be required to provide and maintain the parking and loading
requirements of this section; provided that, parking and loading spaces
required by any previous ordinance pursuant to state statutes shall be
continued and maintained.
      (2)   For any non-conforming use which is hereafter damaged or partially
destroyed, and which is lawfully reconstructed, re-established or repaired,
parking and loading facilities equivalent to those maintained at the time of
such damage or partial destruction shall be restored and continued in
operation; provided, however, it is not necessary to restore or maintain
parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this chapter for
equivalent new uses.
      (3)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises
shall be increased through the addition of dwelling units, floor area, beds,
seating capacity or other unit of measurement, parking and loading facilities
shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
      (4)   When the existing use of a building, structure or premises shall be
changed or converted to a new use permitted by this chapter, parking and
loading facilities shall be provided as required for the new use.
      (5)   Parking and loading facilities in existence on the effective date
of this section shall not be reduced below or if already less than, shall not
be further reduced below, the requirements for a new use under this section.
   (C)   Design flexibility.
      (1)   Due to particularities of any given development, the inflexible
application of required parking spaces may result in parking and loading spaces
in excess of need. Upon the written request of the applicant, the Director may
authorize a reduction of required parking spaces not to exceed 10%. Approval of
reduction of required parking spaces by the Director shall be in writing and
shall include justification for allowing such reduction.
      (2)   (a)   Upon written request by the applicant, up to 25% of the
dedicated parking area may remain unpaved and in greenspace until such time as
the need for maximum parking is determined. This decision and determination
shall be at the discretion of the Director. Such decision shall be ratified by
or appealed to the town.
         (b)   Such greenspace shall not be counted toward required parking
landscaping or bufferyards.
   (D)   Required parking spaces.
      (1)   In determination of required parking spaces, any fraction of less
than one-half shall be disregarded, while a fraction one-half or greater shall
be counted as one parking space.
      (2)   For uses not specified in this section or in the instance
requirements for an adequate number of spaces is unclear, the number of spaces
shall be determined by the administrative official on the basis of similar
requirements, the number of persons served or employed and the capability of
adequately serving the visiting public. Such determination may be reviewed by
the town or appealed to the BZA.
      (3)   Unless noted in accordance with this section, the number of
required automobile parking spaces shall be considered the minimum allowable
number of spaces for any particular use.
Table 14: Parking Requirements
Use Required Parking
Table 14: Parking Requirements
Use                                     Required Parking
Automobile sales, repair or service     1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
station                                 area, plus 1 per employee, plus 1 per
                                        1,000 square feet of lot
Bowling alleys                          4 per lane
Cemetery, crematory or mortuary         1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per 6 seats
College, university, trade or business  1 per 3 students and employees
schools
Commercial facility for raising non-    1 per 3 employees, plus 1 per 125
farm fowl and animals                   square feet of sales area
Commercial greenhouse                   1 per 3 employees, plus 1 per 125
                                        square feet of sales area
Convalescent home                       1 per 4 residents
Day care center                         1 per 6 children, plus 1 per 2
                                        employees
Elementary or junior high school        3 per classroom
Golf and country clubs                  3 per golf hole
Government uses, library, information   1 per 250 square feet
center
Group residential facility, nursing     1 per 4 residents
home
High school                             6 per classroom
                                        1 per 4 beds, plus 1 per doctor, plus 1
Hospital                                per 3 employees, plus 1 per hospital
                                        vehicle
Hotel, motel, bed and breakfast         1 per sleeping room
Industrial uses, confined feeding,      1 per 2 employees
slaughter house, warehouse, wholesale
Lodge or private club                   1 per 800 square feet of gross floor
                                        area
Mass transit station                    1 per 2 employees, plus 1 per 4 public
                                        seats
Medical office, clinic                  1 per 2 employees, plus 3 per doctor
Non-profit membership organizations,    1 per 5 seats
stadium, coliseum, theater
Outdoor recreation facility             5 per acre
Residential dwellings                   2 per dwelling unit
Retail trade: eating and drinking       1 per 3 seats
establishments
Retail trade: general merchandise,      1 per 200 square feet of gross floor
services: general, medical and personal area
Stable, public                          1 per 5,000 square feet of lot area
Trailer or farm implement sales area    1 per 1,000 square feet of lot and
                                        floor area
Veterinary animal hospital, kennel      1 per 3 animal spaces (cages or pens)
 
   (E)   Joint use. Non-residential uses, within the same and/or separate
structures, may provide joint parking provided the total number of spaces is
not less than the sum of requirements for the various uses. To the extent that
developments with joint parking operate at different times, such parking spaces
may be credited to both uses.
   (F)   Satellite parking. Parking shall be required on site, except as
provided in this section; however, the Board of Zoning Appeals the may grant
satellite parking to any non-residential use by special exception. At least
part of such parking must be within 300 feet of the proposed use. A site
development plan must accompany any such application for special exception and
must include the following:
      (1)   Adjacent streets, alleys and lots;
      (2)   All uses to be served including the location, use and number of
parking spaces provided;
      (3)   A layout drawn to scale indicating aisles, driveways, entrances,
exits, turn-off lanes, parking spaces, setbacks, drainage facilities,
landscaping, lighting, pavement and identification signs including location,
size and design;
      (4)   All satellite parking shall be developed, maintained and used in
accordance with the approved site development plan and all other requirements;
and
      (5)   Any change or other modification of uses served or number or
parking spaces shall require amendment and re-approval by the BZA.
   (G)   Bicycle parking.
      (1)   Non-residential uses located in the LB, GB or PB Districts
containing 30 or more automobile spaces shall provide bicycle-parking
facilities at the rate of one bicycle parking space per ten parking spaces, up
to a maximum of 20 bicycle parking spaces.
      (2)   Bicycle racks shall be installed to support the frame of the
bicycle.
   (H)   Dimensions of parking spaces.
      (1)   Each parking space shall contain a rectangular area nine feet wide
and 19 feet long, exclusive of pedestrian passageways, access drives, aisles,
ramps or landscaped areas. Handicapped parking spaces shall conform to state
and federal requirements regarding handicap accessibility.
      (2)   In parking areas containing ten or more parking spaces, up to 20%
of the spaces may contain a rectangular area only seven and one-half feet wide
and 15 feet long. Such spaces shall be conspicuously designated as reserved for
small or compact cars.
      (3)   Parking areas set aside for parallel parking shall contain a
rectangular area nine feet wide and 22 feet long.
      (4)   (a)   Parking aisle widths shall conform to the following table:
 
Aisle Width
Parking angle   0 degree 30 degrees 45 degrees 60 degrees 90 degrees
One-way traffic 13’    11’      13’      18’      24’
Two-way traffic 19’    20’      21’      23’      24’
 
         (b)   Each loading space shall be of a size not less than that
required for parking space, but scaled larger to delivery vehicles expected to
be used.
      (5)   Driveways shall be a minimum ten feet for one-way traffic and 18
feet for two-way traffic; except that, a ten-foot driveway is permissible for
two-way traffic when the driveway is not longer than 50 feet and provides
access to a maximum of five parking spaces.
   (I)   General design.
      (1)   (a)   Non-residential parking or loading areas along the street-
front should be minimized. When possible, parking or loading areas should be
placed to the rear of the structure. All parking or loading areas shall be
designed with appropriate means of movement and shall be so arranged that
movement can proceed safely without posing a danger to pedestrians or other
vehicles.
         (b)   No parking area shall be so designed as to require backing into
a public street, public or private pedestrian access way, or from a public
alley.
      (2)   All parking or loading spaces shall be designed, arranged and
regulated as to open directly upon an aisle or driveway without obstruction.
      (3)   All parking areas shall be striped and channelized as appropriate.
Parking spaces shall be marked and access lines clearly defined, including
directional arrows to guide internal movement and directional signs as
necessary.
      (4)   All parking or loading areas shall be maintained in good condition
and free of weeds, dirt, trash and debris.
      (5)   Parking spaces shall be provided with bumper guards or wheel stops
along the perimeter of the parking area so located that no part of a parked
vehicle will extend beyond the boundary of the parking area.
      (6)   No more than 15 parking spaces shall be permitted in a continuous
row.
      (7)   All parking areas consisting of more than 60 spaces shall provide
separate pedestrian walkways. Such walkways should generally be oriented
perpendicular to and between parking bays.
         (a)   One walkway can serve as a collector for up to four rows of
parking spaces.
         (b)   The walkway should be a minimum of four feet wide, allowing an
additional 30 inches on each side for overhanging of vehicles.
         (c)   All walkways should be constructed to be clearly defined through
the use of material, landscaping or other form of delineation.
      (8)   Any use which fronts upon and utilizes access to a primary or
secondary arterial shall provide and utilize a common frontage or access lane
for the purpose of access, parking and loading.
      (9)   Required parking spaces may be open to the sky or enclosed in a
structure. Parking structures shall be treated as any major structure and shall
be subject to all applicable structural requirements of this chapter and the
issuance of an ILP.
      (10)   Parking structures shall be designed to be architecturally
compatible with their surroundings, including appearance, size, scale, building
materials and bulk.
      (11)   All parking areas shall conform to state and federal requirements
regarding handicap accessibility.
   (J)   Surface. All parking or loading areas for five or more automobiles
shall be developed in accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Parking and loading areas shall be graded and surfaced with an all-
weather paving material such as asphalt, concrete or other material that will
provide equivalent protection against potholes, erosion and dust. However, a
gravel surface may be used for a period not exceeding one year after the date
of granting the occupancy permit where ground conditions are not immediately
suitable for permanent surfacing as specified in this section.
      (2)   All areas shall be striped and channelized as appropriate.
      (3)   Parking stalls shall be marked and the access lines clearly
defined, including directional arrows to guide internal movement.
   (K)   Landscaping. Parking lots should be effectively landscaped with trees
and shrubs to reduce the visual impact of glare, headlights and parking lot
lights from the public right-of-way and from adjoining properties. In addition,
parking lots should be adequately shaded to reduce the amount of reflected
heat.
      (1)   Perimeter bufferyard. Parking or loading areas abutting any street-
front or residential use shall provide a perimeter Bufferyard C for parking and
Bufferyard E for loading areas or that required for the proposed use in the
bufferyard section of this chapter, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Interior landscaping. Interior landscaping shall be comprised of
one canopy tree and three shrubs for every 15 parking spaces.
      (3)   Maintenance. Maintenance of landscaping for parking and loading
areas shall be in accordance with the bufferyard section of this chapter.
      (4)   Lighting. See §
194.113.
      (5)   Loading and unloading. Uses, except those that do not receive or
transport goods in quantity by truck delivery, shall be provided loading
berths. Each loading and unloading berth must include a 12-foot by 45-foot
loading space with a 14-foot height clearance. Loading and unloading berths
must be a minimum distance from the nearest residential use in accordance with
the following table:
Loading Berth Requirements and Distance from Rural Residential Uses
  Required Berths Berth Distance from Residential Uses (Feet)
Loading Berth Requirements and Distance from Rural Residential Uses
                                                            Berth Distance from
                                         Required Berths    Residential Uses
                                                            (Feet)
Airport                                 Same as Industrial 100
Commercial facility
for breeding and                        1                  100
raising non-farm
fowl and animals
Commercial
greenhouse (15,000                      1                  50
square feet or less)
Commercial
greenhouse (more                        2                  50
than 15,000 square
feet)
Hospital (200 beds                      1                  50
or less)
Hospital (200 to 500                    2                  50
beds)
Hospital (more than                     3                  50
500 beds)
                     Less than 15,000
Industrial use       square feet gross                      1
                     floor area
                     15,000 to 40,000
                    square feet gross   2
                     floor area
                     40,000 to 100,000
                    square feet gross   3
                     floor area
                     Each 40,000 or
                    additional fraction 1 additional
                     of gross floor area
Mineral extraction,
borrow pit, topsoil                     Same as Industrial 300
removal and their
storage areas
                     25,000 to 100,000
Office building      square feet gross   1
                     floor area
                     100,000 to 350,000
                    square feet gross   2
                     floor area
                     Each 200,000 or
                    additional fraction 1 additional
                     of gross floor area
Outdoor commercial
recreational                            Same as Industrial 50
enterprise
Retail or department
store, wholesale     3,000 to 15,000
storage, warehousing square feet gross   1
or other business    floor area
use
                     Each 15,000 square
                    feet or additional  1 additional
                     fraction of gross
                     floor area
Stadium or coliseum                     2                  50
Truck freight                           Same as Industrial 100
terminal
 
      (6)   Inspections. At the time the structure receives its final
inspection, the completion of the landscaping in accordance with these
requirements shall also be a part of the final inspection. However, if seasonal
circumstances do not permit the planting of the required landscaping, the final
inspection of the landscaping shall be performed at a reasonable, later date as
determined by the Director.
   (L)   Bufferyards.
      (1)   The bufferyard is a unit of yard together with the planting
thereon. Both the amount of land and the type and amount of planting specified
for each bufferyard requirement are designed to minimize nuisances between
adjacent land uses. The planting units required of bufferyards have been
calculated to ensure that they do, in fact, function as “buffers”.
      (2)   Bufferyards shall be required to separate land uses from each other
in order to eliminate or minimize potential nuisances such as dirt, litter,
noise, glare of lights, signs, and unsightly building or parking areas, or to
provide spacing to reduce adverse impacts of noise, odor or danger from fires
or explosions.
      (3)   Proposed uses in any district that are specifically agricultural,
as defined under “agriculture”, are exempt from providing bufferyards unless
otherwise specified.
 
Existing Use Bufferyard   Existing Use
Width        Proposed Use
Existing Use
 
         (a)   Location, maintenance, planting size and landscape plan.
            1.   Bufferyards shall be located on the outer perimeter of a lot
or parcel, extending to the lot or parcel boundary line.
            2.   At the discretion of the Director, the width of the bufferyard
may include all or a portion of rights-of-way, drainage easements, and utility
easements, however plantings shall not be located on any portion of these
areas. With this discretion, the Director must ensure that the effectiveness of
the required bufferyard shall not be compromised.
            3.   All plant material that dies must be replaced within six
months so as to maintain the approved bufferyard and landscape plan.
            4.   Deciduous trees are to be a minimum of two inches in diameter
or eight feet tall at the time of planting. Evergreen trees shall be a minimum
of five feet tall at the time of planting.
            5.   Any existing plant material which otherwise satisfies the
requirements of this section may be counted toward satisfying all such
requirements.
            6.   The following plant material substitutions shall satisfy the
requirements of this section.
               a.   In all bufferyards, evergreen, canopy or evergreen
understory trees may be substituted for deciduous canopy trees without
limitation.
               b.   In all bufferyards, evergreen or conifer shrubs may be
substituted for deciduous shrubs without limitation. A landscape plan shall be
submitted with each applicable application. Such plan shall be a site plan
drawn to scale showing the location, type, size and category of each plant unit
used.
            7.   When it has been proven that the required plantings of a
bufferyard cannot be installed because of existing easements or other
unavoidable site constraints, the Director shall have the discretion to allow
the substitution of alternative vegetation, provided that the total number of
plantings does not decrease.
         (b)   Determination of bufferyard requirements.
            1.   To determine the type of bufferyard required between two
adjacent parcels, the following procedure shall be followed:
               a.   Identify the zoning district of the proposed land use by
referring to the horizontal column of the Table 7, Bufferyard Requirements;
               b.   Identify the zoning district of the adjacent parcels by
referring to the vertical column of the Table 7, Bufferyard Requirements; and
               c.   Determine the bufferyard required on each boundary of the
subject parcel by referring to the Table 7, Bufferyard Requirements, and then
to the options for that bufferyard.
            2.   The required bufferyards constitute the total bufferyard
required between the adjacent land uses. Any of the alternatives for the
required bufferyard shall satisfy the requirement of buffering between adjacent
land uses.
         (c)   Bufferyard requirements.
            1.   Bufferyard requirements are stated in terms of the width of
the bufferyard and the number of plant units required per 100 linear feet of
bufferyard. The requirements of a bufferyard may be satisfied by any of the
alternatives illustrated. The quantity and type of plant materials required by
each bufferyard are specific and identified in the Appendix (reference division
(L)(3)(g) below). The specifications of each bufferyard and its alternatives
are illustrated in this section. Each alternative depicts the total bufferyard
located between two parcels.
            2.   Whenever a wall, fence or berm is required within a
bufferyard, these are shown as “fence/berm” in the following table, wherein
their respective specifications are also shown. Whenever a wall is required in
addition to a berm, the wall shall be located between the berm and the higher
intensity use, in order to provide maximum sound absorption.
            3.   If the development on the adjoining use is existing, planned
or deed-restricted for solar access, understory trees may be substituted for
canopy trees where canopy trees would destroy solar access.
            4.   If the development borders a jurisdictional boundary outside
that of this chapter, the bufferyard used shall be based on the district most
comparable to that of this chapter, at the discretion and approval of the
Director.
            5.   The exact placement of required plants and structures shall be
the decision of each user; except that, the following requirements shall be
satisfied.
               a.   Evergreen (or conifer) plant materials shall be planted in
clusters rather than singly in order to maximize their chances of survival.
               b.   Berms with masonry walls required of Bufferyard J and K
options are intended to buffer more significant nuisances from adjacent uses
and, additionally, to break up and absorb noise, which is achieved by the
varied heights of plant materials between the wall and the noise source.
               c.   When berms with walls are required, the masonry wall shall
be closer than the berm to the higher intensity use.
               d.   Within a bufferyard, a planting area at least five feet
wide containing 15% of the total plant requirements (based on the multiplier =
1) shall be located between the masonry wall and the higher intensity class
use. These plants shall be chosen to provide species and sizes to reduce noise
in conjunction with the wall.
            6.   All bufferyard areas shall be live vegetation and seeded with
lawn or prairie grasses unless such ground cover is already established.
            7.   Bufferyards may contain natural water amenities or areas
established for drainage; provided that, planting requirements are still
satisfied.
            8.   Where drainage and utility easements.
         (d)   Use of bufferyards.
            1.   A bufferyard may be used for passive recreation; it may
contain pedestrian, bike or equestrian trails; provided that, no plant material
is eliminated, the total width of the bufferyard is not reduced, and all other
regulations of the ordinance are met.
            2.   In no event, however, shall permanent structures be permitted
in bufferyards including ice-skating rinks, stables, swimming pools and tennis
courts.
         (e)   Ownership of bufferyards. Bufferyards may remain in the
ownership of the original developer of a land use, or they may be subjected to
deed restrictions and subsequently be freely conveyed, or they may be
transferred to any consenting grantees, such as adjoining landowners, a park or
forest preserve, or an open space or conservation group; provided that, any
such conveyance adequately guarantees the protection of the bufferyards for the
purposes of this chapter.
         (f)   Excess bufferyard. Where the bufferyard required between a land
use and vacant land turns out to be greater than that bufferyard which is
required between the first use and the subsequently developed use, the
following uses apply.
            1.   The subsequent use may provide one half of the buffer
required. The existing use may expand its use into the original buffer area,
provided that the resulting total bufferyard between the two uses meets the
bufferyard requirements.
            2.   The existing use may enter into agreements with abutting
landowners to use its existing buffer to provide some or all of the required
bufferyard of both land uses. The total buffer shall equal the requirements;
provided that, such an agreement can be negotiated, the initial use may provide
the second use some or all of its required bufferyard and/or extra land on
which it might develop. The existing use may reduce its excess buffer by
transferring part or the entire excess buffer to the adjoining landowner to
serve as its buffer. Any remaining excess buffer area may be used by the
existing use for expansion of that use or for transfer by it to the adjoining
landowner to expand that adjoining use.
         (g)   Bufferyard between like uses. Where a bufferyard is required in
a zoning district where the proposed use is similar to existing, surrounding
uses in terms of land use, size, density and lot size, the bufferyard may be
waived at the discretion of the Director. Such waiver (or denial of a waiver)
by the Director shall be made in writing, justifying the decision.
Rural Bufferyard Requirements
Adjacent District District of Proposal Use
                  C AP AG R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4, MF PB LB GB UB AB I-1 I-2
Rural Bufferyard Requirements
Adjacent    District of Proposal Use
District
            C AP AG R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4, MF PB    LB    GB    UB AB    I-1   I-2
C           - -  -  -   -   -   -       -     -     -     -  -     -     -
AP          - -  Ag Ag  Ag  Ag  Ag      Ag    Ag    Ag    Ag Ag    Ag    Ag
AG          - -  Ag Ag  Ag  Ag  Ag      A/B * A/C * A/E * -  A/G * A/H * A/I *
R-1         - -  Ag B   C   D   D       D     E     G     -  I     J     K
R-2         - -  Ag C   B   D   D       D     E     G     -  I     J     K
R-3         - -  Ag D   C   B   B       D     E     G     -  I     J     K
R-4, MF     - -  Ag D   C   B   B       D     E     G     -  I     J     K
PB          - -  A  D   D   D   D       A     A     B     -  C     C     C
LB          - -  A  E   E   E   E       A     A     A     -  C     C     C
GB          - -  A  G   G   G   G       A     A     A     -  C     C     D
UB          - -  A  H   H   H   H       D     C     A     -  A     B     C
AB          - -  A  I   I   I   I       E     D     C     -  A     A     B
I-1         - -  A  J   J   J   J       E     D     C     -  B     A     A
I-2         - -  F  K   K   K   K       F     E     D     -  C     A     A
PUD         @ @  @  @   @   @   @       @     @     @     @  @     @     @
Streets
Collector
(interstate         F   F   F                                C     D     E
or primary
roadway)
Sub
collector           D   D   D   B       B     C     D        F     G     H
(secondary
roadway)
Feeder      - -  -  B   B   B   B       B     D     F     -  G     H     I
Access      - -  -  B   B   B   B       B     B     C     -  D     E     F
NOTES TO TABLE:
* = In areas abutting existing residential use or agricultural use, the more
restrictive bufferyard shall apply.
- = No bufferyard required.
@ = As determined by the town.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-843.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-845.jpg]
 
Table 15: Rural Plant Materials Recommended for Bufferyards
Scientific Name Common Name Soil Type          Growth Rate
                            Hydric Mesic Xeric Fast Slow
Table 15: Rural Plant Materials Recommended for Bufferyards
Scientific Name            Common Name          Soil Type          Growth Rate
                                                Hydric Mesic Xeric Fast Slow
Canopy Trees
Acer spp.                  Maple
Aesculus hippocastanum     Common Horsechestnut
Ailanthus altissima        Tree of Heaven
Betula spp.                Birch
Carya spp.                 Hickory
Catalpa spp.               Northern Catalpa
Celtis occidentalis        Common Hackberry
Fagus grandifolia          American Beech
Fraxinus spp.              Ash
Ginkgo biloba              Ginkgo Tree
Gleditsia spp.             Honeylocust
Gymnocladus diocius        Kentucky Coffeetree
Juglans spp.               Walnut
Plantanus spp.             Sycamore
Populus spp.               Poplar
Prunus serotina            Black Cherry
Quercus spp.               Oak
Salix spp.                 Willow
Tilia spp.                 Linden
Ulmus spp.                 Elm
Canopy Trees - Evergreen
Abies spp.                 Fir
Juniperus spp.             Juniper
Larix spp.                 Larch
Picea spp.                 Spruce
Pinus spp                  Pine
Thuja occidentalis         American Arborvitae
Tsuga canadensis           Canadian Hemlock
Understory Trees
Acer spp.                  Maple
Aesculus glabra Ohio       Buckeye
Alnus spp.                 Alder
Amelanchier spp.           Serviceberry
Betula spp.                Birch
Carpinus carolinia         American Hornbeam
Cercidiphyllum japonicum   Japanese Katsuratree
Chionanthus virginicus     White Fringetree
Cornus spp. Dogwood /      Cherry
Crataegus spp.             Hawthorn
Eleagnus spp.              Olive
Euonymus atropurpureus     Eastern Wahoo
Lindera benzoin            Spicebush
Magnolia spp.              Magnolia
Malus spp.                 Crab Apple
Morus alba                 White Mulberry
Ostrya Virginia            Ironwood
Prunus spp.                Plum
Pyrus spp.                 Pear
Syringa japonica           Japanese Tree Lilac
Shrubs
Amorpha fruticosa          Indigo Bush
Aronia spp.                Chokeberry
Berberis thunbergi         Japanese Barberry
Calycanthos floridus       Carolina Allspice
Caragana spp.              Peashrub
Ceanothus americanus       New Jersey Tea
Celastrus scandens         American Bittersweet
Cephalanthus occidentalis  Button Bush
Chaenomeles spp.           Quince
Cornus spp.                Dogwood
Corylus americana          American Hazelnut
Cotinus coggygria          Smokebush
Cotoneaster spp.           Cotoneaster
Deutzia gracilis           Slender Deutzia
Euonymus alatus            Burning Bush
Forsythia spp.             Forsythia
Hamamelis spp.             Witchhazel
Hydrangea spp.             Hydrangea
Hypericum spp.             St. Johns Wort
Ligustrum spp.             Privit
Lonicera spp.              Honeysuckle
Myrica pennsylvanica       Northern Bayberry
Prunus spp.                Plum
Ptelea trifoliata          Hope Tree
Rhamnus frangula           Buckthorn
Rhodotypes scandens        Black Jetbead
Rhus spp.                  Sumac
Ribes spp. Gooseberry      Gooseberry
Rosa spp.                  Rose
Rubus spp.                 Raspberry
Sambucus canadensis        Elderberry
Shepherdia canadensis      Buffaloberry
Spiraea spp.               Spirea
Symphoricarpos orbiculatus Indian Currant
Syringa spp.               Lilac
Viburnum spp.              Viburnum
Evergreen Shrubs
Juniperus spp.             Juniper
Pinus mugo Mugo            Pine
Taxus spp.                 Yew
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.17; Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
§ 194.112 URBAN WORKS OF ART.
   (A)   Works of art that are clearly artistic in nature and which do not
promote commercial interests are allowed and exempt from this chapter.
   (B)   If, in the discretion of the Director of Planning, it is determined
that there is a commercial message or interest incorporated into the work of
art said work of art shall be considered a sign and shall only be permitted and
regulated as such:
   (C)   Two dimensional works of art placed on the facade of buildings shall
not exceed 30% of the facade of a building which they are placed.
   (D)   Appeals of the decision of the Director shall be made pursuant to §
194.202 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 3.18; Ord. 2008-08, passed 5-5-2008)
§ 194.113 LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Lighting standards: general.
      (1)   It is the intent of lighting standards to provide for illumination
levels on individual lots which are adequate for the safe and efficient
movement of individuals or vehicles to and from a lot and within a lot. Light
intensity shall not be so great as to cause objectionable glare beyond any lot
line.
      (2)   No use shall produce light or glare creating a nuisance or hazard
perceptible from any point beyond the lot lines.
      (3)   A lighting plan for proposed development shall be filed as part of
the development plan application, per §
194.126 of this chapter.
      (4)   New or replacement lighting fixtures. Lighting standards shall
apply to the installation of new outdoor lighting fixtures or the replacement
of existing outdoor fixtures. Replacement of a fixture shall mean a change of
fixture type or change to the mounting height or location of the fixture.
Routine lighting fixture maintenance, such as changing lamps or light bulbs,
ballast, starter, photo control, housing, lenses and other similar components,
shall not constitute replacement and shall be permitted provided such changes
do not result in a higher lumen output.
      (5)   Wavelength. Light from fixtures shall be outputted at a wavelength
at or above 500nm to limit blue light.
      (6)   Color temperature. Light from fixtures shall have a correlated
color temperature at or above 3000 degrees kelvin and below 4000 degrees kelvin
to aid in visibility at night and protect circadian rhythm of nocturnal
environments.
   (B)   Lighting standards: Urban B-0 / B-1 / B-2 / B-3 / VBD / I-ORT /1-1 /1-
2 /1-3 / R-V / SU / PUD / R-MF-1 / R-MF-2. All lighting in Business,
Industrial, Special Use Districts, and Planned Unit Development Districts, as
well as the R-MF-1 and RMF-2 Districts, and shall comply with the following
regulations. PUD Planned Unit Development Districts shall comply with the
following unless unique standards are identified in the adopted preliminary
Planned Unit Development district or ordinance.
      (1)   Style.
         (a)   Lighting of all off-street parking areas, outside storage, or
outdoor operations shall be a “shoebox” style lighting. Specific to B-l and
VBD, bronze “shoebox” style lighting shall be used.
         (b)   All exterior lighting, including wall pack lighting, shall be of
metal halide or LED.
      (2)   Uniformity.
         (a)   Light standards and fixtures on a lot, including free-standing
light fixtures and those attached to buildings, security lights, and
architectural lights, shall be of consistent design and materials.
         (b)   Parking lot lights shall be of uniform size, design and height.
      (3)   Cutoff. All free-standing lights shall be of either a “down
lighting” style with the light element completely shielded on all sides and the
top; or be equipped with a refractor so as to direct light downward onto the
lot.
      (4)   Light trespass. Lighting shall not cause illumination beyond any
lot line or onto any right-of-way, based upon the zoning district of the real
estate on the opposite side of such lot line or right-of-way, in excess of:
         (a)   If adjoining business or industrial districts - one foot candle.
         (b)   If adjoining open land, residential or special use districts -
one-half foot candle.
      (5)   Architectural or sign lighting. Lighting shall be so directed and
shielded so that the light element is not visible from any point along an
adjacent public right-of-way.
      (6)   Color temperature. VBD: Light from fixtures shall have a correlated
color temperature at or above 3000 degrees Kelvin and at or below 3500 degrees
Kelvin to aid in visibility at night and protect circadian rhythm of nocturnal
environments.
   (C)   Lighting standards: MRO. All lighting in U.S. Highway 421 - Michigan
Road Corridor Overlay District shall comply with the following regulations:
      (1)   Uniformity.
         (a)   Light standards and fixtures on a lot, including free-standing
light fixtures and those attached to buildings, security lights, and
architectural lights within the development area shall be of consistent and
uniform design and materials.
         (b)   Parking lot streetlights shall also be of uniform height not to
exceed 24 feet. Luminaries for such lights shall be in proportion to the pole
diameter and height.
            1.   Poles up to 12 feet in height: Minimum diameter of six inches.
            2.   Poles between 12 and 24 feet in height: Minimum diameter of
eight inches.
      (2)   Cutoff. All lights within gas station canopies and adjacent to
residential areas shall be of a “down lighting” type with the light element
completely shielded on all sides and top. The Plan Commission may approve
decorative lighting should it be more appropriate to the overall site design.
      (3)   Light trespass. Lighting shall not cause illumination beyond any
lot line or onto any right-of-way, based upon the zoning district of the real
estate on the opposite side of such lot line or right-of-way, in excess of:
         (a)   If adjoining business or industrial districts - 0.3 foot candle.
         (b)   If adjoining open land, residential or special use districts -
0.1 foot candle.
   (D)   Lighting standards: rural.
      (1)   In any district, outdoor lighting, where provided, shall be shall
be of a design and size that is harmonious with the design of the building, the
type of land use, and the type of adjacent land uses.
      (2)   If external spot or flood lighting is used, the light source should
be shielded and restrained in such a manner so as not to illuminate or intrude
on surrounding properties.
      (3)   Excessive brightness, flashing lights, and brilliant colors are not
permitted.
      (4)   Lighting provided to illuminate off-street parking areas shall be
so arranged, shielded and directed upon the parking area in such a manner as to
not reflect or cause glare into adjacent properties or interfere with street
traffic.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-5-2016)
DEVELOPMENT PLANS
§ 194.125 DEVELOPMENT PLANS REQUIRED FOR DEVELOPMENT IN CERTAIN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In order to assure the compatibility of new development or major
additions to existing development with the surrounding community, all new
construction, building additions, new or expanded surface parking areas,
exterior building renovations and freestanding or building signs located in the
following districts shall be subject to the approval of a development plan by
the Plan Commission:
      (1)   Urban RE (Equestrian Estate Residential District);
      (2)   Urban R-SF-1 (Urban Single-Family Residential District 1);
      (3)   Urban R-SF-2 (Urban Single-Family Residential District 2);
      (4)   Urban R-SF-3 (Urban Single-Family Residential District 3);
      (5)   Urban R-SF-4 (Urban Single-Family Residential District 4);
      (6)   Urban R-MF-1 (Multi-Family Residence District 1);
      (7)   Urban R-MF-2 (Multi-Family Residence District 2);
      (8)   Urban R-V (Urban Special Residential District);
      (9)   Urban B-O (Office District);
      (10)   Urban B-1 (Neighborhood Business District);
      (11)   Urban B-2 (General Business District);
      (12)   Urban B-3 (Highway Business District);
      (13)   Urban VBD (Village Business District);
      (14)   Urban I-ORT (Office/Research/Technology/Industrial District);
      (15)   Urban I-1 (Light Industrial District);
      (16)   Urban I-2 (General Industrial District);
      (17)   Urban I-3 (Heavy Industrial District);
      (18)   Urban All SU (Special Use Districts);
      (19)   Urban O-1 (Urban Open Land District);
      (20)   Urban FP (Urban Floodplain Secondary District);
      (21)   Urban MRO (Urban U.S. Highway 421-Michigan Road Corridor Overlay
District);
      (22)   Rural C (Rural Conservation District);
      (23)   Rural AP (Rural Agricultural Preservation District);
      (24)   Rural General Agricultural District;
      (25)   Rural RE (Rural Equestrian District);
      (26)   Rural R-1 (Rural Single-Family Residential);
      (27)   Rural R-2 (Rural Single- and Two-Family Residential);
      (28)   Rural R-3 (Rural Single- and Two-Family Residential);
      (29)   Rural R-4 (Rural Single- and Two-Family Residential);
      (30)   Rural MF (Rural Multi-Family Residential);
      (31)   Rural LB ( Rural Local Business);
      (32)   Rural PB (Rural Professional Business);
      (33)   Rural UB (Rural Urban Business);
      (34)   Rural GB (Rural General Business);
      (35)   Rural AB (Rural Accommodation Business);
      (36)   Rural I 1 (Rural Light Industrial);
      (37)   Rural I 2 (Rural General Industrial);
      (38)   Rural MRO (Rural U.S. Highway 421-Michigan Road Corridor Overlay
District); and
      (39)   Rural AZ (Rural Airport Zoning District).
   (B)   In addition, cluster subdivisions proposed for the R-SF-1 and R-SF-
2 Districts also shall be subject to the approval of a development plan by the
Plan Commission.
      (1)   Development requirements.
         (a)   Land in each of the districts noted above is subject to the
following development requirements.
            1.   Each site shall demonstrate compliance with all development
standards of the applicable district and all applicable provisions of Ch. 193
of this code of ordinances.
            2.   Submission of a site plan, overall plan, building elevations,
sign plan, landscape plan, and lighting plan, as set forth in §
194.126 of this chapter.
         (b)   In review of the proposed development plan, the Plan Commission
shall assess whether said development plan addresses the findings as enumerated
in division (B)(2) below.
      (2)   Findings.
         (a)   The Plan Commission shall make written findings concerning any
decision to approve or disapprove a development plan filed under this
subchapter.
         (b)   The Plan Commission shall grant development plan approval upon
written finding that the proposed development:
            1.   The proposed development is consistent with the intent and
purpose of the Comprehensive Plan;
            2.   The proposed development plan satisfies the development
requirements specified in this chapter; and
            3.   The proposed development plan otherwise complies with the
development standards and requirement for development plan approval required by
this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 4.1; Ord. 2015-14, passed 3-2-2015)
§ 194.126 PLAN DOCUMENTATION AND SUPPORTING INFORMATION.
   Except as expressly provided otherwise in this chapter, a development plan
shall contain a site plan, overall plan, building elevations, sign plan,
landscape plan and lighting plan that comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Site plan.
      (1)   A site plan filed in connection with the submission of a
development plan shall be drawn to scale of not more than one inch equals 100
feet and shall include the following items:
         (a)   North arrow and scale;
         (b)   Address of the site;
         (c)   Proposed name of the development;
         (d)   Area map insert showing the general location of the site
referenced to major streets and section lines;
         (e)   Legal description of the real estate;
         (f)   Boundary lines of the site including all dimensions of the site;
         (g)   Names, centerlines and right-of-way widths of all streets,
alleys and easements;
         (h)   Layout, number and dimension of all lots and outlots with zoning
setback lines or building setback lines;
         (i)   Location and dimensions of all existing structures, including
paved areas;
         (j)   Location and dimensions of all proposed structures, including
paved areas, and indicated by crosshatching;
         (k)   Location and name of all existing and proposed public or private
streets, access easements and rights-of-way within 200 feet of the real estate;
         (l)   Location of all floodway and floodway fringe areas within the
boundaries of the site;
         (m)   Location of all existing and proposed utility facilities and
easements, including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer, water, storm water
management, electric, gas, telephone and cable;
         (n)   Use of each structure by labeling including approximate density
or size of all proposed uses and structures on the site (e.g., parking - number
of parking spaces required and provided, residence - number of dwelling units
per acre, office - gross floor area);
         (o)   Structures proposed for demolition should be indicated as such;
         (p)   Distance of all structures from front, rear and side lot lines
(This distance is measured as a line from the point where the structure is
closest to the lot line. This line is perpendicular to the lot line.);
         (q)   Location of any proposed or existing driveway and its width at
the lot line. (Any connection to an alley must also be indicated);
         (r)   All improvements to street system on-site and off-site;
         (s)   Sidewalk plan or alternate plan for pedestrian ways;
         (t)   Measurement of curb radius or taper;
         (u)   Names of legal ditches and streams on or adjacent to the site;
         (v)   Location, dimensions and type (e.g., ground, pole, wall) of all
signs on the site. Include separate elevations of proposed sign structures with
all dimensions drawn to scale;
         (w)   Location, size and species of all proposed and existing trees
over six inches in caliper at four and one-half feet above grade and all
proposed and existing landscaping;
         (x)   Areas reserved for park, recreation, conservation, wetland,
common area, lake or other similar uses;
         (y)   Drainage plan for all watersheds in and around the proposed
development, indicating the general drainage pattern of streets and lots, the
location of all drainage channels and subsurface drainage structures, the
proposed method of disposing of all storm water runoff from the proposed
development including data to show that the proposed outlet(s) are adequate to
accommodate the drainage requirements of the development, and all existing and
proposed detention facilities;
         (z)   A preliminary erosion control plan for all areas of site
disturbance; and
         (aa)   Any other information requested in writing by the Plan
Commission or Building Commissioner. The Building Commissioner, in his or her
sole discretion, may waive or relax any of the site plan requirements listed
above, as circumstances dictate.
   (B)   Overall plan.
      (1)   An overall plan shall be required when the proposed development is
a part of a larger development (example: a lot, an outlot or a building within
an integrated center, industrial park or multi- family project).
      (2)   An overall plan filed in connection with the submission of a
development plan shall be drawn to scale of not more than one inch equals 100
feet and shall include the following items:
         (a)   North arrow and scale;
         (b)   Address of the site;
         (c)   Proposed name of the development;
         (d)   Area map insert showing the general location of the site
referenced to major streets and section lines;
         (e)   Legal description of the real estate;
         (f)   Boundary lines of the site including all dimensions of the site;
         (g)   Names, centerlines and right-of-way widths of all streets,
alleys and easements;
         (h)   Layout, number and dimension of all lots and outlots with zoning
setback lines and building setback lines;
         (i)   Location and name of all existing and proposed public or private
streets, access easements and rights-of-way within 200 feet of the real estate;
         (j)   Location of all floodway and floodway fringe areas within the
boundaries of the site;
         (k)   Location of all existing and proposed utility facilities and
easements, including, but not limited to, sanitary sewer, water, storm water
management, electric, gas, telephone and cable;
         (l)   All improvements to street system on-site and off-site;
         (m)   Sidewalk plan or alternate plan for pedestrian ways;
         (n)   Location, dimensions and type (e.g., ground, pole, wall) of all
signs on the site. Include separate elevations of proposed sign structures with
all dimensions drawn to scale;
         (o)   Areas reserved for park, recreation, conservation, wetland,
common area, lake or other similar uses; and
         (p)   Any other information requested in writing by the Plan
Commission or Building Commissioner.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the overall plan requirements listed above, as circumstances
dictate.
   (C)   Building elevations.
      (1)   Building elevations shall be required when the proposed development
includes the construction, addition to or renovation of a building.
      (2)   Building elevations filed in connection with the submission of a
development plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include the following items:
         (a)   Address of the site;
         (b)   Proposed name of the development;
         (c)   Scale;
         (d)   Elevations for each facade of the building;
         (e)   Specification of the type of building materials to be used for
all wall, window, roof and other architectural features;
         (f)   Specification of the color(s) proposed for all materials and
features;
         (g)   Placement, size, color and illumination details for any proposed
wall sign;
         (h)   Details of any exterior architectural lighting proposed on or
around the building; and
         (i)   Any other information requested in writing by the Plan
Commission or Building Commissioner.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the building elevation requirements listed above, as
circumstances dictate.
   (D)   Sign plan.
      (1)   A sign plan shall be required when the proposed development
includes freestanding or building signs.
      (2)   Sign plans filed in connection with the submission of a development
plan shall be drawn to scale and shall include the following items:
         (a)   Address of the site;
         (b)   Proposed name of the development;
         (c)   Scale;
         (d)   A site plan indicating the location of any existing or proposed
freestanding signs or the placement of any existing or proposed wall signs;
         (e)   Elevation of proposed signs including size, materials and color;
         (f)   Illumination details for proposed signs;
         (g)   Placement, size, color and illumination details for any proposed
wall sign superimposed on an elevation of the applicable facade of the
building; and
         (h)   Any other information requested in writing by the Plan
Commission or Building Commissioner.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the sign plan requirements listed above, as circumstances
dictate.
   (E)   Landscape plan.
      (1)   Landscape plans filed in connection with the submission of a
development plan shall be drawn to scale of not more than one inch equals 100
feet and shall include the following items:
         (a)   Address of the site;
         (b)   Proposed name of the development;
         (c)   Scale;
         (d)   The location of any existing or proposed freestanding signs;
         (e)   Outline of all existing or proposed buildings or structures,
including parking areas, loading areas and walkways;
         (f)   Boundary lines of the site;
         (g)   Location of all floodway and floodway fringe areas within the
boundaries of the site;
         (h)   All existing elevations and proposed land contour lines having
at least two-foot intervals;
         (i)   Proposed sidewalk or alternate plan for pedestrian ways;
         (j)   Size, species and spacing (on center) of all proposed trees,
landscaping and ground cover;
         (k)   (If tree preservation is proposed), survey of existing trees in
required yards and yards which abut upon an R district, indicating exact
location of existing trees over six-inch caliber at four and one-half feet
above grade and all flowering trees, shrubs and evergreens over six feet in
height;
         (l)   (If tree preservation is proposed), description of methods to
preserve trees without injury and with sufficient area for the root system to
sustain the tree;
         (m)   (If tree preservation if proposed), description of protective
care and physical restraint barriers at the drip line to prevent alteration,
compaction or increased depth of the soil in the root system area prior to and
during groundwork and construction; and
         (n)   Any other information requested in writing by the Plan
Commission or Building Commissioner.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the landscape plan requirements listed above, as circumstances
dictate.
   (F)   Lighting plan.
      (1)   Lighting plans shall be required if the proposed development
includes any exterior building or site lighting.
      (2)   Lighting plans filed in connection with the submission of a
development plan shall be drawn to scale of not more than one inch equals 100
feet and shall include the following items:
         (a)   North arrow and scale;
         (b)   Address of the site;
         (c)   Proposed name of the development, boundary lines of the site
including all dimensions of the site;
         (d)   Outline of all existing or proposed building or structures,
including parking areas, loading areas and walkways;
         (e)   Type and location of all exterior of lighting fixtures
including, wattage and type of light;
         (f)   Intensity of lighting at base of light structure and at the lot
line measured in foot candles; and
         (g)   If architectural building lighting is proposed, elevations for
each facade of the building indicating the location, type and intensity of
lighting on each building facade and the intensity of such lighting at the lot
line measured in foot candles.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner, in his or her sole discretion, may waive
or relax any of the lighting plan requirements listed above, as circumstances
dictate.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 4.2; Ord. 2015-14, passed 3-2-2015)
§ 194.127 PROCEDURES FOR SUBMISSION AND REVIEW OF DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Application for development plan. Approval by the Plan Commission
shall be in compliance with the following procedures:
         (a)   Who may file. Development plans may be initiated by a petition
signed by:
            1.   The owner(s) of the land involved in the petition; or
            2.   The owner(s) authorized agent, with submission of a notarized
consent form from the owner(s).
         (b)   Filing deadline. All development plan petitions shall be filed
at least 30 days prior to the initial public hearing at which they are to be
considered by the Plan Commission.
         (c)   Form of filing. All development plan approval petitions shall be
on forms provided by the town. In addition, site plans, surveys, legal
descriptions, building elevations, sign details, proposed commitments and any
other relevant supporting documentation shall be of a usable scale and quality.
         (d)   Findings of fact. The petitioner shall, at the time of filing of
the petition, file proposed detailed written findings of fact.
         (e)   Specifying of request. All development plan approval petitions
shall specify the approvals requested. Any items, even if indicated on the
proposed plans, shall not be considered a part of the request presented to the
Plan Commission for its consideration unless such approvals are specified in
the petition.
         (f)   Docketing by staff. Each petition filed in proper and complete
form pursuant to the guidelines established by the Plan Commission shall,
within ten days of filing, be numbered and docketed by the staff for an initial
hearing by the Plan Commission.
         (g)   Investigation of petitions. Upon assignment of a number and
hearing date, the staff shall distribute a copy of the petition and relevant
supporting documentation to the town’s Engineer and other applicable town
officials for review and comment.
         (h)   Notice requirements. Notice of all petitions for development
plan approval public hearing before the Plan Commission shall be given to all
interested parties or property owners in the following manner.
            1.   Notice by publication. Notice shall be published by the Plan
Commission in accordance with I.C. 5-3-1 at least ten days prior to the date of
the public hearing.
            2.   Notice by mailing.
               a.   Notice, in a form approved by the Secretary in accordance
with the requirements on I.C. 36-7-4-604, shall be mailed to each interested
party. Notice by mailing shall be given by certified mail, return receipt
requested, at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
               b.   Interested parties for a development plan approval shall
include all owners of adjoining parcels to a depth of one ownership surrounding
the perimeter of the area included in the petition.
               c.   In the case of property which has been submitted to the
Horizontal Property Law (I.C. 36-1-6), notice shall be given only to the
association of co-owners.
            3.   Affidavit of notice. An affidavit of notice shall be filed in
compliance with §
190.24 of this code of ordinances.
         (i)   Public hearings. All public hearings regarding a development
plan approval before the Plan Commission shall be conducted in accordance with
the procedures set forth in the rules of procedure of the Plan Commission.
      (2)   Application for development plan. Approval by the Building
Commissioner shall be accomplished in compliance with the following procedures:
         (a)   Compliance with divisions (A)(1)(a), (A)(1)(b), (A)(1)(c), (A)
(1)(d) and (A)(1)(e) above;
         (b)   Contact the Building Commissioner to make an appointment to
deliver the required plans and provide a brief explanation of the proposed
development plan;
         (c)   Building Commissioner shall have a period of not more than ten
days in which to review the proposed development plan and either make a
decision concerning the development plan, or request in writing, additional
information from the applicant;
         (d)   Building Commissioner may seek the advice and comment from staff
prior to making a decision;
         (e)   May occur without public notice and without a public hearing;
         (f)   If, in the sole discretion of the Building Commissioner, the
proposed development plan is of such a nature, that a full review by the Plan
Commission is warranted, the development plan may be forwarded to the Plan
Commission for its review and approval; and
         (g)   Any decision of the Building Commissioner under this section,
may be appealed by any interested party to the Plan Commission within 30 days
of such decision by filing a letter with the Plan Commission requesting a
hearing by the Plan Commission. Said appeal shall be heard by the Plan
Commission at the Plan Commission’s next regularly scheduled public hearing for
which published notice of the appeal pursuant to I.C. 5-3-1 can be provided.
   (B)   Fees. In order to defray administrative costs, the fees as set forth
in the fee schedule as approved by the Plan Commission for development plan
approval by the Plan Commission are to be paid by the applicant at the time of
filing an application for development plan approval.
   (C)   Findings. All findings specified above for the approval or denial of a
development plan shall be reduced to writing and signed by the President or
Secretary of the Plan Commission, or by the Building Commissioner for those
development plans approved per division (A)(2) above and retained as a part of
the permanent record of the determination.
   (D)   Amendments.
      (1)   Amendments to development plans pending determination by the Plan
Commission. Amendments to development plans pending determination by the Plan
Commission may be made by the petitioner at any time prior to a vote being
called for by the Plan Commission. If, in the sole discretion of the Plan
Commission, the proposed amendment is of such a nature that additional time is
needed for review, the Plan Commission may continue the consideration of such
amended development plan to the next meeting of the Plan Commission. The Plan
Commission, at its discretion, may require that additional notice be given.
      (2)   Amendments to development plans pending determination by the
Building Commissioner. Amendments to development plans pending determination by
the Building Commissioner may be made by the applicant at any time prior to a
determination being made by the Building Commissioner. If, in the sole
discretion of the Building Commissioner, the proposed amendment is of such a
nature that additional time is needed for review, the amended development plan
shall be deemed a new filing and shall be reviewed with the time frames set
forth above for the review of development plans by the Building Commissioner.
      (3)   Amendments to approved development plans.
         (a)   Minor amendments to development plans which have already
received approval from the Plan Commission and which do not involve: an
increase in height, area, bulk or intensity or type of land uses; the
designation of additional land uses; the reduction in perimeter yards; the
addition of driveways or access points; or reduction in the amount of parking
for any use, may be authorized by the Building Commissioner without a public
hearing in its continuing administration of the development plan if, in the
determination of the Building Commissioner, the requested minor amendments do
not adversely impact the purpose or intent of the overall development.
         (b)   A minor amendment to an approved development plan shall be filed
with the Building Commissioner in the form of an application for an improvement
location permit, accompanied by a written request from the petitioner for a
minor amendment to the development plan. Such written request shall specify the
amendment(s) requested. The Building Commissioner shall review the application
for an improvement location permit per §§
194.215 through
194.220 of this chapter.
         (c)   Such minor amendments authorized by the Building Commissioner
shall be reported, in writing, to the Plan Commission at the next regular
meeting of the Plan Commission.
         (d)   If the Building Commissioner determines that the proposed minor
modification is of such a nature as to adversely impact the purpose or intent
of the overall development, or if the proposed modification includes:
            1.   An increase in height, area, bulk or intensity or type of land
uses;
            2.   The designation of additional land uses;
            3.   The reduction in perimeter yard;
            4.   The addition of driveways or access points; or
            5.   Reduction in the amount of parking for any use, the petitioner
shall be required to file a new petition for development plan approval.
         (e)   Any decision of the Building Commissioner regarding the
amendment of development plan may be appealed by any interested party to the
Plan Commission within 30 days of such determination by filing an approval
petition.
   (E)   Modification or termination of development plan approval. Any
modification to or termination of a previously approved development plan shall
be filed as an approval petition for public hearing before the Plan Commission
following the procedures set forth in this subchapter.
   (F)   Review of development plan by the Plan Commission. The Plan Commission
may do the following:
      (1)   Impose conditions of the approval of a development plan if the
conditions are reasonably necessary to satisfy the development requirements
specified in this chapter for approval of the development plan;
      (2)   Provide that approval of a development plan is conditioned on the
furnishing to the Plan Commission of a bond or written assurance that:
         (a)   Guarantees the timely completion of a proposed public
improvement in the proposed development;
         (b)   Is otherwise satisfactory to the Plan Commission; and
      (3)   Permit or require the owner or real property to make a written
commitment under §
194.201(D) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 4.3; Ord. 2015-14, passed 3-2-2015)
 § 194.128 EXPIRATION OF APPROVED DEVELOPMENT PLANS AND DEVELOPMENT PLAN WITH
COMMITMENTS.
   (A)   Development plan approvals granted by the Plan Commission, including
approvals receiving modifications and amendments, shall be valid for three
years from the date of said approval. If development of the project has not
materially progressed and begun before the end of said three-year period, the
approval expires and a new development plan application must be submitted;
provided, however, that, the applicant (or party which has been assigned the
property being the subject of approval) may appear at a Plan Commission
meeting, as a matter of “other business”, prior to said expiration date and
request consideration of an extension of time before such development plan
approval expires, in which event any extension of the Plan Commission grants
shall not extend beyond a date which is more than seven years after the date of
the most recent development plan approval, including approval of any
modification or amendment thereto.
   (B)   If the recording of commitments is required in connection with
approval of a development plan, including approvals receiving modification and
amendments, said approval shall automatically be conditional and shall not
become final unless the required commitments are finalized in a manner
satisfactory to the Plan Commission. The failure to finalize commitments does
not operate to extend the three-year expiration period - which begins on the
date of approval and/or conditional approval. Finalized means satisfying the
following steps:
      (1)   Submitting for staff approval;
      (2)   Gaining approval;
      (3)   Recordation of the approval.
(Ord. 2015-14, passed 3-2-2015; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
§ 194.140 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   This district is a zoning district that may contain a single use or
any combination of residential, commercial and industrial uses for a PUD.
Planned unit developments shall be planned as integral units.
   (B)   The approval process for a PUD involves rezoning the property upon
approval of a developer’s application for a specific planned unit development
project. The purpose of these regulations is to provide the community the
benefits of efficiency, economy and flexibility by encouraging unified
development of sites, while deriving for the town the advantages of improved
appearance, compatibility of uses, optimum services by community facilities and
better handling of vehicular access and circulation.
   (C)   A planned unit development should preserve the natural amenities of
the land through maintenance of conservation areas and open spaces within
developments.
   (D)   Review of the planned unit development by the Plan Commission should
assure that such developments are consistent with the objectives of the town’s
Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 5.1; Ord. 2010-04, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 194.141 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   Any real estate may be rezoned planned unit development district in order to
accomplish the following:
   (A)   The characteristics of the specific site development and its land uses
proposed for the subject real estate are compatible with the surrounding area
if the development were limited to those plans and uses as submitted;
   (B)   Land uses, which would not otherwise be permitted to locate within the
existing zoning districts, are proposed for development on a parcel under
single or multiple ownership or management;
   (C)   Exceptions or variations from the size, setback, frontage, density,
uses or other development standards which are established for a given land use
in the other zoning districts are permitted as a part of the Planned Unit
Development District; and
   (D)   The objectives and goals of smart growth are incorporated through the
utilization of such initiatives as conservation developments, integrated mixed-
use developments and performance-based implementation developments.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 5.2; Ord. 2010-04, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 194.142 USES WITHIN A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   It is the intent of the PUD to provide flexibility with regard to the
mixture of land uses. Within a PUD, any land use may be permitted if such use
or uses can be shown to provide an orderly relation and function to other uses
in the development and to existing land uses, compatible with such existing
land uses, as well as with due regard to the Comprehensive Plan of town.
   (B)   The permitted use or uses of property located in the PUD shall be
determined at the time the zoning district and development plan is approved,
and development within the PUD District shall be limited to those uses, as and
where specifically requested as part of the application and approval by the
Town Council.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 5.3; Ord. 2010-04, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 194.143 GUIDELINES FOR DESIGN.
   The following principals for proposing a PUD are recommended, but not all
inclusive:
   (A)   The proposed development should be designed to produce an environment
of stable and desirable character not out of harmony with its surrounding
neighborhood and the town’s Comprehensive Plan;
   (B)   Interest and variety should be sought, by means of street design and
changes in and mixtures of building types, heights, facades, setbacks, planting
or size of open space. The design should be harmonious as a whole and not
simply from street-to-street;
   (C)   Streets should curve to discourage fast movement of traffic; traffic
calming devices should be integrated into street design; group parking areas
should be screened, so that the vehicles are substantially hidden from the
street;
   (D)   The natural amenities of the land should be preserved through
maintenance of conservation areas and open spaces. A minimum of at least 20% of
the gross area of the site should be retained in open space;
   (E)   Height of buildings in excess of 35 feet should be designed and
planned to be reasonably consistent with the neighboring property and foster
efficient use of existing public services and facilities;
   (F)   Within a primarily residential development, commercial and office
uses, if proposed, should be scaled so that they primarily serve the occupants
of the development. Commercial and office uses within the development should be
at the front of the development and be accessed by an internal collector road;
and
   (G)   Structures or buildings located at the perimeter of the development
should face outwardly and be properly screened in a manner that sufficiently
protects the privacy and amenities of the adjacent and neighboring property
uses.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 5.4; Ord. 2010-04, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 194.144 LOT AREA AND LOT WIDTH.
   (A)   There shall be no requirements for minimum lot size, minimum lot
width, lot coverage, yards and building setbacks, or height requirements that
apply to a PUD.
   (B)   These requirements should be proposed by the applicant of the PUD and
shall be as approved by the Plan Commission via a detailed site plan or a
detailed site plan accompanied by a written narrative describing the
development restrictions applicable to the PUD.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 5.5; Ord. 2010-04, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 194.145 WATER AND SEWER.
   All uses within a PUD shall be connected to water and sewer services and
shall not be on well and septic.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 5.6; Ord. 2010-04, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 194.146 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   The filing of a plan for a PUD shall be considered an amendment to the
official zoning map for the town and shall meet the requirements for amendments
specified in this chapter and all applicable land use regulations for the town.
   (B)   An application for rezoning to the PUD District may be considered
simultaneously with, or to be combined with, preliminary plat approval as
allowed by this chapter and Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances; if preliminary
plat approval is requested simultaneously by the applicant, said rezoning
application for the Planned Unit Development District shall contain all
information required for a preliminary plat and rezone approval.
      (1)   Applications for special uses and development standards variances
from the Board of Zoning Appeals shall not be necessary when proposing a PUD.
      (2)   Amendments, deviations or other changes from the approved PUD shall
be processed as a zoning amendment with a public hearing by the Plan Commission
and final approval by the Town Council; consequently, any addition of uses,
change of plans or increase in size or density of an approved PUD shall require
a separate application for amendment of the original approved PUD and shall
follow the same process as other rezoning requests to change the zoning map
incorporated by reference into this chapter.
      (3)   Waivers of Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances from the Plan
Commission shall not be necessary when proposing a PUD.
      (4)   The Plan Commission shall review the proposals prior to submitting
a recommendation to the Town Council. The Plan Commission may recommend
reasonable conditions to the Town Council to protect neighboring properties or
uses.
      (5)   Approval by the Town Council pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-608
constitutes creation of the Planned Unit Development District. The Town Council
may impose conditions on the approval of a PUD, require a bond, or allow or
require a written commitment in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-1512.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 5.7; Ord. 2010-04, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 194.147 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION TO BE PROVIDED.
   The following information shall be provided by way of a development plan or
plat, or combination thereof, which may be accompanied by a written report or
narrative description of the development restrictions applicable to the PUD:
   (A)   The proposed title of the project and the name of the engineer,
architect, designer or landscape architect, and the development;
   (B)   A location map showing the position of the proposed development in
relationship to the surrounding area;
   (C)   A general description of the proposal, stating the purpose and goals
of the development and the design features incorporated for meeting these
goals;
   (D)   A discussion of the proposed standards for development, including
restrictions on the use of the property, density standards, yard requirements
and restrictive covenants;
   (E)   A discussion as to how accessory uses and buildings will be
considered;
   (F)   Location, height and material of all fences, walls, screens, planting
and landscaping. Plans for protection of abutting properties, including
buffers, screening and landscaping;
   (G)   Proposed development timetable, including all planned phases of the
project;
   (H)   The boundaries of the property involved, the location of all existing
easements, section lines and property lines, existing streets, buildings and
other existing physical features in or adjoining the project;
   (I)   The location and character of construction of proposed streets,
alleys, driveways, curb cuts, entrances and exits, loading areas (including
numbers of parking and loading spaces) and outdoor fighting systems;
   (J)   The location and sizes of existing and proposed sanitary and storm
sewers, water mains, culverts and other underground facilities in or near the
project;
   (K)   The location of proposed lots, setback lines and easements, and
proposed reservations for parks, parkways, playgrounds, school sites and open
spaces;
   (L)   The location and height of all proposed main and accessory buildings
and structures, including typical elevations of such structures;
   (M)   Proposed location, intended use and character of all buildings,
including a tabulation of the total number of dwelling units if proposed;
   (N)   Location, character, size and height of proposed signs and their
orientation in relation to surrounding properties;
   (O)   A tabulation of the total number of acres in the project, gross and
net and the percentage square footage thereof proposed to be devoted to
different dwelling types, commercial uses, other non- residential uses, off-
street parking, streets, parks, schools, green space, conservation areas and
other public and private reservations;
   (P)   A tabulation of the total number of dwelling units of various types in
the project and the overall project density in dwelling units per acre, gross
and net, as required by district regulations;
   (Q)   A discussion of the mechanism for matters not covered by the PUD to
default to zoning regulations of the town; and
   (R)   A detailed legal description of the location of the site.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 5.8; Ord. 2010-04, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 194.148 REVIEW STANDARDS.
   In considering and acting upon applications for rezoning to the Planned Unit
Development District, the Plan Commission and Town Council may consider and
base their recommendation and decision, respectively, on the following
information:
   (A)   Conformity to the purpose and intent of the PUD;
   (B)   Quality of site design;
   (C)   Integration of a variety of land uses, building types and densities;
   (D)   Preservation of natural features;
   (E)   Compatibility with adjacent and neighboring land uses;
   (F)   Provision and type of open space and the provision of other amenities
designed to benefit the general public;
   (G)   Consistency with the goals and objectives of the Comprehensive Plan;
   (H)   Adequacy of utilities and other public works; and
   (I)   Provision for an appropriate performance bond and its maintenance upon
approval of the proposed development.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 5.9; Ord. 2010-04, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 194.149 FINAL PLAT REQUIRED.
   A final plat and development plan shall be submitted for review for
compliance with the approved PUD by the Building Commissioner. Upon
certification by the Building Commissioner that said final plat or development
plan complies with the PUD as approved, it shall be recorded in the office of
the Recorder of the county, prior to submission of an application for an
improvement location permit. The development plan shall be certified by the
Building Commissioner as approved in a form acceptable to the Boone County
Recorder, and as to plats, according to the certification requirements
established in Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances. The plat shall comply with
all laws, regulations and resolutions governing the approval of subdivisions
and, in addition, shall show all the features required by the PUD. A
development plan of PUD shall be recorded regardless of whether a subdivision
is proposed.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 5.10; Ord. 2010-04, passed 6-7-2010)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 194.160 INTENT, APPLICATION AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Intent, application.
      (1)   This subchapter creates the legal framework for sign regulations
that are intended to facilitate an easy and agreeable communication between
people. It is recognized that signs serve an important function and, therefore,
the reasonable and adequate display of signs is permitted under the provisions
of this subchapter.
      (2)   The intent of these sign regulations is to:
         (a)   Create a comprehensive and balanced system of sign control that
accommodates both the need for a well-maintained, safe and attractive
community, and the need for effective business identification and
communication;
         (b)   Encourage signs which, by their design, are integrated with and
harmonious to the buildings and sites which they occupy;
         (c)   Eliminate excessive and confusing sign displays;
         (d)   Preserve and improve the appearance of the town as an attractive
place in which to live and work and as an attraction to non-residents who come
to visit or trade;
         (e)   Safeguard and enhance property values;
         (f)   Support and complement land use objectives of the Comprehensive
Plan and this chapter;
         (g)   Protect public and private investment in buildings and open
spaces;
         (h)   Eliminate potential hazards to motorists and pedestrians
resulting from signs; and
         (i)   Promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare of
the town.
      (3)   The regulations contained in this subchapter shall apply to the
location, erection and maintenance of signs in any zoning district regulated by
this chapter.
   (B)   Findings.
      (1)   The Town Council finds:
         (a)   The manner of the erection, location and maintenance of signs
affects the public health, safety, morals and the public welfare of the people
of this community;
         (b)   The safety of motorists, pedestrians and other users of the
public street and property is affected by the number, size, location and
appearance of signs that are intended to and result in the diversion of the
attention of the groups listed;
         (c)   The construction, erection and maintenance of signs suspended or
projecting from, or placed on the tops of, buildings, walls or other structures
may constitute a direct danger to pedestrian and vehicular traffic below.
Especially during period of strong winds; and to effective firefighting and
other emergency services; and
         (d)   Uncontrolled and unlimited signs may result in a roadside
clutter that impedes the flow of information from businesses to consumers
thereby harming the economic health of the community, and that impedes the flow
of information from traffic signs and signals creating hazards to motorists and
pedestrians.
      (2)   It is therefore necessary for the promotion and preservation of the
public health, safety and welfare of the people of this community, as well as
to preserve the Zionsville theme, that the erection, connection, location and
maintenance of signs be regulated and controlled.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 6.1)
§ 194.161 URBAN EXEMPT SIGNS.
   Unless otherwise specifically stated, signs that comply with the provisions
contained in this section shall be exempt from all other provisions of this
chapter, except the provisions for a vision clearance area, as specified in §
194.021 of this chapter, which shall apply:
   (A)   Highlighting of structural/architectural elements of buildings, such
as roof lines, doors, window or wall edges, by illumination shall not be
considered a sign, nor regulated by this chapter; provided, however, if such
highlighting or outlining contains text or logos, such items shall be
considered signs and regulated by this chapter according to the sign type and
district in which it is located. Highlighting or outlining of structural/
architectural elements of buildings using exposed neon or similar tubing (to
include, but not be limited to high intensity fluorescent (HIF) tubing,
incandescent tubing, halogen high intensity discharge systems and light-
emitting diode (LED) tubing), shall be prohibited. In no case shall such
building lighting be flashing or animated;
   (B)   Flags, pennants, emblems or insignia of any nation, state or political
subdivision shall be permitted; provided, the setback requirements for signs,
and the maximum height requirements for buildings and structures in the
applicable district, are met;
   (C)   Integral, decorative or architectural features of buildings, so long
as such features or works do not contain logos, letters or trademarks, except
as noted in division (E)(4) below;
   (D)   Interior signs, signs located:
      (1)   Within the interior of any building, or within an enclosed lobby or
court of any building; or
      (2)   Located within the inner or outer lobby, court or entrance of any
theater, that are not viewable or intended to be viewable from the public
right-of-way and do not qualify as “window signs”, as herein defined.
   (E)   Miscellaneous signs, including, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Signs giving property identification, names or numbers of
occupants, and containing two square feet or less in sign surface area;
      (2)   Signs posted on private property relating to private property,
private parking, no trespassing or danger from animals and containing two
square feet or less in sign surface area;
      (3)   Signs indicating the location of public telephones and restrooms,
underground public utilities or similar location signs and containing four
square feet or less in sign surface area; and
      (4)   Signs which are integral to the building and indicating the name of
the building, date of erection, monumental citations, commemorative tablets and
the like, when carved into stone, concrete or similar material or made of
bronze, aluminum or other permanent type construction and made an integral part
of the building.
   (F)   Official signs authorized by a government or governmental subdivision
which give traffic, directional or warning information, and signs of public
service companies indicating danger and aide to service or safety which are
erected by, or on the order of, a public officer in the performance of their
public duty;
   (G)   Signs required or specifically authorized for a public purpose by any
law, statute or ordinance, which may be any type, number, area, height above
grade, location or illumination required by the law, statute or ordinance under
which the signs are erected;
   (H)   Seasonal or holiday displays; provided, they contain no commercial
message, are primarily decorative in nature, and are clearly incidental and
commonly associated with any national or religious holiday;
   (I)   Tombstones;
   (J)   One temporary building identification banner may be allowed:
      (1)   Upon approval of an application for a permanent building
identification sign;
      (2)   Not to exceed 60 days from the approval or installation of the
permanent building identification sign;
      (3)   The temporary banner shall not be larger than 32 square feet; and
      (4)   There shall be no permit or fee for this temporary banner.
   (K)   Signs related to grand openings or town-recognized special events;
provided that, the maximum sign surface area of each such sign shall not exceed
32 square feet. Signs permitted under this section include pennants and
banners:
      (1)   For grand openings. Signs for grand opening may be erected on-
premises only not more than ten days prior to the grand opening and shall be
removed no more than five days after the event. In no case shall such signs
remain on the premises for more than 30 consecutive days; and
      (2)   For town-recognized special events. Signs for town-recognized
special events may be erected on-premises or off-premises. Such signs may be
erected throughout the year; however, the maximum number of days such signs may
be displayed shall not exceed a total of 30 days per year.
   (L)   Temporary signs:
      (1)   (a)   One temporary freestanding sign shall be permitted on a lot,
subject to the following setback requirements (measured from the centerline of
the public way):
            1.   Temporary sign with a setback of less than 34.99 feet:
               a.   Maximum sign surface area: six square feet; and
               b.   Maximum sign height: four and one-half feet, measured from
grade to the top of the sign face.
            2.   Temporary sign with a setback of 35 feet but no greater than
44.99 feet:
               a.   Maximum sign surface area: 16 square feet; and
               b.   Maximum sign height: eight feet measured from grade to the
top of the sign face.
            3.   Temporary sign with a setback greater than 45 feet:
               a.   Maximum sign surface area: 32 square feet; and
               b.   Maximum sign height: eight feet measured from grade to the
top of the sign face.
         (b)   In no case shall a temporary freestanding sign be located in the
public right-of-way, nor within the vision clearance area;
         (c)   Temporary window sign, in all districts, shall not exceed 5% of
the window on which it is placed or through which it is viewed.
      (2)   In no case shall any temporary sign be allowed to remain for a
period longer than one year.
      (3)   A temporary sign which is for a specific event, service or activity
shall be posted no more than 30 days prior to the event, service or activity,
and shall be removed within five days of the conclusion of such event, service
or activity.
      (4)   A temporary sign shall be permitted on a lot only upon prior
authorization by the owner of the lot.
      (5)   Any sign which meets the ordinance definition of an on-premises
business sign shall not be considered or allowed as a temporary sign.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 6.2; Ord. 2008-08, passed 5-5-2008; Ord.
2008-09, passed 5-5-2008; Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-2-2015)
§ 194.162 URBAN PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be prohibited in all zoning districts:
   (A)   Signs located on, in or above the right-of-way of any street or alley,
except for:
      (1)   Official signs or signs erected on behalf of or pursuant to
authorization of a governmental body; or
      (2)   Projecting signs as permitted by §
194.165 of this chapter.
   (B)   Signs which interfere with street intersections. No sign, permanent or
temporary, shall be erected so that it interferes with the vision clearance
area provided for in §
194.021 of this chapter;
   (C)   Signs which interfere with, obstruct the view of, or could be confused
with any authorized traffic sign, signal or device;
   (D)   Outline lighting of lot lines or open sales areas;
   (E)   Portable signs, including, but not limited to: a-or t -frame signs;
signs on trailer frames; menu and sandwich board signs; balloon signs; wind
signs; umbrellas used for advertising; and, signs attached to or painted on a
vehicle parked and visible from the public right-of-way; provided, however, a
vehicle which is used in the normal day-to-day operation of the business shall
not be considered a portable sign;
   (F)   Any rotating beam, beacon, intermittent light, lights of changing
degrees of intensity or flashing, animated or scrolling illumination,
including, but not limited to, electronic variable message signs, in connection
with any sign surface;
   (G)   Signs attached to trees;
   (H)   Signs attached to utility poles, except for signs erected on behalf of
or pursuant to authorization of a governmental body;
   (I)   Pennants, banners, streamers and wind signs, except that pennants and
banners may be used in connection with a special event as provided for by §
194.161(K) of this chapter;
   (J)   Signs that bear or contain statements, words or pictures of an
obscene, pornographic, immoral character or which contain advertising matter
which is untruthful or will offend public morals or decency; and
   (K)   Signs or any portion thereof which moves or assumes any motion or
gives the illusion of moving.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 6.3)
§ 194.163 URBAN GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall apply to signs in all districts.
   (A)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face
(which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face)
shall be computed by means of the smallest square, rectangle or combination
thereof that will encompass the extreme limits of the writing, representation,
emblem or other display, together with any material or color forming an
integral part of the background of the display or used to differentiate the
sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is placed, but not
including any supporting framework, bracing or decorative fence or wall when
such fence of wall otherwise meets ordinance regulations and is clearly
incidental to the display itself. (See Figure 5, Diagram 1, for illustrative
guides to computation methods.)
   (B)   Computation of area of multi-faced signs. The sign area for a sign
with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the sign area of
all sign faces viewable from any one point. When two sign faces are placed back
to back, or at no greater than 15 degrees from one another, so that both faces
cannot be viewed from any point at the same time, and when such sign faces are
part of the same sign structure and are not more than 42 inches apart, the sign
area shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces. (See Figure 7
for illustrative guides to computation methods.)
   (C)   Computation of sign height. The height of a sign shall be computed as
the distance from the base of the sign or sign structure at grade (exclusive of
any filling, berming, mounding or excavating solely for the purpose of locating
the sign), to the top of the highest attached component of the sign.
   (D)   Grade mounding. Earth mounding, inconsistent with the ground level of
the land surrounding the sign structure, shall be included in the measurement
of the sign height. (See also division (C) above.)
   (E)   Maintenance and restoration of legally established non-conforming
signs and sign structures. Any legally established non-conforming sign shall be
permitted without alteration in size or location. Maintenance of such signs
shall not include any changes made to the size, height or bulk of the sign or
the temporary or permanent removal of the sign. If such sign is damaged
exceeding two-thirds u of its replacement value, it shall not be rebuilt except
in conformance with the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that,
nothing herein shall prevent maintenance, repainting or posting of legally
established non-conforming signs.
   (F)   Number of faces permitted on a freestanding identification sign.
Unless specifically restricted by this chapter, a sign may contain more than
one sign face, and may be two-sided; provided, all other provisions of this
chapter shall be met.
   (G)   Use of neon in sign illumination. Exposed neon or similar tubing (to
include, but not be limited to, high intensity fluorescent (HIF) tubing,
incandescent tubing, halogen high intensity discharge systems (HID) and light-
emitting diode (LED) tubing), shall not be utilized as an external illumination
component of any sign. Neon or similar tubing noted above may be utilized to
internally illuminate a sign.
   (H)   Illuminated signs.
      (1)   No sign within 600 feet of any R district or within an R district
shall be illuminated between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
         (a)   Exceptions:
            1.   Legally established ground identification signs, as referenced
in §
194.166 of this chapter, service recorded, platted residential subdivisions
located within the R-SF-1, R-SF-2, R-SF-3 or R-SF-4 Districts.
            2.   Signs which are visibly obstructed from any adjacent R
Districts.
      (2)   Lighting directed towards a sign shall be shielded so that it
illuminates only the sign surface and does not shine on, cause glare to or
otherwise impair the vision of the driver of any motor vehicle traveling on a
public right-of-way.
      (3)   Signs that are illuminated shall not create glare or light spillage
across the lot lines. The illumination level of a sign shall not exceed one
footcandle when measured at the lot line.
      (4)   This division (H) shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   Signs that constitute an integral part of a vending machine,
telephone booth, device that indicates time or weather conditions or similar
device whose principal function is not to convey an advertising message; or
         (b)   Signs that do not exceed two square feet in area and that convey
the message that a business enterprise is open or closed or that a place of
lodging does or does not have a vacancy.
   (I)   Cutting of trees or shrubs. No person, for the purpose of increasing
or enhancing the visibility of any sign, shall damage, trim, destroy or remove
any trees, shrubs or other vegetation located:
      (1)   Within any public street right-of-way unless the work is done
pursuant to the express written authorization of the governmental department
having jurisdiction over said public street;
      (2)   On property that is not under ownership or control of the person
doing or responsible for such work unless the work is done pursuant to the
express authorization of the person owning the property where such trees or
shrubs are located; or
      (3)   In any area where such trees or shrubs are required to remain under
a permit issued under this chapter.
   (J)   Maintenance of signs. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed to prevent the maintenance, repainting or posting of legally
established signs. Maintenance shall include the replacement of sign surfaces
within a sign structure; provided that, the sign structure is not removed or
changed in any dimension.
   (K)   Awning, canopy and marquee signs. In any district in which building
identification wall signs are permitted, except for those in the VBD District,
which shall be regulated by §
194.165(B)(3) of this chapter, the use of an awning, canopy or marquee sign
shall be allowed and considered wall signs subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   The total area of the awning, canopy or marquee (i.e., the combined
two dimensional surface area of all sides of the awning, canopy or marquee)
shall not exceed the sign surface area for wall signs allocated to the facade
of the building upon which the awning, canopy or marquee is attached;
      (2)   The portion of the awning, canopy or marquee which includes a sign
surface shall not exceed:
         (a)   Forty percent of the total area of an awning or canopy; or
         (b)   Seventy-five percent of the total area of a marquee.
      (3)   The bottom edge of the awning, canopy or marquee shall:
         (a)   Not be less than ten feet above grade over a walkway; or
         (b)   Not be less than 15 feet above grade over a driveway or interior
access drive.
      (4)   The maximum projection of an awning, canopy or marquee shall not
extend more than eight feet from or beyond its supporting building; and, not
extend any closer to an imaginary perpendicular vertical plane located at the
street pavement line, curb or outside edge of sidewalk than three feet. An
awning, canopy or marquee is in compliance with the above regulations and may
project into the air rights of a public right-of-way if approval for such
encroachment into the air rights of a public right-of- way is obtained from the
governmental authority having jurisdiction prior to the placement of the
awning, canopy or marquee.
      (5)   Awnings and canopies shall not be illuminated from the inside or
backside.
   (L)   Freestanding on-premises signs as accessory structures. Freestanding
on-premises signs and sign structures are hereby declared to be accessory
structures. As accessory structures, freestanding on-premises signs and sign
structures may not occupy a lot without a primary use or building also being
legally located on the lot.
   (M)   Removal of freestanding on-premises signs. Notwithstanding anything
contained in §
194.019 of this chapter to the contrary, freestanding on-premises signs,
including business identification signs and incidental signs, and sign
structures, shall be subject to the following removal provisions.
      (1)   When the building, or any business, product, activity or service
offered on the premise not located in a building, is removed, any on-premises
sign and sign structure located on the lot to identify such building, business,
product, activity or service shall also be removed coincidently with the
removal of such building, business, product, activity or service. Any new on-
premises sign or sign structure located after such coincident removal shall be
located in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   When a legally established non-conforming building, or any
business, product, activity or service not located in a building, suffers a
partial destruction in excess of two-thirds of the gross floor area and such
building, business, product, activity or service must be removed and brought
into compliance with the terms of this chapter, any on-premises sign or sign
structure located on the lot shall also be brought into compliance with the
terms of this chapter.
      (3)   Within 30 days after any lawful non-conforming sign or sign
structure meet the ordinance definition of an abandoned sign, the sign or sign
structure shall be removed.
   (N)   Gasoline service station signs. Gasoline service stations shall be
subject to the following exceptions.
      (1)   If a freestanding business identification sign is permitted, such
business identification sign may contain pricing information.
      (2)   Business identification signs may be located on a gasoline island
canopy, spandrels or pump islands, provided that such signs do not exceed 5% of
the surface area of the facade of the canopy, spandrel or pump island upon
which the sign is located.
      (3)   Business identification signs may be located on either a spandrel
or a pump island, but not both.
   (O)   Changeable copy signs. Changeable copy signs shall be permitted as
part of an otherwise permitted identification sign; provided that:
      (1)   If a single use site, a maximum of one changeable copy sign shall
be permitted which may be part of either a freestanding identification sign or
a wall sign;
      (2)   If an integrated center, either one changeable copy sign shall be
permitted as part of a freestanding identification sign, or each individual use
with an integrated center shall be permitted one changeable copy sign as part
of a wall sign.
      (3)   A changeable copy sign may be used as part of either a freestanding
identification sign or as part of a wall sign, but not both.
      (4)   The changeable copy sign shall not exceed 40% of the sign surface
area of the permitted identification sign.
         (a)   Area of copy. The entire area within a single, continuous
perimeter composed of squares or rectangles, which enclose the extreme limits
of the advertising message, announcement or decoration of a fascia or wall
sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-847.jpg]
 
         (b)   Area of sign. The area of the largest single face of the sign
within a perimeter which forms the outside shape including any frame, forms an
integral part of the display, but excluding the necessary supports or uprights
on which the sign may be placed. If the sign consists of more than one section
or module, all areas shall be calculated.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-849.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 6.4; Ord. 2015-01, passed - -2015; Ord.
2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 194.164 URBAN ON-PREMISES SIGNS: BUSINESS AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (Except for the VBD, Village Business District)
   (A)   Maximum number of signs permitted. No individual business shall be
permitted more than four identification signs (i.e., any combination of
freestanding, building, suspended, projecting or window signs). In order to
qualify as an individual business entitled to signs, there shall be a separate
exterior entrance to the business operation or tenant space. Sign panels
identifying a business on freestanding identification signs for integrated
centers shall count toward the total number of signs permitted for an
individual business.
   (B)   Freestanding identification signs for single use sites.
      (1)   Type of signs. Freestanding identification signs shall be permitted
as follows: ground signs -all business and industrial districts.
      (2)   Number of signs.
         (a)   One freestanding identification sign shall be permitted for each
street frontage of a lot.
         (b)   When a lot has more than one street frontage and qualifies for
an additional freestanding identification sign, the minimum separation between
freestanding identification signs on the lot, regardless of the orientation of
the freestanding identification signs, shall be 100 feet.
         (c)   Exception: when a lot has frontage in excess of 500 feet on the
same street, one additional freestanding identification sign shall be permitted
on that street for each additional 500 feet of frontage; provided that:
            1.   The minimum separation between freestanding identification
signs along the same street shall be 300 feet;
            2.   The additional freestanding identification sign is oriented to
the street with frontage in excess of 500 feet; and
            3.   The total sign surface area of all freestanding identification
signs does not exceed the maximum sign surface area permitted below.
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of freestanding signs.
         (a)   Maximum sign surface area shall apply individually to each
street frontage.
         (b)   The maximum sign surface area for single use sites shall not
exceed:
 
Street Frontage                           Maximum Sign Surface Area
Less than 300 feet                        24 square feet
For each additional linear foot of street 0.25 square foot of additional sign
frontage                                  surface area
NOTES TO TABLE:
Provided, however, that, no freestanding sign shall exceed 72 square feet for
single use sites.
 
      (4)   Minimum front, side and rear setback for freestanding
identification signs.
         (a)   Front yard setback.
            1.   The minimum front yard setback for any freestanding
identification sign shall be:
               a.   Required front yard: ten feet from the proposed right-of-
way; and
               b.   Required front bufferyard: 20 feet from the proposed right-
of-way.
            2.   In a case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is
greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Side and rear yard setback or side and rear bufferyard setback.
The minimum side or rear yard setback for a freestanding identification sign
shall be the greater of five feet or that required for any building or
structure in the applicable zoning district.
      (5)   Maximum height of freestanding identification signs. Ground sign:
the maximum height of a freestanding ground identification sign shall not
exceed six feet in height above grade.
      (6)   Landscaping. Freestanding identification signs for single use sites
shall be surrounded by a landscaped area at least equal to the sign area of the
sign erected. Landscaping shall consist of living vegetation (annuals,
perennials, ornamental grasses, hedge plants or trees) and natural ground cover
materials. Loose stone, rock or gravel may be used as a landscaping accent, but
shall not exceed 20% of the landscaped area. Plant materials used to satisfy
this provision shall not be used to satisfy the calculations of landscaping
required by any other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Freestanding identification signs for integrated centers.
      (1)   Type of signs. Freestanding identification signs shall be permitted
as follows:
         (a)   Ground signs: all business and industrial districts; and
         (b)   Pylon signs: B-1, B-2, B-3, all industrial districts.
      (2)   Number of signs.
         (a)   One freestanding identification sign, which shall include the
name of the integrated center, shall be permitted for each street frontage of
an integrated center.
         (b)   When an integrated center has more than one street frontage and
qualifies for an additional freestanding identification sign, the minimum
separation between freestanding identification signs on the integrated center,
regardless of the orientation of the freestanding identification signs, shall
be 100 feet.
         (c)   Exception: when an integrated center has frontage in excess of
300 feet on the same street, one additional freestanding identification sign
shall be permitted on that street; provided that:
            1.   The minimum separation between freestanding identification
signs along the same street is 300 feet;
            2.   The additional freestanding identification sign is oriented to
the street with frontage in excess of 300 feet; and
            3.   The total sign surface area of all freestanding identification
signs does not exceed the maximum sign surface area permitted below.
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of freestanding signs for an integrated
center.
         (a)   Maximum sign surface area shall apply individually to each
street frontage. The maximum sign surface area shall not exceed:
 
Street Frontage Maximum                   Sign Surface Area
Less than 300 feet                        64 square feet foot
For each additional linear foot of street 0.50 square foot of additional sign
frontage                                  surface area
 
         (b)   Provided, however, that, no freestanding sign shall exceed 200
square feet for integrated centers.
      (4)   Minimum front, side and rear setback for freestanding
identification signs.
         (a)   Front setback.
            1.   The minimum front setback for any freestanding identification
sign shall be:
               a.   Required front yard: ten feet from the proposed right-of-
way; and
               b.   Required front bufferyard: 20 feet from the proposed right-
of-way.
            2.   In a case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is
greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Side and rear setback or side and rear bufferyard setback. The
minimum side or rear yard setback for a freestanding identification sign shall
be the greater of ten feet or that required for any building or structure in
the applicable zoning district.
      (5)   Maximum height of freestanding identification signs. The maximum
height of a freestanding identification sign shall be determined by the
location of the freestanding identification sign in relation to the required
front, side and rear yards for the site.
         (a)   Front yard height to setback formula. Freestanding
identification signs may have a maximum height of up to six feet above grade
level when located at the minimum required front yard or minimum required front
bufferyard setback. The maximum height may be increased by one foot in height
for each additional one foot of setback from the minimum required front yard or
minimum required front bufferyard setback until the maximum height allowed for
the applicable type of sign structure is reached.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-851.jpg]
 
         (b)   Side and rear yard height to setback formula. Freestanding
identification signs may have a maximum height of up to six feet above grade
level when located at the minimum required side or rear yard or minimum
required side or rear bufferyard setback. The maximum height may be increased
by one foot in height for each additional one foot of setback from the minimum
required side or rear yard or minimum required side or rear bufferyard setback
until the maximum height allowed for the applicable type of sign structure is
reached.
         (c)   Maximum height by type of sign structure.
            1.   Ground sign: the maximum height of a freestanding ground
identification sign shall not exceed six feet in height above grade; and
            2.   Pylon sign: the maximum height of a freestanding pylon.
      (6)   Landscaping.
         (a)   Freestanding identification signs for integrated centers shall
be surrounded by a landscaped area at least equal to the sign area of the sign
erected.
         (b)   Identification sign shall not exceed 15 feet in height above
grade.
         (c)   Landscaping shall consist of living vegetation (annuals,
perennials, ornamental grasses, hedge plants or trees) and natural ground cover
materials. Loose stone, rock or gravel may be used as a landscaping accent, but
shall not exceed 20% of the landscaped area. Plant materials used to satisfy
this provision shall not be used to satisfy the calculation of landscaping
required by any other provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Building identification signs.
      (1)   Type of signs. Building identification signs shall be limited to
wall and projecting signs.
      (2)   Number of building identification signs. Except as restricted by
the provisions of division (A) above, there shall be no limit to the number of
wall building identification signs per facade; provided that, the total sign
surface area of all wall signs located on each building facade shall not exceed
the maximum sign surface area for the building facade upon which such signs are
located.
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of building identification signs.
         (a)   The total sign surface area of all building identification signs
oriented to an individual facade shall not exceed:
            1.   Front facade: 5% of the total area of the front facade of the
structure or tenant space;
            2.   Side and rear facades: 3% of the side or rear facade of the
structure or tenant space; and
            3.   The linear measurement of a business identification wall sign
shall not exceed 80% of the linear width of the facade of the structure or
tenant space on which the sign is located.
         (b)   Provided that, for any building which has more than one street
frontage, the maximum sign surface area of 5% shall apply to all building
facades with street frontages. A building facade shall be determining to have
street frontage when it is parallel to the street or is at no greater than a
45-degree angle to the street.
      (4)   Additional requirements for projecting signs.
         (a)   Maximum height of projecting signs. Projecting signs shall not
extend above the roof line.
         (b)   Maximum projection from building for projecting signs. No
projecting sign or sign structure supporting a projecting sign shall extend
more than six feet from or beyond its supporting building.
         (c)   Public right-of-way clearance. No projecting sign or sign
structure shall extend any closer than two feet to an imaginary perpendicular
vertical plane located at the street pavement line, curb or outside edge of
sidewalk.
            1.   Exception. A projecting sign may encroach into the above
described clearance area and/or air rights of a public right-of-way if approval
for such encroachment is obtained from the governmental authority having
jurisdiction over said right-of-way prior to the placement of the projecting
sign.
         (d)   Maximum height above grade for a projecting sign. The bottom
edge of a projecting sign shall not be less than nine feet above grade over a
sidewalk or walkway or 15 feet above grade over any type of street, alley,
drive or driveway.
         (e)   Maximum sign area. Maximum sign area permitted for a projecting
sign shall be 38 square feet.
   (E)   Incidental signs.
      (1)   Type of signs. Incidental signs shall be ground or wall signs.
      (2)   Number of signs.
         (a)   If a lot or integrated center has one driveway, zero incidental
directional signs shall be permitted at the driveway entrance or exit.
         (b)   If a lot or integrated center has more than one driveway, one
incidental directional sign shall be permitted for each driveway.
         (c)   One incidental directional sign or one incidental parking and
loading sign shall be permitted at each critical turning point along an
interior access drive when required to safely direct vehicular traffic (e.g.,
to direct vehicular traffic to: a drive-up window; a customer or employee
parking area; or a delivery or loading area).
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of incidental signs in the business
districts. Incidental signs shall not exceed six square feet in sign surface
area per sign.
      (4)   Maximum sign surface area of incidental signs in the I-ORT, I-2 and
I-3 Districts.
         (a)   Incidental directional signs shall not exceed six square feet in
sign surface area per sign.
         (b)   Incidental parking and loading signs shall not exceed 32 square
feet in sign surface area per sign.
      (5)   Minimum front, side and rear yard setback for freestanding
incidental signs.
         (a)   Front yard setback or front bufferyard setback: three feet from
proposed right-of-way. In a case where a proposed right-of-way line does not
exist, as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-
of-way is greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Side and rear yard setback or side and rear bufferyard setback:
the same as required for any building or structure in the applicable zoning
district.
      (6)   Maximum height of incidental signs. The maximum height of a
freestanding incidental ground sign shall not exceed:
         (a)   Incidental directional signs shall not exceed two and one-half
feet in height above grade; and
         (b)   Incidental parking and loading signs shall not exceed four feet
in height above grade.
   (F)   Suspended signs in integrated centers. Suspended signs shall be
permitted on any building containing two or more individual, non-related and
separately operated uses subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   There shall be no more than one suspended sign per grade-level
tenant.
      (2)   The maximum sign surface area of a suspended sign shall not exceed
five square feet.
      (3)   All portions of the suspended sign or sign structure shall be not
less than eight feet above the sidewalk or finished grade.
   (G)   Window signs.
      (1)   The sign copy area shall not exceed 5% of the window surface area
on which it is placed or through which it is viewed.
      (2)   The sign surface area of window signs shall be calculated
separately from the calculation of other building identification signs and
shall not be included in the total area of other building identification signs
permitted.
   (H)   Development plan approval required.
      (1)   All freestanding and building identification signs in the business
and industrial districts shall be subject to the filing of a development plan
for review and approval by the Building Commissioner as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (2)   Development plan approval petitions for signs in the business and
industrial districts shall be submitted as a part of the application for an
improvement location permit for signs.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner shall grant development plan approval
upon written finding that the proposed freestanding or building identification
sign:
         (a)   Is consistent with and harmonious to the buildings and sites
which they occupy;
         (b)   Represents a use of design features which will enhance the use
or value of area properties;
         (c)   Utilizes materials and is of a style which is compatible with
the Zionsville theme; and
         (d)   Is consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 6.5; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 194.165 URBAN ON-PREMISES SIGNS: VBD VILLAGE BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Freestanding identification signs in the VBD -Village Business
District.
      (1)   Type of freestanding identification signs permitted. Freestanding
identification signs shall be ground signs; provided, however, freestanding
identification signs shall not be permitted on a street frontage when the lot
contains a building that has less than a ten-foot setback from that street.
      (2)   Maximum number of freestanding identification signs.
         (a)   One freestanding identification sign shall be permitted for each
street frontage of a lot.
         (b)   When a lot has more than one street frontage and qualifies for
an additional freestanding identification sign, the minimum separation between
freestanding identification signs on the lot, regardless of the orientation of
the freestanding identification signs, shall be 50 feet.
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of freestanding identification signs.
Maximum sign surface area shall apply individually to each street frontage. The
maximum sign surface area shall not exceed 12 square feet per street frontage.
      (4)   Minimum front setback for freestanding identification signs. There
shall be no minimum required front setback for freestanding identification
signs; provided, however, such signs shall not encroach into any public right-
of-way, sidewalk or any vision clearance area.
      (5)   Maximum height of freestanding identification signs. The maximum
height of a freestanding identification sign shall not exceed four feet in
height above grade.
   (B)   Building identification signs in the VBD -Village Business District.
      (1)   Types of building identification signs permitted.
         (a)   Lower level building identification wall signs shall be wall
signs, suspended signs, projecting signs awning signs or canopy signs.
         (b)   Upper level building identification signs shall be wall signs.
      (2)   Maximum number of building identification signs. Each tenant space
within a building shall be permitted a maximum of two signs, which may be wall,
projecting, awning or canopy signs. In addition, each tenant space shall be
permitted one suspended sign, per division (B)(3) below; provided, however, the
total sign surface area for the building shall not be exceeded.
      (3)   Requirements for lower level building identification signs. Any
building identification signs located on the first 26 feet of building height
or the actual building height. Whichever is less, shall be considered a lower
level building identification sign.
         (a)   Total sign surface area of lower level building identification
signs.
            1.   The total sign surface area of all lower level building
identification signs oriented to an individual facade shall not exceed:
               a.   Front facade: 5% of the total area of the first 26 feet or
the actual building height, whichever is lesser of front facade of a building;
and
               b.   Side and rear facades: 3% of the total area of the first 26
feet or the actual building height, whichever is lesser, of a side or rear
facade of a building.
            2.   Provided that, for any building which has more than one street
frontage, the maximum sign surface area of 5% shall apply to all building
facades with street frontages.
         (b)   Illumination of lower level building identification signs. Lower
level building identification signs shall not be internally illuminated.
         (c)   Additional requirements for lower level projecting signs.
            1.   Maximum height of lower level projecting signs. Projecting
signs shall not extend above the roof line.
            2.   Maximum projection from building for lower level projecting
signs. No projecting sign or sign structure supporting a projecting sign shall
extend more than six feet from or beyond its supporting building.
            3.   Public right-of-way clearance. No projecting sign or sign
structure shall extend any closer than two feet to an imaginary perpendicular
vertical plane located at the street pavement line, curb or outside edge of
sidewalk.
               a.   Exception. A projecting sign may encroach into the above
described clearance area and/or air rights of a public right-of-way if approval
for such encroachment is obtained from the governmental authority having
jurisdiction over said right-of-way prior to the placement of the projecting
sign.
            4.   Minimum height above grade for a lower level projecting sign.
The bottom edge of a projecting sign shall not be less than nine feet above
grade over a sidewalk or walkway or 15 feet above grade over any type of
street, alley, drive or driveway.
            5.   Maximum sign area. Maximum sign area permitted for a lower
level projecting sign shall be 12 square feet.
            6.   Internal illumination. Lower level projecting signs shall not
be internally illuminated.
         (d)   Additional provisions for lower level suspended signs.
            1.   Maximum sign surface area for suspended signs. The maximum
sign surface area for a suspended sign shall not exceed five square feet.
            2.   Maximum number of lower level suspended signs. One suspended
sign shall be permitted per each building facade (if containing a single use)
or grade level tenant space (if the building contains more than one business).
            3.   Minimum height above grade for lower level suspended signs.
All portions of any suspended sign or sign structure shall be not less than
eight feet above the sidewalk or finished grade.
         (e)   Additional provisions for lower level awning or canopy signs.
Awnings or canopies, as regulated in §
194.062(C)(7) of this chapter, may contain signs, subject to the following
provisions.
            1.   The total area of the awning or canopy (i.e., the combined two
dimensional surface area of all sides of the awning or canopy) shall not exceed
the sign surface area allocated to the facade of the building upon which the
awning or canopy is attached.
            2.   The portion of the awning or canopy which includes a sign
surface shall not exceed 25% of the total area of an awning or canopy.
            3.   Awnings or canopies shall be neither internally illuminated.
Nor illuminated from inside or underneath the awning or canopy in such a manner
that the entire awning or canopy is lit up.
      (4)   Requirements for upper level building identification signs. Any
building identification signs located above the first 26 feet of building
height shall be considered an upper level building identification sign.
         (a)   Total sign surface area of upper level building identification
signs. The total sign surface area of all upper level building identification
signs oriented to an individual facade shall not exceed: front, side or rear
facade: 2.5% of the total area of the applicable facade of a building located
above 26 feet above grade.
         (b)   Illumination of upper level building identification signs. Upper
level building identification signs shall not be internally illuminated.
   (C)   Incidental signs.
      (1)   Type of incidental signs. Incidental signs shall be wall signs.
      (2)   Number of incidental signs. There shall be no limit on the number
of incidental wall signs and such signs shall be exempt from the total number
of building identification signs permitted by section division (B)(2) above.
However, such signs shall be calculated in the total sign surface area for the
building facade on which they are placed.
   (D)   Window signs (building identification and incidental). The provisions
of divisions (B) and (C) above shall not apply to window signs. Window signs
shall comply separately with the following.
      (1)   Maximum number of window signs. There shall be no limit on the
number of window signs permitted.
      (2)   Maximum area of window coverage for window signs. The sign copy
area shall not exceed 10% of the window surface area on which it is placed or
through which it is viewed.
      (3)   Illumination of window signs. Window signs shall not be internally
illuminated.
   (E)   Development plan approval required.
      (1)   All freestanding and building identification signs in the VBD
District shall be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and
approval by the Building Commissioner as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (2)   Development plan approval petitions for signs in the VBD District
shall be submitted as a part of the application for an improvement location
permit for signs.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner shall grant development plan approval
upon written finding that the proposed freestanding or building identification
sign:
         (a)   Is consistent with and harmonious to the buildings and sites
which they occupy;
         (b)   Represents a use of design features which will enhance the use
or value of area properties;
         (c)   Utilizes materials and is of a style which is compatible with
the Zionsville theme; and
         (d)   Is consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 6.6; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 194.166 URBAN ON-PREMISES SIGNS: SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL AND OPEN LAND
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Signs permitted in the O-1 District and R-SF-1, R-SF-2, R-SF-3, R-SF-
4 Districts.
      (1)   Individual lots containing single-family dwellings, two-family
dwellings. Residential facilities for the mentally ill, residential facilities
for the developmentally disabled, and child care home uses shall be permitted
one ground identification or building identification sign per street frontage
of the lot, identifying the name or address of the occupant; provided:
         (a)   The maximum sign surface area shall not exceed two square feet;
         (b)   The sign shall be constructed of a material(s) which blends in
with the residential character of the neighborhood, such as but not limited to,
wood or stone;
         (c)   The sign shall not encroach into any public right-of-way;
         (d)   The maximum height of a ground identification sign shall not
exceed four feet;
         (e)   The sign shall not interfere with the vision clearance area as
specified in §
194.021 of this chapter; and
         (f)   The sign shall not be internally illuminated.
      (2)   Signs for recorded, platted residential subdivisions in the R-SF-1,
R-SF-2, R-SF-3 and R-SF-4 Districts. In addition to signs permitted in division
(A) above for individual lots, a recorded, platted residential subdivision also
shall be permitted the following signs: two ground identification signs shall
be permitted at each entrance to a recorded, platted residential subdivision;
provided:
         (a)   The signs shall indicate only the name of the subdivision;
         (b)   The signs shall not exceed 24 square feet in sign surface area
each. If a sign is located on a fence or wall, only the area of the actual sign
itself shall be calculated in determining the maximum sign surface area, not
the fence or wall itself. Fence or wall height shall comply with §
194.095 of this chapter;
         (c)   The maximum height of a ground identification sign shall not
exceed four feet;
         (d)   The signs shall not encroach into any public right-of-way;
         (e)   The signs shall not interfere with the vision clearance area as
specified in §
194.021 of this chapter;
         (f)   Only one sign shall be permitted in each quadrant of an
intersection;
         (g)   The signs shall not be internally illuminated; and
         (h)   The signs shall be surrounded by a landscaped area at least
equal to the sign area of the signs erected. Landscaping shall consist of
living vegetation (annuals, perennials, ornamental grasses, hedge plants or
trees) and natural ground cover materials. Loose stone, rock or gravel may be
used as a landscaping accent, but shall not exceed 20% of the landscaped area.
Plant materials used to satisfy this provision shall not be used to satisfy the
calculations of landscaping required by any other provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Option: Entryway Feature.
         (a)   Applicability: Major subdivisions may have the option of one
entryway feature per entrance from a perimeter road and/or entryway from
another subdivision. This option, if chosen, shall replace signs itemized in §
194.166(A)(2), noted above.
         (b)   Limitations: The entryway feature shall not interfere with the
vision clearance area as specified in §
194.021 of this chapter; nor shall it encroach into any easements and/or right-
of-way per §
194.018, itemization of its footprint as common area and/or landscape easement,
shall be maintained by the Home Owners Association and not adjacent lot owner
(s).
         (c)   Size: The sign portion of the entryway feature shall indicate
the name of the subdivision and shall not exceed 30 square feet.
         (d)   Height: Average overall height of hardscape shall not exceed 15
feet above grade and should be in proportion and scale of the development and
entryway. Hardscape accent points may exceed this maximum (i.e. cupola, spire,
etc.) as long as accent points are not utilized in a manner that would be
interpreted as establishing a new average height. Height of sign portion of the
entryway feature shall not exceed six feet from grade to top of sign, wherever
located within the entryway feature.
         (e)   Landscaping: The sign portion of the entryway feature shall be
significantly subordinate to the hardscape and landscaping curation of the
overall entryway feature.
         (f)   Lighting: Shall comply with §
194.113.
   (B)   Signs permitted in the R-MF-1 and R-MF-2 Districts. Multi-family
dwelling uses shall be permitted two ground identification signs at each
entrance to a multi-family dwelling project; provided:
      (1)   The signs shall indicate only the name, address of the management
thereof or associated information of the multi-family dwelling project;
      (2)   Each sign shall not exceed 24 square feet in sign surface area
each. If a sign is located on a fence or wall, only the area of the actual sign
itself shall be calculated in determining the maximum sign surface area, not
the fence or wall itself. Fence or wall height shall comply with §
194.095 of this chapter;
      (3)   The signs shall maintain a minimum front yard setback of ten feet
from the proposed right-of-way. In the case where a proposed right-of-way line
does not exist, as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing
right-of-way is greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the
setback measurement. The signs shall maintain a minimum side and rear yard
setback consistent with the requirements for an accessory structure in the
district to which the real estate is zoned;
      (4)   The maximum height of a ground identification sign shall not exceed
four feet;
      (5)   The signs shall not interfere with the vision clearance area as
specified in §
194.021 of this chapter; and
      (6)   The signs shall not be internally illuminated.
      (7)   The signs shall be surrounded by a landscaped area at least equal
to the sign area of the sign erected. Landscaping shall consist of living
vegetation (annuals, perennials, ornamental grasses, hedge plants or trees) and
natural ground cover materials. Loose stone, rock or gravel may be used as a
landscaping accent, but shall not exceed 20% of the landscaped area. Plant
materials used to satisfy this provision shall not be used to satisfy the
calculations of landscaping required by any other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Signs permitted for business and other uses permitted by special
exception in the O-1 District and the R districts. The following regulations
shall apply to all businesses and other uses permitted in the residential
districts by special exception.
      (1)   Freestanding identification signs.
         (a)   Type of signs. Freestanding identification signs shall be ground
signs.
         (b)   Number of signs. One freestanding identification sign shall be
permitted for each street frontage of a lot.
         (c)   Maximum sign surface area of freestanding identification signs.
Maximum sign surface area shall not exceed 24 square feet.
         (d)   Minimum front, side and rear yard setback for freestanding
identification signs.
            1.   Front yard setback: ten feet from proposed right-of-way. In
the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist, as determined by
the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is greater, the
existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback measurement.
            2.   Side and rear yard setback: the minimum side or rear yard
setback for a freestanding identification sign shall be the same as required
for an accessory structure in the applicable zoning district.
         (e)   Maximum height of freestanding identification signs. The maximum
height of a ground identification sign shall not exceed four feet in height
above grade.
         (f)   Landscaping. The sign shall be surrounded by a landscaped area
at least equal to the sign area of the sign erected. Landscaping shall consist
of living vegetation (annuals, perennials, ornamental grasses, hedge plants or
trees) and natural ground cover materials. Loose stone, rock or gravel may be
used as a landscaping accent, but shall not exceed 20% of the landscaped area.
Plant materials used to satisfy this provision shall not be used to satisfy the
calculations of landscaping required by any other provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Building identification signs.
         (a)   Type of signs. Building identification signs shall be wall
signs.
         (b)   Number of building identification signs. There shall be no
limit, to the number of wall building identification signs; provided that, the
total sign surface area of all wall identification signs located on a building
shall not exceed the maximum sign surface area for the building.
         (c)   Maximum sign surface area of building identification signs.
            1.   The total sign surface area of all building identification
signs oriented to an individual facade shall not exceed:
               a.   Front facade: 3% of the total area of a front facade of a
building. For any building which has more than one street frontage, the maximum
sign surface area of 3% shall apply to all building facades with street
frontages. A building facade shall be determined to have street frontage when
it is parallel to the street or is at no greater than a 45-degree angle to the
street.
               b.   Side and rear facades: 2.5% of a side or rear facade of
building.
            2.   Provided that, for any building which has more than one street
frontage, the maximum building identification sign surface area of 3% shall
apply to all building facades with street frontages.
   (D)   Incidental signs. In addition to signs permitted in divisions (B) and
(C) above, incidental signs shall be permitted in the R-MF-1 and R-MF-
2 Districts, and shall apply to all businesses and other uses permitted in the
R districts by special exception.
      (1)   Incidental signs; type of signs. Incidental signs shall be ground
or wall signs.
      (2)   Number of signs.
         (a)   If a lot has one driveway, zero incidental directional signs
shall be permitted at the driveway entrance or exit.
         (b)   If a lot has more than one driveway, one incidental directional
sign shall be permitted for each driveway.
         (c)   One incidental directional sign or one incidental parking and
loading sign shall be permitted at each critical turning point along an
interior access drive when required to safely direct vehicular traffic (e.g.,
to direct vehicular traffic to: a customer or employee parking area; or a
delivery or loading area).
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of incidental signs. Incidental signs
shall not exceed two square feet in sign surface area.
      (4)   Minimum front, side and rear yard setback for freestanding,
incidental signs.
         (a)   Front yard setback: three feet from proposed right-of-way. In
the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist, as determined by
the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is greater, the
existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback measurement.
         (b)   Side and rear yard setback: the minimum side or rear yard
setback for a freestanding incidental sign shall be the same as required for an
accessory structure in the applicable zoning district.
      (5)   Maximum height of incidental signs. The maximum height of a
freestanding, incidental ground sign shall not exceed two and one-half feet in
height above grade.
   (E)   Development plan approval required.
      (1)   All freestanding and building identification signs in the R
districts shall be subject to the filing of a development plan for review and
approval by the Building Commissioner as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (2)   Development plan approval petitions for signs in the R districts
shall be submitted as a part of the application for an improvement location
permit for signs.
      (3)   The Building Commissioner shall grant development plan approval
upon written finding that the proposed freestanding or building identification
sign:
         (a)   Is consistent with and harmonious to the buildings and sites
which they occupy;
         (b)   Represents a use of design features which will enhance the use
or value of area properties;
         (c)   Utilizes materials and is of a style which is compatible with
the Zionsville theme;
         (d)   Is consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 6.7; Ord. 2020-01, passed 1-6-2020)
§ 194.167 URBAN ON-PREMISES SIGNS: SIGNS IN SPECIAL USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Maximum number of signs permitted. No individual special use shall be
permitted more than four identification signs (i.e., any combination of
freestanding, building, suspended or window signs).
   (B)   Freestanding identification signs for single use sites.
      (1)   Type of signs. Freestanding identification signs shall be ground
signs.
      (2)   Number of signs.
         (a)   One freestanding identification sign shall be permitted for each
street frontage of a lot.
         (b)   When a lot has more than one street frontage and qualifies for
an additional freestanding identification sign, the minimum separation between
freestanding identification signs on the lot, regardless of the orientation of
the freestanding identification signs, shall be 100 feet.
         (c)   Exception: when a lot has frontage in excess of 500 feet on the
same street, one additional freestanding identification sign shall be permitted
on that street for each additional 500 feet of frontage; provided that:
            1.   The minimum separation between freestanding identification
signs along the same street shall be 300 feet;
            2.   The additional freestanding identification sign is oriented to
the street with frontage in excess of 500 feet; and
            3.   The total sign surface area of all freestanding identification
signs does not exceed the maximum sign surface area permitted below.
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of freestanding signs.
         (a)   Maximum sign surface area shall apply individually to each
street frontage. The maximum sign surface area shall not exceed:
 
Street Frontage    Maximum Sign Surface Area
Less than 300 feet 24 square feet for each additional linear foot of street
                   frontage
                  0.25 square foot of additional sign frontage surface area
 
         (b)   Provided, however, that, no freestanding sign shall exceed 72
square feet.
      (4)   Minimum front, side and rear setback for freestanding
identification signs.
         (a)   1.   Front yard setback: the minimum front yard setback for any
freestanding identification sign shall be:
               a.   Required front yard: ten feet from the proposed right-of-
way; and
               b.   Required front bufferyard: 20 feet from the proposed right-
of-way.
            2.   In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not exist,
as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-of-way is
greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Side and rear yard setback or side and rear bufferyard setback:
the minimum side or rear yard setback for a freestanding identification sign
shall be the greater of five feet or that required for any building or
structure in the applicable zoning district.
      (5)   Maximum height of freestanding identification signs. Ground sign:
the maximum height of a freestanding ground identification sign shall not
exceed six feet in height above grade.
      (6)   Landscaping. Freestanding identification signs shall be surrounded
by a landscaped area at least equal to the sign area of the sign erected.
Landscaping shall consist of living vegetation (annuals, perennials, ornamental
grasses, hedge plants or trees) and natural ground cover materials. Loose
stone, rock or gravel may be used as a landscaping accent, but shall not exceed
20% of the landscaped area. Plant materials used to satisfy this provision
shall not be used to satisfy the calculations of landscaping required by any
other provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Illumination. Freestanding identification signs shall not be
internally illuminated.
   (C)   Building identification signs.
      (1)   Type of signs. Building identification signs shall be limited to
wall signs and suspended signs.
      (2)   Number of building identification signs. One wall building
identification sign per tenant space per facade. In addition, each tenant space
shall be permitted one suspended sign, per division (C)(4) below.
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of building identification signs. The
total sign surface area of all building identification signs. Including wall
and suspended signs, oriented to an individual facade shall not exceed:
         (a)   Front facade: 3% of the total area of the front facade of the
structure or tenant space. For any building which has more than one street
frontage, the maximum sign surface area of 3% shall apply to all building
facades with street frontages. A building facade shall be determining to have
street frontage when it is parallel to the street or is at no greater than a
45-degree angle to the street.
         (b)   Side and rear facades: 2.5% of the side or rear facade of the
structure or tenant space; and
         (c)   The linear measurement of a business identification wall sign
shall not exceed 80% of the linear width of the facade of the structure or
tenant space on which the sign is located.
      (4)   Additional provisions for lower level suspended signs.
         (a)   Maximum sign surface area for suspended signs. The maximum sign
surface area for a suspended sign shall not exceed five square feet.
         (b)   Maximum number of lower level suspended signs. One suspended
sign shall be permitted per each building facade.
         (c)   Minimum height above grade for lower level suspended signs. All
portions of any suspended sign or sign structure shall be not less than eight
feet above the sidewalk or finished grade.
   (D)   Incidental signs.
      (1)   Type of signs. Incidental signs shall be ground or wall signs.
      (2)   Number of signs.
         (a)   If a lot or integrated center has one driveway, zero incidental
directional signs shall be permitted at the driveway entrance or exit.
         (b)   If a lot or integrated center has more than one driveway, one
incidental directional sign shall be permitted for each driveway.
         (c)   One incidental directional sign or one incidental parking and
loading sign shall be permitted at each critical turning point along an
interior access drive when required to safely direct vehicular traffic (e.g.,
to direct vehicular traffic to: a customer or employee parking area; or a
delivery or loading area).
      (3)   Maximum sign surface area of incidental signs. Incidental signs
shall not exceed six square feet in sign surface area per sign.
      (4)   Minimum front, side and rear yard setback for freestanding
incidental signs.
         (a)   Front yard setback or front bufferyard setback: three feet from
proposed right-of-way. In the case where a proposed right-of-way line does not
exist, as determined by the transportation plan, or where the existing right-
of-way is greater, the existing right-of-way line shall be used for the setback
measurement.
         (b)   Side and rear yard setback or side and rear bufferyard setback:
the same as required for any building or structure in the applicable zoning
district.
      (5)   Maximum height of incidental signs. The maximum height of a
freestanding incidental ground sign shall not exceed:
         (a)   Incidental directional signs shall not exceed two and one-half
feet in height above grade; and
         (b)   Incidental parking and loading signs shall not exceed four feet
in height above grade.
   (E)   Window signs.
      (1)   The sign copy shall not exceed 5% of the total grade level window
surface area of the building facade on which it is placed or through which it
is viewed.
      (2)   The sign surface area of window signs shall be calculated
separately from the calculation of other building identification signs and
shall not be included in the total area of other building identification signs
permitted.
      (3)   Window signs shall not be internally illuminated.
   (F)   Development plan approval required.
      (1)   All freestanding and building identification signs in the special
use districts shall be subject to the filing of a development plan for review
and approval by the Building Commissioner as set forth in §§
194.125 through
194.128 of this chapter.
      (2)   Development plan approval petitions for signs in the special use
districts shall be submitted as a part of the application for an improvement
location permit for signs.
      (3)   The Plan Commission shall grant development plan approval upon
written finding that the proposed freestanding or building identification sign:
         (a)   Is consistent with and harmonious to the buildings and sites
which they occupy;
         (b)   Represents a use of design features which will enhance the use
or value of area properties;
         (c)   Utilizes materials and is of a style which is compatible with
the Zionsville theme; and
         (d)   Is consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 6.8)
§ 194.168 URBAN OFF-PREMISES OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS.
   (A)   Districts allowed. Off-premises outdoor advertising signs shall be a
permitted in the I-2 General Industrial District and the I-3 Heavy Industrial
District; provided, however, that, off-premises outdoor advertising signs shall
not be permitted within 600 feet of the proposed right-of-way of U.S. Highway
421-Michigan Road.
   (B)   Type of signs. Off-premises outdoor advertising signs shall be pole or
ground signs.
   (C)   Maximum sign surface area for off-premises outdoor advertising signs.
      (1)   Sign surface area: an off-premises outdoor. Advertising sign shall
not exceed 72 square feet in sign surface area.
      (2)   Number of displays: an off-premises outdoor advertising sign shall
not contain more than two advertising signs per sign surface.
      (3)   Extensions allowed: temporary extensions or embellishments
integrally incorporated into the sign surface having: a vertical height of no
more than two feet above the top of a sign; a maximum horizontal dimension of
no more than one foot beyond the sides of the sign; and, a maximum vertical
dimension of one foot below the bottom of the sign, shall be allowed.
   (D)   Spacing between off-premises outdoor advertising signs. The minimum
distance between off- premises outdoor advertising signs shall be as specified
below.
      (1)   Linear spacing. The minimum distance between off-premises outdoor
advertising signs located along and oriented towards the same side of a public
street shall be 2,500 linear feet subject to the following.
         (a)   The spacing requirement shall be applied equally to both sides
of the street at the same time regardless of whether the off-premises outdoor
advertising signs are on the same side of the street.
         (b)   The spacing requirement shall be applied continuously along a
street to all off-premises outdoor advertising signs oriented towards that
street in either direction whether the off-premises outdoor advertising signs
are in the same block or are in different blocks separated by an intersecting
street.
         (c)   For purposes of applying the spacing requirement to off-premises
outdoor advertising signs, pole or ground signs shall be treated the same,
whether double-faced or single-faced.
         (d)   Off-premises outdoor advertising signs located at the same
intersection are not in violation of the minimum spacing requirement specified
herein, because of their nearness to one another if they are located so that
their messages are directed towards traffic flowing in different directions.
      (2)   Measurement of linear spacing. The method of measurement of the
spacing between off- premises outdoor advertising signs oriented towards the
same street shall be along the centerline of the street to which the off-
premises sign is oriented from the point in the street’s centerline closest to
the leading edge of the off-premises sign.
      (3)   Radial spacing. In no event shall an off-premises outdoor
advertising sign be closer than 1,000 feet from any other off-premises outdoor
advertising sign regardless of location or orientation.
   (E)   Minimum front, side and rear yard setback for off-premises outdoor
advertising signs.
      (1)   Front yard setback. The minimum front yard setback for an off-
premises outdoor advertising sign shall be 60 feet from the proposed right-of-
way.
      (2)   Side and rear yard setback. Off-premises outdoor advertising signs
may have a maximum height of up to four feet above grade when located at the
minimum required side or rear yard setback. The maximum height may be increased
by one foot in height for each additional one foot of setback from the minimum
required side or rear yard until the maximum height allowed for an off-premises
outdoor advertising sign is reached.
   (F)   Maximum height of off-premises outdoor advertising signs.
      (1)   The maximum height of an off-premises outdoor advertising ground
sign shall not exceed six feet in height above grade.
      (2)   The maximum height of an off-premises outdoor advertising pole sign
shall not exceed 15 feet in height above grade.
   (G)   Construction of off-premises outdoor advertising signs. The supports,
uprights, bracing and framework of an off-premises outdoor advertising pole
sign shall be of steel construction.
   (H)   Separation from R districts. No off-premises outdoor advertising sign
shall be located within 600 feet of any R district.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 6.9)
§ 194.169 RURAL: SIGNS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is:
         (a)   To encourage the effective use of signs as a means of
communication in the county;
         (b)   To maintain and enhance the aesthetic environment and the
county’s ability to attract sources of economic development and growth;
         (c)   To minimize the possible adverse effect of signs on nearby
public and private property; and
         (d)   To enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign
restrictions.
      (2)   A sign may be located only in conformance with the requirements of
this chapter. Signs and advertising structures may be permitted in the
districts where such uses are permitted after having secured an ILP approving
the proposed sign except when not required by this section.
   (B)   State requirements. Signs and advertising structures are also subject
to the requirements of the Highway Advertising Control Act of 1967, as amended.
All signs and advertising structures shall conform to the provisions of said
Act. Should this chapter and the Act be in conflict, the requirements of the
more restrictive shall apply.
   (C)   Local requirements. Signs and advertising structures may be subject to
local ordinances of incorporated cities or towns in the jurisdictional area of
this chapter. Should the two be in conflict, the requirements of the more
restrictive shall apply.
   (D)   Signs allowed with and without permits. Signs shall be allowed on
private property in accordance with
Table 16 , Rural Sign Regulations. The letter “X” means such sign is allowed
without a permit in the appropriate zoning districts. The letter “P” means such
sign is allowed only with permit approval in the appropriate zoning districts.
Special conditions may apply in some cases. If an “X” or “P” is not present,
such sign is not allowed in the zoning district under any circumstances.
Although permitted under the previous paragraph, a sign designed by a “P” or
“X” in
Table 16, Rural Sign Regulations, shall be allowed only if:
      (1)   The sum of the area of all signs on the lot conforms to the maximum
permitted sign area (as determined by the formula for the zoning district in
which the lot is located);
      (2)   The size, location and number of signs on the lot conform with the
requirements which establishes permitted sign dimensions by sign type and with
any additional limitations; and
      (3)   The characteristics of the sign conform with the requirements and
to any additional limitations listed in
Table 16.
   (E)   Design, construction and maintenance of signs. All signs shall be
designed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following
standards.
      (1)   All signs shall comply with applicable provisions of the Uniform
Building Code and the Electrical Code.
      (2)   Except for banners, flags and window signs conforming in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter, all signs shall be constructed
of permanent materials and shall be permanently attached to the ground,
building or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall, frame or
structure.
      (3)   All signs shall be maintained in good structural condition, in
compliance with all Building and Electrical Codes and in conformance with this
chapter.
   (F)   Permits for signs in the public right-of-way. No signs shall be
allowed in the public right-of-way, except for the following.
      (1)   Permanent signs. Permanent signs shall be in accordance with the
conditions of the table included in this chapter regarding, Sign Regulations.
Such permitted permanent signs include public signs erected by or on behalf of
a governmental body, public transit company or public utility.
      (2)   Emergency signs. Emergency warning signs erected by a governmental
agency, a public utility company or a contractor doing authorized or permitted
work within the public right-of-way.
      (3)   Other signs forfeited. Any sign installed or placed on public
property, except in conformance with the requirements of this section, shall be
forfeited to the public and subject to confiscation. In addition to other
remedies hereunder, the county shall have the right to recover from the owner
or person placing such a sign the full costs of removal and disposal of such
sign.
   (G)   Signs exempt from regulation under this chapter. The following signs
shall be exempt from regulation under this chapter:
      (1)   Any public notice or warning required by a valid and applicable
federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance;
      (2)   Any sign inside a building, not attached to a window or door, that
is not legible from a distance of more than three feet beyond the lot line of
the lot or parcel on which such sign is located;
      (3)   Works of art that do not include a commercial message;
      (4)   Commercial murals on barns, silos and the like;
      (5)   Holiday lights and decorations with no commercial message; and
      (6)   Traffic-control signs on private property, such as stop, yield and
similar signs, the face of which meet the Department of Transportation
standards and which contain no commercial message of any sort;
      (7)   Temporary campaign signs displayed for not more than one month
before and two days after said election is held.
   (H)   Signs prohibited under this chapter. All signs not expressly permitted
under this chapter or exempt from regulation hereunder are prohibited in the
county. Such signs include, but are not limited to, beacons, pennants, strings
of lights not permanently mounted to a rigid background, and inflatable signs
and tethered balloons.
   (I)   General permit and inspection procedures. The following shall be
procedure for locating or modification of all sign permits under this chapter.
      (1)   Applications. All applications for sign permits shall be submitted
on an application form published by the town. One application may include
multiple signs on the same lot, however a separate permit will be issued and a
separate fee will be collected for each sign.
      (2)   Site plan.
         (a)   For any lot on which the owner proposes to erect one or more
signs requiring a permit, the owner shall submit a site plan containing the
following:
            1.   A plot plan of the lot, at such scale as may be reasonably
required;
            2.   Location of buildings, parking lots, driveways and landscaped
areas on such lot;
            3.   Computation of the total sign area for all signs, the height
of each sign and the number of signs; and
            4.   An accurate indication on the plot plans of the proposed
location of each present and future sign of any type, whether requiring a
permit or not. Incidental signs need not be shown.
         (b)   Upon the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall provide all
applicable fees, as established in the town’s fee schedule.
      (3)   Computations.
         (a)   Computation of area of individual signs. The area of a sign face
(which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face)
shall be computed by means of the smallest shape that will encompass the
extreme limits of the sign, but not including any supporting framework, bracing
or decorative fence or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning
ordinance regulations and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
         (b)   Computation of area of multifaceted signs. The sign area for a
sign with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of
all sign faces.
         (c)   Computation of height. The height of a sign shall be computed as
the distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the
highest attached component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be
the lower of existing grade prior to construction or the newly established
grade after construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding or
excavating solely for the purpose of locating the sign. In cases in which the
normal grade cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall be computed on
the assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the base of the sign
is equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of a public street
or the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the principal structure
on the zone lot, whichever is lower.
         (d)   Computation of maximum total permitted sign area for a lot. The
permitted sum of the area of all individual signs on a lot shall be computed by
applying the formula contained in the
Table 16  to the road frontage, building frontage, or wall area, as
appropriate, for the zoning district in which the lot is located. Lots fronting
on two or more streets are allowed the permitted sign area for each street
frontage. However, the total sign area that is oriented toward a particular
street may not exceed the portion of the lot’s total sign area allocation that
is derived from the lot, building or wall area frontage on that street.
      (4)   Inspection. A final inspection of each permit for a new sign or
modification of an existing sign will be performed six months after the
issuance of such permit or earlier if owner requests. If the construction is
not substantially complete at the time of inspection, the permit shall lapse
and become void. If the construction is complete and in full compliance with
this chapter and with the building and electrical codes, a permanent label
identifying the sign and permit number shall be affixed. If the construction is
substantially complete but not in full compliance with this chapter and
applicable codes, the owner or applicant shall be notified of the deficiencies
and shall be given an additional 30 days from the date of inspection for the
deficiencies to be corrected. If the deficiencies are not corrected by such
date, the permit shall lapse. If the construction is then complete, a permanent
label identifying the sign(s) and applicable permit number shall be affixed.
      (5)   Lapse of a sign permit. A continuing sign permit shall lapse
automatically if the business or activity on the premises is discontinued for a
period of 180 days or more.
   (J)   Non-conforming signs and signs without permits. Except as otherwise
provided herein, the owner of any lot or other premises on which exists a sign
that does not conform with the requirements of this chapter, a previous
applicable ordinance or for which there is no valid sign permit issued under a
previous ordinance shall be obligated to remove such sign.
      (1)   Non-conforming existing signs, permits, and terms. A sign that
would be permitted under this chapter only with a sign permit, but which was in
existence at the time this chapter went into effect, and which was constructed
in accordance with the ordinance and other applicable laws in effect on the
date of its construction, but which by reason of its size, height, location,
design or construction is not in conformance with the requirements of this
chapter, shall be classified as a non-conforming sign. A change in the
information on the face of an existing non-conforming sign is allowed. However,
any non- conforming sign shall either be eliminated or made to conform to the
requirements of this section upon proposed expansion of the sign or if the face
area of such sign has been damaged beyond 50%.
      (2)   Lapse of permit for a non-conforming sign. A permit for a non-
conforming sign shall lapse and become void under the same circumstances as
those under which any other sign permit may lapse and become void.
   (K)   Violations. Any of the following shall be a violation of this chapter
and shall be subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this
chapter, and by state or federal law:
      (1)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any plan or permit governing such sign or the zone lot on
which the sign is located;
      (2)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign requiring a permit
without such a permit;
      (3)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign in a way that is
inconsistent with any plan or permit governing such sign or the zone lot on
which the sign is located;
      (4)   To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected or
maintained in violation of this chapter, or for which the sign permit has
lapsed; or
      (5)   To continue any such violation. Each such day of a continued
violation shall be considered a separate violation when applying the penalty
portions of this chapter.
   (L)   Enforcement and remedies. A violation of this section of the chapter
shall be considered a violation of this chapter and shall be enforced
accordingly.
Table 16: Rural Sign Regulations
  AG R-1 R-2 R-3, R-4, MF LB PB GB, UB AB AZ, I-1, I-2
Table 16: Rural Sign Regulations
                         AG R-1 R-2 R-3, R-4, LB PB    GB, UB AB    AZ, I-1, I-
                                    MF                              2
Total Number of all types of Signs Permitted
           Per lot      1  1   1             1
            Per lot per
           linear feet             1/200        1/100 1/200  1/200 1/200
            of road
Lighting
            Animated,
            exposed
           bulbs or                          X  P (k) P      P     P
            internal/
            external
            illumination
Regulations for On-Premises Freestanding Signs
            Maximum
Regulations combined     6  6   6   12        40 40    80     160   80
            area
            Maximum
           height       5  5   5   5         12 12    12     36    12
            (feet)
           Setback      2  2   2   2         2  5 (h) 5 (h)  10    10
            (feet) (j)
Type        Residential  P  P   P   P
            (a)
           Incidental              X (b)     X  X (b) X      X     X
            (b)
           Other        P          P         P  P     P      P     P
Regulations for Off-Premises Freestanding Signs
            Permitted
           districts                                  P      P     P
            (i)
           Maximum area                               100    200   150
            (per side)
            Maximum
           height                                     35     5     35
            (feet)
           Setback                                    20     20    20
            (feet) (j)
Regulations for All Other Signs
Regulations Maximum area 2  2   2   2         10
            (sq. ft.)
           Maximum wall                         10%   15%    15%   20%
            area (%)
Type        Banner (b),                          P     P      P     P
            canopy
           Incidental              X (e)     X  X (b) X      X     X
            (b)
            Marquee (f),
            roof-
           integral,
            temporary
            (h)
           Residential  P  P   P                      P      P
           Suspended                         P
            (f)
           Wall                              P  P     P      P     P
           Flag (g)     X  X   X   X         X  X     X      X     X
NOTES TO TABLE:
Signs in the PUD District shall meet the requirements of the district most
comparable.
X = Allowed without a sign permit.
P = Allowed only with sign permit
a) No commercial message allowed on sign, except for a commercial message
drawing attention to an activity legally offered on the premises.
b) No commercial message of any kind allowed on sign if such message is legible
from any location off the lot on which the sign is located.
c) Only address and name of occupant allowed on sign.
d) May include only building name, date of construction or historical data on
historic site; must be cut or etched into masonry, bronze, or similar material.
e) No commercial message of any kind allowed on sign.
f) If such a sign is suspended or projects above a public right-of-way, the
issuance and continuation of a sign permit shall be conditioned on the sign
owner obtaining and maintaining in force liability insurance for such a sign in
such form and such amount as the Director may reasonably from time to time
determine; provided that, the amount of such liability insurance shall be at
least $500,000 per occurrence per sign.
g) Flags of the United States, the state, the city, foreign nations having
diplomatic relations with the United States, and any other flag adopted or
sanctioned by an elected legislative body of competent jurisdiction; provided
that, such a flag shall not exceed 60 square feet in area and shall not be
flown from a pole the top of which is more than 40 feet in height. These flags
must be flown in accordance with protocol established by the Congress of the
United States for the Stars and Stripes. Any flag not meeting any one or more
of these conditions shall be considered a banner sign and shall be subject to
regulation as such.
h) Maximum sign height is 12 feet, and minimum setback is five feet; however,
in no case shall the actual sign height exceed the actual sign setback from any
adjacent lot that is zoned and used for residential purposes. For example, if
the sign is set back seven feet from such a lot, it may be no more than seven
feet high.
i) Must be 1,000 from any other off-premises sign on the same side of the road,
measured along the right-of way.
j) In addition to the setback requirements on this table, signs shall be
located such that there is at every street intersection a clear view between
heights of three feet and 10 feet in a triangle formed by the corner and points
on the curb 30 feet from the intersection or entranceway.
k) No direct light or significant glare from the sign shall be cast onto any
adjacent lot that is zoned or used for residential purposes.
 
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 6.10)
§ 194.170 CANDIDATE SIGNS ON ELECTION DAY.
   (A)   Department in charge. The Zionsville Police Department shall have the
authority to regulate the policies in this chapter, including enforcing
penalties.
   (B)   Definition. For the purposes of this chapter, CANDIDATE SIGN shall
mean a sign used to promote a candidate for an election.
   (C)   Timing. This chapter shall apply beginning 60 days before an election,
and ending at the beginning of the sixth day after the election.
   (D)   Number of signs. Each candidate running for an election shall have no
more than two candidate signs on the Town Hall property. Only candidate signs
may be placed on Town Hall property, so as to ensure that the number of signs
on the Town Hall property does not become too abundant.
   (E)   Size of sign. No candidate sign on Town Hall property may be larger
than 24 inches by 36 inches.
   (F)   Placement of sign. No candidate sign may be placed in the public
right-of-way. No candidate sign may be placed on Town Hall property with a
metal or wood post. Only candidate signs with wires can be placed on the Town
Hall property.
   (G)   Removal. Any candidate sign placed in excess of the provisions under
this section may be removed by town staff with no liability to the candidate or
any of the candidate's representatives. All candidate signs must be removed by
the candidate or candidate representatives at the beginning of the sixth day
after the election. If a candidate sign still remains, then the candidate sign
may be removed and destroyed by town staff with no liability to the candidate
or any of the candidate's representatives.
(Ord. 2024-45, passed 12-16-2024)
DISTRICTS AND MAPS
§ 194.180 OFFICIAL ZONE MAP.
   All real property located within the corporate boundaries of the town and
under the jurisdiction of the Plan Commission as set forth in this chapter is
hereby divided into districts as shown on the official zone map which, together
with all explanatory matter, is incorporated by reference and declared to be a
part of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 7.1; Ord. 2010-01, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 194.181 IDENTIFICATION OF THE OFFICIAL ZONE MAP.
   The official zone map shall be identified by:
   (A)   The signature of the Plan Commission President;
   (B)   The attestation of the Secretary; and
   (C)   The seal of the Plan Commission under the following words: “This is to
certify that this is the Official Zone Map of the Town of Zionsville, County of
Boone, State of Indiana”, together with the date of adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 7.2)
§ 194.182 OFFICIAL ZONE MAP CHANGES.
   (A)   (1)   If, after the certification of the official zone map by the Plan
Commission, the Town Council, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter
and I.C. 36-7-4-600 et seq., changes any of the district boundaries or other
matter portrayed on the official zone map, such changes shall be entered by
staff on a working copy of the official zone map which is maintained in the
office of the Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
      (2)   The working copy of the official zone map shall be available for
public inspection and reference during all normal business hours.
      (3)   In case of discrepancy between changes noted on the working copy of
the official zone map and the official printed record of the Town Council, the
official printed record of the Town Council shall control.
   (B)   (1)   In the event that the official zone map becomes worn, damaged,
destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret, staff shall, on an as needed basis,
prepare a revised official zone map for review and recommendation by the Plan
Commission at a public hearing for which proper notice is provided.
      (2)   A revised official zone map shall incorporate all official actions
of the Town Council related to matters depicted on the official zone map since
the adoption of the prior official zone map.
      (3)   A revised official zone map may also include revisions to correct
drafting errors and changes in the base information related to plats or
streets.
   (C)   (1)   The Plan Commission shall certify its recommendation of such
revised official zone map to the Town Council for official adoption by the Town
Council.
      (2)   Any revised official zone map shall be identified as described
above with the addition of the phrase “As amended to and including the Town
Council docket of (applicable date).”
   (D)   No change of any nature shall be made in the official zone map, or
matter shown thereon, except in conformity with the amendment procedures set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 7.3)
§ 194.183 RETENTION AND PRESERVATION OF RECORDS.
   Unless the prior official zone map has been lost or completely destroyed,
the prior official zone map, along with all available records pertaining to its
adoption or amendment, shall be retained and preserved in the office of the
Clerk-Treasurer of the town.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 7.4)
§ 194.184 INTERPRETATION OF THE OFFICIAL ZONE MAP.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of districts shown
on the official zone map, the following rules shall apply to the interpretation
of those boundaries.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
thoroughfares, highways, streets or alleys shall be construed to follow the
centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed to follow the platted lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the corporate boundary
of the town shall be construed as following the corporate boundary of the town.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
former railroad rights-of- way, streams, rivers, lakes or other bodies of water
shall be construed as following the centerlines.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following floodplain lines shall
be construed to follow the floodplain lines.
   (F)   (1)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in divisions (A) through (E) above shall be so controlled.
      (2)   Distances not specifically indicated on the official zone map shall
be determined by the scale of the map.
   (G)   Where a discrepancy exists between the depictions on the official zone
map and the text of a legal description accompanying an ordinance for zone map
change duly adopted by the Town Council, the text of the legal description
shall control.
   (H)   (1)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground do
not agree with those shown on the official zone map, or in other circumstances
not covered above, the staff shall interpret the boundaries.
      (2)   Any party dissatisfied with the interpretation of the staff may
appeal such interpretation to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 7.5)
§ 194.185 ZONING OF NEWLY ANNEXED LAND.
   (A)   Any land which is annexed to the town shall be zoned as follows:
      (1)   Land which was zoned to an agricultural or residential
classification pursuant to the zoning ordinance of the county shall be assigned
an R-SF-2 District zoning classification of the town upon annexation to the
town with the exception that any land designated as “equestrian/estate
residential” of the Future Land Use Map of Ch. 6 (Land Use) of the town’s
master development plan, adopted as Res. 2002-01 of the Town Council shall be
assigned an R-E District zoning classification of the town;
      (2)   Land which was zoned to a business classification pursuant to the
zoning ordinance of the county shall be assigned a B-1 District zoning
classification of the town upon annexation to the town;
      (3)   Land which was zoned to an industrial classification pursuant to
the zoning ordinance of the county shall be assigned an I-ORT District zoning
classification of the town upon annexation to the town; and
      (4)   Land which was zoned to any zoning classification pursuant to the
zoning ordinance of the county other than those identified in divisions (A)(1)
through (A)(3) above shall be assigned an O-1 District zoning classification of
the town upon annexation to the town.
   (B)   Unless, in any of the foregoing circumstances, the Town Council
assigns a different zoning classification(s) to the land in the ordinance
annexing the land based upon evidence or testimony presented at the annexation
hearing required under I.C. 35-4-3-2.1.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 7.6)
§ 194.186 THOROUGHFARE PLAN; ROAD CLASSIFICATIONS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c828c10dd9347c67d0714ee9b0d2548dfe1987d3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-856.jpg]
 
ADMINISTRATIVE AND DECISION MAKING BODIES
§ 194.200 TOWN COUNCIL.
   The Town Council shall have the following powers and duties in connection
with the implementation of the Comprehensive Plan and this chapter:
   (A)   Approve, reject or amend a comprehensive plan, or segment thereof,
certified to it by the Plan Commission;
   (B)   Initiate amendments to the text of this chapter;
   (C)   Adopt, reject or amend proposals to amend or partially repeal the text
of this chapter;
   (D)   Initiate amendments to the text of Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances;
   (E)   Adopt, reject or amend proposals to amend or partially repeal the text
of Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances;
   (F)   Adopt or reject proposals to amend zone maps; and
   (G)   Such additional powers and duties as may be set forth for the Town
Council elsewhere in this chapter or state law.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 8.1)
§ 194.201 PLAN COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. The town’s Plan Commission is hereby re-established in
accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-200 et seq.
   (B)   Membership, qualifications and terms. The membership of the Plan
Commission, the qualification of its members and the terms of membership shall
be in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-200 et seq.
   (C)   Duties and powers. The Plan Commission is hereby vested with the
duties and powers imposed upon and granted to an advisory plan commission under
the advisory planning law, including, without limitation, the powers and duties
listed below. To effectuate the purposes of this chapter, the Plan Commission
may, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable laws:
      (1)   Supervise and make rules for the administration of the affairs of
the Plan Commission;
      (2)   Prescribe uniform rules pertaining to investigations and hearings,
and other matters authorized by state planning and zoning laws;
      (3)   Keep a complete record of all departmental proceedings;
      (4)   Record and file all bonds and contracts and assume responsibility
for the custody and preservation of all papers and documents of the Plan
Commission;
      (5)   Prepare, publish and distribute reports, ordinances and other
material related to the Plan Commission activities authorized by state law or
this chapter;
      (6)   Adopt a seal;
      (7)   Certify to all official acts;
      (8)   Supervise the fiscal affairs of the Plan Commission;
      (9)   Prepare and submit an annual budget and be limited in all
expenditures to the provisions made for expenditures by the Town Council;
      (10)   Prescribe the qualifications of, appoint, remove and fix the
compensation of the employees of the Plan Commission;
      (11)   Delegate authority to its employees to perform ministerial acts in
all cases, except where final action of the Plan Commission is necessary;
      (12)   Designate a hearing examiner or a committee of the Commission to
conduct any public hearing required to be held by the Plan Commission;
      (13)   Make recommendations to the Town Council concerning:
         (a)   The adoption of the Comprehensive Plan and amendments to the
Comprehensive Plan;
         (b)   The adoption or text amendment of this chapter or
Ch. 193 of this code of ordinances;
         (c)   The adoption or amendment of a PUD District Ordinance; and
         (d)   Proposals to change the official zone maps.
      (14)   Render decisions concerning and approve plats or replats of
subdivisions;
      (15)   Render decisions concerning development plans and amendments to
development plans;
      (16)   Assign street numbers to lots and structures, renumber lots and
structures and to name or rename streets;
      (17)   Establish advisory committees of citizens;
      (18)   Establish executive committees;
      (19)   Negotiate for grants-in-aid and agree to terms and conditions
attached to such grants-in-aid;
      (20)   Subject to final confirmation and approval by the Town Council,
establish a schedule of reasonable fees to defray the administrative costs
connected with:
         (a)   Processing and hearing administrative appeals and petitions for
zone map change, special exceptions, variances, planned unit development
approvals and development plan approvals;
         (b)   Issuing improvement location permits and special exception
permits; and
         (c)   Other official actions taken under this chapter.
      (21)   Invoke any legal, equitable or special remedy available under this
chapter or applicable law for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter
or actions taken hereunder;
      (22)   Establish an alternate procedure for the more expedient
disposition of variances of development standards, special exceptions,
variances of use and adopt rules governing the alternate procedure; and
      (23)   Exercise all powers conferred on it by state law, local ordinance
or rule in the manner so prescribed. This section shall not be construed as a
limitation on such powers.
   (D)   Commitments required by the Plan Commission.
      (1)   Commitments.
         (a)   The Plan Commission may, when in the discretion of the Plan
Commission it is deemed necessary to:
            1.   Assure the compatibility of a proposed development with
surrounding properties; or
            2.   To minimize the potential for the occurrence of detrimental
effects from any attributes of a proposed development on surrounding
properties, require or permit the owner of a parcel of property to make written
commitments concerning the use or development of the subject property in
connection with a development plan approval as provided for in this chapter, or
in connection with recommending approval of a zone map change to any zoning
district classification contained in this chapter to the Town Council as a
condition of development.
         (b)   The commitments shall be reduced to writing in recordable form
and signed by the owner(s) of the real estate. The commitments shall be in
effect for:
            1.   As long as the real estate to which they apply remains zoned
to the classification to which the real estate was zoned when the commitments
were made; or
            2.   Modified or terminated as provided below.
         (c)   The commitments shall authorize their recording by staff in the
office of the Recorder of the county upon the final approval of the zone map
change by the Town Council. Following the recording of the commitments, staff
shall return the original recorded commitments to petitioner and shall retain a
copy of the recorded commitments in its file.
         (d)   The Plan Commission, owners of all parcels of ground adjoining
the real estate and an owners of real estate within the area included in the
petition who were not petitioners for approval, and other specially affected
persons designated in such commitments shall be entitled to enforce such
commitments pursuant to I.C. 36-7-4-1015 or as otherwise provided applicable
law.
         (e)   The commitments required by the Plan Commission shall be in
substantially the form set forth in Exhibit “A” of this chapter.
      (2)   Modification of commitments by the Plan Commission.
         (a)   Commitments required or permitted by the Plan Commission may be
modified or terminated by a decision of the Plan Commission, made at a public
hearing after notice to adjoining owners has been given pursuant to the rules
of procedure of the Plan Commission. Any modification or termination of the
commitments shall not be effective until:
            1.   Reduced to writing;
            2.   Approved by the Plan Commission;
            3.   Executed and notarized by the present owner(s) of the real
estate; and
            4.   Recorded in the office of the Recorder of the county.
         (b)   The modification or termination of commitments shall be in
substantially the form set forth in Exhibit “B” of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 8.2)
§ 194.202 BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment. The town’s Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby
established in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-900 et seq.
   (B)   Membership, qualifications and terms. The membership of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, the qualification of its members and the terms of membership
shall be in accordance with I.C. 36-7-4-900 et seq.
   (C)   Duties and powers.
      (1)   Power. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the duty and power
to:
         (a)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by staff or administrative official
under this chapter;
         (b)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative board or other
body, except the Plan Commission in relation to the enforcement of this
chapter;
         (c)   Hear and determine appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by staff, an administrative board
or other body except the Plan Commission in relation to the enforcement of
those provisions of this chapter requiring the procurement of an improvement
location permit or a certificate of occupancy;
         (d)   Hear, and approve or deny, all special exceptions in accordance
with the provisions of division (C)(4) below;
         (e)   Hear and approve or deny, all variances from development
standards of this chapter. A variance from development standards may be
approved only upon written determination that:
            1.   The approval will not be injurious to the public health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the community;
            2.   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property
included in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse
manner; and
            3.   The strict application of the terms of this chapter would
result in an unnecessary hardship in the use of the property.
         (f)   Hear, and approve or deny, all variances of use from the terms
of this chapter. A variance of use may be approved only upon written
determination that:
            1.   The approval will not be injurious to the public health,
safety, morals and general welfare of the community;
            2.   The use and value of the area adjacent to the property
included in the variance will not be affected in a substantially adverse
manner;
            3.   The need for the variance arises from some condition peculiar
to the property involved;
            4.   The strict application of the terms of the zoning ordinance
will constitute an unnecessary hardship if applied to the property for which
the variance is sought; and
            5.   The approval does not interfere substantially with the
Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Conditions. The Board of Zoning Appeals may impose reasonable
conditions as a part of its approval of any special exception or variance from
the terms of this chapter.
      (3)   Rules. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt rules concerning:
the filing of appeals; applications for special exceptions and variances; the
giving of notice; the determination of interested parties to receive notice;
the conduct of hearings; the determination between use variances and
development standards variances; the creation, form, recording, modification,
enforcement and termination of commitments; and the designation of which
specially affected persons and classes of specially affected persons are
entitled to enforce commitments.
      (4)   Special exceptions.
         (a)   Statement of purpose. Certain land uses have characteristics and
locational impacts which, if inappropriately located, may have a detrimental
effect upon other land uses within the town. It is therefore recognized that
such land uses should be regulated in order to preserve property values, as
well as promote the public health, safety, comfort, community moral standards,
convenience and general welfare of the town.
         (b)   Uses permitted by special exception. Only those uses identified
in each individual zoning district as uses permitted by special exception shall
be permitted by special exception in each zoning district.
         (c)   Grant of a special exception. The Board of Zoning Appeals is
hereby authorized to grant special exceptions to permit uses designated as uses
permitted by special exception in each zoning district subject to the following
requirements.
            1.   A petition for special exception shall be filed with the Board
of Zoning Appeals in accordance with the requirements for the filing of a
variance, except as such requirements may be modified in this section. Such
petition shall include proposed detailed findings of fact pursuant to division
(C)(4)(c)3. below, in support of the determinations required to be made by the
Board of Zoning Appeals.
            2.   A petition for special exception may contain a request for a
variance of development standards of the zoning district determined to be
inappropriate for the individual special exception use. The Board of Zoning
Appeals may approve such a variance only if such waiver is specifically
requested in said petition and specifically approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals. Any development standards for which a variance is granted shall
require additional findings by the Board of Zoning Appeals as specified in
division (C)(1)(e) above, for the grant of a variance of development standards.
            3.   The Board of Zoning Appeals may grant a special exception only
upon a determinations that:
               a.   The proposed use will not be injurious to the public
health, safety, comfort, community moral standards, convenience or general
welfare;
               b.   The proposed use will not injure or adversely affect the
adjacent area or property values therein; and
               c.   The proposed use will be consistent with the character of
the district, land uses authorized therein and the town’s Comprehensive Plan.
            4.   In addition to the findings of fact listed in division (C)(4)
(c)3. above, the additional finding shall be met in order for the Board of
Zoning Appeals to grant a special exception for a religious use.
               a.   The religious use shall comply with the off-street parking
requirements of §
194.105 of this chapter.
               b.   Additional traffic created by the religious use will not
injure or adversely affect the adjacent area or property values therein, as
satisfactorily determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals in its review of a
traffic impact study, following the thresholds prescribed in §
193.036 of this code of ordinances, incorporated into this chapter by reference
herein.
         (d)   Conditions for the grant of a special exception. The grant of a
special exception shall be subject to the following conditions.
            1.   The proposed use shall conform to all development standards of
the applicable zoning district (unless a waiver of such development standards
is requested as part of the special exception petition and approved by the
Board of Zoning Appeals as set forth above).
            2.   The proposed use shall conform to all conditions attached to
the grant of the special exception by the Board of Zoning Appeals. Such
conditions may include any reasonable site, development, operational standards,
performance standards, requirements and restrictions deemed necessary to ensure
compliance with the findings of fact determinations. The grant of a special
exception may be for a limited period of time, as specified by the Board of
Zoning Appeals.
         (e)   Basis of Board of Zoning Appeals review. In reviewing a special
exception petition and making a determination as to compliance with the
required findings of fact, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall give consideration
to the particular needs and circumstances of each special exception application
and shall examine the following items as they relate to the proposed use:
            1.   Topography and other natural site features;
            2.   Zoning of the site and surrounding properties;
            3.   Driveway locations, street access and vehicular and pedestrian
traffic;
            4.   Parking amount, location and design;
            5.   Building character;
            6.   Landscaping, screening and buffering;
            7.   Open space and other site amenities; and
            8.   Availability and adequacy of streets, sanitary facilities,
potable water and storm water management system and other utilities.
      (5)   Other powers. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall exercise all powers
conferred on it by state law, local ordinance or rule in the manner so
prescribed. This section shall not be construed as a limitation on such powers.
   (D)   Commitments required by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (1)   Commitments.
         (a)   The Board of Zoning Appeals may permit or require the owner of a
parcel of property to make a written commitment concerning the use or
development of that parcel in the case of a petition for a special exception,
variance from the terms of this chapter or a variance of development standards.
All such commitments shall be in recordable form and shall be recorded in the
office of the county’s Recorder and shall take effect upon the granting of the
special exception or variance. Unless modified by a decision of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, a recorded commitment shall be binding on the owner of the
parcel, each subsequent owner, and each other person acquiring an interest in
the parcel. The commitments required by the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be in
substantially the form set forth in Exhibit “C” of this chapter.
         (b)   By permitting or requiring commitments, the Board of Zoning
Appeals does not obligate itself to approve or deny any request. This section
does not affect the validity of any covenant, easement, equitable servitude or
other land use restriction created in accordance with law.
      (2)   Modification of commitments by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (a)   A commitment may be modified or terminated only by a decision of
the Board of Zoning Appeals made at a public hearing after notice to adjoining
owners has been given pursuant to the rules of procedure of the Board of Zoning
Appeals. Any modification or termination of the commitments shall not be
effective until:
            1.   Reduced to writing;
            2.   Approved by the Board of Zoning Appeals;
            3.   Executed and notarized by the present owner (s) of the real
estate; and
            4.   Recorded in the office of the Recorder of the county.
         (b)   The modification or termination of commitments shall be in
substantially the form set forth in Exhibit “D” of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 8.3)
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCEDURES
§ 194.215 REQUIRED PERMITS AND APPROVALS.
   The development review procedures for the town are intended to provide for
the protection of the public health, safety, morals and general welfare of the
residential and business citizens of the town by providing for the thorough
review of all permit applications and development petitions so that informed
decisions regarding such permit applications and development petitions may be
rendered while balancing the needs of the development community for the timely
review of those permit applications and development petitions.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 9.1; Ord. 2013-12, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 194.216 IMPROVEMENT LOCATION PERMITS.
   (A)   Improvement location permit required. In order to ensure that the
provisions of this chapter relative to: how real property is developed,
maintained and used; the requirements for site conditions, such as ponds,
fills, landscaping and utilities; provisions for the treatment of uses,
structures or conditions that are in existence; and restrictions on development
in areas prone to flooding; any building, structure, improvement, sign, use of
land or clearance of land may be altered, changed, placed, erected, located or
allowed unless the building, structure, improvement, sign, use of land or
clearance of land and its location conform to the provisions of this chapter
and an improvement location permit for the alteration, change, placement,
erection or location of such building, structure, improvement, sign, use of
land or clearance of land has been issued an improvement location permit for
the clearance of land shall not be issued until primary plat approval (for land
located in the R-SF-1, R-SF-2, R-SF-3 and R-V Districts) or development plan
approval (for land located in any district, except the O-1 District), has been
obtained from the Plan Commission for the applicable land.
   (B)   Duration of improvement location permit.
      (1)   An improvement location permit shall be valid for the longer of:
         (a)   One year after date of issuance; or
         (b)   The length of any required building permit, if such building
permit is obtained for the building, structure, improvement or sign covered by
the improvement location permit within one year after the date of issuance of
the improvement location permit.
      (2)   The Building Commissioner shall have the power to extend the period
of validity of any improvement location permit one or more times; provided,
however, the total time period of all extension(s) shall not exceed six months.
   (C)   Review of improvement location permit; application.
      (1)   Improvement location permits for single-family and two-family
dwellings and related accessory buildings or structures. The staff may take up
to five business days to study an application for an improvement location
permit. During such five business day period, the staff may consult with other
appropriate technical consultants. If, after such five-day period, the staff
has not requested any additional information or stated any objections in
writing to the applicant, and the proposed building, structure or improvement,
and the proposed use conform in all respects to the provisions of this chapter,
the staff shall issue the improvement location permit. Improvement location
permits for all: multi-family, commercial, industrial or special exception
buildings, structures, improvements or uses; signs; and accessory buildings,
structures or improvements related to multi-family, commercial, industrial or
special exception uses. The staff may take an additional ten business days,
beyond the review period specified above, in which to study the application,
during which time the staff may consult with other appropriate technical
consultants. If, after such additional ten-day period, the staff has not
requested any additional information or stated any objections in writing to the
applicant, and the proposed building, structure, improvement or sign, and the
proposed use conform in all respects to the provisions of this chapter, the
staff shall issue the improvement location permit.
      (2)   Improvement location permit for all multi-family, commercial,
industrial or special exception buildings, structures, improvements or uses. An
application for an improvement location permit for any multi-family,
commercial, industrial or special exception building, structure, improvement or
use required to obtain a construction design release from the state shall be
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect verifying that the
building, structure, improvement or use intended will be in compliance with all
applicable use regulations, development standards and performance standards of
the district in which the building, structure, improvement or use is to be
located.
      (3)   Improvement location permits for buildings, structures,
improvements, signs or uses authorized by special exception or variance. In
addition to the requirements above, an improvement location permit for a
building, structure, improvement, sign or use authorized by special exception
or variance shall not be issued until receipt by the staff of written notice
from the Board that the application therefor has been approved by the Board;
and, a determination by the staff that said improvement location permit
application is in full compliance with the terms of any conditions which may
have been imposed by the Board and commitments which may have been made by the
owner.
   (D)   Public or semi-public sanitary sewer required. An application for an
improvement location permit for any building, structure, improvement or use
shall not be approved until it has been ascertained by the staff that:
      (1)   The proposed building, structure, improvement or use will be served
by a public or semi- public sanitary sewer system; or
      (2)   The proposed building, structure, improvement or use will be served
by a septic system or other method of sanitary waste disposal approved by the
town’s Fire and Building Department.
   (E)   Appeal of determination. Any determination by the staff concerning the
issuance of an improvement location permit may be appealed to the Board of
Zoning Appeals by any party claiming to be adversely affected by that decision.
   (F)   Record of permits. A record of all improvement location permits shall
be kept on file in the office of the Director of Planning and Economic
Development and copies shall be furnished upon request to any person having a
proprietary or tenancy interest in the building or land affected and shall be
available for public inspection and copying as provided by applicable state
law.
   (G)   Amended improvement location permit. When a builder, developer or
owner of any building, structure, improvement or sign for which an improvement
location permit has been obtained, for any reason, proposes that the
construction of said building, structure, improvement or sign deviate from the
plans filed with the improvement location permit application and approved by
the staff, the builder, developer or owner shall make application for an
amended improvement location permit. The staff shall review the application for
the amended improvement location permit in accordance with the procedures set
forth above to determine compliance of the amended improvement location permit
application with the provisions of this chapter and any other applicable
conditions, covenants or restrictions. If such amended improvement location
permit application is found to be in compliance, the staff shall issue an
amended improvement location permit any determination by the staff with respect
to an amended improvement location permit shall be subject to the same appeal
rights and procedures as set forth above for an initial application for an
improvement location permit.
   (H)   General exemptions. Notwithstanding anything contained in this
subchapter to the contrary, no improvement location permit shall be required
for minor repairs or alterations to buildings, structures, improvements or
signs where:
      (1)   The cost of such repairs or alterations does not exceed $500; and
      (2)   There is no increase in finished floor area, useable space, or any
dimension of any portion of a sign.
   (I)   Revocation in event of violation. If the staff determines that
construction or development is proceeding or has proceeded in violation of any
applicable law, ordinance, rule, regulation, site plan, zoning commitment or
condition of approval, or that the improvement location permit has been issued
in violation of any applicable law, ordinance, rule, regulation, site plan,
zoning commitment or condition of approval, the staff may revoke said
improvement location permit in the event that an improvement location permit is
revoked, the staff shall send written notice of the revocation to the permit
applicant.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 9.2; Ord. 2013-12, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 194.217 COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS, ORDINANCES, RULES OR REGULATIONS.
   The issuance of an improvement location permit does not substitute for or
supersede the requirement to obtain approvals specified in other laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations, as the same may be amended from time to
time, before the construction of any building, structure, improvement or sign,
including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Zionsville Building Code;
   (B)   Zionsville Subdivision Control Ordinance;
   (C)   Any other applicable federal, state or local law, ordinance, rule or
regulation, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Erosion Control Regulations of the County Soil and Water
Conservation District; and
      (2)   State or federal environmental permits.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 9.3; Ord. 2013-12, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 194.218 APPLICATION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   When an improvement location permit is required by this chapter, an
application for an improvement location permit shall be filed with the Building
Commissioner. Said application shall be on a form prescribed by the Plan
Commission and accompanied by a site plan consistent with the requirements set
forth below.
      (1)   A site plan for a single-family dwelling or a two-family dwelling
on a platted lot shall be drawn to scale of not more than one inch equals 100
feet showing:
         (a)   North arrow;
         (b)   Address of the lot;
         (c)   Legal description of the lot;
         (d)   Names, centerlines and right-of-way widths of all streets,
alleys, thoroughfares, public ways, water ways or railroad right-of-way
abutting or within the lot;
         (e)   The location and dimensions of all buildings, structures or
improvements currently existing on the lot;
         (f)   Structures proposed for demolition should be indicated as such;
         (g)   The location and dimensions of all proposed buildings,
structures or improvements, including fences, sheds, paved areas, storage
areas, parking areas (indicate if parking is hard-surfaced). Cross-hatch or
shade lightly all proposed buildings;
         (h)   Location of any proposed or existing driveway and its width at
the property line (Any connection to an alley must also be indicated.);
         (i)   The distance from lot lines for all existing and proposed
buildings, structures, improvements or signs (This distance is measured as a
line from the point where the building, structure, improvement or sign is
closest to the property line. This measurement it taken perpendicular to the
property line.);
         (j)   The height of the existing and proposed buildings, structures or
improvements; and
         (k)   All other information required by the staff for the proper
administration of this chapter.
      (2)   A site plan for any commercial, industrial or special exception use
shall be drawn to scale of not more than one inch equals 100 feet showing:
         (a)   North arrow;
         (b)   Address of the site or within the lot;
         (c)   The actual shape, size and dimensions of the lot;
         (d)   Area map or sketch to indicate the location of the lot;
         (e)   Names, centerlines and right-of-way widths of all streets,
alleys, thoroughfares, public ways, water ways or railroad right-of-way
abutting or within the lot;
         (f)   The location and dimensions of all buildings, structures,
improvements or signs currently existing on the lot;
         (g)   Structures proposed for demolition should be indicated as such;
         (h)   The location and dimensions of all proposed buildings,
structures, improvements or signs, including fences, sheds, paved areas,
storage areas, parking areas (indicate if parking is hard surfaced). Cross-
hatch or shade lightly all proposed buildings;
         (i)   Location of any proposed or existing driveway and its width at
the property line. (Any connection to an alley must also be indicated);
         (j)   (If applicable) Location, dimensions and type (e.g., ground,
pole, wall) of all signs on the site, existing and proposed. Include separate
elevations of proposed sign structures with all dimensions drawn to scale;
         (k)   The distance from lot lines for all existing and proposed
buildings, structures, improvements or signs (This distance is measured as a
line from the point where the building, structure, improvement or sign is
closest to the property line. This measurement is taken perpendicular to the
property line.);
         (l)   The height of the existing and proposed buildings, structures,
improvements or signs;
         (m)   The number of dwelling units (if applicable) of existing and
proposed buildings or structures;
         (n)   The current and proposed use to be made of all buildings,
structures, improvements or lands within the lot (e.g., parking, residence,
office, storage);
         (o)   Vocational engineering information regarding all utilities to
provide service to the buildings or structures on the lot;
         (p)   The location and dimensions of all off-street parking and off-
street loading facilities;
         (q)   The location and dimensions of all fences, walls or other
screening and buffering devices;
         (r)   Location, size and species of all proposed and existing trees
(six inches or larger at four and one-half feet above grade) and landscaping;
         (s)   Site data summary (a text summary in table format describing:
square footage of existing and proposed buildings; existing, proposed and
required parking; existing, proposed and required loading; proposed and
permitted maximum building height; accommodation of drainage, sanitary sewer,
water and other utility services; legal description; lighting; and
landscaping);
         (t)   The seal of the registered professional engineer or architect
responsible for the site plan; and
         (u)   All other information required by the staff for the proper
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Building Commissioner may waive or relax any of the site plan
requirements listed above, as circumstances dictate. The site plan shall be
attached to the application for an improvement location permit when such
application is submitted to the Building Commissioner and shall be retained in
the office of the Department of Planning and Economic Development as a public
record.
   (C)   Each application for an improvement location permit for a building,
structure or use shall include an application for a certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   The Plan Commission may promulgate rules, regulations and procedures,
in addition to those listed herein, as to the form and processing of the
applications, site plans and permits required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 9.4; Ord. 2013-12, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 194.219 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Certificate of occupancy required. No building, structure, improvement
(except signs) or use for which an improvement location permit is required by
the provisions of this chapter shall be used for the purpose contemplated by
the improvement location permit until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued by the staff.
   (B)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Within two days of notification of completion of work on the
proposed building, structure or use, the applicant for an improvement location
permit shall notify the staff of completion of work authorized by the
improvement location permit. The staff, or its designee, shall, within 14 days
inspect the premises for compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the
improvement location permit.
      (2)   A certificate of occupancy pursuant to this chapter shall be issued
only upon a finding by the staff that the proposed building, structure or use
has been developed, located or to be used in accordance with the provisions of:
         (a)   This chapter; and
         (b)   The improvement location permit.
   (C)   Temporary certificate of occupancy. A temporary certificate of
occupancy may be issued by the staff if the proposed building, structure or use
complies with the provisions of division (B) above; except that, certain
external site features (e.g., finish coat for asphalt parking areas or
landscaping) have not been completed due to ground or weather conditions which
are not immediately suitable for permanent installation. The duration of the
temporary certificate of occupancy shall be specified on the temporary
certificate of occupancy; provided, however, in no case shall a temporary
certificate of occupancy exceed six months in duration. In cases of extreme
hardship or weather conditions, and for good cause shown, the Building
Commissioner may grant a one-time extension of not to exceed three months.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 9.5; Ord. 2013-12, passed 10-7-2013)
§ 194.220 FEES.
   In order to defray administrative costs associated with the processing of
development petitions and improvement location permits, the Town Council shall
establish a schedule of fees which are to be paid by the applicant at the time
of filing a development petition or application for an improvement location
permit. Said schedule of fees shall include fees for: improvement location
permits; petitions for zone map changes; applications for development plan
approvals; petitions for variance; and other administrative matters as
determined by the Plan Commission, at a public hearing, which are in the best
interest of providing required services at a reasonable fee to the general
public.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 9.6; Ord. 2013-12, passed 10-7-2013; Ord.
2024-18, passed 7-15-2024)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 194.235 AUTHORITY.
   Staff is hereby designated to enforce the terms and provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 10.1)
§ 194.236 ALLEGED VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever staff receives a complaint or has reason to suspect that an alleged
violation of the terms and provisions of this chapter are occurring, staff
shall investigate the complaint or suspicion and shall take whatever action is
warranted in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 10.2)
§ 194.237 RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   The owner, tenant or occupant of any building or land or part thereof and
any architect, builder, contractor, agent or other person who participates in,
assists, directs, creates or maintains any situation that is in violation of
the terms and provisions of this chapter, may be held responsible for the
violation, suffer the penalties and be subject to the remedies herein provided.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 10.3)
§ 194.238 INSPECTION OF PROPERTY; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Staff may enter upon any premises at any reasonable time for the
purpose of inspecting all lands located within the jurisdiction of the Plan
Commission and carrying out their duties in the enforcement of this chapter.
Prior to entering upon any premises, staff shall furnish sufficient
identification and information to enable the owner, tenant or occupant to
determine the purpose of the inspection and that the person conducting the
inspection is an authorized representative of the town.
   (B)   In the event that entry is denied by the owner, tenant or occupant of
a premises, the Building Commissioner may make application to any court of
competent jurisdiction for the issuance of a search warrant. Such application
shall identify the premises upon which entry is sought and the purpose for
which entry is desired. The application shall state the facts giving rise to
the belief that a condition which is in violation of this chapter exists on the
premises, or that such a violation in fact exists and must be abated, and that
the condition or violation is not a lawful non-conforming use to the best of
the affiant’s belief. Any warrant issued pursuant to such application shall
order such owner, tenant or occupant to permit entry to staff for the purposes
stated therein.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 10.4)
§ 194.239 STOP-WORK ORDER.
   (A)   Staff is empowered to issue a stop-work order requiring the suspension
of land improvement of any kind when any of the following circumstances exist:
      (1)   A site improvement is occurring without an improvement location
permit or any other permit required by this chapter having first been obtained;
or
      (2)   A site improvement is occurring in violation of: the terms,
conditions or provisions of this chapter; the terms, provisions, conditions or
commitments of a variance grant or special exception; the terms of commitments
made or conditions imposed in connection with the approval of a development
plan; commitments made in connection with a petition for zone map amendment; or
other approval grant authorized by this chapter.
   (B)   The stop-work order shall be posted on the property in a conspicuous
place, or personally delivered to the owner, tenant or occupant, or person in
charge and state the conditions under which construction or other activity may
be resumed. Staff shall meet with the recipient of a stop-work order upon
request to explain the conditions under which construction or other activity
may be resumed.
   (C)   The Plan Commission may institute a lawsuit in a court of competent
jurisdiction to enforce the provisions of a stop-work order.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 10.5)
§ 194.240 VIOLATIONS.
   Each of the following shall be deemed civil zoning violations which may be
enforced by the designated enforcement entity in accordance with the provisions
set forth in §
194.999 of this chapter:
   (A)   The location, erection or maintenance of any sign not specifically
permitted by this chapter;
   (B)   The failure to obtain an improvement location permit when one is
required by the terms and provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   The outdoor storage of junk, trash or debris in any zoning district
the provisions of which do not specifically permit such a use;
   (D)   The storage of inoperable motor vehicles, abandoned motor vehicles,
unregistered motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts in any zoning district the
provisions of which do not specifically permit such a use;
   (E)   The parking or storage, in any zoning district the provisions of which
do not specifically permit such a use, of any motor vehicle used or designed:
      (1)   For use in pulling, towing, hauling, transporting; or
      (2)   As a temporary or permanent base, platform or support for
equipment, machinery, materials or other goods (including, but not limited to,
stake body trucks, dump trucks, trucks or tractors having dual real wheels or
more than two axles, semi-trailer tractors, semi-trailers and trailers having
dual real wheels or more than one axle or having an overall length of more than
12 feet);
   (F)   The outdoor storage or display of merchandise or goods in any zoning
district the provisions of which do not specifically permit such a use or in
violation of the zoning district development standards regulating such a use;
   (G)   The conduct of any activity in a residential zoning district that is
not specifically enumerated as a permitted primary or accessory use in that
zoning district, and which activity has not been legally established by a
currently valid variance, special exception or other approval grant;
   (H)   Failure to comply with zoning district development standards,
including, but not limited to, landscaping, paving of parking areas, minimum
parking space requirements, trash dumpster enclosure, fencing or screening
requirements;
   (I)   The failure to comply with: the terms, provisions, conditions or
commitments of a variance grant or special exception; the terms of commitments
made in connection with the approval of a development plan; commitments made in
connection with a petition for zone map amendment; or other approval grant
authorized by this chapter;
   (J)   The violation of a stop-work order issued pursuant to this subchapter;
   (K)   Dismantling, repairing or restoring or performing any work on any
motor vehicle, machine, motor or similar device in an R district in violation
of §
194.022 of this chapter;
   (L)   Storing, maintaining or keeping a motor vehicle, machine, motor or
similar device in an R district in violation of §
194.022 of this chapter;
   (M)   Parking, storing, maintaining or keeping a commercial motor vehicle or
trailer in an R district in violation of §
194.022 of this chapter;
   (N)   Parking, storing, maintaining or keeping of any recreational vehicle
in an R district in violation of §
194.022 of this chapter; and
   (O)   Failure to comply with any other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 10.6)
§ 194.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who commits a civil zoning violation, as defined in §
194.240 of this chapter, may be issued a citation by staff.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions below, each ten days a civil zoning
violation remains uncorrected is a distinct and separate civil zoning violation
subject to an additional citation and fine in the amount prescribed in this
chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Procedures.
         (a)   Staff may issue a citation to a person who commits a civil
zoning violation or allows a civil zoning violation to be committed on real
estate in which the person has a possessory or ownership interest. The citation
may be served by personal service, by certified mail, by first class U.S. mail,
or by placement in a conspicuous place on the property where the violation
occurs and shall serve as notice that a civil zoning violation has been
committed.
         (b)   No citation shall be issued unless the person who commits a
civil zoning violation or allows a civil zoning violation to be committed on
real estate in which the person has a possessory or ownership interest has been
served with a notice to correct the civil zoning violation at least ten days
before the issuance of a citation to allow said person an opportunity to
correct the violation and to come into compliance with the applicable zoning
ordinance or regulation. However, the service of a notice to correct the civil
zoning violation is not required before issuing a citation for violation of a
stop-work order issued pursuant to §§
194.235 through
194.240 of this chapter.
         (c)   If a person who is served with a notice to correct a civil
zoning violation or receives a citation ejects to file a petition for zone map
change, variance, special exception or development plan approval or take other
appropriate action to correct such violation, then the person must indicate the
intent to file such a petition or take other such appropriate action on the
served notice or citation and return a copy to the Plan Commission. A person
shall have ten days from service of a notice to correct the civil zoning
violation or receipt of a citation to file the petition or take other such
appropriate action. During the pendency of said ten-day period or petition, if
one is filed, the issuance of additional citations and additional monetary
fines as prescribed in division (B) above shall be stayed. A person who files
the petition within said time period shall pursue the petition in an
expeditious and diligent manner. If a petition is not filed or other
appropriate action is not taken within said ten-day period or if a petition is
filed and the petition is subsequently denied, withdrawn or dismissed and the
civil zoning violation continues, then a lawsuit may be commenced by the Plan
Commission, Board of Zoning Appeals or appropriate enforcement official as
provided by applicable laws.
      (2)   Fines.
         (a)   The monetary fine for the first citation for a civil zoning
violation shall be $50 and the following monetary fines shall apply for each
subsequent citation:
            1.   Second citation: $100;
            2.   Third citation: $150;
            3.   Fourth citation: $200; and
            4.   Each additional: $300.
         (b)   Provided, however, in no event shall a subsequent citation be
issued within ten days of the issuance of a previous citation, nor shall the
total monetary fine for each civil zoning violation exceed $2,500.
         (c)   All fines prescribed by §§
194.235 through
194.240 of this chapter for civil zoning violations shall be paid to the Clerk-
Treasurer of the town, who shall render to the person making the payment a
receipt stating the amount and purpose for which the fine has been paid, a
duplicate of which shall be made a part of the records of the town. Payment of
fines by check shall be made out to “The Town of Zionsville”. All fines thus
received shall be deposited with the General Fund of the town.
      (3)   Trial for civil zoning violations.
         (a)   A person who receives a citation for a civil zoning violation
may elect to stand trial for the violation by indicating on the citation his or
her intent to stand trial and returning a copy of the citation to the Plan
Commission. The returned copy of the citation shall serve as notice of the
person’s intent to stand trial, and the issuance of additional citations and
additional monetary fines as prescribed in division (B) above shall be stayed
upon receipt of the notice. The notice of the person’s intent to stand trial
shall be given at least five days before the date that payment of the citation
is due as set forth in division (C)(2) above. Upon receipt of the notice of
intention to stand trial, a lawsuit may be commenced by the Plan Commission,
Board of Zoning Appeals or appropriate enforcement official as provided by
applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   If a person who receives a citation fails to:
            1.   Pay the assessed fine within 45 days after the issuance of a
citation;
            2.   File a petition or take other appropriate action as prescribed
in division (C)(3) above; or
            3.   Give notice of his or her intention to stand trial as
prescribed in division (C)(1) above, the Plan Commission, Board of Zoning
Appeals or designated enforcement official may file a lawsuit as provided by
applicable law to enforce the terms and provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   Seeking a civil penalty as authorized in §§
194.235 through
194.240 of this chapter does not preclude the designated enforcement entity
from seeking alternative and additional relief from the court in the same
action, or from seeking injunctive relief or any other remedy in a separate
action for the enforcement of I.C. 36-7-4 or any ordinance adopted or action
taken under I.C. 36-7-4.
(Ord. 2000-16, passed 8-28-2000, § 10.7)
CHAPTER 195: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
195.01   Fee schedule
Editor’s note:
   The fee schedule amendment effective July 1, 2020
§ 195.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Miscellaneous.
 
Home occupation registry            $40   
Zoning confirmation                 $45  form letter on Zionsville letterhead
Zoning determination                $65  includes two hours of research time;
                                         docket search, VAR/SE/RZ etc.
Research                            $25  per hour every hour over initial two
                                         hours
Permit extensions                   $50  one time, up to six months
Expired permit notification/renewal $250  
 
   (B)   Encroachment agreements.
 
Encroachment - right-of-way (ROW) $65 application fee
Encroachment - air                $65 application fee
Encroachment - easement           $65 application fee
 
   (C)   Land use petitions.
 
Administrative appeal               $300    
Zone map change
   Residential districts         $400   plus $100 for each acre or any
                                           portion thereof
   Business or industrial distric$1,000 plus $30 for each acre or any
                                           portion thereof
   All other districts           $1,200 plus $30 for each acre or any
                                           portion thereof
 
Variance
   Use
                                                        plus $25 for each
      Residential use                      $400   variance of development
                                                        standard requested
      Other use                            $1,200  
   Development standards
                                                        plus $25 for each
      Residential districts                $375   additional development
                                                        standard requested
                                                        plus $50 for each
      All other districts                  $675   additional development
                                                        standard requested
Special exception                                $700    
Amendment or termination of commitments of a     $1,000  
variance or special exception
Approvals
   Development plan                           $675   plus $100 per acre
   Modification or termination of development $575   plus $100 per acre
plan
Plat/subdivision (R-SF-1, R-SF-2, R-V Districts
   Major plat - primary plat                  $825   plus $30 per lot
   Major plat - secondary plat                $550   per section (plus $20
                                                        per lot)
   Minor plat - primary plat                  $300   plus $15 per lot
   Minor plat - secondary plat                $550   per section (plus $20
                                                        per lot)
   Re-plat                                    $550   plus $100 per
                                                        additional lot
Plat/subdivision (all other districts)
   Major plat - primary plat               $1,000 plus $5 per lot
   Major plat - secondary plat                $400   per section
   Minor plat - primary plat                  $1,000 plus $5 per lot
   Minor plat - secondary plat                $400   per section
   Re-plat                                    $500   plus $100 per
                                                        additional lot
 
   (D)   Improvement location permits (building permit fee included.
      (1)   Residential
Single or two-family dwellings
                                                          plus $0.10 per square
   New building                                   $700 foot (includes five
                                                          inspections)
                                                          plus $0.10 per square
                                                          foot if over 400
   Exterior and interior remodeling               $360 square feet of
                                                          exterior remodeling
                                                          (includes four
                                                          inspections)
                                                          plus $0.10 per square
   Addition to an existing single or two-family   $360 foot if over 400
dwelling                                                  square feet (includes
                                                          four inspections)
Accessory uses
                                                          plus $0.10 per square
   Detached accessory buildings (large), garages,      foot over 200 square
carports                                             $200 feet of total floor
                                                          area (includes two
                                                          inspections)
                                                          plus $0.00. Structure
   Detached accessory buildings (small)           $100 shall be 200 square
                                                          feet or less in
                                                          square footage
                                                          plus $0.10 per square
   Swimming pools, hot tubs                            foot of total pool
   (above or below grade)                         $350 and deck, or hot tub
                                                          dimension (includes
                                                          two inspections)
                                                          floor height of 0 -
                                                          30 inches above grade
   Decks                                          $75  requires structural
                                                          plan review and final
                                                          inspection (includes
                                                          one inspection)
                                                          floor height greater
                                                          than 30 inches above
                                                          grade - plans
                                                          required for
                                                          verification with
   Decks                                          $175 Indiana Code
                                                          requirements
                                                          (includes three
                                                          inspections -
                                                          footing, framing,
                                                          final)
Demolition                                           $100 plus $50 each
                                                          additional building
                                                          including roofing,
Other residential                                    $75  patio and electrical
                                                          permits
Additional certificate of occupancy fee applies to most permits (see details
below).
No ILP is required and no fees are charged for fences.
Square footage is considered gross area, above grade (as further clarified on
the improvement location permit application form.
 
      (2)   Commercial.
Multifamily dwellings
                                                                             plus $100
                                                                             per unit
   Primary buildings                                                 $500 (includes
                                                                             six
                                                                             inspections
                                                                             per unit)
                                                                             plus $0.10
                                                                             per
                                                                             building/
                                                                             structure;
                                                                             per square
   Accessory buildings/structures                                    $350 foot if over
                                                                             400 square
                                                                             feet
                                                                             (includes
                                                                             three
                                                                             inspections)
Business, industrial or special use
                                                                             plus $0.17
                                                                             per square
                                                                             foot of
   New building                                                      $500 total floor
                                                                             area
                                                                             (includes
                                                                             five base
                                                                             inspections)
                                                                             plus $0.17
                                                                             per square
                                                                             foot of
   Addition to an existing building                                  $500 total floor
                                                                             area added
                                                                             (includes
                                                                             four
                                                                             inspections)
                                                                             per parking
   Parking lot construction or remodeling (as a primary use or as an      space
expansion or remodeling of an existing parking lot)                     $5   (includes
                                                                             two
                                                                             inspections)
                                                                             plus $0.17
                                                                             per square
                                                                             foot of
                                                                             total floor
   Accessory buildings/structures                                    $350 area over
                                                                             100 square
                                                                             feet
                                                                             (includes
                                                                             three
                                                                             inspections)
                                                                             plus $0.17
                                                                             per square
   Interior remodel/tenant finish                                    $350 foot
                                                                             (includes
                                                                             three
                                                                             inspections)
                                                                             plus $100
Demolition                                                              $200 per
                                                                             additional
                                                                             building
All other improvements                                                  $90  includes one
                                                                             inspection
 
   (E)   Other improvement location permit fees.
 
Amended ILP application: (Residential)           $125 re-review
Amended ILP application: (Commercial/Industrial) $150 re-review
Duplicate permit                                 $25   
Re-inspection fees                               $150 commercial
Re-inspection fees                               $75  residential
 
   (F)   Signs.
Application fee                    $25  does not count against permit fee
Final inspection fee               $25   
On-premise freestanding identification
(ground or pylon)
   Up to 24 square feet in area $200  
   Over 24 square feet in area  $200 plus $1 per square foot of sign area
On-premise building identification $45  plus $1 per square foot of sign area
(wall, projecting, awning, canopy)
On-premise incidental (any type)   $50   
On-premise suspended               $50   
On-premise (advertising)           $300 plus $1 per square foot of sign area
 
   (G)   Clearance of land/grading permit.
 
2.00 ac. (gross) or less in size    $50  plus $25/ac.
2.01 ac. (gross) in size, or larger $125 plus $5/ac.
 
   (H)   Any other improvements.
 
 $50  
 
   (I)   Certificate of occupancy/temporary certificate of occupancy.
 
Primary use/building/structure
   Residential (single or two-famil$50  
   Residential (multifamily)       $50 per unit
   Business/industrial/or special u$50 per leased area/tenant space
   All other                       $25  
Accessory use/building/structure in any district
                                     $25  
 
   (J)   Alternate fee.
Municipal and school fees
   The fees listed in this section shall not be applicable to all Zionsville
Community School Corporation buildings, structures or facilities with the
exception of commercial building inspection fees, which shall be reduced by
one-half. All required inspections are to be scheduled with the Town of
Zionsville. The waiver of these improvement location permit fees exempts
neither the Zionsville Community School Corporation from compliance with all
provisions of this zoning code.
Other fees
   For churches and other not-for-profit organizations, all fees listed in
this section shall be reduced by one-half, including all required building
inspection fees. Documentation of charitable (501c3) status shall be
submitted with the petition or request for an improvement location permit in
order to verify an organization's not-for-profit status. All required
inspections to be scheduled with the Town of Zionsville.
Fees for improvement location permit obtained after commencement of work
   If work for which an improvement location permit is required has commenced
in violation of the provisions of the zoning code, the improvement location
permit fee shall be five times the applicable amount stated in this section,
however, the maximum fee incurred under this section shall be $5,000 plus the
amount of the normal fee for the permit.
Late fees on inspections
   The following fees will be assessed when construction has been performed
beyond a required inspection, i.e. pouring concrete prior to a footing
inspection, insulating prior to the rough-in inspection and using or
occupying new construction prior to a certificate of occupancy (c/o). Upon
receipt of the late fee, the inspection must be scheduled and performed
before work can resume.
      Single or two-family dwellings new $350  
building
      Commercial new building            $500  
      Residential other                  $150  
      Commercial other                   $250  
 
   (K)   Additional department/municipality fees that may be applicable when
obtaining an improvement location permit. Town of Zionsville (as of 1-21-2014).
Residential single family
   Road impact fee                $1,009 (as of 10-7-2014)
   Park impact fee                $1,221  
   Sewer connection and permit fee$4,025 Wastewater Department #317-873-2332
   Stormwater individual lot permi$200   Street & Stormwater Department
                                            #317-873- 4544
   Easement encroachment permit   $150   Street & Stormwater Department
                                            #317-873- 4544
   Drivecut review                n/a    Street & Stormwater Department
                                            #317-873- 4544
Commercial
   Fire protection permit         varies Fire Department #317-873-5358
The following permits (IF APPLICABLE) must be obtained BEFORE improvement
location permit submittal to the Town of Zionsville Planning & Economic
Development Department
   Driveway permit
      Boone County Highway            #765-482-4550
Department                                  1955 Indianapolis Avenue, Lebanon,
                                            IN 46052
      State of Indiana Highway        #765-362-3700
Department                                  P.O. Box 667, Crawfordsville, IN
                                            46933
   Septic/sewer and well/water
                                            #765-483-4458
      Boone County Health Department  116 W. Washington, Rm B201,
                                            Lebanon, IN 46052
                                            #317-844-9200
      TriCo Regional Sewer Utility    10701 N. College Ave., Ste A,
                                            Indianapolis, IN 46280
                                            #317-733-8584
      Whitestown Municipal Sewers     6210 Veterans Dr. Whitestown, IN
                                            46075
   Stormwater drainage permit
                                            #765-483-4444
      Boone County Surveyor           116 W. Washington, Rm 102, Lebanon,
                                            IN 46052
 
(Ord. 2016-23, passed 12-19-2016; Ord. 2020-01; passed 1-6-2020)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Indiana Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO INDIANA CODE
I.C. Cites Code Section
I.C. Cites            Code Section
4-22-2                194.024
4-28-1                194.077
                      190.04,
5-3-1                 190.21,
                      190.24,
                      194.127
5-14-1.5-6.1          190.01,
                      190.20
6-7-4-600 et seq.     194.078,
                      194.079
6-7-4-921             194.103
9-13-2                194.024
9-18-2-1              194.024
9-18-2-7              194.024
12-7-2                194.024
12-7-2-33.7           194.024
12-7-2-33.8           194.024
12-7-2-167            194.100
12-11-1-1             194.024
12-17.2-4             194.024
12-17.4               194.024
12-17.4-5             194.024
12-22-23              194.024
13-7-1                194.024
13-11-2-40            194.024
14-28-1               192.069,
                      194.077
14-28-1-26            192.069
14-28-3               194.077
14-28-4               192.001
16-41-27-4            194.024
16-41-27-5            194.024
22-12-1-16            194.024
35-4-3-2.1            194.185
                      190.04,
36-1-6                190.24,
                      194.127
36-7-3 et seq.        193.090
36-7-3-10             190.26
36-7-3-11             190.26
36-7-3-12             190.26,
                      193.091
36-7-3-16(a)          190.26,
                      193.091
                      192.001,
36-7-4                194.024,
                      194.202,
                      194.999
                      193.002,
                      193.003,
36-7-4 et seq.        193.014,
                      194.002,
                      194.003,
                      194.016
36-7-4-102            194.024
36-7-4-200 et seq.    194.201
36-7-4-301            190.26
36-7-4-302            190.26
36-7-4-304            190.29,
                      194.024
36-7-4-500 et seq.    194.024
36-7-4-600            194.079
                      193.004,
36-7-4-600 et seq.    193.013,
                      194.015,
                      194.182
36-7-4-601            190.21
36-7-4-602(b) and (c) 194.079
                      190.21,
36-7-4-604            190.24,
                      194.127
36-7-4-604(b)(8)      190.25
36-7-4-607            194.079
36-7-4-608            194.079,
                      194.146
36-7-4-608(b)         190.25
36-7-4-610            194.004
36-7-4-700 et seq.    194.024
36-7-4-710            194.024
36-7-4-711            193.090
36-7-4-900 et seq.    190.09,
                      194.202
36-7-4-910            190.06
36-7-4-911            190.06
36-7-4-913            190.09
36-7-4-1015           194.201
36-7-4-1016           193.090
36-7-4-1400 et seq.   194.078,
                      194.079
36-7-4-1512           194.146
91-5-1                194.024
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.         Date Passed      Code Section
-                9-28-1998        190.20—
                                  190.29
                                  194.001—
                                  194.025,
                                  194.040—
                                  194.082,
                                  194.095—
                                  194.112,
                                  194.125—
                                  194.126,
                                  194.140—
                                  194.148,
2000-16          8-28-2000        194.160—
                                  194.169,
                                  194.180—
                                  194.185,
                                  194.200—
                                  194.202,
                                  194.215—
                                  194.220,
                                  194.235—
                                  194.240,
                                  194.999
                                  193.001—
                                  193.020,
                                  193.035—
                                  193.037,
                                  193.050—
2000-21          11-6-2000        193.061,
                                  193.075—
                                  193.079,
                                  193.090,
                                  193.091,
                                  193.105—
                                  193.117
-                10-6-2003        191.01
2007-01          1-8-2007         193.051,
                                  194.047
2008-08          5-5-2008         194.112,
                                  194.161
2008-09          5-5-2008         194.161
2008-15          8-4-2008         194.058
2009-02          1-5-2009         194.096
2010-01          1-4-2010         191.01,
                                  194.180
2010-04          6-7-2010         194.140—
                                  194.149
Res. 2011-10     7-5-2011         191.01
Res. 2011-08-CPA 9-6-2011         191.01
                                  192.001—
                                  192.016,
                                  192.030,
                                  192.031,
2011-09          12-5-2011        192.045—
                                  192.050,
                                  192.065—
                                  192.072,
                                  192.999
Res. 2012-21                     191.01
-                1-8-9-4-20122013 190.01—
                                  190.09
2013-12          10-7-2013        194.215—
                                  194.220
Res. 2014-22     8-4-2014         191.01
Res. 2015-02     1-5-2015         191.01
                                  194.024,
2015-04          3-2-2015         194.070,
                                  194.161
                                  193.035,
2015-14          3-2-2015         194.125—
                                  194.128
Res. 2015-24     11-15-2015       191.01
                                  194.058 -
                                  194.062,
                                  194.068 -
                                  194.071,
2016-04          4-5-2016         194.078,
                                  194.079,
                                  194.097,
                                  194.104,
                                  194.111,
                                  194.113
Res. 2016-19     7-11-2016        191.01
                                  194.024,
                                  194.078,
2016-23          12-19-2016       194.079,
                                  194.105,
                                  195.01
                                  194.024,
                                  194.046,
2017-17          12-4-2017        194.047,
                                  194.052,
                                  194.095
Res. 2018-08     6-5-2018         191.01
                                  192.011,
                                  194.018,
                                  194.020,
                                  194.047,
                                  194.078,
                                  194.082,
2020-01          1-6-2020         194.095,
                                  194.109,
                                  194.128,
                                  194.163,
                                  194.164,
                                  194.165,
                                  194.166,
                                  195.01
Res. 2021-19     1-19-2022        191.01
Res. 2021-20     12-29-2021       191.01
Res. 2022-01     2-8-2022         191.01
2024-18          7-15-2024        194.220
2024-45          12-16-2024       194.170
2025-01          2-3-2025         193.060
                                 
 
 
