CITY CODE
of
ALTON, ILLINOIS
1999
Code current through:
Ord. 7979, passed July 23, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Alton, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 7979, passed July 23, 2025. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
 
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the governing body, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of the City of Alton. Any
reference made to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself when reference is made to this City Code by title in
any legal document. (1973 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent
effect 1 . (1973 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-6.
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance, shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage. (1973
Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATION:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of said Clerk.
Any person having in his custody an official copy of this City Code shall make
every effort to maintain said Code in an up to date and efficient manner. He
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the City Clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be returned to
the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the City
Council. (1973 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still
in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject
to the saving clauses contained in the following section), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances, ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the City; and all special ordinances as contained in the appendices to
this Code. (1973 Code; amd. 1999 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by
virtue of the preceding section, excepting as this City Code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this City Code shall be considered
as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provision only.
(1973 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City herein
repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty
accrued, or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or
corporation, or as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or
provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this City Code. (1973
Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any words in any section of this City Code importing the plural number
is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons, any
single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this City Code by
words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any section of this City Code which contains any
express provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter or
content may be repugnant thereto. (1973 Code)
The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been changed
in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/or
"subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1999 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the content makes such meaning
repugnant thereto.
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The City of Alton, Madison County, Illinois.
CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated, shall mean this City Code.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Alton".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this Code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this Code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by State law 1 .
NEGLIGENT: Including the words "neglect", "negligence" and "negligently"
imports a want of such attention to the nature or probable consequences of the
act or omission as a prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his own
concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the City; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: Any person who occupies the whole or any part of such building or
land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this City Code or the omission
of any act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Alton".
OFFICIAL TIME: Central standard time shall be the official time within the City
for the transaction of all City business provided that from two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. on the last Sunday in March in each year, official time for the City shall
be advanced one hour. At two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the last Sunday in October
in each year such official time shall, by the retarding of one hour, be
returned to central standard time.
All legal or official proceedings of the City Council and all official business
of the City shall be regulated as to time in accordance with the provisions of
this definition. When, by ordinance, resolution or action of any municipal
officer or body, an act must be performed of or within a prescribed time, it
shall be performed according to the official time as herein prescribed. When
the words "daylight savings" or "daylight savings time" are used in any
official document or contract, it shall be understood to have reference to the
time herein fixed for the period from the last Sunday in March to the last
Sunday in October.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Includes the singular and the plural and shall also mean and include
any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership or any other form of
association or organization.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, relates to the sale of goods,
merchandise, articles or things in small quantities direct to the consumer.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: Applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to
relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in quantity to
persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: Include printing and any other mode of representing words
and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by law to
any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in the
proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1961 Code, §
1-1-1; amd. 1973 Code; 1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/2-11.
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor as any part of the section, nor unless
expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when any of such sections,
including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted. (1973 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Licenses
1-4-3: Application Of Penalty
1-4-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4-5: Debt Due The City
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
Except as otherwise provided, any person convicted of a violation of any
section or provision of this code shall be fined in a sum not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). In addition to
any fine imposed hereunder by the court, or in lieu thereof, the court may also
impose an appropriate period of public service work not to exceed one hundred
(100) hours. The judgment of the court imposing any penalty may also include an
order of supervision of the defendant in compliance with the criminal code of
the state of Illinois, including, but not limited to, the provisions of 730
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-4.5-75. (Ord. 7516, 4-27-2016, eff. 5-1-2016)
1-4-2: LICENSES:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code, any
license previously issued to him by the city may be revoked by a court of
competent jurisdiction or by the city council, as provided by law. (1973 Code)
1-4-3: APPLICATION OF PENALTY:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a
continuing nature is forbidden or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1973 Code)
1-4-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1973
Code)
1-4-5: DEBT DUE THE CITY:
In the event any person is delinquent in the payment of any lawfully assessed
sewer service charge, lease or other contractual obligation due the city, sales
tax, real estate tax or special assessment, or has incurred any outstanding
liens in favor of the city, or owes any fines in connection with any ordinance
violations prosecuted in the name of the city of Alton, then in any such event,
no license, lease, contractual agreement or permit shall be issued to any such
person by or on behalf of the city until such debt or obligation, together with
any appropriate penalty, is fully paid. "Person" as used herein shall include
any individual, corporation, association, partnership, trust or other legal
entity. The obligation of any manager or agent of any real property shall be
considered the obligation of the persons who own that property. (Ord. 7244, 2-
23-2011)
CHAPTER 5
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Organization
1-5-2: Meetings
1-5-3: Inauguration And Commencement Of Terms
1-5-4: Presiding Officer
1-5-5: Rules And Procedures
1-5-6: Disturbing Council Meetings
1-5-7: Smoking In Chambers Prohibited
1-5-1: ORGANIZATION:
The city council shall be composed of the mayor and one alderman from each
ward. The aldermen shall be elected to the city council for a four (4) year
term and be the legislative division of the government and shall perform such
duties and have such powers as shall be authorized by statute. (1973 Code; amd.
Ord. 5768, 5-12-1993)
1-5-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold regular meetings on the
second and fourth Wednesdays of each month at the hour of six thirty o'clock
(6:30) P.M. in the council chambers at the city hall, except in the month of
November, if the city council meeting would regularly fall on the evening prior
to Thanksgiving Day, the regular meeting of the city council shall be held on
the Tuesday evening immediately preceding the fourth Wednesday which would be
Thanksgiving Eve, and except in the month of December, during such month the
city council shall hold its regular meetings on the second and third
Wednesdays, all meetings to be held at the said time and location. The standing
committee shall meet at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. at the said location on the
Monday immediately preceding any city council meeting convened pursuant to this
subsection. When the day fixed for any regular meeting of the city council or
standing committee falls upon a day designated by law as a legal or national
holiday, or upon Christmas Eve, such meetings shall be held at the same hour on
the next secular day following. An adjourned meeting may be held for the
purpose of completing the unfinished business of a regular meeting at such time
as may be determined by the city council. (Ord. 7528, 7-13-2016, eff. 8-7-2016)
   B.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the city council may be called by
the mayor or any three (3) aldermen whenever in their discretion they may deem
it necessary, in which event such meetings shall be called in the following
manner after forty eight (48) hours' notice: The mayor, or three (3) aldermen,
as the case may be, shall file in the office of the city clerk a statement, in
writing, setting forth the object, purpose, time and place of said special
meeting and directing the city clerk to give notice of the same. Upon the
filing of such statement, the city clerk shall cause a notice of such special
meeting to be served personally upon each member of the city council, or by
notice left at his place of residence, and which notice shall set forth the
object, purpose, time and place of said special meeting. No business shall be
transacted at said meeting except such as is stated in the notice. (Ord. 3171,
4-10-1963; amd. 1973 Code; 1999 Code)
1-5-3: INAUGURATION AND COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS:
The inauguration of the mayor and the organization of the new city council, or
the organization of the new city council alone, as the case may be, and the
terms of all elected municipal officers shall commence immediately following
the first regular meeting of the corporate authorities in May after receipt of
the official election results from the county clerk of the regular municipal
election at which the officers were elected. (Ord. 7138, 5-27-2009)
1-5-4: PRESIDING OFFICER:
The mayor shall be the presiding officer of the city council, and the city
council shall each year at the second meeting in May choose one of its members
as mayor pro tem, who shall serve as mayor during the absence or disability of
the mayor. As presiding officer, the mayor shall perform the following duties,
together with such other duties as are set forth by law: (1961 Code § 2-21;
amd. Ord. 6291, 6-24-1998; Ord. 7002, 4-25-2007)
   A.   Preside At Meetings: The mayor shall preside at all regular and special
meetings of the city council. (1961 Code § 2-21; amd. 1973 Code)
   B.   Voting Privileges: The mayor shall not vote on any ordinance,
resolution or motion except: 1) where the vote of the aldermen has resulted in
a tie; or 2) where a vote greater than a majority of the corporate authorities
is required by this code to adopt an ordinance, resolution or motion. In each
instance specified, the mayor shall vote. Nothing herein shall deprive an
acting mayor or mayor pro tem from voting in his capacity as alderman, but he
shall not be entitled to another vote in his capacity as acting mayor or mayor
pro tem. (1961 Code, § 2-21; amd. 1973 Code; Ord. 5768, 5-12-1993)
   C.   Ordinances; Approval, Veto: All resolutions and motions: 1) which
create any liability against the city, 2) that provide for the expenditure or
appropriation of its money, or 3) to sell any city or school property, and all
ordinances passed by the city council shall be deposited with the city clerk.
If the mayor approves of them, he shall sign them. Those of which he
disapproves he shall return to the city council with his written objections at
the next regular meeting of said city council occurring not less than five (5)
days after their passage. The mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums
appropriated in any ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation,
and, if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the mayor may disapprove
entirely of an ordinance, resolution or motion making an appropriation. If the
mayor fails to return any ordinance or any specified resolution or motion with
his written objections within the designated time, it shall become effective
despite the absence of his signature. (1973 Code; amd. 1999 Code)
   D.   Reconsideration; Passing Over Veto: Every resolution and motion,
specified in subsection C of this section and every ordinance, which is
returned to the city council by the mayor shall be reconsidered by the city
council. If, after such reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the aldermen
then holding office on the city council shall agree to pass an ordinance,
resolution or motion, notwithstanding the mayor's refusal to approve it, then
it shall be effective. The vote on the question of passage over the mayor's
veto shall be by yeas and nays, and shall be recorded in the journal.
   E.   Reconsideration; Requisites: No vote of the city council shall be
reconsidered or rescinded at a special meeting, unless there are present at the
special meeting as many aldermen as were present when the vote was originally
taken. (1973 Code)
1-5-5: RULES AND PROCEDURES:
The following rules of order and procedure shall govern the deliberations and
meetings of the city council and the committees thereof, namely:
   GENERAL
Rule 1. There shall be one standing committee of the city council which shall
be referred to as "committee of the whole".
Rule 2. Order of business:
   A.   Call to order.
   B.   Roll call.
   C.   Pledge to the flag.
   D.   Reading of proclamations.
   E.   Approval of the minutes of the prior meeting.
   F.   Communications.
   G.   Petitions.
   H.   Report of officers.
   I.   Standing committee - report and resolutions.
   J.   First reading of ordinances.
   K.   Second reading of ordinances.
   L.   Reports and/or resolutions of special committees.
   M.   Resignations.
   N.   Appointments.
   O.   Other business.
   P.   Approval of actions taken under suspension of rules at prior meeting.
   Q.   Public forum addressing city business.
   R.   Comments or resolutions from the city council.
   S.   Executive session, if necessary.
   T.   Adjourn.
Rule 3. The standing committee or committee of the whole of the city council
shall consist of all the aldermen of the city council with the mayor serving as
an ex officio member. The mayor shall not be entitled to vote in committee nor
shall he be counted for the purpose of establishing a quorum. The mayor shall,
at the commencement of the term of the city council, prepare a list of the
aldermen and the first named alderman shall serve as chairman of the standing
committee or committee of the whole for a period of six (6) months. Each six
(6) months thereafter the next named alderman from the mayor's list shall serve
as chairman of the standing committee or committee of the whole for successive
six (6) month periods until the first named alderman returns to serve as
chairman a second time for the last six (6) months of the term of the city
council.
Rule 4. Any person shall be permitted an opportunity to address the city
council at any of its regular, special or committee meetings by request to the
office of the city clerk, specifying the date of the meeting at which the
person desires to speak. This request must be conveyed to the office of the
city clerk during regular business hours and prior to commencement of the
meeting. The requestor shall advise the office of the city clerk of the subject
matter or topic the requestor desires to address so that the chairman of the
meeting may recognize the requestor at the appropriate time on the agenda when
such subject matter or topic would be most appropriate. If no subject matter or
topic is specified, or if the subject matter or topic does not appear to relate
to any matter on the agenda of a particular meeting, the requestor shall be
allowed to address the meeting during the public forum portion of the meeting
agenda. A person desiring to address the meeting shall be limited to a five (5)
minute presentation at any meeting and the chairman of the meeting shall advise
the person desiring to address the city council of the foregoing time
limitation and shall require compliance therewith.
Rule 5. After a report is made or a motion stated by the mayor, it shall be
deemed as a possession of the city council, but it may be amended or laid on
the table, or withdrawn at any time before the question is taken.
Rule 6. Any member of the city council, including the mayor, may introduce a
resolution for consideration by the city council. After first reading, the
resolution shall be subject to a motion to refer to committee and, upon
receiving a second, the mayor shall so order the referral to committee. No
debate shall be in order on first reading of a resolution, except brief
questions seeking clarification of the purpose or intent of the resolution may
be allowed in the discretion of the mayor.
Rule 7. Every ordinance shall be numbered when introduced, but no ordinance
shall be introduced before the city council or considered by the city council
unless the filing and introduction of such ordinance has been authorized by
means of a resolution which has been passed at some previous meeting of the
city council. When an ordinance is introduced it shall be read in full unless
each member of the city council has a copy of same and then the ordinance shall
be read by title only. Notwithstanding the foregoing, should any alderman
receive a second to a motion that an ordinance be read in full, then a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of the city council will be required to defeat said motion.
After the ordinance is read either by title or in full, whichever the case may
be, same shall be laid over to the next regular meeting, unless the rules are
suspended. The second reading of any ordinance shall be by title only and shall
thereupon be put to vote on passage.
Rule 8. The passage of all ordinances for whatever purpose and of any
resolution or motion: 1) to create any liability against the city or 2) for the
expenditure or appropriation of its money, shall require a concurrence of a
majority of the aldermen unless otherwise expressly provided by state law or
any other act governing the passage of any ordinance, resolution or motion. All
other resolutions and motions shall require a simple majority of the aldermen
present and voting. Yeas and nays shall be taken upon the question of the
passage of all ordinances, resolutions or motions and recorded in the minutes
of the city council.
Rule 9. In all cases where a resolution or motion shall be entered on the
minutes of the city council, the name of the members moving the same shall be
entered in the minutes.
Rule 10. No resolution for the expenditure of money, except in case of an
emergency, which shall first be determined by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
members elected to the city council and except the provisions of section
1-13-9-3 of this title shall be allowed unless and until the same is referred
to the proper committee, and a favorable report thereon made by said committee
at the next meeting of the city council.
Rule 11. No bill shall be allowed unless the same has been filed in the office
of the city comptroller on the Friday preceding each regular meeting and unless
it has been properly certified to by the proper standing committee, and the
city council may provide that the party filing same shall make affidavit that
he is not indebted to the city, in taxes, fines or otherwise, and that the bill
is just, true and unpaid.
Rule 12. When a question is under debate, no motion shall be received but to
adjourn, lay on the table, table, layover, amend or the previous question.
Rule 13. The "previous question" shall be as follows: "Shall the main question
now be put?"
Rule 14. On consideration of any matter by the committee following referral
from the city council floor, a motion duly seconded to lay over the matter to a
subsequent meeting of the committee shall be so ordered by the chairman of the
committee. On the second or any subsequent consideration of any matter
previously laid over, a motion for layover, duly seconded, shall require a
consensus of the majority of the members present and voting to be laid over.
Rule 15. On taking the ayes and nays on any question, the names of the members
shall be recorded by wards. Each Alderman's vote shall be entered upon the
proceedings. A brief explanation of the Alderman's vote may be offered;
however, under no circumstances are there to be further questions asked or
other comments made during the call of the roll.
Rule 16. The ayes and nays shall always be taken on a motion to adjourn.
Rule 17. All rules of procedures and order of business shall be adhered to
invariably by the City Council except that the same may be temporarily
suspended upon an explanation of the purpose and necessity for such suspension,
which suspension action shall require the affirmative vote of five (5) members
of the City Council. Should a suspension of the rules allow action to be taken
on a matter that was not properly posted on the agenda of a meeting of the City
Council or any Committee thereof, such action shall not be deemed to be a final
action unless such action is subsequently approved or affirmed at a meeting of
the City Council or Committee when such approval or affirmation of the matter
is properly posted to the agenda of such subsequent meeting.
Rule 18. The rules of parliamentary practice contained in Robert's Rules of
Order shall govern the City Council in all cases in which they are applicable
and in which they are not inconsistent with the standing rules and orders of
the City Council.
   CITY COUNCIL
Rule 19. Every member, previous to his speaking, shall rise from his seat and
address the chair, and say, "Mr. Mayor", but shall not proceed with his remarks
until named and recognized by the chair.
Rule 20. No member of the City Council shall be permitted to speak more than
twice on the same question or subject, and then for no longer than five (5)
minutes each time at any given meeting. Permission may be granted for an
extension of time by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members present at such
meeting of the City Council. No member of the City Council shall at any time in
addressing any meetings thereof indulge in any personalities or in any matters
or things not pertaining to the subject under discussion.
Rule 21. When the City Council is in session, when a member is speaking or when
the City Clerk is reading any paper to the City Council, no member shall enter
into a private conversation, or in any way disturb the proceedings of the City
Council. No member of the City Council shall leave his seat to speak to any
other member of the City Council or any other person in the chambers without
first obtaining permission of the Mayor.
Rule 22. Every member, when a question is taken, shall vote, unless excused by
the City Council, or unless he has a conflict of interest and so states.
Rule 23. When a question before the City Council contains several distinct
propositions, any member may call for a division of the question, so as to
allow the vote on each proposition separately.
Rule 24. If any member transgresses the rules of the City Council, the Mayor
shall, or any member may, call him to order, and the member called to order
shall immediately sit down. He may appeal the chair as stated in Rule 27. If
his appeal is upheld, he may be at liberty to proceed. If against him and the
case warrants it, he may be censured by a two-thirds (2/3) roll call vote of
the Aldermen present and voting.
   MAYOR/CHAIRMAN
Rule 25. The Mayor shall preside at all City Council meetings and shall take
the chair at the beginning of each session and call the members to order.
Rule 26. The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum. He may speak only to
points of order, or in preference to any member of the City Council. He may
answer any questions put to him by any member of the City Council. The Mayor
may at any time call the Mayor Pro Tem, or in his absence, the senior member of
the City Council to perform the duties of the chair. He may use this procedure
to address the City Council from the podium on any question or discussion
before the City Council. This substitution shall not extend beyond an
adjournment.
Rule 27. Questions of order are subject to appeal to the Council as a whole.
The objector states "I appeal the chair". If the motion is seconded, the City
Council shall then vote on roll call; if two-thirds (2/3) of the Aldermen
present and voting vote in favor of the appeal, the chair is overruled. On
appeal to the chair, no member of the City Council may speak more than once
unless by leave of the City Council.
Rule 28. Every question or motion, when duly seconded, shall be distinctly
stated by the Mayor before it is open for debate.
Rule 29. No motion for reconsideration of any ordinance or other matter shall
be entertained by the chair, unless made before adjournment of the City Council
at the meeting it is acted upon, and then only when the same number of Aldermen
are present, and motion is made by a member having voted in the majority.
Rule 30. When the Standing Committee shall be appointed, the City Clerk shall
notify the chairman of the same on the day after their appointment. The
chairman shall call the Committee together and when a quorum be present, shall
transact all business before it.
Rule 31. The Standing Committee to which any matter is referred shall report
thereon in writing at the next regular City Council meeting, stating the facts
and their opinions thereon. A "minority report" shall be allowed, which report
(for information purposes only) shall be placed on file.
Rule 32. When a matter is referred to two (2) or more committees, that matter
shall be placed on the agenda of the Committee first named, whose committee
chairman shall be responsible for reporting thereon to the City Council.
Rule 33. Any person employed by the City may be required to attend Standing
Committee meetings; provided, that the Committee chairman shall so request such
department head or employee in advance of said meeting and further that the
City Clerk shall so notify said employee, in writing, with a copy of said
notification given to the Committee chairman and the Mayor.
Rule 34. All reports made by the Committee, and all resolutions adopted by the
City Council, shall be held and preserved by the City Clerk.
Rule 35. The chairman of the Committee of the City Council to whom any matter
pending in the City Council shall be referred, the subject matter of which
shall be of a local character, shall notify the Alderman representing the ward
where such local interest is, whenever the Committee meets for consideration of
said matter.
Rule 36. A tie vote in Committee shall constitute a defeat.
Rule 37. Any resolution coming from the Committee to which the matter has
previously been referred in any form (i.e., a communication or report) may be
acted upon by the City Council without a suspension of rules prior to
consideration of said resolution.
Rule 38. All the new business introduced at any meeting shall be referred to
the appropriate committee, and laid over until the next regular meeting.
Rule 39. All preliminary and final plats for subdivisions or resubdivision and
all petitions for amendment to the Zoning Ordinance of the City shall be filed
with the City Clerk who in turn will place said document on the agenda for the
next meeting where the Mayor Pro Tem will ask for it to be referred to the City
Plan Commission for necessary review and/or hearing.
Upon receipt of the recommendation of the City Plan Commission as to any matter
previously referred to the City Plan Commission by the City Council, the City
Council may act upon the recommendation by resolution introduced with or in
lieu of the report of the City Plan Commission, without the customary layover
or referral to the Committee of the Whole. (Ord. 5867, 4-27-1994; amd. Ord.
6155, 4-23-1997; Ord. 6170, 7-23-1997; Ord. 6244, 2-25-1998; Ord. 1999; Ord.
6468, 3-22-2000; Code; Ord. 7377, 11-13-2013; Ord. 7378, 11-13-2013; Ord. 7749,
3-26-2020)
1-5-6: DISTURBING COUNCIL MEETINGS:
It shall be unlawful to disturb or interrupt any regular or special meeting of
the City Council. (1961 Code, § 2-24)
1-5-7: SMOKING IN CHAMBERS PROHIBITED:
Smoking shall be prohibited at all times in the City Council chambers of the
City Hall.
Any person in violation of this Section may be ordered summarily removed from
said Council chambers of said City Hall by the Mayor or by the presiding
chairman of any meeting authorized to be held in said chambers by the City
Council, the Mayor or the City Clerk. Any violation of this Section may be
punished as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Title. (Ord. 4323, 6-28-1978; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Official Head Of City
1-6-2: Supervision Over Departments
1-6-3: Administrative Orders And Regulations
1-6-4: City Offices, Hours
1-6-5: Acting Mayor
1-6-6: Secretary To The Mayor
1-6-7: City Council Coordinator
1-6-8: Personnel Director
1-6-9: Assistant Personnel Director/Education Training Coordinator
1-6-10: Supervisor Of Building And Zoning
1-6-1: OFFICIAL HEAD OF CITY:
The Mayor shall be recognized as the official head of the City by the courts
for the purpose of serving legal process. The Mayor shall preside on all
ceremonial occasions. (1961 Code, § 2-22)
1-6-2: SUPERVISION OVER DEPARTMENTS:
All appointive offices of the City shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor,
by and with the consent of the City Council, except where otherwise provided by
law or ordinance.
Except where provided by law, the Mayor may remove any officer appointed by
him, on any formal charge whenever he is of the opinion that the interests of
the City demand removal, but he shall report the reasons for the removal to the
City Council at a meeting to be held no more than twenty one (21) days after
the removal. If the Mayor fails or refuses to report to the City Council the
reasons for the removal, or if the City Council, by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of
all of its members authorized by law to be elected, disapproves of the removal,
the officer thereupon shall be restored to the office from which he was
removed.
Every administrative department of the City shall be under the direct
supervision of the Mayor and all officers in the various departments shall
perform their duties subject to the direction of the Mayor or to that of the
superior to whom the Mayor has assigned such employee.
The Mayor may authorize an appointive officer or employee to perform duties in
two (2) or more departments without authority from the City Council, except
that this Section shall not be construed to authorize the Mayor to routinely
require members of the Fire Department to perform duties in the Police
Department, or members of the Police Department to perform duties in the Fire
Department. (Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963; amd. 1999 Code)
1-6-3: ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS AND REGULATIONS:
The Mayor may issue administrative orders and regulations not inconsistent with
law or ordinance, outlining the general administrative procedures of the City,
which orders shall be binding upon all departments, officers and employees
subject to his authority. (Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963)
1-6-4: CITY OFFICES, HOURS:
Offices in the City Hall shall be kept open Monday through Friday and at such
other times as may be directed by the Mayor, City Council or the appropriate
department head. The office hours in the City Hall shall be from eight o'clock
(8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. The custodian of the City Hall building
shall be notified in any and all cases where the offices in the said building
are to be kept open after five o'clock (5:00) P.M. or reopened at a later date
or at any other times prior to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. (1973 Code)
1-6-5: ACTING MAYOR:
In the event of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, the City Council may appoint
one of its members as Acting Mayor to serve until the vacancy is filled at a
regular or special election, as provided by statute. (1973 Code)
1-6-6: SECRETARY TO THE MAYOR:
There is hereby created the position of secretary to the Mayor. The secretary
to the Mayor shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of the
City Council. The person selected for appointment as secretary to the Mayor
shall be qualified by education and experience to perform secretarial duties
for and under the direct supervision of the Mayor. (Ord. 6283, 5-13-1998)
1-6-7: CITY COUNCIL COORDINATOR:
There is hereby created the position of city council coordinator. The city
council coordinator shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the consent of
the city council. The city council coordinator shall work in the office of the
mayor under the direct supervision of the mayor and shall have as his primary
duties and responsibilities the coordination of assisting the various members
of the city council with their respective requests to the office of the mayor
for information or actions on matters relating to the affairs of the city. The
city council coordinator may be assigned other duties from time to time as
designated by the mayor. (Ord. 6283, 5-13-1998)
1-6-8: PERSONNEL DIRECTOR:
There is hereby created the position of personnel director. The personnel
director shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the consent of the city
council. The person selected for appointment of personnel director shall be
qualified by education and experience to act as personnel director for the city
in accordance with duties and responsibilities as designated by the mayor from
time to time. The personnel director shall be and is hereby designated to also
serve as the HIPAA privacy officer of the city of Alton, Illinois. (Ord. 6290,
6-24-1998; amd. Ord. 6820, 6-9-2004)
1-6-9: ASSISTANT PERSONNEL DIRECTOR/EDUCATION TRAINING COORDINATOR:
There is hereby created the position of assistant personnel director/education
training coordinator. The assistant personnel director/education training
coordinator shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the consent of the
city council. The person selected for appointment of assistant personnel
director/education training coordinator shall be qualified by education and
experience to train city employees in various tasks, including, but not limited
to, clerical skills, and to test skills of various types, both in connection
with initial hiring of city employees in cooperation with civil service and
promotional evaluations as requested from time to time by the city
administration or civil service. The assistant personnel director/education
training coordinator shall further assist the personnel director in the
performance of his duties, as assigned from time to time, and shall serve as
the personnel director upon direction of the mayor in the absence or disability
of the personnel director. The assistant personnel director/education training
coordinator may be assigned other duties from time to time as designated by the
mayor. (Ord. 6270, 4-22-1998)
1-6-10: SUPERVISOR OF BUILDING AND ZONING:
There is hereby created the position of supervisor of building and zoning. The
supervisor of building and zoning shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with
the consent of the city council. The person selected for appointment of
supervisor of building and zoning shall be qualified by education and
experience to act as supervisor of building and zoning for the city in
accordance with duties and responsibilities as designated by the mayor from
time to time. (Ord. 6432, 9-22-1999)
CHAPTER 7
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-7-1: City Clerk, Election
1-7-2: General Duties
1-7-3: Official Documents
1-7-4: Ex Officio Town Clerk
1-7-5: Deposit Fees
1-7-6: Regulations For Compliance With Freedom Of Information Act
1-7-7: Deputy City Clerk
1-7-1: CITY CLERK, ELECTION:
The city clerk shall be elected and shall serve for a term of four (4) years,
or until his successor is elected and qualified as provided by statute. (1961
Code § 2-30)
1-7-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
The city clerk shall, in addition to the duties now imposed upon him by law,
perform the following duties:
   A.   Serve notices of special meetings of the city council, issue notices to
all persons whose attendance is required before the city council or the
committee of the whole, when directed to do so by the mayor or chairman of the
committee of the whole.
   B.   Attest with the corporate seal all ordinances passed by the city
council and all contracts, leases, franchises and similar documents to which
the city may be a party.
   C.   Deliver, without delay, to the officers of the city all resolutions or
communications referred to those officers.
   D.   Prepare all notices, ballots and election supplies necessary in
connection with municipal elections. (1961 Code § 2-31; amd. 1999 Code)
   E.   From time to time be the sole custodian of the city hall and as such
custodian shall be under the duty of supervising the care and maintenance of
the city hall and shall have full power and authority to direct when and how
any office or offices in said building shall be used for any purpose. (Ord.
2102, 9-23-1942; amd. 1999 Code)
1-7-3: OFFICIAL DOCUMENTS:
   A.   File Ordinances: The originals of all ordinances and resolutions passed
by the city council shall be filed in the city clerk's office. (1961 Code § 2-
32)
   B.   Custodian Of Official Documents: The city clerk is hereby named as
custodian of all official papers, files and documents of every nature,
including contracts, leases and other agreements of the city, and as such shall
keep all such papers, files and documents and arrange the same methodically and
systematically. (1961 Code § 2-33)
1-7-4: EX OFFICIO TOWN CLERK:
The city clerk shall be ex officio town clerk for Alton township and shall
perform all the duties required of that office. (1961 Code § 2-34; amd. 1999
Code)
1-7-5: DEPOSIT FEES:
All fees received by the city clerk for the issuance of hunting, fishing or
other licenses and for issuance, registering and recording of birth and death
certificates shall be remitted currently by him to the city treasurer for
deposit in the general fund. Normal and necessary expenses incident to the
issuance of such licenses and certificates shall be paid by the city. (1961
Code § 2-35)
1-7-6: REGULATIONS FOR COMPLIANCE WITH FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT:
   A.   Freedom Of Information Officer: There is hereby created the office of
freedom of information officer for the city of Alton. The freedom of
information officer shall be an individual appointed by the mayor, subject to
the approval and consent of a majority of the city council. The freedom of
information officer for the city of Alton shall have those duties and
responsibilities as delineated in the freedom of information act of the state
of Illinois 1 .
   B.   Charges: It is the intent of the city of Alton to charge the maximum
fees permitted by state statute 2  in carrying out the mandates of the freedom
of information act of the state of Illinois. In accordance therewith, the
following charges shall apply:
      1.   When a person requests a copy of a record maintained in an
electronic format, the city shall furnish it in the electronic format specified
by the requester, if feasible. The city shall charge the requester for the
actual cost of purchasing the recording medium, whether disc, diskette, tape,
or other medium. (Ord. 7174, 12-16-2009)
      2.   The city shall charge fees reasonably calculated to reimburse its
actual cost for reproducing and certifying public records and for the use, by
any person, of the equipment of the city to copy records. No fees shall be
charged for the first fifty (50) pages of black and white, letter or legal size
copies requested by a requester. The fee for black and white, letter or legal
size copies after the first fifty (50) pages shall be fifteen cents ($0.15) per
page. If the city provides copies in a color or in a size other than letter or
legal, the city shall charge its actual cost for reproducing the records. In
calculating its actual cost for reproducing records or for the use of the
equipment of the city to reproduce records, the city shall not include the cost
of any search for and review of the records or other personnel costs associated
with reproducing the records, unless allowed by state law. As such fees are
determined, they shall be imposed according to a standard scale applicable to
any requester. The fees as they are established shall be made public by the
freedom of information officer of the city. (Ord. 7443, 2-11-2015)
      3.   The cost for certifying a record shall be one dollar ($1.00) per
certification sheet. (Ord. 7174, 12-16-2009)
      4.   For commercial requests, as defined by the Illinois freedom of
information act, the city shall charge ten dollars ($10.00) for each hour spent
by personnel in searching for and retrieving a requested record or examining
the record for necessary redactions. No fee shall be charged for the first
eight (8) hours spent by personnel in searching for or retrieving a requested
record. The city may charge the actual cost of retrieving and transporting
public records from an off site storage facility when the public records are
maintained by a third party storage company under contract with the city. The
city shall provide the requester with an accounting of all fees, costs, and
personnel hours in connection with the request.
      5.   If a voluminous request, as defined by the Illinois freedom of
information act, is for electronic records and those records are not in a
portable document format (PDF), the city shall charge twenty dollars ($20.00)
for not more than two (2) megabytes of data, forty dollars ($40.00) for more
than two (2) but not more than four (4) megabytes of data, and one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for more than four (4) megabytes of data. If a voluminous
request is for electronic records and those records are in a portable document
format, the city shall charge twenty dollars ($20.00) for not more than eighty
(80) megabytes of data, forty dollars ($40.00) for more than eighty (80)
megabytes but not more than one hundred sixty (160) megabytes of data, and one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for more than one hundred sixty (160) megabytes of
data. If the responsive electronic records are in both a portable document
format and not in a portable document format, the city may separate the fees
and charge the requester under both fee scales. The city shall provide the
requester with an accounting of all fees, costs, and personnel hours in
connection with the request for public records.
      6.   If a requester does not pay a fee charged for a voluminous request,
as defined by the Illinois freedom of information act, the debt shall be
considered a debt due and owing to the city and may be collected in accordance
with applicable law. This fee may be charged by the city even if the requester
fails to accept or collect records the city has prepared in response to a
voluminous request. (Ord. 7443, 2-11-2015)
   C.   Compliance With Act: Every employee or agent of the city of Alton shall
immediately transmit to the office of the freedom of information officer for
the city of Alton any request for information, documents, exhibits or other
materials which may be received by any employee of the city of Alton from any
person or source that may be construed as a request under the freedom of
information act. All departments and personnel of the city of Alton shall
promptly cooperate with any requests from the freedom of information officer of
the city of Alton in an attempt to comply with the requirements of the freedom
of information act of the state of Illinois. The general assembly of the state
of Illinois has declared that, "providing records in compliance with the
requirements of this act is a primary duty of public bodies to the people of
this state". (Ord. 7174, 12-16-2009)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
2 2. 5 ILCS 140/6.
1-7-7: DEPUTY CITY CLERK:
The position of deputy city clerk shall be appointed solely at the discretion
of the city clerk and shall not be included in classified service in effect for
said city. (Ord. 5012, 4-9-1986; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8-1: City Treasurer; Election
1-8-2: General Duties
1-8-3: Reports
1-8-4: Accounts
1-8-5: Ex Officio Town Collector
1-8-6: Depositories Designated
1-8-7: Deputy City Treasurer
1-8-8: Acceptance Of Credit Cards
1-8-1: CITY TREASURER; ELECTION:
The City Treasurer shall be elected and shall serve for a term of four (4)
years or until his successor is elected and qualified as provided by statute.
(1961 Code § 2-36)
1-8-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
The City Treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the City, whether paid
directly or indirectly through another office or officer. He shall deposit the
funds of the City in such depositories as may be selected from time to time as
provided by statute. He shall keep the City money separate and distinct from
his own and shall not make private or personal use of the City funds. (1961
Code § 2-37)
1-8-3: REPORTS:
The City Treasurer shall render at the end of each month, and more often if
required, a statement under oath to the City Council and City Comptroller,
showing the state of the Treasury at the end of said month and the cash
balances in the accounts maintained by him. Such statement shall set forth in
detail all the monies received by him and all monies paid out by him. He shall
report all interest on monies received by or credited to the City by any bank
or the depository in which is deposited any interest bearing monies of the
City, including trust funds and special deposits. (1961 Code § 2-38)
1-8-4: ACCOUNTS:
The City Treasurer shall cause to be kept books of account in such a manner as
to show with entire accuracy all monies received by him and from whom and on
what account they shall have been received; and all monies paid out by him and
on what account they shall have been paid. Such books, and all papers and files
of his office, shall be at all times open to the examination of the City
Comptroller or to such auditor as may be engaged by the City Council. (1961
Code § 2-39)
1-8-5: EX OFFICIO TOWN COLLECTOR:
The City Treasurer shall be ex officio Town Collector for Alton Township and
shall perform all the duties required of that office. No additional
compensation in the form of salary, fees or emoluments shall be allowed for
this duty. (1961 Code § 2-40; amd. 1999 Code)
1-8-6: DEPOSITORIES DESIGNATED:
All funds and money in the custody of the City Treasurer, belonging to or
entrusted to the City, shall be deposited by the City Treasurer in any of the
following named institutions:
   Alton Municipal Employees Federal Credit Union
   Associated Bank
   Busey Bank
   Carrollton Bank
   CNB Bank & Trust, N.A.
   First Mid Bank & Trust
   Liberty Bank c/o United Community Bank
   PNC Bank
   Regions Bank
   Simmons Bank
   The Illinois Funds
   US Bank
(Ord. 7694, 5-8-2019; amd. Ord. 7747, 4-9-2020; Ord. 7882, 4-26-2023)
1-8-7: DEPUTY CITY TREASURER:
The position of Deputy City Treasurer shall be appointed solely at the
discretion of the City Treasurer and shall not be included in classified
service in effect for the City. (Ord. 5030, 5-14-1986; amd. 1999 Code)
1-8-8: ACCEPTANCE OF CREDIT CARDS:
The city treasurer is authorized to accept credit card payments for the payment
of any obligations due the city of Alton (except real estate taxes payable
through the county treasurer or fines payable through the circuit court). The
city treasurer may enter into agreements with one or more financial
institutions or other service providers to facilitate the acceptance and
processing of credit card payments. Such agreements shall identify the specific
services to be provided, an itemized list of the fees charged, and the means by
which each such fee shall be paid. Any such agreement for acceptance of
payments by credit card must be subject to cancellation by the city of Alton
upon giving reasonable notice to the other party of intent to cancel. (Ord.
7040, 12-19-2007)
CHAPTER 9
CITY OFFICIALS
SECTION:
1-9-1: Compensation
1-9-2: General Duties
1-9-3: Official Bonds
1-9-4: Oath Of Office
1-9-5: Deliver Property And Records To Successors
1-9-6: Qualifications Of Appointed Officers
1-9-7: Parking Enforcement Officer
1-9-1: COMPENSATION:
The salaries or compensation of all officers and employees of the City shall be
determined and fixed by the City Council by salary resolution or ordinance. No
officer or employee receiving a salary from the City shall be entitled to
retain any portion of any fees collected by him in the performance of his
duties as a Municipal officer or employee in the absence of a specific
ordinance provision to that effect.
(1961 Code § 2-1; amd. Ord. 7841, 6-8-2022; Ord. 7959, 11-13-2024)
1-9-2: GENERAL DUTIES:
Each officer and employee of the City, administrative and otherwise, shall
perform the duties of his respective office or position as and in the manner
provided by statutes and this Code, and all ordinances hereinafter enacted.
(1961 Code § 2-2)
1-9-3: OFFICIAL BONDS:
   A.   Required; Amounts: All Municipal officers of the City, except Aldermen,
before entering upon the duties of their respective offices, shall post a bond
in the amount of not less than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) with good and
sufficient sureties to be approved by the City Council, conditioned upon the
faithful performance of the duties of their respective offices and the payment
of all monies received by such officers; provided, however, and notwithstanding
the foregoing, the bond for the City Treasurer shall be in a dollar amount of
not less than three (3) times the population of the City of Alton as determined
by the most recent available Federal census results. (Ord. 6866, 2-23-2005)
   B.   Continuing Liability: All bonds of officers and employees shall be
continuing in effect so long as the officers and employees named therein shall
continue in office and until payment is made by such officers and employees of
all monies received by them; provided, that liability under any such bond may
be terminated in respect to any official act which shall be taken, or occur
after thirty (30) days' written notice to the assured of the termination or
cancellation of such bond by the surety. In case of termination or cancellation
of any bond by any surety during the continuance in office or employment of any
officer or employee, such officer or employee shall execute a new bond in the
same manner, of the same character and with the same conditions and penalties
as are required by this section. (1961 Code § 2-4)
   C.   Payment Of Premiums: The cost of obtaining bonds of officers or
employees payable to the City, shall be paid by the City. (1961 Code § 2-5)
   D.   Endorsement And Filing: After the approval of the bond by the City
Council or officer authorized to approve such bond, the City Clerk shall
endorse thereon the date of its approval and file same, except that the bond of
the City Clerk shall be filed with the City Treasurer. (1961 Code § 2-6)
   E.   Blanket Bond: The City Comptroller is authorized and directed to obtain
a public employees' faithful performance blanket position bond of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each employee indemnifying the City against any loss
caused to the City through the failure of any officer or employee to faithfully
perform his duties; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply to
positions for which greater amounts are specified in subsection A of this
section. (1961 Code § 2-7)
1-9-4: OATH OF OFFICE:
Every officer of the City shall, before entering upon his duties, take the oath
prescribed by law 1 . (1961 Code § 2-8)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-10-25.
1-9-5: DELIVER PROPERTY AND RECORDS TO SUCCESSORS:
   A.   Definitions: Except where the context indicates otherwise, the terms
used in this section are defined as follows:
    AGENCY: Any and all parts, boards, departments, bureaus and commissions of
this Municipal corporation.
   OFFICER: Any elected or appointed official of the Municipal corporation.
   PUBLIC RECORD: Any book, paper, map, photograph or other official
documentary material, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made,
produced, executed or received by any agency or officer pursuant to law or in
connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate
for preservation by such agency or officer, or any successor thereof, as
evidence of the organization, function, policies, decisions, procedures or
other activities thereof, or because of the informational data contained
therein.
   B.   Duty To Successor: A person who has been an officer of this City shall
deliver to his successor in office all records, property, books and effects,
including files and computer software, data and systems, in the former
officer's possession, belonging to the City.
   C.   Prohibition: No public record made or received by, or under the
authority of, or coming into the custody, control or possession of any officer
or agency, shall be mutilated, destroyed, transferred, removed or otherwise
damaged or disposed of, in whole or in part, except as provided by law. (Ord.
6164, 5-28-1997)
   D.   Penalty: A former officer who violates this section shall be punished
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 6164, 5-28-1997; amd. 1999 Code)
1-9-6: QUALIFICATIONS OF APPOINTED OFFICERS:
All officers appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of the City
Council, whose term of office is not otherwise expressly provided by law, shall
be appointed following the inauguration of the Mayor and shall continue to so
serve until effectively removed by the Mayor or until the next mayoral
inauguration. (Ord. 7678, 12-19-2018)
1-9-7: PARKING ENFORCEMENT OFFICER:
There is hereby created in the Police Department the position of parking
enforcement officer. The parking enforcement officer shall be and is hereby
vested with limited police powers in that he shall have the power and authority
to make and issue citations for any and all violations of parking restrictions
or regulations in the City. (Ord. 4280, 1-25-1978)
CHAPTER 10
CODE OF ETHICS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Obligations Of Citizens To Public Officials And Employees
1-10-2: Obligations Of Public Officials And Employees To Citizens
1-10-3: Public Service And Outside Employment
1-10-4: Use Of Public Property
1-10-5: Reporting Violations
1-10-6: Soliciting, Selling And Canvassing
1-10-7: Political Activity
1-10-8: State Officials And Employees Ethics Act
1-10-9: Conflict Of Interest
1-10-1: OBLIGATIONS OF CITIZENS TO PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES:
No person or group should seek special consideration, treatment or advantage
beyond that which is available to every other citizen or group. In dealings
with public officials and employees, citizens should conduct themselves so as
to avoid any suspicion of unethical practices. Citizens should judge public
officials and employees on the basis of their performance and not upon rumors,
distortions or opinions of special interest groups and neither an individual's
race nor creed should be a basis for criticism. Citizens should extend the same
courtesy and consideration to public officials and employees which is commonly
accepted in all other social contacts. (1961 Code, § 2-10)
1-10-2: OBLIGATIONS OF PUBLIC OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES TO CITIZENS:
No public official or employee should grant special consideration, treatment or
advantage to any citizen beyond that which is available to every other citizen
or group. Public officials and employees shall at all times conscientiously and
faithfully perform their duty. They should be tactful, patient and courteous in
answering all inquiries. The guiding rule should be: "What is done for one, is
done for all, and in the same amount and in the same manner". (1961 Code, § 2-
11)
1-10-3: PUBLIC SERVICE AND OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT:
Outside employment is generally incompatible with full time public service. No
public servant should engage in any outside employment which will impair the
performance of his duties or be detrimental to the public service.
Citizens should recognize that full time service cannot be expected unless
compensation consistent with full time employment is provided. (1961 Code, § 2-
12)
1-10-4: USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No citizen, public official or employee should request or permit the use of
government owned vehicles, equipment, materials or property for personal
convenience or profit, except when services are available to the public
generally. (1961 Code, § 2-13)
1-10-5: REPORTING VIOLATIONS:
Every citizen, as well as every public official and employee, has the duty to
report to the proper authorities any evidence of fraud, theft or attempts to
exercise improper influence in the conduct of public business. (1961 Code, § 2-
14)
1-10-6: SOLICITING, SELLING AND CANVASSING:
No citizen, public official or employee should be permitted to conduct a
solicitation or canvass in any public office for memberships, tickets,
articles, prizes, advertising or services, without prior official approval of
the city council, or in any manner or by any method which would imply official
sanction where none has been obtained. (1961 Code, § 2-15; amd. 1999 Code)
1-10-7: POLITICAL ACTIVITY:
Classified civil service employees shall not be requested, required or
permitted to participate in political activities while on duty as city of Alton
employees or permitted to utilize any city owned property or equipment for
political activities. (Ord. 6745, 7-9-2003)
1-10-8: STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT:
   A.   The regulations of sections 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et
seq., (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section) are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the city to
the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the city is hereby
prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   D.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act by
any officer or employee of the city is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   F.   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   G.   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city of Alton.
   I.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city of Alton if the act is found
unconstitutional by the Illinois supreme court.
   J.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city of
Alton. (Ord. 6815, 6-9-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40.
1-10-9: CONFLICT OF INTEREST:
In the conduct of public business, citizens, officials and employees should
avoid even the appearance of conflict between their private interest and the
public welfare.
No city official, city employee or professional actively and regularly engaged
in the service of the city should act privately as agent, attorney or advisor
in any manner adverse to the city's interest.
No public official or employee should participate in any transaction with the
public jurisdiction by which he is employed, or in the result of which he has
any direct or indirect financial interest unless the transaction has first been
determined lawful after full public disclosure. (Ord. 5702, 9-23-1992)
CHAPTER 11
CITY PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-11-1: Civil Service Commission; Establishment
1-11-2: General Duties Of Commission
1-11-3: Workweek
1-11-4: Legal Holidays
1-11-5: Vacation
1-11-6: Leave With Pay
1-11-7: Leave Without Pay; Military Leave
1-11-8: Compensatory Time
1-11-9: Overtime Compensation
1-11-10: Payment For Part Time Employment
1-11-11: Sick Leave
1-11-12: Application Of Other Laws
1-11-13: Resignation
1-11-14: Longevity Pay
1-11-15: Indemnification
1-11-16: Probation Period For Police And Fire Personnel
1-11-17: Residency
1-11-18: PSEBA Benefits Eligibility (Rep. by Ord. 7687, 3-27-2019)
1-11-19: Sexual Harassment
1-11-1: CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION; ESTABLISHMENT:
Pursuant to referendum adopting civil service for the City, there shall be a
Civil Service Commission, composed of three (3) members to be appointed by the
Mayor. All members shall serve overlapping terms of three (3) years. They shall
serve until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. (1961 Code § 2-
64)
1-11-2: GENERAL DUTIES OF COMMISSION:
It shall be the duty of the Civil Service Commission to classify all positions
in the City's service which are subject to the provisions of the Civil Service
Statute, to make and publish rules, to examine, qualify and certify applicants
for employment in the City's civil service, to investigate removal or
suspension of civil service employees, to make reports and to perform such
other duties as are set forth for civil service commissions in Illinois
Compiled Statutes 1 . (1961 Code § 2-65)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/10-1-5.
1-11-3: WORKWEEK:
Except as otherwise provided, the basic working day for City employees shall be
eight (8) hours exclusive of meal periods. The basic workweek shall be forty
(40) hours. Each department head shall have the discretion, with the prior
consent of the Mayor, to permit any nonunion and noncivil service employee of
the City to reduce his or her basic workweek from forty (40) hours to thirty
two (32) hours with a commensurate twenty percent (20%) reduction in base
salary for each such nonunion and noncivil service employee. (Ord. 6825, 7-14-
2004)
The basic working day for members of the firefighting service shall be twenty
four (24) hours per shift for an average of fifty six (56) hours per week.
To permit collection and permit offices in the City Hall to be open until
twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Saturday, heads of those departments may
establish work schedules for their employees to provide forty (40) hours' work
over a five and one-half (51/2) day period. (1961 Code § 2-66; amd. 1973 Code)
1-11-4: LEGAL HOLIDAYS:
   A.   Legal holidays observed by the City shall be as follows:
New Year's Day         January 1
Martin Luther King Day January 17 or such other date as may be determined by
                       official act of the United States of America
Washington's Birthday  Third Monday in February
Good Friday            Friday before Easter
Memorial Day           Last Monday in May
Juneteenth             June 19
Independence Day       July 4
Labor Day              First Monday in September
Veterans Day           November 11
Thanksgiving Day       As appointed by the governor
Day after Thanksgiving Day following Thanksgiving
Christmas Day          December 25
 
   B.   The City Hall shall be closed on each holiday listed in subsection A of
this Section.
   C.   Whenever any legal holiday listed above falls on a Saturday, the Friday
immediately preceding shall be a holiday, and whenever the holiday listed above
falls on a Sunday, the following Monday shall be a holiday.
This provision shall not apply to the sworn members of the Police and Fire
Departments of the City, who shall celebrate the holidays on the actual date
they fall on as set forth in subsection A of this Section.
   D.   All regular full-time monthly rate employees shall be granted leave
with pay on the holidays listed in subsection A of this Section provided that
if such employee is required to work on such holidays because of the needs of
the City, he shall be allowed compensatory time off.
   E.   All regular full-time hourly rate employees shall be granted leave with
pay on the holidays listed in subsection A of this Section provided that if
such employees are required to work on such days because of the needs of the
City, they shall be compensated at double their regular hourly rate of pay.
   F.   Employees who are absent without leave on the day preceding or the day
following a holiday shall be considered as absent without leave on the holiday
and shall not be compensated for the holiday.
   G.   All members of the Police and Fire Departments will be credited with
nine (9) holidays at the beginning of each calendar year, which credited
holidays can be used as compensatory time off at the discretion of the chief of
the respective department. All holiday credits are to be computed as calendar
days.
   H.   All members of the Police and Fire Departments who are required to work
on a holiday will be paid double the regular rate of pay. The holidays to be
recognized for the purpose of this Section are New Year's Day, Washington's
Birthday, Good Friday, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas Day.
   I.   An employee on sick leave with pay shall not receive paid holidays
during the time that the employee is on such status. (1961 Code § 2-67; amd.
Ord. 3553, 8-13-1969; Ord. 3615, 8-12-1970; Ord. 3640, 2-10-1971; Ord. 3792, 2-
15-1973; Ord. 4166, 12-22-1976; Ord. 4220, 7-13-1977; Ord. 4221, 7-13-1997;
1999 Code; Ord. 6383, 5-12-1999; Ord. 7843, 6-8-2022)
1-11-5: VACATION:
   A.   The heads of all departments shall make provision for, designate and
allow annual leave with pay to serve as vacation for regular full-time
employees as follows:
      1.   No vacation time or credit for any employee during the first year of
service.
      2.   Two (2) weeks for each employee who has completed one or more years
of continuous service.
      3.   Three (3) weeks for each employee who has completed two (2) or more
years of continuous service.
      4.   Four (4) weeks for each employee who has completed ten (10) or more
years of continuous service.
      5.   Five (5) weeks for each employee who has completed fifteen (15) or
more years of continuous service.
      6.   Six (6) weeks for each employee who has completed twenty (20) or
more years of continuous service.
   B.   Continuous service shall be considered to be any service in which there
has been no interruption by layoff in excess of one year, resignation,
retirement or involuntary separation. Absence due to military service shall not
serve to interrupt continuous service, nor shall injury in the line of duty,
sick leave with pay, leave without pay or any other period of absence approved
by the Mayor unless the employee was employed by another employer during such
period of absence. Failure of an employee to report to work at the expiration
of any authorized absence shall stay the accrual of vacation time until such
employee is reinstated in good standing.
   C.   A vacation week shall be one calendar week of seven (7) days and may
begin on any day of the week. Legal holidays falling within a vacation period
are not included as part of the vacation week, except that when a legal holiday
coincides with a day on which an employee would be working if not on vacation,
then the legal holiday shall be counted as a vacation day.
   D.   Subject only to the requirement of maintaining essential service as
determined by the department head, seniority may govern in scheduling of
vacations. Department heads may require employees to mark up vacations at the
beginning of the calendar year. Split vacations will be permitted only with the
express permission of the department head.
   E.   Vacations will not be allowed to part time employees paid on an hourly
basis unless they are regularly engaged on a monthly basis for one-half (1/2)
time or more. Such employees may be granted vacations at the rate of one-half
(1/2) of the vacation credit allowed a regular full time employee. Vacations
will not be allowed to employees on an hourly basis determined by dividing the
monthly rate by one hundred sixty (160) hours.
   F.   Any employee resigning from the service of the City in good standing
may be paid for any vacation credit accumulated prior to resignation, provided
he has completed one year of continuous service, he gives at least two (2)
weeks' notice of his intent to resign and the maximum number of days for which
compensation will be allowed shall not exceed twenty (20) working days (4
weeks). Vacation credit shall be computed as follows; for each full month of
service:
      1.   No vacation credit for any employee during the first year of
service.
      2.   Ten-twelfths (10/12) of a working day for each employee who has
completed one or more years of continuous service.
      3.   One and one-fourth (11/4) working days for each employee who has
completed two (2) or more years of continuous service.
      4.   One and two-thirds (12/3) working days for each employee who has
completed ten (10) or more years of continuous service.
      5.   Two and one-twelfth (21/12) working days for each employee who has
completed fifteen (15) or more years of continuous service.
      6.   Two and one-half (21/2) working days for each employee who has
completed twenty (20) or more years of continuous service.
   G.   Vacation credits may not be accumulated and all vacations must be taken
within one year following the period in which earned. A vacation week shall be
defined as five (5) consecutive working days for all employees except as to
members of the firefighting service. (Ord. 6226, 12-3-1997; amd. 1999 Code)
1-11-6: LEAVE WITH PAY:
Leave with pay may be granted by the Mayor upon recommendation of a department
head for the purpose of attending conferences, conventions, workshops or
similar meetings.
Not to exceed three (3) days' leave with pay may be allowed to a regular full
time monthly or hourly rate employee because of the death of the employee's
spouse, children, stepchildren, grandchildren, grandparents, father, mother,
stepfather, stepmother, sister, brother, stepsister, stepbrother, father- in-
law, mother-in-law, grandparents of spouse, brother-in-law or sister-in-law.
(Ord. 6794, 2-25-2004)
1-11-7: LEAVE WITHOUT PAY; MILITARY LEAVE:
   A.   Personal Leave Without Pay: Leave without pay not to exceed one year
may be granted by the Mayor to any employee upon the recommendation by his
department head when deemed to be in the interest of improving the quality of
the employee's service to the City. An employee who is on such a leave without
pay shall notify his department head by written communication or verifiable
electronic communication of his readiness to return from such leave without pay
at least ten (10) days before the expiration of said leave without pay. No
employee benefits shall accrue to an employee during this period of leave
without pay except that such employee shall be entitled to remain on the
insurance plan with the City as previously applicable to said employee, with
the employee paying the full cost thereof during the time the employee elects
to secure such insurance. Upon satisfactorily returning to employment with the
City, the employee shall be entitled to all of the seniority and benefits which
may have accrued to the employee prior to his leave without pay unless the
employee has utilized said benefits during leave without pay.
   B.   Military Duty Leave And Benefits:
      1.   General Provisions: Any employee who is an active or reserve member
of the armed services or of any reserve component of the Illinois State Militia
shall be allowed military leave from employment with the City of Alton for any
period actively spent in military service including basic training and special
or advanced training, whether or not within the State of Illinois, and whether
or not voluntary.
Such leave shall be granted for a cumulative period of service of no longer
than five (5) years, except as otherwise required by law. Employees on approved
military leave may trade time or use accrued vacation, personal, or
compensatory time during their leave, but are not required to do so. Employees
who trade time or utilize their paid time off benefits are permitted to retain
their military compensation. Employees on approved military leave, to the
extent they were eligible prior to the leave, shall continue to earn vacation
leave time, sick leave time, and personal leave time, be provided the
opportunity to continue in the City's group health and dental plans, continue
participation in any applicable pension plan, and shall receive holiday pay and
any other benefits as may be entitled by law. If the employee does not choose
to continue the City's group health insurance during the leave, he/she shall be
permitted immediate reinstatement into the group health plan when the employee
returns from military service. Military leave shall be granted without loss of
seniority or other previously accrued benefits, and in accordance with the
Illinois Military Leave Act, Illinois Public Employee Armed Services Rights
Act, the Federal Uniformed Services Employment and Re-Employment Rights Act,
and all other applicable Federal and State laws. Whenever possible, employees
must provide advanced notice (preferably written) of their departure for
military service to their department head and the Human Resources Office. This
notice may also be provided by an appropriate officer of the branch of the
military in which the employee will be serving.
      2.   Military Leave Benefits: Employees who are members of the reserves,
including the National Guard, shall be granted leave for any period actively
spent in military service, including: a) basic training; b) special or advanced
training, whether or not within the State, and whether or not voluntary; and c)
annual training. For part time employees, leave for training shall be treated
as set forth in the general provisions section above. For full time employees
in the reserves, during leaves for training the employee's seniority and other
benefits shall continue to accrue.
In addition, full-time employees shall receive the following after submitting
certification of his/her military earnings:
         a.   During leaves for annual training, the employee shall continue to
receive his or her regular compensation.
         b.   During leaves for basic training, weekend drill or for special or
advanced training up to sixty (60) days, if the employee's compensation for
military activities is less than his or her compensation as a City employee, he
or she shall receive his or her regular City compensation minus the amount of
his or her base pay for military activities. The City will allow travel time
required for trainings, however, this time will not be compensated.
In accordance with 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1: Municipal Employees
Military Active Duty Act, employees on active military service are considered
to be on furlough or leave of absence during their period of service and for
forty (40) days thereafter. Furthermore, the employee will be restored to their
position without loss of seniority accrued at the time the furlough or leave of
absence began, or to such other position as their civil service status would
have entitled them to, provided this does not impose an undue hardship on the
City of Alton.
      3.   Return To Duty: Employees returning to work following military
service shall notify the City of their intent to return.
The employee reports back to work, or makes a written or verbal request for
reemployment within the following time frames:
         a.   For military service of thirty (30) consecutive days or less, the
member must report back to work on the next regularly scheduled work period
after transportation home plus an 8-hour rest period.
         b.   For military service from 31 - 180 days, the member must report
for work or apply for reemployment not later than fourteen (14) days after
completion of service.
         c.   For military service of one hundred eighty one (181) days or
more, the member must report for work or apply for reemployment not later than
ninety (90) days after completion of service.
If, due to no fault of the employee, timely reporting back to work would be
impossible or unreasonable, the employee must report back to work as soon as
possible unless otherwise provided for by law. Failure to comply with the above
stated time periods for reinstatement may be grounds for the denial of
reinstatement and/or discipline, including termination. (Ord. 7559, 3-8-2017)
1-11-8: COMPENSATORY TIME:
Employees who are required to work overtime or on a legal holiday or on other
regularly scheduled off day, for which they are not compensated by additional
pay, shall be allowed compensatory time off within six (6) months following the
month in which the overtime or holiday was worked, unless otherwise authorized
by the Mayor.
No compensatory time shall be allowed for any accumulative overtime period of
less than one hour. Up to but not more than five (5) days of compensatory time
may be added to or included with a full period of vacation or leave due to
illness.
When the maintenance of essential services prevents the granting of
compensatory time earned by an employee in accord with the provisions of this
section, then the Mayor may compensate such employee in cash for compensatory
time earned but not allowed, subject to the availability of an unexpended
balance in the appropriate appropriation account. (Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963)
1-11-9: OVERTIME COMPENSATION:
Officers and employees may be assigned to overtime work provided such overtime
shall be limited to emergency conditions which endanger the public health,
welfare or safety or for services required for the protection or preservation
of public property; or to perform the essential functions of a department which
cannot be deferred and which cannot be performed with the personnel available
during normal working hours either because of vacancies in authorized positions
or because of an abnormal peak load in the activities of the department. Such
overtime shall be compensated for either in the form of compensatory time or
additional salary payment at one and one-half (11/2) times the regular hourly
rate, subject to the following conditions and exceptions: (1961 Code § 2-72)
   A.   The excess hours for which overtime shall be paid or compensated shall
be those hours over eight (8) hours per day and/or over forty (40) hours per
week except that when a City Council approved holiday falls within a normal
workweek the excess hours for which overtime shall be paid shall be those hours
over eight (8) hours per day and in excess of thirty two (32) hours per week.
This subsection shall not apply to members of the firefighting service or the
sworn members of the Police Department. (Ord. 4110, 5-26-1976; amd. Ord. 4859,
6-27-1984)
   B.   Under the conditions specified for emergency overtime, employees,
except for members of the police and firefighting services, seasonal and part
time employees, may be permitted to work on legal holidays without compensatory
time and receive double time for each day so worked provided that only the
hours worked on each of these days shall be considered in any computation of
overtime. (1961 Code § 2-72; amd. Ord. 3916, 6-12-1974; Ord. 4859, 6-27-1984;
1999 Code)
   C.   No payment shall be made for overtime unless funds have been provided
for such payment in the appropriation for personal services or unless a surplus
exists in such appropriation by reason of vacancies and turnover in authorized
positions. (1961 Code § 2-72)
   D.   The Mayor may require the heads of departments to submit reports,
supplementary information or other data relative to the need for overtime work,
may investigate the cause and justification for such overtime; and may
prescribe such rules and regulations as in his opinion are necessary to control
and restrict overtime to emergency conditions. (Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963)
1-11-10: PAYMENT FOR PART TIME EMPLOYMENT:
Whenever necessary to maintain essential services, employees may be assigned to
full time positions on a part time basis and, when performing part time
services they shall be paid on an hourly basis determined by dividing the
annual salary by two thousand eighty (2,080) hours.
Whenever necessary to engage employees for seasonal work, such employees may be
paid on an hourly basis equivalent to the annual compensation divided by two
thousand eighty (2,080) hours, provided that the total annual hours of
employment shall not exceed two thousand eighty (2,080). Such employees shall
not be entitled to vacation, sick leave, paid holidays or leave with pay. (1961
Code § 2-74; amd. Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963; 1999 Code)
1-11-11: SICK LEAVE:
Except as otherwise provided, all regular full time employees who are
compensated on a monthly or annual salary basis and all hourly paid employees
who are customarily employed forty (40) hours or more each calendar week may be
given sick leave with pay at the rate of one working day for each calendar
month of continuous work performed during which there were no unpaid absences
without leave, provided:
   A.   No sick leave shall be accrued to any employee during the time he
serves as a department head or division head of the city, if first appointed to
the position of department head or division head after the effective date of
this section.
   B.   No sick leave shall be accrued to any employee during the time he
serves in an elected office.
   C.   No sick leave shall be credited for the first month of service if
employment begins after the tenth day of the month.
   D.   Members of the firefighting service working alternate shifts of twenty
four (24) hours on and forty eight (48) hours off shall be allowed to
accumulate sick leave at the rate of five-twelfths (5/12) of a working day for
each month of continuous service in which there were no unpaid absences without
leave. (Ord. 5360, 7-26-1989)
   E.   Sick leave with pay shall be accumulative; however, at the end of any
fiscal year any employee not wishing to add to his accumulated total of unused
sick leave, those sick leave days not used of the eligible days for said year,
may request payment in lieu thereof, but not to exceed the number said employee
is eligible to receive during one year exclusive of that which has been
accumulated. Provided, however, that each employee shall have accumulated and
shall maintain a minimum of at least twenty (20) sick leave days to be eligible
to request payment as provided herein. Payment, as noted herein, shall be based
on the employee's hourly rate (or daily rate in the case of salaried employees)
as computed on the approved rates provided in the then current appropriation
ordinance. Any employee who has used more than his eligible number of sick
leave days in any given year shall automatically have the surplus number of
sick leave days used for said year deducted from said employee's accumulated
total, if any, unless said sick leave surplus has been approved by the
employee's department head, as provided elsewhere in this chapter. For persons
hired by the city after July 1, 2016, and for persons initially appointed or
assuming a position with the city not covered by a collective bargaining
agreement after July 1, 2016, sick leave with pay shall be accumulative but
such employees shall not have the right to request an annual payment for unused
sick time. (Ord. 5360, 7-26-1989; amd. Ord. 7524, 6-22-2016)
   F.   Sick leave with pay shall be granted solely on account of an actual
illness of eligible employee, or by reason of medical recommended quarantine
due to exposure to contagious disease.
   G.   Department heads may require employees requesting sick leave of three
(3) or more consecutive days to provide a certificate or medical report from a
medical doctor certifying to the actual disability of the eligible employee.
Eligible employees who take sick leave shall report their disability to their
department head or immediate supervisor not less than one hour prior to the
start of the first workday of their illness or disability. Failure to so report
shall automatically place the eligible employee on an unauthorized absent
without leave status. Failure to so report on more than three (3) occasions
during any one fiscal year shall be grounds for discharge from city employment.
   H.   Sick leave credits shall accumulate to the credit of the employee if
not used or paid as provided by subsection E of this section. Accumulated
unused sick leave credits shall be payable to an employee in the following
circumstances subject to the limitations hereinafter provided:
If an employee:
      1.   Is granted a retirement pension as a result of his city employment;
or
      2.   Is granted a disability pension as a result of his city employment,
whether such disability is incurred in the line of duty or otherwise; or
      3.   Is terminated by appropriate actions of the city; or
      4.   Resigns from the service of the city; or
      5.   Dies while an employee of the city;
The employee or the employee's estate shall be paid for his unused accumulated
sick leave credits subject to the following limitations:
         a.   Only the first thirty (30) days of unused accumulated sick leave
credits shall be paid in full. All unused accumulated sick leave credits in
excess of thirty (30) days shall be paid at one-half (1/2) the normal rate of
pay for the employee.
         b.   The total unused accumulated sick leave credits to be initially
considered for payment pursuant to the foregoing subsection shall never exceed
the greater of:
            (1)   Sixty (60) days credit; or
            (2)   The total unused sick leave credits accumulated by an
employee as of the effective date of this amendment.
         c.   In the case of an employee who is a member of the firefighting
service working alternate shifts of twenty four (24) hours on and forty eight
(48) hours off, the limitations set forth in the foregoing subsections H5a and
H5b(1) of this section shall be changed so as to substitute "first fifteen (15)
days" and "in excess of fifteen (15) days" for "first thirty (30) days" and "in
excess of thirty (30) days" respectively in subsection H5a of this section and
"thirty (30) days credit" for "sixty (60) days credit" in subsection H5b(1) of
this section.
   I.   All unused accumulated sick leave credits for which an employee would
be entitled to payment under the provisions of subsection H of this section
shall be canceled, forfeited and held for naught if:
      1.   The employee resigns without providing at least two (2) weeks'
notice to the city of the employee's intent to resign; or
      2.   The employee is terminated by appropriate actions of the city with
good cause. "Good cause" as used in this section shall mean the failure of the
employee to adequately perform the duties or responsibilities of the employee's
position or some substantial shortcoming in the employee or the performance of
the employee's duties by the employee which renders his termination from the
city appropriate and in the best interests of the city.
Before unused accumulated sick leave credits can be canceled, forfeited or held
for naught as provided aforesaid, the affected employee shall be granted an
opportunity for a hearing with appropriate due process procedural safeguards.
Said hearing shall be limited to a determination of whether the employee
resigned without providing at least two (2) weeks' notice to the city of the
employee's intent to resign or whether the employee was terminated by
appropriate actions of the city based on good cause as defined herein. If the
employee's termination by appropriate actions of the city included an
opportunity for a meaningful hearing on the question of whether his termination
was for good cause, the hearing so held concerning the termination of the
employee shall satisfy the requirements of a hearing necessitated by this
subsection dealing with unused accumulated sick leave credits.
The decision of the city to cancel sick leave credits pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall be deemed a final administrative decision of
the city and shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to the Illinois
administrative review law 1 .
   J.   Nothing contained in this section shall be interpreted to diminish the
rights, if any, of employees as assured by various collective bargaining
agreements now in force between the city and its employees through their
respective collective bargaining units for the remainder of the current term of
said collective bargaining agreements. (Ord. 5360, 7-26-1989)
   K.   An eligible IMRF employee shall receive a retirement payment equal to
their accumulated sick time and compensatory time as long as such payment will
not cause the employee's IMRF earnings for any twelve (12) month period to
exceed six percent (6%) over the prior twelve (12) month period IMRF earnings
(inclusive of all other compensation, including, but not limited to, any
attendance bonus, longevity, stipends, and extra duties). Any portion of the
retirement incentive payment in excess of six percent (6%) will be paid
following the employee's resignation from the city in one lump sum one week
after the conclusion of the first calendar month following the month in which
the employee's employment with the city terminated. (Ord. 7524, 6-22-2016)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
1-11-12: APPLICATION OF OTHER LAWS:
An employee receiving sick leave with pay or compensation for injury in line of
duty, who simultaneously receives compensation under the provisions of the
Illinois retirement fund, the police pension fund, the firefighters' pension
fund or any insurance plan to which the city contributes to payment of
premiums, shall receive only that portion of his regular salary which will,
together with such compensation, equal his regular salary. (1961 Code § 2-77)
1-11-13: RESIGNATION:
The absence of any employee from duty for three (3) successive working days or
longer, without notice to his department head of the reason for such absence
and his intention to return, shall be considered in effect a resignation.
Failure of an employee to report at the expiration of leave of absence or
vacation shall separate the employee from the service, and shall be considered
in effect a resignation.
Employees desiring to resign in good standing shall submit their resignation in
writing to their department heads not less than fourteen (14) days prior to the
effective date of such resignation. (1961 Code § 2-78)
1-11-14: LONGEVITY PAY:
Except for elected officials, all regular full time employees who are
compensated on a monthly or annual salary basis and all hourly paid employees
who are customarily employed forty (40) hours or more each calendar week shall
be entitled to longevity pay for length of service, in addition to base pay, at
the rate set forth as follows:
%     21/2 %  3%      31/2 %  4%      41/2 %  5%      51/2 %
Years 2 - 3   3 - 4   4 - 5   5 - 6   6 - 7   7 - 8   8 - 9
%     6%      61/2 %  7%      71/2 %  8%      81/2 %  9%
Years 9 - 10  10 - 11 11 - 12 12 - 13 13 - 14 14 - 15 15 - 16
%     91/2 %  10%     101/2 % 11%     111/2 % 14%
Years 16 - 17 17 - 18 18 - 19 19 - 20 20 - 25 Over 25
 
Computation of eligibility under the foregoing schedule shall be based on years
of employment to be completed as of April 1, starting in 1971, and yearly
thereafter.
Beginning October 8, 1997, length of employment for the purpose of computing
eligibility for and rate of longevity pay shall include only the current period
of continuous service. Continuous service shall be considered to be any service
in which there has been no interruption by layoff in excess of one year,
resignation, retirement or involuntary separation. Absence due to military
service shall not serve to interrupt continuous service, nor shall injury in
the line of duty, sick leave with pay, leave without pay or any other period of
absence approved by the mayor unless the employee was employed by another
employer during such period of absence. Failure of an employee to report to
work at the expiration of any authorized absence shall stay the accrual of
longevity time until such employee is reinstated in good standing. (Ord. 6201,
10-8-1997)
Persons employed by the city after April 1, 2014, shall not be entitled to any
benefit provided by this section unless required or assured by a contract or
agreement lawfully executed by the city, where such contract or agreement
refers to this section. (Ord. 7396, 3-26-2014)
1-11-15: INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   The city shall pay, on behalf of any city official, members of
appointed boards or commissions and administrative personnel of the city, all
sums which such city official, members of appointed boards or commissions and
administrative personnel become obligated to pay by reason of liability imposed
by law upon such city official, members of appointed boards or commissions and
administrative personnel, individually, except as hereinafter set forth, for
claims or other causes of action committed in good faith within the scope of
their employment and duties, and which claim was not the result of any wilful
or wanton act of such city official, members of appointed boards or commissions
and administrative personnel in the discharge of such duty.
   B.   The provisions of subsection A of this section shall not be applicable
in the event the city carries insurance policies covering such acts or
omissions unless a cause of action should result in a judgment in excess of
police limits. In no event shall subsection A of this section be applicable in
the case of an award of exemplary or punitive damages.
   C.   The City shall defend any litigation covered by this chapter either by
its legal counsel or other counsel designated and retained by the City for said
purpose.
The assumption of the defense of any of said litigation shall not preclude the
defense being conducted under a reservation of rights, indemnification or any
other legal rights of the City.
In the event the litigation is covered by a policy of insurance of the City,
whether said policy covers litigation or suits of defense, it shall be
discretionary with the City as to whether it designates its legal counsel or
other attorneys retained by it to assist in said defense. (Ord. 4143, 1-12-
1977)
1-11-16: PROBATION PERIOD FOR POLICE AND FIRE PERSONNEL:
The Civil Service Commission be, and hereby is, authorized to implement a one
year probationary period for new police and fire employees appointed to
positions in the classified service of the City, and that said regulation be
effective immediately upon adoption by the Civil Service Commission.
There shall be excluded from said probationary period all time spent in
attendance at training schools, seminars or other educational programs. (Ord.
5036, 6-11-1986)
1-11-17: RESIDENCY:
All employees of the City shall be required to maintain their lawful residence
within the corporate limits of the City of Alton, Madison County, Illinois.
From and after his or her first date of employment with the City, or from and
after his or her first date following successful completion of any probationary
period applicable to that new employee, whichever date shall last occur, a
newly hired individual shall be required to establish his or her permanent
residence within the City within ninety (90) days thereafter. Failure to
establish his or her permanent residence within the City as aforesaid, or to
maintain his or her residence within the City thereafter, shall require the
immediate termination of the employment of the subject individual. Prior to
termination, the Mayor shall give notice to the subject individual of his or
her possible termination for failure to establish a permanent City residence
and the Mayor shall afford the subject individual a reasonable opportunity to
be heard on the question. The decision of the Mayor shall be deemed a final
administrative decision, unless the subject individual is protected as a member
of a collective bargaining unit or a member of the classified civil service
system of the City in which event the subject individual shall have in lieu of
the foregoing, such rights as may be applicable by his or her membership in a
collective bargaining unit or classified civil service system. (Ord. 6511, 7-
26-2000; amd. Ord. 7365, 8-28-2013)
For all issues dealing with the residency of employees of the City of Alton
subject to residency requirements, the word "domicile" shall be substituted for
the word "residency". The word below shall be defined as follows:
DOMICILE: A person's legal home. That single place where a person has his true,
fixed, and permanent home and principal establishment, and to which whenever he
is absent he has the intention of returning. It is his legal residence, as
distinguished from his temporary place of abode; or his home, as distinguished
from a place to which business or pleasure may temporarily call him. Residence
signifies living in a particular locality while domicile means living in that
locality with intent to make it a fixed and permanent home. (Ord. 6938, 3-22-
2006; amd. Ord. 7524, 6-22-2016)
1-11-18: PSEBA BENEFITS ELIGIBILITY:
(Rep. by Ord. 7687, 3-27-2019)
1-11-19: SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
   A.   Policy Prohibiting Harassment: The City of Alton is committed to
maintaining a safe, non-disruptive employment environment (intellectually,
physically, and emotionally) that is free from all forms of harassment. It
shall be a violation of City policy for any City employee to commit sexual,
racial, ethnic, or any other form of harassment on another individual in the
function of the workplace. This section is intended to apply to the conduct of
any person while functioning as a representative, and/or in any official
capacity on behalf, of the City of Alton (i.e., employee, committee members,
vendors, volunteers, or contracted individuals).
    HARASSMENT: Employees shall not make offensive or derogatory comments based
upon sex, race, religious practices, physical or mental disability, citizenship
status, national origin, age, color, active military duty status, or
unfavorable discharge from military status, either directly or indirectly, to
another employee. No employee shall either explicitly or implicitly ridicule,
mock, or belittle any other employee or conduct himself/herself in a manner
that has the purpose or effect of interfering with an employee's work
performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working
environment. Retaliation against an individual for reporting or complaining
about acts of harassing conduct is also a form of harassment and therefore
prohibited. All such examples of harassment are prohibited forms of
discrimination under State and Federal Employment Law and are considered
misconduct subject to disciplinary action.
   RACIAL AND/OR ETHNIC HARASSMENT: Are defined as ethnic slurs, racial
"jokes", offensive or derogatory comments, or other verbal or physical conduct
based on an individual's race/color constitutes unlawful harassment, if the
conduct creates an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment, or
interferes with the individual's work performance.
   B.   Prohibition On Sexual Harassment: It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person's sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the City of Alton to prohibit harassment of any person by any Municipal
official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal agency or office on
the basis of sex or gender. All Municipal officials, Municipal agents,
Municipal employees and Municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from
sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or
lack thereof.
   C.   Definition Of Sexual Harassment: This section adopts the definition of
sexual harassment as stated in the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently
defines sexual harassment as:
Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any conduct of a
sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. The
courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a
"reasonable person".
   D.   Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment: An employee
who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/himself to be the
object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s) as directly and
firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to the offending
employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary for sexual
harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual harassment,
including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this section is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint
with the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what was said
or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited to,
written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and investigated
regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the Municipality.
However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and
the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   E.   Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations:
No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal agency
or office shall take any retaliatory action against any Municipal employee due
to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this
section,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this section, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this section.
For the purposes of this section, retaliatory action means the reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or change in
the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that is taken
in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this section.
No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a report made
in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will be protected
from retaliation.
Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the State
Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  provides whistleblower protection from
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 2 , an employer may not retaliate against an
employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative hearing, or
before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other proceeding, where
the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an
employer may not retaliate against an employee for disclosing information to a
government or law enforcement agency, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a State or Federal
law, rule, or regulation 3 .
According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 4  , it is a civil rights violation
for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate against a
person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in good
faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has made a
charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed over
for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation.
   F.   Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment: In
addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this section or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency.
   G.   Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report: A false report is a
report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the sexual harassment
report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual harassment or
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this section
shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable Municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 7612, 1-10-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
2 1. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
3 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
4 3. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
CHAPTER 12
MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Adopt State Laws
1-12-2: Election Ward Boundaries
1-12-1: ADOPT STATE LAWS:
The city does hereby adopt the provisions of 10 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-
1 et seq., relating to registration of voters in counties having a population
of less than five hundred thousand (500,000) and henceforth, all electors and
voters in all city elections shall be registered pursuant to and in accordance
with the requirements of the election code of the state of Illinois 1  relating
to registration of electors as contained in said article and chapter, as the
same is or shall be amended from time to time by the general assembly of the
state of Illinois. (Ord. 2604, 2-23-1956)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS article 5.
1-12-2: ELECTION WARD BOUNDARIES:
The city of Alton is hereby divided into seven (7) wards and the boundaries of
same are as follows:
FIRST WARD: Beginning at the intersection of the Westerly Corporation Line of
the City of Alton with the northeasterly bank of the Mississippi River; thence
following the Westerly and Northerly Corporation Lines of the City of Alton
until the same intersects the centerline of Hawley Avenue at the east line of
Lawton Street; thence easterly along the centerline of Hawley to the centerline
of State Street; thence northerly along the centerline of State Street to the
centerline of Rozier Street; thence easterly along the centerline of Rozier
Street to the centerline of Belle Street; thence southeasterly along the
centerline of Belle Street and Piasa Street to the centerline of Twentieth
Street; thence easterly along the centerline of Twentieth Street to the
centerline of Market Street; thence southerly along the centerline of Market
Street to a point midway between Sixth and Seventh Streets; thence easterly
midway between Sixth and Seventh Streets to the centerline of Langdon Street;
thence southerly along the centerline of Langdon Street and its southerly
extension to the northeasterly bank of the Mississippi River; thence
northwesterly along the bank of the Mississippi River to the Point of
Beginning.
SECOND WARD: Beginning at the intersection of the centerline of Langdon Street
with a line midway between Sixth and Seventh Streets; thence westerly midway
between Sixth and Seventh Streets to the centerline of Market Street; thence
northerly along the centerline of Market Street to the centerline of Twentieth
Street; thence westerly along the centerline of Twentieth Street to the
centerline of Piasa Street; thence northerly along the centerline of Piasa
Street and Belle Street to the centerline of Rozier Street; thence west along
the centerline of Rozier Street to the centerline of State Street; thence
southwesterly along the centerline of State Street to the centerline of Hawley
Avenue; thence westerly along the centerline of Hawley Avenue to the West
Corporation Line of the City of Alton; thence following the Westerly, Northerly
and Easterly Corporation Lines of the City of Alton until the East Corporation
Line intersects the north line of East Delmar Avenue just west of Central Park
Drive; thence west along the north line of East Delmar Avenue to the centerline
of East Center Drive; thence southwesterly along the centerline of East Center
Drive to the centerline of South Center Drive; thence southerly along the
centerline of South Center Drive to the centerline of Homer Adams Parkway;
thence westerly along the centerline of Homer Adams Parkway to the centerline
of Alby Street; thence southwesterly along the centerline of Alby Street to the
centerline of Martin Luther King Drive southeasterly and southerly along the
centerline of Martin Luther King Drive to the northerly extension of the
centerline of Langdon Street; thence southerly along said northerly extension
and along the centerline of Langdon Street to the line midway between Sixth and
Seventh Streets and the Point of Beginning.
THIRD WARD: Beginning at the intersection of the southerly extension of the
centerline of Langdon Street with the northeasterly bank of the Mississippi
River; thence northerly along said line and along the centerline of Langdon
Street and the northerly extension thereof to the intersection with the
centerline of Martin Luther King Drive; thence northerly along the centerline
of Martin Luther King Drive to the centerline of Alby Street; thence
northeasterly along the centerline of Alby Street to the centerline of Homer
Adams Parkway; thence easterly along the centerline of Homer Adams Parkway to
the centerline of South Center Drive; thence northerly along the centerline of
South Center Drive to the centerline of East Center Drive; thence northeasterly
along the centerline of East Center Drive to the north line of East Delmar
Avenue; thence easterly along the north line of East Delmar Avenue to the West
Corporation Line of the City of Alton; thence following the West and North
Corporation Lines of the City of Alton to the southwesterly right-of-way line
of the former G. M. & O. Railroad cut-off; thence southeasterly along said
southwesterly right-of-way line to the north line of the Northeast quarter of
Section 1, Township 5 North, Range 10 West of the Third Principal Meridian;
thence east along said north line to the northeasterly right-of-way line of the
former G. M. & O. Railroad cut-off; thence southeasterly along said
northeasterly right-of-way line to the line between Range 9 and 10 West of the
Third Principal Meridian; thence south along said line between Range 9 and 10
to the centerline of Moore Street; thence west along the centerline of Moore
Street to the centerline of Oakwood Avenue; thence northerly and westerly along
the centerline of Oakwood Avenue to a point on the north extension of the east
line of Tonser Park Subdivision; thence south along said line and the easterly
line of St. Joseph's Catholic Cemetery to the centerline of Wallace Street;
thence west along the centerline of Wallace Street to the centerline of
Pleasant Street; thence south along the centerline of Pleasant Street to the
centerline of College Avenue; thence westerly along the centerline of College
Avenue to the centerline of Central Avenue; thence south along the centerline
of Central Avenue to the centerline of East Seventh Street; thence east along
the centerline of East Seventh Street to the centerline of Vine Street; thence
south along the centerline of Vine Street to the centerline of East Fifth
Street; thence east along the centerline of East Fifth Street to the centerline
of Pear Street; thence north along the centerline of Pear Street and along the
centerline of Pearl Street to the centerline of Joesting Avenue; thence east
along the centerline of Joesting Avenue to the centerline of Washington Avenue;
thence southwesterly along the centerline of Washington Avenue to the
centerline of East Broadway; thence easterly along the centerline of East
Broadway to the line between Range 9 and 10 West of the Third Principal
Meridian; thence south along said line between Ranges 9 and 10 to the
northeasterly bank of the Mississippi River; thence northwesterly along the
northeasterly bank of the Mississippi River to the Point of Beginning. Also, a
part of the tracts of land acquired by the U.S. Government for the Lock & Dam
#26 replacement located in Sections 19, 24, 30, Township 5 North, Range 9 West
of the Third Principal Meridian, Madison County, State of Illinois and annexed
to the City of Alton by Ordinance No. 6416 and 6623.
FOURTH WARD: Beginning at the intersection of the Southerly Corporation Line of
the City of Alton within the line between Range 9 and 10 West of the Third
Principal Meridian; thence north along said line between Ranges 9 and 10 to the
centerline of East Broadway; thence westerly along the centerline of East
Broadway to the centerline of Washington Avenue; thence northerly along the
centerline of Washington Avenue to the centerline of Joesting Avenue; thence
westerly along the centerline of Joesting Avenue to the centerline of Pearl
Street; thence southerly along the centerline of Pearl Street and along the
centerline of Pear Street to the centerline of East Fifth Street; thence west
along the centerline of East Fifth Street to the centerline of Vine Street;
thence north along the centerline of Vine Street to the centerline of East
Seventh Street; thence west along the centerline of East Seventh Street to the
centerline of Central Avenue; thence north along the centerline of Central
Avenue to the centerline of College Avenue; thence easterly along the
centerline of College Avenue to the centerline of Pleasant Street; thence
northerly along the centerline of Pleasant Street to the centerline of Wallace
Street; thence easterly along the centerline of Wallace Street to the east line
of St. Joseph's Catholic Cemetery; thence northerly along the east line of St.
Joseph's Cemetery, the east line of Tonser Park and its northerly extension to
the centerline of Oakwood Avenue; thence easterly and southerly along the
centerline of Oakwood Avenue to the centerline of Moore Street; thence east
along the centerline of Moore Street to the centerline of Hazel Street; thence
north along the centerline of Hazel Street to the centerline of Claire Avenue;
thence east along the centerline of Claire Avenue to the centerline of Main
Street; thence south along the center of Main Street to the centerline of
Amelia Street; thence west along the centerline of Amelia Street to the line
between Range 9 and 10 West of the Third Principal Meridian; thence south along
said range line to the centerline of Washington Avenue and the south line of
the Southwest quarter of Section 7, Township 5 North, Range 9 West of the Third
Principal Meridian; thence east on said south line to the centerline of Main
Street; thence south on the centerline of Main Street and its extension
southerly to the north right-of-way line of the former C. C. C. & St. L.
Railroad; thence easterly along said north right-of-way line to the southerly
extension of the centerline of the alley between Blocks 13 and 14 in "Siring
Place Subdivision"; thence south on the southerly extension of said alley
centerline to the Southerly Corporation Line of the City of Alton; thence
northwesterly following the various meanderings of the present Southerly
Corporation Line of the City of Alton to the Point of Beginning.
FIFTH WARD: Beginning at the intersection of the range line between Ranges 9
and 10 West of the Third Principal Meridian with the centerline of College
Avenue; thence northerly along said range line to the centerline of Amelia
Street; thence east along the centerline of Amelia to the centerline of Main
Street; thence north along the centerline of Main Street to the centerline of
Claire Avenue; thence west along the centerline of Claire Avenue to the
centerline of Hazel Street; thence south along the centerline of Hazel Street
to the centerline of Moore Street; thence west along the centerline of Moore
Street to the range line between Ranges 9 and 10 West of the Third Principal
Meridian; thence north along said range line to the northeasterly right-of-way
line of former G. M. & O. Railroad cut-off; thence northwesterly along said
right-of-way line to the North Corporation Line of the City of Alton; thence
following various courses of the North Corporation Lines of the City of Alton
to the intersection of the same with the centerline of Seminary Road; thence
southerly along the centerline of Seminary Road to the north line of Bostwick
Street; thence easterly along the easterly extension of the north line of
Bostwick Street to the centerline of Park Avenue; thence southerly along the
centerline of Park Avenue to the centerline of College Avenue; thence westerly
along the centerline of College Avenue to the centerline of Annex Street;
thence southerly along the centerline of Annex Street to the centerline of
Leverett Avenue; thence easterly along the centerline of Leverett Avenue to the
centerline of Worden Avenue; thence southerly along the centerline of Worden
Avenue and its extension southerly to a point one hundred sixty five feet
(165') south of Brown Street; thence westerly along a line parallel to and one
hundred sixty five feet (165') south of Brown Street to the centerline of
Seminary Street; thence southerly along the centerline of Seminary Street and
its extension southerly to the south line of Section 7, Township 5 North, Range
9 West of the Third Principal Meridian; thence along said line to the
centerline of the alley between Blocks 13 and 14 in "Siring Place Subdivision";
thence south along the centerline of said alley and an extension thereof to the
north right-of-way line of the former C. C. C. & St. L. Railroad; thence
westerly along said north right-of-way line to the southerly extension of the
centerline of Main Street; thence north on the centerline of Main Street to the
south line of the Southwest quarter of Section 7, Township 5 North, Range 9
West of the Third Principal Meridian; thence west along said south line to the
centerline of Washington Avenue and the line between Ranges 9 and 10 West of
the Third Principal Meridian; thence north along said range line to the Point
of Beginning.
SIXTH WARD: Beginning at the intersection of the southerly extension of the
alley between Blocks 13 and 14 "Siring Place Subdivision" with the South
Corporation Line of the City; thence northerly along said southerly extension
and along the centerline of the alley in Block 13 and 14 of "Siring Place
Subdivision" to the south line of Section 7, Township 5 North, Range 9 West of
the Third Principal Meridian; thence along said line to the southerly extension
of the centerline of Seminary Street; thence northerly along the southerly
extension of Seminary Street and along the centerline of Seminary Street to a
point one hundred sixty five feet (165') south of Brown Street; thence easterly
along a line parallel to and one hundred sixty five feet (165') south of Brown
Street to the intersection with the southerly extension of Worden Avenue;
thence northerly along said line and along the centerline of Worden Avenue to
the centerline of Leverett Avenue; thence westerly along the centerline of
Leverett Avenue to the centerline of Annex Street; thence northerly along the
centerline of Annex Street to the centerline of College Avenue; thence easterly
along the centerline of College Avenue to the centerline of Park Avenue; thence
northerly along the centerline of Park Avenue to the easterly extension of the
north line of Bostwick Street; thence westerly along said easterly extension to
the east end of Bostwick Street at the centerline of Seminary Street; thence
northerly along the centerline of Seminary Street to the north line of Harris
Lane and the North Corporation Line of the City of Alton; thence easterly,
southerly and westerly following the meanders of the Corporation Line of the
City of Alton to the westerly right-of-way line of the former C. B. & Q.
Railroad; thence southerly along said westerly right- of-way line to the
southerly right-of-way line of Illinois Route 140; thence westerly along said
southerly right-of-way line to the northeasterly right-of-way line of F.A.
Route 132; thence southeasterly along said northeasterly right-of-way line to
the easterly extension of the centerline of Gillham Avenue; thence westerly
along said easterly extension and the centerline of Gillham Avenue to the
centerline of South Rodgers Avenue; thence southerly along the centerline of
South Rodgers Avenue to the centerline of Milton Road; thence southerly along
the centerline of Milton Road to the centerline of Richmond Street; thence
south along the centerline of Richmond Street to the centerline of Oak Drive;
thence westerly along the centerline of Oak Drive to the centerline of Ladd
Avenue; thence southerly along the centerline of Ladd Avenue and its extension
southerly to the south line of the Southwest quarter of Section 17, Township 5
North, Range 9 West of the Third Principal Meridian; thence west along said
south line to the South Corporation Line of the City; thence westerly along
said Corporation Line to the Point of Beginning.
SEVENTH WARD: Beginning at the intersection of the southerly extension of Ladd
Avenue with the south line of the Southwest quarter of Section 17, Township 5
North, Range 9 West of the Third Principal Meridian; thence northerly along
said southerly extension and the centerline of Ladd Avenue to the centerline of
Oak Drive; thence easterly along the centerline of Oak Drive to the centerline
of Richmond Street; thence northerly along the centerline of Richmond Street to
the centerline of Milton Road; thence northwesterly along the centerline of
Milton Road to the centerline of South Rodgers Avenue; thence northerly along
the centerline of South Rodgers Avenue to the centerline of Gillham Avenue;
thence easterly along the centerline of Gillham Avenue and its extension
easterly to the northeasterly right-of-way line of F.A. Route 132; thence
northwesterly along said northeasterly right-of-way line to the southerly
right-of-way line of Illinois Route 140; thence easterly along said southerly
right-of-way line to the westerly right-of-way line of the former C. B. & Q.
Railroad; thence northerly along said westerly right-of-way line to the
Westerly Corporation Line of the City of Alton; thence northerly, easterly,
westerly, and southerly following the meanderings of the western, northern,
eastern, and southern boundaries of the City of Alton to a point in the south
line of the Southwest quarter of Section 17, Township 5 North, Range 9 West of
the Third Principal Meridian at a distance of approximately 208 feet east of
the centerline of Chessen Lane; thence east along said south line to the Point
of Beginning.
(Ord. 6719, 4-9-2003)
CHAPTER 13
FINANCE, PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS
SECTION:
1-13-1: City Comptroller
1-13-2: Maintenance Of Accounts
1-13-3: City Bonds; Ownership Evidence And Endorsement
1-13-4: Accounting Procedures
1-13-5: Financial Reports
1-13-6: Payment Of Claims; Liability For Unauthorized Payments
1-13-7: Audits
1-13-8: Annual Budget
1-13-9: Purchasing And Contracts
1-13-9-1: Purchasing Agent
1-13-9-2: Purchases
1-13-9-3: Exemptions From Bidding Requirements
1-13-9-4: Bidding Procedures
1-13-9-5: Cooperative Purchasing
1-13-9-6: Storerooms
1-13-9-7: Purchasing Or Contracts Contrary To Chapter
1-13-9-8: Contract Compliance
1-13-9-9: Rules And Regulations
1-13-10: Petty Cash Fund
1-13-11: Surplus Personal Property
1-13-1: CITY COMPTROLLER:
   A.   Appointment: The city comptroller shall be appointed by the mayor by
and with the consent of the city council.
   B.   Director Of Finance: The city comptroller shall be the director of the
department of finance.
   C.   Duties: In addition to the performance of duties vested in the city
comptroller by state law 1 , he shall:
      1.   Establish, organize and keep all accounts of the city government.
      2.   Prepare and submit to the mayor such financial statements and
reports as the mayor may require.
      3.   Preaudit:
         a.   All revenues in order to assure the receipt and deposit of all
sums due the city.
         b.   All expenditures in order to prevent expenditures in excess of
budget appropriations, and in order to prevent irregular and illegal
expenditures.
      4.   Conduct special studies and investigations into the financial
affairs of the city departments whenever he deems it advisable.
      5.   Assist the mayor:
         a.   In the preparation of the annual budget.
         b.   In the purchase of all contractual services, supplies, materials
and equipment required by the various departments and agencies of the city,
subject to the ordinances relating thereto and the directions of the mayor.
      6.   Sell such personal property of the city as will not be needed for
further public use, subject to the requirements of state law.
      7.   Have charge of the storage of supplies and materials purchased by
the city and not delivered directly to the various departments and agencies,
and keep proper records thereof. (Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-35-115.
1-13-2: MAINTENANCE OF ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Department Of Finance To Keep: All accounts of the city shall be kept
by the department of finance. Any accounts kept elsewhere pertaining to city
business shall be maintained in strict accordance with orders of the city
comptroller. (Ord. 6756, 8-27-2003)
1-13-3: CITY BONDS; OWNERSHIP EVIDENCE AND ENDORSEMENT:
By the endorsement of the city comptroller upon any bonds of the city, payable
to bearer, when presented for that purpose by the owner, such bonds shall
become payable only to the person named in such endorsement, his assignees or
legal representatives, anything on the face of such bonds to the contrary
notwithstanding. The affidavit of the person presenting any such bonds, or his
authorized agent or attorney, that he is the owner thereof, shall be sufficient
evidence to the city comptroller of such ownership.
The endorsement of the city comptroller may be in the following form:
By virtue of the act of the General Assembly of Illinois, the ordinances of the
City of Alton, and the consent of  (name) , the owner of this bond, this bond
is made payable only to said  (name) , his assignees or legal representatives,
anything on the face hereof to the contrary notwithstanding.  (Signature) ,
City Comptroller. 
(1961 Code, §§ 11-3, 11-5; amd. Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963)
1-13-4: ACCOUNTING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Establishment Of Accounting Procedures: The city comptroller shall
establish the city's accounting procedures in such manner that the accounts
will show all financial transactions of every branch of the city government,
and all financial transactions relating to all appropriations and funds; all
revenue accrued and liabilities incurred; all cash receipts and disbursements;
and, all transactions affecting the acquisition, custody and disposition of
assets. (1961 Code, § 11-6)
   B.   Appropriation Accounts: Accounts shall be kept by the city comptroller
for each appropriation made by the city council, together with a record of each
allotment of the appropriation by the mayor, if any. The city comptroller's
accounts shall show for each appropriation, and allotment if any, the amount of
obligations incurred against the same and the unencumbered balance remaining to
the credit thereof. (Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963)
   C.   Unencumbered Monies:
      1.   Certification Of Unencumbered Balance Prerequisite To Expenditures:
No contract or purchase order involving the expenditure of tax or bond money
shall be issued or entered into, nor shall any such be valid, unless the city
comptroller shall first certify thereon that there is in the treasury to the
credit of the appropriation from which it is to be paid an unencumbered balance
sufficient to meet the obligation. Notwithstanding the foregoing requirements,
stores and services requisitions and emergency purchase orders issued in
accordance with the rules promulgated by the mayor may be certified and
encumbered not later than three (3) days after their issuance. (1961 Code, §
11-8)
      2.   Sources Of Unencumbered Money Deemed In Treasury: All actual
unencumbered monies in the treasury to the credit of the fund from which they
may be drawn, all monies anticipated to be received from taxes or other sources
to the amounts stated in the annual budget and all monies to be derived from
bonds, notes and certificates of indebtedness, either then or previously
authorized, and either sold or authorized to be sold, shall for the purpose of
the city comptroller's certification be deemed in the treasury to the credit of
the appropriate fund and subject to certification. (1961 Code, § 11-9)
   D.   Liability Of Uncertified Obligations: If an official or employee of the
city shall authorize or incur an obligation against the city, without first
securing the city comptroller's certification required by this chapter, he and
his sureties shall be individually liable for the amount of such obligation.
(1961 Code, § 11-10)
   E.   Reserve Account: The city comptroller shall maintain a special account
to be designated as the "reserve account" of the city of Alton. Funds shall be
deposited into said account from time to time at the direction of the city
council or pursuant to the approved budget of the city of Alton. No transfers
from the reserve account may be authorized or completed unless and until
expressly approved by a resolution of the city council approved by a vote of
not less than two- thirds (2/3) of the members of the city council present at
the time of the vote on the resolution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the
event of a bona fide emergency as determined by the mayor and the comptroller
funds may be transferred from the reserve account limited to the amount
necessary to address the emergency; in which case, the mayor shall report the
nature and circumstances of the emergency and the amount of funds transferred
from the reserve account to the city council at their next regular meeting.
(Ord. 7478, 9-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
1-13-5: FINANCIAL REPORTS:
At the close of each month, and at any other time if so ordered, the city
comptroller shall prepare and submit to the mayor a statement of the condition
of each appropriation and fund and such other reports as may be required of
him. At the close of the year he shall submit to the mayor a complete report of
the financial transactions of the year and the condition of the city's
finances, including a balance sheet for each fund, and such other reports as
are required by law. (Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963)
1-13-6: PAYMENT OF CLAIMS; LIABILITY FOR UNAUTHORIZED PAYMENTS:
The City Comptroller shall examine all payrolls, requisitions, bills and other
claims and demands against the City and shall not issue a warrant for payment
thereof unless he has found, by diligent investigation, that the claim is in
proper form, correctly computed and duly approved as required by State law;
that it is justly and legally due and payable; and, that it is accompanied by
the certification of a responsible official of the department concerned that
the goods and services listed therein were actually received. If he finds a
claim to be fraudulent, erroneous or otherwise invalid, he shall refuse to
authorize the payment of the same and shall make immediate report of the
circumstances to the Mayor.
If the City Comptroller issues a warrant on the City Treasurer authorizing the
payment of any item for which no appropriation has been made, or for the
payment of which there is not a sufficient unencumbered balance in the proper
appropriation, or which is otherwise contrary to law, he and his sureties shall
be individually liable to the City for the full amount thereof.
The City Council shall approve for payment all expenses and liabilities of the
City. The Committee of the Whole shall act as an auditing committee to review
such proposed expenses and payments. (1961 Code, § 11-12)
1-13-7: AUDITS:
   A.   Internal Audit:
      1.   The City Comptroller shall conduct a thorough and continuous
internal audit of all receipts, payments, assets and liabilities of all funds
handled by the City, or any agency thereof, in order to protect the City from
loss through accident, negligence or dishonesty. It shall be his responsibility
to see that all amounts legally due the City are correctly computed, and when
collected are deposited in the treasury to the credit of the proper fund and
account. He shall verify the City Treasurer's daily cash transactions and
certify to the correctness of the City Treasurer's cash report.
      2.   At least once a year, he shall audit the securities, insurance
policies and bonds of the City, and shall determine whether the City is
properly and adequately insured and whether City employees are properly and
adequately bonded, reporting his findings to the Mayor.
      3.   He shall maintain an inventory of all real property owned by the
City and of all other property of the City having a useful life of one year or
more.
      4.   No money shall be received by any department of the City except by
means of a numbered receipt or other controlled numbering system prescribed and
controlled by the City Comptroller. A copy of each receipt issued shall be
maintained for the City Comptroller. No money shall be paid out of the treasury
except by means of a warrant issued by the City Comptroller. (1961 Code, § 11-
13; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Special Audits: The City Comptroller shall, when so ordered by the
Mayor, and may upon his own initiative, make special audits and investigations
into the financial affairs of any department of the City government. (Ord.
3171, 4-10-1963)
   C.   Independent Audit: As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal
year, and no later than six (6) months thereafter, there shall be an audit of
all accounts of the City made by a certified public accountant designated by
the City Council. Copies of each audit report shall be filed with the City
Clerk and the State Department of Revenue and in such other places as may be
required by law. (1961 Code, § 11-15)
1-13-8: ANNUAL BUDGET:
   A.   Fiscal Year Designated: The fiscal year of the City shall commence on
April 1 and end on March 31. (1961 Code, § 11-17)
   B.   Submission Of Proposed Budget To City Council:
      1.   Proposed Budget: On or before the fourth Wednesday of April in each
year, the Mayor shall submit to the City Council a proposed budget covering all
municipal activities for the ensuing fiscal year, based upon a careful
consideration of departmental needs and fund resources, as presented to the
Mayor by department heads.
      2.   Budget Allocations To Private Organizations:
         a.   A private organization is defined as any entity not created by or
directly under the control of the City as a municipal corporation.
         b.   Any private organization requesting funding or which is proposed
to receive funding from the City must submit an application for funding to the
City Comptroller, on forms available from the City Comptroller, during the
months of January and February prior to the commencement of the City's fiscal
year, that being April 1. The City shall not provide any funding to any private
organization except in response to an application timely filed with the City
Comptroller as aforesaid and shall in no event provide funding in excess of the
amount requested in said application, unless approved by an affirmative vote of
five (5) Aldermen. If any private organization requests funding or is proposed
to receive funding from the City as part of the proposed budget submitted to
the City Council, it is recommended that such a private organization have at
least two (2) representatives present at any hearings scheduled by the City
Council to consider the funding of such a private organization in the
consideration of the proposed budget submitted to the City Council. The two (2)
representatives should be officers of the private organization, if possible,
and should be fully familiar with the purpose of the proposed funding from the
City and able to respond to any questions or concerns as presented by the
members of the City Council at said hearings. (Ord. 6355, 12-16-1998)
   C.   Information Shown For Each Fund: The proposed budget referred to in the
preceding subsection shall set forth for each fund all proposed expenditures
for the administration, operation and maintenance of all departments and
agencies for which appropriations are to be made or taxes levied by the City
Council, all expenditures for capital projects to be financed by tax levies,
miscellaneous revenue or other similar means during the fiscal year, all
interest and debt redemption charges during the fiscal year and the actual or
estimated operating deficits from previous fiscal years. In addition thereto,
the proposed budget shall set forth for each fund the anticipated income from
all sources, available surpluses and other means of financing such expenditures
for the ensuing fiscal year, the total of which shall not be less than the
total proposed expenditures from each fund. (1961 Code § 11-19)
1-13-9: PURCHASING AND CONTRACTS:
1-13-9-1: PURCHASING AGENT:
The Deputy Comptroller shall be designated the responsibilities of purchasing.
The Deputy Comptroller shall make all purchases and contracts for purchases for
all the departments, commissions and agencies of the City, except as otherwise
provided, of contractual services, supplies, materials and equipment in
accordance with procedures and policies to be promulgated by the Deputy
Comptroller and approved by the Mayor. The Deputy Comptroller may solicit bids
and award term contracts for contractual services, supplies, materials or
equipment which are required by more than one office, department, agency or
other unit of the City government. (Ord. 6961, 7-12-2006)
1-13-9-2: PURCHASES:
   A.   Each department head is hereby authorized to purchase on the open
market, contractual services, supplies, materials and equipment costing not
more than three thousand dollars ($3,000.00).
   B.   All purchases of and contracts for contractual services, supplies,
materials and equipment wherein it is anticipated that the cost thereof will
exceed three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) during one fiscal year shall be
awarded on written purchase orders or contracts, based on competitive bids
submitted, subject to the provisions of this section.
Sealed bids shall be requested for all purchases of three thousand dollars
($3,000.00) or more. For all purchases in excess of three thousand dollars
($3,000.00), the Deputy Comptroller shall post in the City Hall notice of such
bid requests at least five (5) days prior to the opening of such bids and shall
publish notice of bid requests in a newspaper published or generally circulated
within the City.
After said bids are received, they should be tabulated by the Deputy
Comptroller who shall report the results thereof to the Committee of the Whole
except as stated in subsection
1-13-9-4B of this section
1-13-9 and they shall thereafter make their recommendation to the City Council
who shall approve a bid or reject all bids.
   C.   Notwithstanding the preceding subsections, Public Works Department
purchases of and contracts for supplies, materials, and equipment directly
related to the construction, maintenance, improvement or repair of city
roadways, storm sewers, parks and adjacent improvements, Public Works
Department contracts for the demolition and removal of buildings or other
structures, the amount of which does not exceed twenty-five thousand dollars
($25,000.00), may be awarded on written purchase orders or contracts, based
upon not less than three (3) competitive and informal bids solicited by the
Public Works Director or the Deputy Comptroller.
   D.   Contracts which by their nature are not adapted to awards by
competitive bidding, such as contracts for utility services, contracts for the
services of individuals possessing a high degree of professional skill where
the ability and fitness of the individual plays an important part, contracts
for printing bonds and evidences of indebtedness, contracts for purchase of
magazines, books, periodicals, films and records of an educational or
instructional nature, and the binding of such magazines, books, periodicals,
reports and similar articles, and contracts for publication of ordinances and
financial reports, shall not be subject to the competitive bidding requirements
of this chapter.
   E.   The City Council may elect to purchase goods or enter into contracts
for service, supplies, materials or equipment without competitive bids if
approved by a vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the City Council. (Ord.
6595, 7-25-2001; amd. Ord. 6961, 7-12-2006; Ord. 7682, 2-13-2019; Ord. 7789,
12-17-2020)
1-13-9-3: EXEMPTIONS FROM BIDDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Emergency Purchases: In the event of disaster or other emergency, if
purchases of supplies, materials, or equipment must be made immediately without
an opportunity for the procedures established by this Code or without City
Council approval, the Mayor is authorized to make necessary purchases to
protect the public health, safety and welfare without complying with the
procedures outlined in this chapter. In the event of such emergency purchases,
the Mayor shall report the details of the purchases to the City Council at the
next regular meeting thereof.
   B.   Joint Purchases: All purchases made jointly with the United States
government, State of Illinois, or other authorized unit of government are
exempted from the formal and informal bid requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Articles Purchased For Resale To The Public: All purchases intended
solely for resale to the public are exempted from the formal and informal bid
requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Used Materials Or Equipment Not Adapted To Competitive Bidding:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section
1-13-9, in the event a department head deems it advantageous to purchase used
materials or equipment, the department head, acting in conjunction with and
advice of the Deputy Comptroller, and with the approval of the Mayor, may
purchase said materials or equipment. At the next regular City Council meeting
following the purchase of used materials or equipment, the department head and
Deputy Comptroller shall make a full report to the City Council.
   E.   Unanticipated Loss: In the case of the occurrence of any breakage or
loss of equipment, or in other circumstances which could not reasonably be
anticipated, whereby in a necessary regular service of the City is, or is about
to be, interrupted, or whereby the City will suffer any great or continuing
loss, the Deputy Comptroller, upon the approval of the Mayor or the Chairman of
the Committee of the Whole, may negotiate an emergency purchase to restore or
maintain such service or to terminate such loss, without advertising for bids
and in such amount as may be necessary in the circumstances. In the case of
such an emergency purchase involving more than three thousand dollars
($3,000.00), the Mayor shall at the next regular meeting of the City Council
thereafter, render a full report of the case and circumstances. (Ord. 6961, 7-
12-2006)
1-13-9-4: BIDDING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Qualifications Of Bidders: All contracts or open market orders made by
the City shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid is determined by the Deputy
Comptroller to serve the best interest of the City, taking into consideration
the quality of the goods or services to be supplied, their conformity with the
specifications, the price, delivery, terms and the service reputation of the
vendor.
   B.   Rejection Of Bids: The Deputy Comptroller may reject all bids for any
contract or purchase or for any one or more commodities included in such a bid
when the public interest will be served thereby. If all the bids so rejected
are for the same unit price or total amount, or if the public interest will not
permit the delay of soliciting or readvertising for bids, the Deputy
Comptroller shall have the authority to purchase the required contractual
services, supplies, materials and equipment in the open market, provided that
the price paid on the open market shall not exceed the lowest bid price. (Ord.
6961, 7-12-2006)
   C.   Local Bidders: The city shall accept the lowest qualified bidder unless
that bid is from a nonlocal bidder and a local qualified bidder submits a bid
which is within two percent (2%) of the lowest bid, then in that event, the bid
may be awarded to the lowest qualified local bidder. "Nonlocal" bidder shall be
defined as a bidder who does not reside in Alton or have a legitimate business
enterprise lawfully operating in Alton. In the event federal or state statutes
or regulations pertaining to the particular expenditures involved prohibit
acceptance of any bid other than the lowest qualified bid, the foregoing
provision shall not apply. (Ord. 5665, 6-10-1992)
1-13-9-5: COOPERATIVE PURCHASING:
The deputy comptroller shall have the authority to join with other units of
government and agencies in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests
of the city would be served thereby. All purchases made through cooperative
purchasing plans are exempted from the formal and informal bid requirements.
(Ord. 6961, 7-12-2006)
1-13-9-6: STOREROOMS:
Whenever the interests of the city will be thus promoted, the purchasing agent
may purchase goods, supplies, materials and equipment at wholesale and in bulk
and the same shall be paid for out of funds appropriated for this purpose.
Whenever any such goods, supplies, materials or equipment shall be required by
any department or other agency of the city government, the same may be
supplied, so far as possible, out of the general store thus created, and when
so supplied they shall be charged to the department or agency using them and
the appropriate store's account credited with the amounts so charged. (1961
Code, § 11-29)
1-13-9-7: PURCHASING OR CONTRACTS CONTRARY TO CHAPTER:
Whenever any official or employee of the city government shall purchase or
contract for any supplies, materials, equipment or contractual services
contrary to the provisions of this chapter or the rules and regulations made
thereunder, such order or contract shall be void and of no effect. (1961 Code,
§ 11-30)
1-13-9-8: CONTRACT COMPLIANCE:
   A.   Signature: The mayor shall examine all contracts, except purchase
orders to which the city may be a party and shall sign on behalf of the city
any contract authorized by the city council, except where the city council
directs some other officer or officers to do so.
   B.   Compliance: It shall be the duty of the mayor to see that all terms of
any contract to which the city is a party are faithfully performed by all
parties thereto.
   C.   Female And Minority Participation: The city hereby determines that it
is the policy of this city that in all construction projects funded in whole or
in part by city funds or awarded or supervised by the city, its agents, or
employees, all persons participating in any such construction projects shall be
encouraged to strive toward a goal of integration of racial minorities and
women as participants in the economic benefits derived by the private sector in
connection with such public construction projects.
Specifically, it is hereby determined to be the policy of this city that, on
any such construction projects, the city will encourage minority participation
in accordance with duly established federal guidelines. (Ord. 5511, 1-9-1991)
1-13-9-9: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The deputy comptroller, with the approval of the mayor, may adopt, promulgate
and from time to time amend rules and regulations not inconsistent with law for
the following purposes: (Ord. 6961, 7-12-2006)
   A.   To prescribe the manner in which supplies, materials and equipment
shall be delivered, stored and distributed.
   B.   To prescribe the dates for submitting advance requisitions or estimates
of future purchase requirements, the future period which they shall cover, the
form in which they shall be submitted and their revision by the mayor.
   C.   To prescribe the manner of inspecting all deliveries of supplies,
materials and equipment.
   D.   To provide for the transfer between departments of surplus supplies,
materials and equipment.
   E.   To prescribe the amount of deposit or bond to be submitted with the bid
on a contract and the amount of deposit or bond to be given for the faithful
performance of a contract.
   F.   To provide for emergency purchases on the open market for immediate
delivery in emergencies, to define such emergencies and prescribe the manner in
which such purchases shall be made.
   G.   To provide for such other matters as may be necessary to give effect to
the foregoing rules and provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963)
1-13-10: PETTY CASH FUND:
   A.   Established: There is hereby established in the office of the city
comptroller a petty cash fund in an amount not to exceed five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 5188, 11-25-1987)
   B.   Custody Of Fund: The city comptroller shall be personally charged with
the custody of the petty cash fund. The mayor shall be alternate custodian for
the petty cash fund in the absence of the city comptroller. (Ord. 3171, 4-10-
1963)
   C.   Expenditures Not To Exceed Seventy Five Dollars: Expenditures of not
more than seventy five dollars ($75.00) for any one item may be made from the
petty cash fund. A petty cash voucher must be filled out to substantiate each
expenditure from the petty cash fund. (Ord. 6507, 7-12-2000)
   D.   Audit: Upon termination of employment or transfer of either custodian
of the petty cash fund, a check out audit of such fund shall be made before a
final paycheck is issued to such custodian. (1961 Code § 11-38)
   E.   Mayor To Prescribe Regulations: The administrative details for the
orderly handling of the petty cash fund and reimbursement of expenditures made
therefrom shall be as prescribed by the mayor. (Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963)
1-13-11: SURPLUS PERSONAL PROPERTY:
   A.   From time to time the city council may, by resolution, approve the sale
of specific items of city owned surplus property that are found to be no longer
necessary or appropriate for municipal purposes for the city of Alton. The sale
of such specific items of surplus personal property shall be conducted at the
direction of the deputy comptroller and shall be in the form of an advertised
public auction or by an internet auction service previously approved by the
city council. Sale of surplus personal property to any entity other than by an
advertised public auction or through an internet auction service previously
approved by the city council must be approved by the city council on a case by
case basis. (Ord. 7337, 11-28-2012; amd. Ord. 7477, 9-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
   B.   Any scrap metal, plastic, or any other recyclable materials with any
monetary value can only be disposed of, sold, traded or bartered by a city
employee pursuant to a specific written directive from the head of the
department holding such material. A report concerning any such materials that
may be transferred pursuant to the specific written directive of the head of a
department shall be forwarded to the office of the mayor, treasurer and
comptroller within two (2) business days following such a transfer. The report
shall contain at a minimum the written directive of the department head, a
description of the materials transferred, the name and location of the
transferee, receipts from the transferee for all such materials and the name or
names of the city employees tasked with delivering the materials to the
transferee. Any funds received on behalf of the city of Alton in connection
with the transfer of such materials shall be conveyed to the office of the
treasurer along with the aforesaid report not less than two (2) business days
following the transfer. (Ord. 7477, 9-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
CHAPTER 14
INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL REVENUE BONDS PROCEDURE
SECTION:
1-14-1: Definitions
1-14-2: Legislative Declaration Of Purpose
1-14-3: Additional Powers
1-14-4: Exercise Of Powers; Bonds
1-14-5: Covenants In Bonds
1-14-6: Signatures Of Officers On Bonds; Validity Of Bonds
1-14-7: Lien Of Bonds
1-14-8: Liability For Bonds
1-14-9: Investment Of Funds
1-14-10: Exemption From Construction And Bidding Requirements For Public
Buildings
1-14-11: Additional And Supplemental Powers; Limitations Imposed
1-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this Chapter, unless a different meaning clearly appears from
the context:
CITY: The City of Alton, Madison County, Illinois.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT: Any land, interest in land, building, structure,
facility, system, fixture, improvement, addition, appurtenance, machinery or
equipment or any combination thereof, on all real and personal property deemed
necessary in connection therewith, for use by any person, provided that the
existence of such economic development project will create or retain employment
opportunities in the City.
FINANCING AGREEMENT: Any agreement entered into by the City with any person or
persons which provides that the City shall issue its bonds, notes or other
obligations to finance all or a portion of the costs of a project or projects,
title to which may or may not be vested in the City, provided that said bonds,
notes or other obligations shall be limited obligations of the City as provided
in Section
1-14-8 of this Chapter.
HOSPITAL FACILITY: Any land interest in land, building, structure, facility,
system, fixture, improvement, appurtenance, addition, machinery or equipment or
any combination thereof, and all real and personal property deemed necessary in
connection therewith, having to do with or the end purpose of which, is the
provision of hospital and nursing home and health care services.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, firm, company, corporation
(including public utilities), association, joint stock company, trust, estate,
political subdivision, state agency, or any other legal entity, or its legal
representative, agent or assigns.
POLLUTION: Any form of environmental pollution including, but not limited to,
water pollution, air pollution, land pollution, solid waste pollution, thermal
pollution, radiation contamination, or noise pollution as determined by the
various standards prescribed by this State, the Federal government or other
governmental entities and including, but not limited to, anything which is
considered as pollution or environmental damage in the Environmental Protection
Act 1 , and any amendment thereto and substitution therefor.
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY: Any land, interest in land, building, structure,
facility, system, fixture, improvement, appurtenance, addition, machinery or
equipment, or any combination thereof, and all real and personal property
deemed necessary in connection therewith, having with or the end purpose of
which is, reducing, controlling or preventing pollution.
PROJECT: Any economic development project, pollution control facility or
hospital facility, water facility or any combination thereof.
PROJECT COSTS: Includes the sum total of all reasonable or necessary costs
incidental to the acquisition, construction, reconstruction, repair,
alteration, improvement and extension of a project including without limitation
the cost of studies and surveys; plans, specifications, architectural and
engineering services; legal, marketing or other special services; financing,
acquisition, demolition, construction, equipment and site development of new
and rehabilitated buildings, rehabilitation, reconstruction, repair or
remodeling of existing buildings and all other necessary and incidental
expenses including an initial bond and interest reserve together with interest
on bonds issued to finance a project to a date six (6) months subsequent to the
estimated date of completion.
WATER FACILITY: Any land, interest in land, building, structure, facility,
system, fixture, improvement, appurtenance, addition, machinery or equipment,
or any combination thereof, and all real and personal property deemed necessary
in connection therewith, having to do with or the end purpose of which, is the
furnishing of water, on reasonable demand, to members of the general public.
(Ord. 4700, 6-9-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS.
1-14-2: LEGISLATIVE DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
It is hereby determined and declared that the purpose of this Chapter is to
provide a financing device which will aid in financing the cost of projects in
order to relieve conditions of unemployment and to encourage the increase of
industry within the City, thereby reducing the evils attendant upon
unemployment and to provide for the increased welfare and prosperity of the
residents of the City; it is hereby further determined and declared to be the
purpose of this Chapter to provide a financing device which will aid in
financing the cost of pollution control facilities in order to eliminate, abate
or reduce the serious dangers to the public health and welfare caused by
environmental pollution and to provide a financing device which will aid in
financing the cost of hospital facilities; it is hereby further determined and
declared to be the purpose of this Chapter to provide a financing device which
will aid in financing the cost of water facilities; and the same are hereby
declared and determined to be public purposes and functions pertaining to the
government and affairs of the City. (Ord. 4599, 3-25-1981)
1-14-3: ADDITIONAL POWERS:
In addition to powers which it may now have, the City shall have the power
under this Chapter:
   A.   To construct, acquire by gift, purchase or lease, to reconstruct,
improve, better or extend and to finance one or more projects, whether or not
now or hereafter in existence and whether or not the City has any title to such
project or projects, within the City, and if desirable, to acquire by gift,
purchase or lease lands or rights in land in connection with any project.
   B.   To issue its revenue bonds to defray in whole or in part the project
costs of any project and to designate an appropriate name for such bonds.
   C.   To rent, lease or sell any project to any person or to execute a
financing agreement with any person or persons in such manner that payments to
be received with respect to the project or such financing agreement shall
produce revenues and receipts sufficient to provide for the prompt payments at
maturity of principal, interest and redemption premiums, if any upon all bonds
issued to finance the cost of such project.
   D.   To pledge to the punctual payment of bonds authorized under this
Chapter, the interest thereon, and the redemption premiums, if any, the revenue
and receipts to be received from such project or such financing agreement.
   E.   To mortgage such project in favor of the holder or holders of bonds
issued therefor.
   F.   To sell and convey such project, including without limitation the sale
and conveyance thereof subject to a mortgage, if any, as provided in this
Chapter, for such price and at such time as the governing body of the City may
determine. However, no sale or conveyance of such project shall ever be made in
such manner as to impair the rights or interests of the holder or holders of
any bonds issued to finance the project costs of such project.
   G.   To issue its bonds to refund in whole or in part, bonds theretofore
issued by such City under authority of this Chapter.
      1.   The principal proceeds from the sale of any refunding bonds shall be
applied only as follows: either,
         a.   To the immediate payment and retirement of the obligations being
refunded; or
         b.   To the extent not required for the immediate payment of the bonds
being refunded then such proceeds shall be deposited in trust to provide for
the payment and retirement of the bonds being refunded, and to pay any expenses
incurred in connection with such refunding, but provision may be made for the
pledging and disposition of any surplus, including, without limitation,
provision for the pledging of any surplus to the payment of principal and
interest on series of refunding bonds. Money in any such trust may be invested
in direct obligations of, or obligations the principal and interest of which
are guaranteed by, the United States government. Nothing herein shall be
construed as a limitation on the duration of any deposit in trust for the
retirement of obligations being refunded which shall not have matured and which
shall not be presently redeemable, or, if presently redeemable, shall not have
been called for redemption.
   H.   To issue its notes or other obligations for the same purposes and under
the same conditions authorized in this Chapter for the issuance of its bonds.
Property acquired by the City pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter shall
be exempt from the imposition and collection of taxes thereon while owned the
City, but the use of such property is subject to taxation to be paid by the
lessee or occupant as provided in section 26 of the Revenue Act of 1939, filed
May 17, 1939, or as may hereafter be amended. (Ord. 4186, 3-23-1977)
1-14-4: EXERCISE OF POWERS; BONDS:
The exercise of all powers granted by this Chapter may be authorized, and bonds
authorized to issued under this Chapter for the purposes set forth by ordinance
of the governing body of the City which may be adopted at the same meeting at
which it is introduced and shall take effect immediately upon adoption.
The bonds shall bear interest at such rate or rates, payable at such times, may
be in one or more series, may bear such date or dates, may mature at such time
or times not exceeding forty (40) years from their respective dates, may be
payable in such medium of payment at such place or places, may carry such
registration privileges, may be subject to such terms of redemption at such
premiums, may be executed in such manner, may contain such terms, covenants and
conditions, and may be in such form, either coupon or registered, as such
ordinance may provide or as may be subsequently determined by the governing
body before the bonds are issued. The bonds may be sold at public or private
sale in such manner and upon such terms as may be deemed advisable by the
governing body of the City. Pending the preparation of the definitive bonds,
interim receipts or certificates in such form and with such provisions as the
governing body of the City may determine, may be issued to the purchaser or
purchasers of bonds sold pursuant to this Chapter. The bonds and interim
receipts or certificates shall be deemed to be securities and negotiable
instrument's within the meaning and for all purposes of the "Uniform Commercial
Code 1 . (Ord. 3803, 3-28-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. 810 ILCS.
1-14-5: COVENANTS IN BONDS:
Any ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds under this Chapter may contain
covenants as to:
   A.   The use and disposition of the revenues and receipts from the project
or financing agreement for which the bonds are to be issued, including the
creation and maintenance of reserves;
   B.   The issuance of other or additional bonds relating to the project or
any rehabilitation, improvements, renovations, enlargements or addition's
thereto;
   C.   The maintenance and repair of such project;
   D.   The insurance to be carried thereon and the use and disposition of
insurance moneys;
   E.   The appointment of any bank or trust company within or outside the
State of Illinois, having the necessary trust powers as trustee for the benefit
of the bondholders, paying agent and bond registrar;
   F.   The investment of any funds held by such trustee; and
   G.   The terms and conditions upon which the holders of the bonds or any
portion thereof or any trustees therefor, are entitled to the appointment of a
receiver.
Any ordinance authorizing the issuance of bonds under this Chapter may provide
that the principal of and interest on any bonds issued under this Chapter shall
be secured by a mortgage or indenture of trust covering such project for which
the bonds are issued and may include any improvements or extensions thereafter
made. Such mortgage or indenture of trust containing such covenants and
agreements to properly safeguard the bonds as may be provided for in the
ordinance authorizing such bonds and shall be executed in the manner as may be
provided for in the ordinance. The provisions of this Chapter and any such
ordinance or ordinances and any such mortgage or indenture of trust shall
constitute a contract with the holder or holders of the bonds and continue in
effect until the principal of, the interest on, and the redemption premiums, if
any, on the bonds so issued have been fully paid, and the duties of the City
and its corporate authorities and officers under this Chapter and any such
ordinance or ordinances and any such mortgage or indenture of trust shall be
enforceable by any bondholder by mandamus, foreclosure of any such mortgage or
indenture of trust or other appropriate suit, action or proceedings in any
court of competent jurisdiction; provided, the ordinance or any mortgage or
indenture of trust under which the bonds are issued may provide that all such
remedies and rights to enforcement may be vested in a trustee for the benefit
of all the bondholders which trustee shall be subject to the control of a
majority of the holders or owners of any outstanding bonds. (Ord. 3986, 6-11-
1975)
1-14-6: SIGNATURES OF OFFICERS ON BONDS; VALIDITY OF BONDS:
The bonds shall bear the manual or facsimile signatures of such officers of the
City as may be designated in the ordinance authorizing such bonds and such
signatures shall be the valid and binding signatures of the officers of the
City, notwithstanding that before the delivery thereof and payments therefor
any or all of the persons whose signatures thereon have ceased to be officers
of the City issuing such. The validity of the bonds is not dependent on nor
affected by the validity or regularity of any proceedings relating to the
acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipping,
betterment or extension of the project for which the bonds are issued. The
ordinance authorizing the bonds may provide that the bonds shall contain a
recital that they are issued pursuant to this Chapter, which recital shall be
conclusive evidence of their validity and of the regularity of their issuance.
(Ord. 3986, 6-11-1975)
1-14-7: LIEN OF BONDS:
All bonds issued under this Chapter shall have a lien upon the revenues and
receipts derived from the project or financing agreement for which the bonds
have been issued, and the governing body may provide in the ordinance or
ordinances authorizing such bonds for the issuance of additional bonds to be
equally and ratably secured by a lien upon such revenues and receipts or may
provide that the lien upon such revenues and receipts is subordinate. (Ord.
3986, 6-11-1975)
1-14-8: LIABILITY FOR BONDS:
All bonds issued under and pursuant to this Chapter shall be limited
obligations of the City payable solely out of the revenues and receipts derived
from the project or financing agreement with respect to which such bonds are
issued. No holder of any bonds issued under this Chapter has the right to
compel any exercise of taxing power of the City to pay the bonds, the interest
or premium, if any, thereon and the bonds do not constitute an indebtedness of
the City or a loan of credit thereof within the meaning of any constitutional
or statutory provision. It shall be plainly stated on the face of each bond
that it has been issued under the provisions of this Chapter and that it does
not constitute an indebtedness of the City or a loan of credit thereof within
the meaning of any constitutional or statutory provisions. (Ord. 3986, 6-11-
1975)
1-14-9: INVESTMENT OF FUNDS:
The City, or any trustee on behalf of the City, may invest any funds held by it
pursuant to this Chapter in bonds, notes, certificates of indebtedness,
treasury bills or other securities constituting direct obligations of the
United States of America; in certificates of deposit or time deposits
constituting direct obligations of any bank as defined by the Illinois Banking
Act 1 , as heretofore and hereafter amended, provided, however, that
investments may be made only in those certificates of deposit or time deposits
in banks which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, if
then in existence; or in short term discount obligations of the Federal
National Mortgage Association. Any such securities may be purchased at the
offering or market price thereof at the time of such purchase. (Ord. 3803, 3-
28-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. 205 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
1-14-10: EXEMPTION FROM CONSTRUCTION AND BIDDING REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC
BUILDINGS:
The acquisition and construction of a project shall not be subject to any
requirements relating to public buildings, structures, grounds, works or
improvements imposed by State law 1  or any other similar requirements which
may be lawfully waived by this Section and any requirement of competitive
bidding or restriction imposed on the procedure for award of contracts for such
purpose or the lease, sale or other disposition of property of the City is not
applicable to any action taken under authority of this Chapter. (Ord. 3803, 3-
28-1973)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/8-10-1 et seq.
1-14-11: ADDITIONAL AND SUPPLEMENTAL POWERS; LIMITATIONS IMPOSED:
The powers conferred by this Chapter are in addition and supplemental to, and
the limitations imposed by this Chapter shall not affect, the powers conferred
by any law or any other ordinance. Projects may be acquired, purchased,
constructed, reconstructed, improved, bettered, equipped, extended and
financed, and bonds may be issued under this Chapter for such purposes,
notwithstanding that any law or any other ordinance may provide for the
acquisition, purchase, construction, reconstruction, improvement, equipping,
betterment, extension and financing of a like project, or the issuance of bonds
for like purposes, and without regard to the requirements, restrictions,
limitations or other provisions contained in any law or any other ordinance.
(Ord. 3803, 3-28-1973)
CHAPTER 15
PROPERTY TAX ABATEMENT
SECTION:
1-15-1: Property Tax Abatement Within The City
1-15-2: Property Tax Abatement For Industrial Firms Within The County
1-15-3: Urban Decay Tax Abatement
1-15-4: Residential Property Tax Abatement
1-15-1: PROPERTY TAX ABATEMENT WITHIN THE CITY:
The city authorizes and directs the county clerk to abate ad valorem taxes
imposed upon real estate described on description and plat attached to
ordinance 4927 and made a part hereof, located within the city, upon which new
improvements have been constructed or upon which existing improvements have
been renovated or rehabilitated, subject to the following conditions:
   A.   The improvements or renovations are of the scope and nature for which a
building permit is required and has been obtained;
   B.   Any abatement of taxes on any parcel shall not exceed the amount
attributable to the construction of the improvements and the renovation or
rehabilitation of existing improvements on such parcel;
   C.   Such abatement shall be allowed only for industrial or manufacturing
property located within the city;
   D.   Such abatement shall be at the rate of one hundred percent (100%) of
the value of the improvements for the assessment year in which the improvements
are made, and the three (3) assessment years immediately following the year in
which the improvements are made;
   E.   The abatements will apply to the assessed value at the time of approval
and the then current taxing rate. If there would be increases in the taxing
rate or reassessments done during the time of the abatement period which would
increase the assessed value, the business or industry would be responsible for
the taxes on the increases. (Ord. 4927, 7-24-1985)
1-15-2: PROPERTY TAX ABATEMENT FOR INDUSTRIAL FIRMS WITHIN THE COUNTY:
   A.   Length Of Abatement: The length of abatement will range from no
abatement to a maximum of four (4) years, considered on a firm by firm basis
using the following criteria as parameters:
      1.   New commercial or industrial firms locating, resulting in an
increase in the assessed value and an increase in the work force, maximum of
four (4) year abatement, minimum of three (3) year abatement.
      2.   Existing commercial or industrial firm expanding, resulting in an
increase in the assessed value and an increase in the work force, maximum of
four (4) year abatement, minimum of three (3) year abatement.
      3.   Existing commercial or industrial firm expanding, resulting in an
increase in the assessed value, no increase in the work force but retains
existing employees, maximum of three (3) year abatement, minimum of two (2)
year abatement.
      4.   Existing commercial or industrial firm expanding, resulting in an
increase in the assessed value and a reduction of the work force, maximum of
two (2) year abatement, minimum of no abatement.
   B.   Amount Of Abatement: As established by law, the total aggregate
abatement granted to any one industrial firm cannot exceed one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) over a ten (10) year period. Additionally, the city will
prorate the amount of abatement in the following manner:
      1.   New commercial or industrial firm locating, resulting in an increase
in the assessed value and an increase in the work force, maximum of one hundred
percent (100%) abatement on the increase in assessed value, minimum of fifty
percent (50%) abatement on the increase in assessed value.
      2.   Existing commercial or industrial firm expanding, resulting in an
increase in the assessed value and an increase in the work force, maximum of
one hundred percent (100%) abatement on the increase in assessed value, minimum
of fifty percent (50%) abatement on the increase in assessed value.
      3.   Existing commercial or industrial firm expanding, resulting in an
increase in the assessed value, no increase in the work force but retains
existing employees, maximum of seventy five percent (75%) abatement on the
increase in assessed value, minimum of twenty five percent (25%) abatement on
the increase in assessed value.
      4.   Existing commercial or industrial firm expanding, resulting in an
increase in the assessed value but a reduction in the work force, maximum of
fifty percent (50%) abatement in the increase in assessed value, minimum of
zero percent (0%) abatement.
The actual percentage of abatement granted will be considered on a firm by firm
basis with the following to be used for major determinants: current assessed
valuation, current number of employees, increase in assessed value due to
expansion and the actual number of employees added/retained.
   C.   Eligible Applicants: City property tax abatements will be considered on
the increase in assessed value for:
      1.   Any commercial or industrial firm locating in the City from another
county, state or country. The location of the new facility in the City by a
business already operating in Illinois will not be entitled to an abatement
unless it is clearly shown that the establishment of the business in Alton will
not result in the loss of employment at that business's other locations in the
State of Illinois for the term of the abatement;
      2.   Any commercial or industrial firm newly created within the State of
Illinois and locating in Alton; or
      3.   Existing Alton commercial or industrial firms that expand within the
City.
   D.   Eligible Areas: Any area zoned C-1 or higher within the City will be an
eligible area.
   E.   Guidelines For Consideration Of Request For Property Tax Abatement:
      1.   Abatements will apply to the increase in assessments only.
      2.   The length of abatements will range from four (4) years to no
abatement, with the City Council to determine the exact length using the
previously identified criteria.
      3.   The amount of abatement will range from one hundred percent (100%)
to zero percent (0%) with the City Council to determine the percentage amount
using the previously identified criteria.
      4.   An area zoned C-1 or higher within the City will be considered an
eligible area.
      5.   The total amount of all abatements shall not exceed fifteen percent
(15%) of the City's taxable industrial property value in any one year.
      6.   The requests to the Alton City Council for property tax abatement
will be considered on a priority of a first-come, first-served basis.
      7.   All requests to the Alton City Council for property tax abatement
should be made in writing and include the following information:
         a.   Name of firm.
         b.   Location of firm.
         c.   Phone number.
         d.   Name and title of person requesting abatement.
         e.   Brief explanation of firm's operations where abatement is being
requested.
         f.   Current number of employees at this location.
         g.   Current total assessed valuation at this location.
         h.   Copy of the firm's annual report, where the firm does an annual
report, unless waived by State or Federal law. Where subsidiary, annual report
of parent corporation.
         i.   If a corporation, the corporate registration number; if other
than a corporation, photocopy of registration certificate received from the
Madison County Clerk.
         j.   The total number of full-time and part-time employees hired,
added or retained as a result of the location/expansion including their
combined estimated annual payroll.
         k.   Total cost of the expansion/location.
         l.   Market area for products manufactured.
         m.   Projected impact on City businesses producing a similar or same
product or service.
         n.   Estimated amount of abatement being requested annually.
         o.   Length of abatement being requested.
         p.   Estimated total amount of abatement being requested.
         q.   Amount of abatements requested and granted in the past ten (10)
years within the City to include current year.
         r.   Additional information as may be requested by the City Council.
      8.   All applications shall be submitted to the City Council which shall
refer same to the Committee of the Whole for its recommendation. Same shall
then be forwarded to the Madison County Department of Community Development for
an advisory opinion and recommendations of the City Council.
   F.   Identification Of Firms By "Type":
      Type 1   New commercial or industrial firm locating, resulting in an
increase in the assessed value and an increase in the work force.
      Type 2   Existing commercial or industrial firm expanding, resulting in
an increase in the assessed value and an increase in the work force.
      Type 3   Existing commercial or industrial firm expanding, resulting in
an increase in the assessed value, no increase in the work force but retains
existing employees.
      Type 4   Existing commercial or industrial firm expanding, resulting in
an increase in assessed value but a reduction in the work force.
   G.   Maximum And Minimum Tax Abatement Ranges:
 
      Length          Amount
      Max.    Min.    Max. Min.
Type 1 4 years 3 years 100% 50%
Type 2 4 years 3 years 100% 50%
Type 3 3 years 2 years 75%  25%
Type 4 2 years 0 years 50%  0%
 
(Ord. 5011, 4-9-1986)
1-15-3: URBAN DECAY TAX ABATEMENT:
An Urban Decay Tax Abatement program is hereby created and the City authorizes
and directs the County Clerk to abate property taxes imposed on newly
constructed, owner occupied single-family and duplex residential dwellings in
the area known as the Hunterstown Redevelopment District. Such Urban Decay Tax
Abatement program is subject to the following conditions:
   A.   The Urban Decay Tax Abatement program shall only be allowed for newly
constructed, owner occupied single-family and duplex residential dwellings in
the area known as the Hunterstown Redevelopment District, as depicted by the
map attached to Ordinance 6140 on file in the City Clerk's office.
   B.   The Urban Decay Tax Abatement program shall be in effect for a period
of ten (10) years following the date of adoption.
   C.   Any eligible structure which has received a valid building permit
within the effective period of time for the program shall be entitled to
receive real property tax abatement upon all real property tax upon completion
of the structure in the following manner:
 
Year 1 through 6 100 percent abatement
Year 7           80 percent abatement
Year 8           60 percent abatement
Year 9           40 percent abatement
Year 10          20 percent abatement
 
   D.   The urban decay tax abatement shall be extended to all subsequent
owners of an eligible property during the abatement period. (Ord. 6140, 3-26-
1997)
1-15-4: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY TAX ABATEMENT:
Within and upon certain real estate formerly utilized by the Madison County
housing authority as Sullivan Homes and Curran Homes, more particularly
described on exhibit A, attached to ordinance 6919 and by this reference made a
part hereof, as to any new improvements which may be constructed from and after
the effective date hereof, the city may authorize and direct the county clerk
to abate ad valorem taxes imposed upon the various parcels of real estate
therein located, subject to the following conditions:
   A.   The improvements are designed, constructed and maintained, for
residential purposes only;
   B.   Any abatement of taxes of any parcels pursuant to this section shall
not exceed the amount attributable to the construction of the improvements on
such parcel as may occur after the effective date hereof;
   C.   Such abatement shall be at the rate of one hundred percent (100%) of
the value of the improvements for the assessment year in which the improvements
are made, and for the four (4) assessment years immediately following the year
in which the improvements are made. The determination to authorize and direct
the county clerk to abate the ad valorem taxes for the properties and under the
conditions as aforesaid shall rest solely with the city council of the city of
Alton. The city council may, from time to time, direct that such taxes be
abated by way of a resolution specifically identifying the Madison County tax
parcel identification number on which such taxes are to be abated. (Ord. 6919,
11-9-2005)
CHAPTER 16
MUNICIPAL PROPERTY AND FUNCTIONS
SECTION:
1-16-1: Corporate Seal
1-16-2: Official Flag
1-16-1: CORPORATE SEAL:
A seal in a circular form, consisting of two (2) inscribed circles with a
device of a figure of justice seated at the foot of the bluffs, leaning on a
pillar, with scales poised, overlooking the river, on which a steamboat is
passing; the sun rising in the distance and an anchor at her feet, with the
word "Excelsior" beneath and the words "City of Alton, Illinois, 1837" in Roman
capitals engraved between the circles, shall be the Seal of the City, to be
used in all cases that have been or shall hereafter be provided by the laws of
the United States, the laws of the several respective states of the United
States and the ordinances of the City, and in all the cases in which, by the
laws and customs of nations, it is necessary to use a seal by a corporation.
(1961 Code § 1-12)
1-16-2: OFFICIAL FLAG:
The flag presented to the City by the Greater Alton Association of Commerce is
hereby adopted as the official flag of the City of Alton, Illinois. Said
official flag shall be displayed at such times and places as are appropriate
and the City Clerk is hereby designated as the official custodian of said flag.
(Ord. 3637, 1-27-1971)
CHAPTER 17
GIFT BAN
SECTION:
1-17-1: Short Title
1-17-2: Definitions
1-17-3: Gift Ban
1-17-4: Exceptions
1-17-5: Attendance At Events
1-17-6: Disposition Of Gifts
1-17-7: Reimbursement
1-17-8: Ethics Officer
1-17-9: Further Restrictions
1-17-10: Complaint Procedure
1-17-11: Enforcement
1-17-12: Penalty
1-17-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be entitled the GIFT BAN CODE OF THE CITY OF ALTON,
ILLINOIS. (Ord. 6386, 5-13-1999)
1-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following definitions apply:
EMPLOYEE: All full-time and part-time employees, appointed and elected
officials, and directors of a governmental entity.
GIFT: Any gratuity, discount, entertainment, hospitality, loan, forbearance, or
other tangible or intangible item having monetary value including, but not
limited to, cash, food and drink, and honoraria for speaking engagements
related to or attributable to government employment or the official position of
an employee, member, officer or judge.
PROHIBITED SOURCE: Any person or entity who:
   A.   Is seeking official action: 1) by the public official or employee or 2)
in the case of an employee, by the employee or by public official or other
employee directing the employee;
   B.   Does business or seeks to do business: 1) with the public official or
employee or 2) in the case of an employee, with the public official or other
employee directing the employee;
   C.   Conducts activities regulated: 1) by the public official or employee or
2) in the case of any employee, by the public official or other employee
directing the employee;
   D.   Has interests that may be substantially affected by the performance or
nonperformance of the official duties of the public official or employee; or
   E.   Is registered or required to be registered with the Secretary of State
under the Lobbyist Registration Act. (Ord. 6386, 5-13-1999)
1-17-3: GIFT BAN:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, no public official or employee
shall solicit or accept any gift from any prohibited source or in violation of
any Federal or State statute, rule or regulation. This ban applies to and
includes spouses of and immediate family living with such public official and
employee. No prohibited source shall offer or make a gift that violates this
Chapter. (Ord. 6386, 5-13-1999)
1-17-4: EXCEPTIONS:
The restriction in Section
1-17-3 of this Chapter does not apply to the following:
   A.   Market Value: Anything for which the public official or employee pays
the market value or anything not used and promptly disposed of as provided in
Section
1-17-6 of this Chapter.
   B.   Contribution: A contribution, as defined in article 9 of the State of
Illinois Election Code 1 , that is lawfully made under that Act or attendance
at a fundraising event sponsored by a political organization.
   C.   Gift: A gift from a relative, meaning those people related to the
individual as father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, uncle, aunt,
great aunt, great uncle, first cousin, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law,
mother-in-law, son- in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law,
stepfather, stepmother, stepson, stepdaughter, stepbrother, stepsister, half
brother, half sister, and including the father, mother, grandfather, or
grandmother of the individual's spouse and the individual's fiancé or fiancée.
   D.   Personal Friendship: Anything provided by an individual on the basis of
a personal friendship unless the public official or employee has reason to
believe that, under the circumstances, the gift was provided because of the
official position or employment of the public official or employee and not
because of the personal friendship.
In determining whether a gift is provided on the basis of personal friendship,
the public official or employee shall consider the circumstances under which
the gift was offered, such as:
      1.   The history of the relationship between the individual giving the
gift and the recipient of the gift, including any previous exchange of gifts
between those individuals;
      2.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the public official or employee,
the individual who gave the gift personally paid for the gift or sought a tax
deduction or business reimbursement for the gift; and
      3.   Whether to the actual knowledge of the public official or employee
the individual who gave the gift also at the same time gave the same or similar
gifts to other public officials or employees.
   E.   Loan: A commercially reasonable loan evidenced in writing with
repayment due by a date certain made in the ordinary course of lender's
business.
   F.   Defense Fund: A contribution or other payments to a legal defense fund
established for the benefit of a public official or employee that is otherwise
lawfully made.
   G.   Intra-Office: For the purpose of this Chapter, "intra- office gifts"
means any gift given by one public official or employee of the City to another
official or employee.
   H.   Benefits: Food, refreshments, lodging, transportation and other
benefits:
      1.   Resulting from the outside business or employment activities (or
outside activities that are not connected to the duties of the public official
or employee) of the public official or employee or the spouse of a public
official or employee if the benefits have not been offered or enhanced because
of the official position or employment of the public official or employee and
are customarily provided to others in similar circumstances;
      2.   Customarily provided by a prospective employer in connection with
bona fide employment discussions; or
      3.   Provided by a political organization in connection with a
fundraising or campaign event sponsored by that organization.
   I.   Pension: Pension and other benefits resulting from continued
participation in an employee welfare and benefits plan maintained by a former
employer.
   J.   Materials: Informational materials that are sent to the office of the
public official or employee in the form of books, articles, periodicals, other
written materials, audiotapes, videotapes, or other forms of communication.
   K.   Awards: Awards or prizes that are given to competitors in contests or
events open to the public, including random drawings.
   L.   Honorary Degree: Honorary degrees and associated travel, food,
refreshments, and entertainment provided in the presentation of degrees and
awards.
   M.   Training: Training (including food and refreshments furnished to all
attendees as an integral part of the training) provided to a public official or
employee, if the training is in the interest of the governmental entity.
   N.   Education: Educational missions, including meetings with government
officials either foreign or domestic, intended to educate public officials on
matters of public policy, to which the public official or employee may be
invited to participate along with other Federal, State or local public
officials and community leaders.
   O.   Inheritances: Bequests, inheritances, and other transfers at death.
   P.   Federal Government: Anything that is paid for by the Federal
Government, State or governmental entity, or secured by the government or
governmental entity under a government contract.
   Q.   Personal Hospitality: A gift of personal hospitality of an individual
other than a registered lobbyist or agent of a foreign principal, including
hospitality extended for a nonbusiness purpose by an individual, not a
corporation or organization, at the personal residence of that individual or
the individual's family or on property or facilities owned by that individual
or the individual's family.
   R.   Attendance: Free attendance at a widely attended event permitted in
Section
1-17-5 of this Chapter.
   S.   Opportunities: Opportunities and benefits that are:
      1.   Available to the public or to a class consisting of all public
officials or employees, whether or not restricted on the basis of geographical
consideration;
      2.   Offered to members of a group or class in which membership is
unrelated to employment or official positions;
      3.   Offered to members of an organization such as an employee's
association or credit union, in which membership is related to employment or
official position and similar opportunities are available to large segments of
the public through organizations of similar size;
      4.   Offered to any group or class that is not defined in a manner that
specifically discriminates among government employees on the basis of branch of
government or type of responsibility, or on a basis that favors those of higher
rank or rate of pay;
      5.   In the form of loans from banks and other financial institutions on
terms generally available to the public; or
      6.   In the form of reduced membership or other fees for participation in
organization activities offered to all government employees by professional
organizations if the only restrictions on membership relate to professional
qualifications.
   T.   Commemorative Gift: A plaque, trophy, or other item that is
substantially commemorative in nature and that is extended for presentation.
   U.   Golf Or Tennis: Golf or tennis.
   V.   Promotional Products: Donations of products from an Illinois company
that are intended primarily for promotional purposes, such as display or free
distribution, and are of minimal value to any individual recipient.
   W.   Nominal Gift: An item of nominal value such as a greeting card,
baseball cap, or T-shirt.
   X.   Food: Food or refreshments of nominal value.
   Y.   Meals: Meals or beverages consumed on the premises on which they were
purchased.
   Z.   Catered Food: Catered food or refreshments. (Ord. 6386, 5-13-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 10 ILCS (1996) 5/9.1 et seq.
1-17-5: ATTENDANCE AT EVENTS:
   A.   A public official or employee may accept an offer of free attendance at
a widely attended convention, conference, symposium, forum, panel discussion,
dinner, viewing, reception, or similar event, provided by the sponsor of the
event, if:
      1.   The public official or employee participates in the event as a
speaker or panel participant, by presenting information related to government,
or by performing a ceremonial function appropriate to the public official's or
employee's position or employment; or
      2.   Attendance at the event is appropriate to the performance of civic
affairs in Illinois or the official duties or representative function of the
public official or employee.
   B.   A public official or employee who attends an event described in
subsection A1 of this Section may accept a sponsor's unsolicited offer of free
attendance at the event for an accompanying individual.
   C.   A public official or employee, or the spouse or dependent thereof, may
accept a sponsor's unsolicited offer of free attendance at a charity event,
except that reimbursement for transportation and lodging may not be accepted in
connection with the event.
   D.   For purposes of this Section, the term "free attendance" may include
waiver of all or part of a conference or other fee, the provision of
transportation, or the provision of food, refreshments, entertainment, and
instructional materials furnished to all attendees as an integral part of the
event. The term does not include entertainment collateral to the event, nor
does it include food or refreshments taken other than in a group setting with
all or substantially all other attendees, except as otherwise authorized under
Section
1-17-4 of this Chapter. (Ord. 6386, 5-13-1999)
1-17-6: DISPOSITION OF GIFTS:
The recipient of a gift that is given in violation of this Chapter may, at his
or her discretion, return the item to the donor or give the item or an amount
equal to its value to an appropriate charity. (Ord. 6386, 5-13-1999)
1-17-7: REIMBURSEMENT:
   A.   A reimbursement (including payment in kind) to a public official or
employee from a private source other than a registered lobbyist or agent of a
foreign principal for necessary transportation, lodging, and related expenses
for travel to a meeting, speaking engagement, fact-finding trip, or similar
event in connection with the duties of the public official or employee as an
office holder or employee shall be deemed to be a reimbursement to the
governmental entity and not a gift prohibited by this Chapter if the public
official:
      1.   Discloses the expenses reimbursed and the authorization to the
Commissioner of Accounts and Finance, or similar authority as appropriate,
within thirty (30) days after the travel is completed; and
      2.   In the case of an employee, receives advance authorization from the
public official or other employee under whose direct supervision the employee
works to accept reimbursement.
   B.   For purposes of subsection A of this Section, events, the activities of
which are substantially recreational in nature, shall not be considered to be
in connection with the duties of a public official or employee.
   C.   Each advance authorization to accept reimbursement shall be signed by
the public official or other employee under whose direct supervision the
employee works and shall include:
      1.   The name of the employee;
      2.   The name of the person who will make the reimbursement;
      3.   The time, place and purpose of the travel; and
      4.   A determination that the travel is in connection with the duties of
the employee as an employee would not create the appearance that the employee
is using public employment for private gain.
   D.   Each disclosure made under subsection A1 of this Section of expenses
reimbursed or to be reimbursed shall be signed by the public official, in the
case of travel by the public official, or by the public official or other
employee under whose direct supervision the employee works, in the case of
travel by an employee, and shall include:
      1.   A good faith estimate of total transportation expenses reimbursed or
to be reimbursed;
      2.   A good faith estimate of total lodging expenses reimbursed or to be
reimbursed;
      3.   A good faith estimate of total meal expenses reimbursed or to be
reimbursed;
      4.   A good faith estimate of the total of other expenses reimbursed or
to be reimbursed;
      5.   A determination that all those expenses are necessary
transportation, lodging, and related expenses. (Ord. 6386, 5-13-1999)
1-17-8: ETHICS OFFICER:
The Mayor and City Council shall designate an Ethics Officer, who shall serve
without salary, and who shall:
   A.   Review statements of economic interest and disclosure forms of public
officials and employees before they are filed with the Madison County Clerk;
and
   B.   Provide guidance to public officials and employees in the
interpretation and implementation of this Chapter. (Ord. 6386, 5-13-1999)
1-17-9: FURTHER RESTRICTIONS:
The Mayor and City Council may adopt or maintain policies consistent with this
Chapter. (Ord. 6386, 5-13-1999)
1-17-10: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
Complaints alleging the violation of this Chapter shall be filed with the
Legislative Ethics Commission as provided by State law. (Ord. 6386, 5-13-1999)
1-17-11: ENFORCEMENT:
The Legislative Ethics Commission may recommend to the Mayor and City Council
disciplinary action against the person it determines to be in violation of this
Chapter. The recommendation may prescribe the following courses of action:
   A.   A reprimand.
   B.   To cease and desist the offensive action.
   C.   A return or refund of money or other items, or an amount of restitution
for services, received in violation of this Chapter.
   D.   Dismissal or removal from office.
   E.   Donation to a charity of an amount equal to the gift. (Ord. 6386, 5-13-
1999)
1-17-12: PENALTY:
Notwithstanding any other fine as prescribed by law and not by any way of
limitation thereof, any individual who knowingly violates any provision of this
Chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 6386, 5-13-
1999)
CHAPTER 18
ELIJAH P. LOVEJOY DAY
SECTION:
1-18-1: Elijah P. Lovejoy Day Proclaimed
1-18-1: ELIJAH P. LOVEJOY DAY PROCLAIMED:
That in recognition of the timeless principles for which Elijah P. Lovejoy
stood, and as an expression of hope that such principles shall always endure,
the City Council does hereby designate November 9 of each year as "Elijah P.
Lovejoy Day". The Council does hereby recommend and encourage all citizens of
the City to make such expressions of commemoration on said Elijah P. Lovejoy
Day as they may deem appropriate. (Ord. 6476, 4-26-2000)
CHAPTER 19
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
1-19-1: Title
1-19-2: Scope
1-19-3: Definitions
1-19-4: Notices
1-19-5: Late Payment
1-19-6: Payment
1-19-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-19-8: Audit Procedure
1-19-9: Appeal
1-19-10: Hearing
1-19-11: Interest And Penalties
1-19-12: Abatement
1-19-13: Installment Contracts
1-19-14: Statute Of Limitations
1-19-15: Voluntary Disclosure
1-19-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinances
1-19-17: Review Procedure; Liens
1-19-18: Application
1-19-19: Severability
1-19-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the city's procedures in
connection with all of the city's locally imposed and administered taxes. (Ord.
6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "Local Government Taxpayers' Bill of Rights Act".
CITY: The city of Alton, Illinois.
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The city's mayor and city council.
HEARING OFFICER: An administrative individual appointed by the mayor with the
advice and consent of the corporate authorities to conduct hearings and to
issue final determinations regarding the collection of all locally imposed and
administered taxes.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The city's treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the city that
is collected or administered by the city not an agency or department of the
state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the city other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the city's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the city that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
City. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-4: NOTICES:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the Local
Tax Administrator. The notice shall be sent by the Local Tax Administrator as
follows:
   A.   First-class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   B.   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the City
pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the City on or before the due date, or b) received in an
envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated on
or before the due date, properly addressed to the City, with adequate postage
prepaid. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   A.   The City shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid without
written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally imposed and
administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional by a court
of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed to have paid
the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts upon which to
protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid the taxes
under duress.
   B.   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made. The City shall not grant a credit or refund of locally imposed
and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not paid the
amounts directly to the City.
   C.   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the Local Tax Administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         a.   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         b.   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         c.   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the canceled
check or receipt for the payment;
         d.   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         e.   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the City.
      2.   Within thirty (30) days of the receipt by the Local Tax
Administrator of any claim for a refund or credit, the Local Tax Administrator
shall either:
         a.   Grant the claim; or
         b.   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement as
to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-
2001)
      3.   In the event the Local Tax Administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of three percent (3%) per annum, based
on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days
elapsed, from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund
check or the grant of a credit. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001; amd. Ord. 7571, 7-12-
2017)
1-19-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   A.   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   B.   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the Local Tax Administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   C.   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the Local Tax Administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the Local Tax Administrator.
   D.   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the City.
   E.   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the City. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the Local Tax Administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the Tax Administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   F.   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the City's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   G.   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the Local Tax Administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-9: APPEAL:
   A.   The Local Tax Administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the Local Tax Administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligations of the City during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   B.   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the Local Tax Administrator
of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the Local Tax
Administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting forth the
basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and petition
for hearing must be filed with the Local Tax Administrator within forty five
(45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination and
assessment.
   C.   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the Local
Tax Administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   D.   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   E.   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the Local Tax Administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-10: HEARING:
   A.   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
1-19-9 of this chapter, the Local Tax Administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal. The taxpayer may request that a Hearing Officer conduct
the hearing rather than the Local Tax Administrator.
   B.   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance is
absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of preparation
shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted shall not
exceed fourteen (14) days.
   C.   At the hearing the Local Tax Administrator or Hearing Officer shall
preside and shall hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax
determination, audit or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to
judicial proceedings shall not apply.
   D.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Local Tax Administrator or
Hearing Officer shall make a written determination on the basis of the evidence
presented at the hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with
a copy of the written decision. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   A.   Interest: The City hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be at
the rate of one and one-quarter percent (1.25%) per month from the date of
delinquency until collected. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
   B.   Payment Penalties:
      1.   A payment penalty of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax due
shall be charged against any taxpayer whose tax payment is not made on or
before the date the tax is due.
      2.   A penalty of twenty five percent (25%) of the amount of tax due for
the period in which a report or return is required to be filed shall be charged
against any taxpayer who fails to file, before the date that a determination of
liability is issued, a report or return for that period.
      3.   Any penalty may be abated by the Local Tax Administrator if
reasonable cause for nonpayment or failure to file is shown. (Ord. 7582, 9-13-
2017)
1-19-12: ABATEMENT:
The Local Tax Administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the Local
Tax Administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The City may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The Local Tax
Administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
Local Tax Administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the Local Administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The City, through the Local Tax Administrator, shall review all tax returns in
a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and owing.
The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of the
reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax still
due and owing.
   A.   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   B.   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
City, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due, the
statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was due or end of
the calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   C.   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
Local Tax Administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
Local Tax Administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the Local Tax Administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the Local Tax Administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCES:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the City
Clerk's Office. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-17: REVIEW PROCEDURE; LIENS:
The Local Tax Administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the Local Tax Administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the Local Tax Administrator shall:
   A.   Timely remove the lien at the City's expense;
   B.   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   C.   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the City's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in conflict
with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be controlling.
(Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
1-19-19: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, paragraph or provision of this chapter shall be held to be
invalid or unenforceable for any reason, the invalidity or unenforceability of
such section, paragraph or provision shall not affect any of the remaining
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 6556, 2-14-2001)
CHAPTER 20
TIF INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY REGISTRATION RULES
SECTION:
1-20-1: Definitions
1-20-2: Establishment Of Registry
1-20-3: Maintenance Of Registry
1-20-4: Registration By Residents
1-20-5: Registration By Organizations
1-20-6: Determination Of Eligibility
1-20-7: Notices And Availability Of Information
1-20-8: Renewal And Termination
1-20-9: Amendment To Registration
1-20-10: Registries Available For Public Inspection
1-20-11: Notices To Be Sent To Interested Parties
1-20-12: Noninterference
1-20-13: Amendment Of Registration Rules
1-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in these registration rules, the following terms shall have the
definitions set forth below:
ACT: The tax increment allocation redevelopment act, 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes section 5/11-74.4-1 et seq., as amended from time to time.
CITY: City of Alton, Madison County, Illinois.
INTERESTED PARTY(IES):
   A.   Any organization(s) active within the city,
   B.   Any resident(s) of the city, and
   C.   Any other entity or person otherwise entitled under the act to register
in a specific registry who has been registered in such registry and whose
registration has not been otherwise terminated in accordance with these
registration rules.
REDEVELOPMENT PROJECT AREA: A redevelopment project area that: a) is intended
to qualify (or has subsequently qualified) as a "redevelopment project area"
under the act and b) is subject to the "interested parties" registry
requirements of the act.
REGISTRATION APPLICATION FORM: The form appended to these registration rules or
such revised form as may be approved by the city consistent with the
requirements of the act.
REGISTRY OR REGISTRIES: Each interested parties registry, and all such
registries, collectively, established by the city pursuant to section 11-74.4-
4.2 of the act for the redevelopment project area. (Ord. 7155, 9-9-2009)
1-20-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF REGISTRY:
The city shall establish a separate interested parties registry for each
redevelopment project area being considered by the city or hereafter
established. The city shall establish a new registry whenever it has identified
an area for study and possible designation as a redevelopment project area. In
any event, the process of establishing the new registry must be completed prior
to the deadline for sending any of the notices required by section
1-20-11 of this chapter or any other notices required by the act with respect
to the proposed redevelopment project area. (Ord. 7155, 9-9-2009)
1-20-3: MAINTENANCE OF REGISTRY:
The city clerk or his or her designee shall maintain the registries. The
registry shall include the name, address, and telephone number of each
registered resident; and for registered organizations, the name and phone
number of a designated contact person. (Ord. 7155, 9-9-2009)
1-20-4: REGISTRATION BY RESIDENTS:
An individual seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration application
form to the city clerk. Such individual must also submit a copy of a current
driver's license, lease, utility bill, financial statement, or such other
evidence as may be acceptable to the clerk to establish the individual's
current residency in the city. (Ord. 7155, 9-9-2009)
1-20-5: REGISTRATION BY ORGANIZATIONS:
An organization seeking to register as an interested party with respect to a
redevelopment project area must complete and submit a registration application
form to the city clerk. Such organization must also submit a copy of a one page
statement describing the organization's current operations in the city. (Ord.
7155, 9-9-2009)
1-20-6: DETERMINATION OF ELIGIBILITY:
All individuals and organizations whose registration application form and
supporting documentation complies with these registration rules shall be
registered in the applicable registry within ten (10) business days of the city
clerk's receipt of all such documents. If the city clerk determines that an
applicant's registration application form and/or supporting documentation is
incomplete or does not comply with these registration rules, the clerk shall
give written notice to the applicant specifying the defect(s). The applicant
shall be entitled to correct any defects and resubmit a new registration
application form and supporting documentation. (Ord. 7155, 9-9-2009)
1-20-7: NOTICES AND AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION:
Upon registration, interested parties shall be entitled to receive all notices
required under the act, including how to obtain information concerning the
applicable redevelopment project area. The city reserves the right to charge
recipients for the cost of copies and postage/delivery charges for requested
documents. (Ord. 7155, 9-9-2009)
1-20-8: RENEWAL AND TERMINATION:
An interested party's registration shall remain effective for a period of three
(3) years. At any time after such three (3) year period, the city clerk shall
provide written notice by regular mail to the interested party stating that
such registration shall terminate unless the interested party renews such
registration within thirty (30) days of the clerk's mailing of written notice.
To renew such registration, the interested party shall, within such thirty (30)
day period, complete and submit the same registration application form and
supporting documentation then required of initial registrants in order to
permit the clerk to confirm such person's residency or such organization's
operations in the city. The registration of all individuals and organizations
whose registration application form and supporting documentation is submitted
in a timely manner and complies with these regulation rules shall be renewed
for an additional, consecutive three (3) year period. If the city clerk
determines that a registrant's renewal registration application form and/or
supporting documentation is incomplete or does not comply with these
registration rules, the clerk shall give written notice to the registrant at
the address specified in the renewal registration application form submitted,
specifying the defect(s). The registrant shall be entitled to correct any
defects and resubmit a new registration application form and supporting
documentation within thirty (30) days of receipt of the clerk's notice. If all
defects are not corrected within thirty (30) days of the interested party's
receipt of the city clerk's notice, the interested party's registration shall
be terminated. Any interested party whose registration is terminated shall be
entitled to register again as if a first time applicant. (Ord. 7155, 9-9-2009)
1-20-9: AMENDMENT TO REGISTRATION:
An interested party may amend its registration by giving written notice to the
city clerk by certified mail for any of the following reasons: a) a change in
address for notice purposes; b) in the case of organizations, a change in the
name of the contact person; and c) a termination of registration. Upon receipt
of such notice, the clerk shall revise the applicable registry accordingly.
(Ord. 7155, 9-9-2009)
1-20-10: REGISTRIES AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION:
Each registry shall be available for public inspection during the city's normal
business hours. (Ord. 7155, 9-9-2009)
1-20-11: NOTICES TO BE SENT TO INTERESTED PARTIES:
Interested parties shall be sent the following notices as well as any other
notices required under the act with respect to the applicable redevelopment
project area:
   A.   Pursuant to subsection 74.4-5(a) of the act, notice of the availability
of a proposed redevelopment plan and eligibility report, including how to
obtain this information. Such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable
period of time after the adoption of the ordinance fixing a time and place for
the public hearing for the proposed redevelopment plan.
   B.   Pursuant to subsection 74.4-5(a) of the act, notice of changes to a
proposed redevelopment plan that does not: 1) add additional parcels of
property to the proposed redevelopment project area, 2) substantially affect
the general land uses proposed in the redevelopment plan, 3) substantially
change the nature of or extend the life of the redevelopment project, or 4)
increase the number of low or very low income households to be displaced from
the redevelopment project area, provided that measured from the time of
creation of the redevelopment project area the total displacement of households
will exceed ten (10). Such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten (10)
days following the city's adoption by ordinance of such changes.
   C.   Pursuant to subsection 74.4-5(c) of the act, notice of amendments to a
previously approved redevelopment plan that does not: 1) add additional parcels
of property to the redevelopment project area, 2) substantially affect the
general land uses in the redevelopment plan, 3) substantially change the nature
of the redevelopment project, 4) increase the total estimated redevelopment
project costs set out in the redevelopment plan by more than five percent (5%)
after adjustment for inflation from the date the plan was adopted, 5) add
additional redevelopment project costs to the itemized list of redevelopment
project costs set out in the redevelopment plan, or 6) increase the number of
low or very low income households to be displaced from the redevelopment
project area, provided that measured from the time of creation of the
redevelopment project area the total displacement of households will exceed ten
(10). Such notice shall be sent by mail not later than ten (10) days following
the city's adoption by ordinance of any such amendment.
   D.   Pursuant to subsection 74.4-5(d)(9) of the act for redevelopment plans
or projects that would result in the displacement of residents from ten (10) or
more inhabited residential units or that contain seventy five (75) or more
inhabited residential units, notice of the availability of the annual report
described by subsection 74.4-5(d), including how to obtain the annual report.
Such notice shall be sent by mail within a reasonable period of time after
completion of the certified audit report.
   E.   Pursuant to subsection 74.4-6(e) of the act, notice of the public
meeting required under the act for a proposed redevelopment project area that
will result in the displacement of ten (10) or more inhabited residential units
or which will contain seventy five (75) or more inhabited residential units.
Such notice shall be sent by certified mail not less than fifteen (15) days
before the date of such public meeting and shall include the information
required under subsection 74.4-6(e) of the act. (Ord. 7155, 9-9-2009)
1-20-12: NONINTERFERENCE:
These registration rules shall not be used to prohibit or otherwise interfere
with the ability of eligible organizations and individuals to register for
receipt of information to which they are entitled under the act. (Ord. 7155, 9-
9-2009)
1-20-13: AMENDMENT OF REGISTRATION RULES:
These registration rules may be amended by the city subject to and consistent
with the requirements of the act. (Ord. 7155, 9-9-2009)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD AND COMMISSION MEMBERSHIPS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Excessive Absences
2-1-1: EXCESSIVE ABSENCES:
Should any member of any commission of the city accumulate more than three (3)
absences from the regular meetings of the commission in a one year period, the
mayor, in his discretion, may replace said member by the appointment of a
replacement with the approval of the city council. (Ord. 6736, 5-28-2003)
CHAPTER 2
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment
2-2-2: Term Of Members; Compensation
2-2-3: Election Of Chairman
2-2-4: Powers And Duties
2-2-5: Land Subdivisions
2-2-6: Public Improvements
2-2-7: Super Majority Vote Required
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby established a plan commission for the city which shall consist
of ten (10) members, who shall be citizens of the city or reside within one and
one-half (11/2) miles of the city, representative, so far as possible, of
different professions and occupations, to be appointed by the mayor subject to
the approval of the city council. (Ord. 5412, 12-20-1989)
2-2-2: TERM OF MEMBERS; COMPENSATION:
All members of the plan commission shall serve for a term of three (3) years,
or until their successors have been duly appointed and qualified, which terms
shall be staggered. All members of the commission shall serve without
compensation. (1961 Code, § 2-53)
2-2-3: ELECTION OF CHAIRMAN:
The plan commission shall elect its chairman annually from among its own
members. (1961 Code, § 2-54)
2-2-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The plan commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To prepare and recommend to the city council a comprehensive plan of
public improvements, looking to the present and future development and growth
of the city, such plan, after its adoption by the city council will be known as
the official plan of the city.
   B.   From time to time to prepare and recommend to the city council such
changes in the plan or any part thereof as may be deemed necessary by the city
council or the plan commission.
   C.   To prepare and recommend to the city council, plans or recommendations
for specific improvements in pursuance of the official plan.
   D.   To give aid to the officials of the city charged with the direction of
projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of such improvements and generally to promote the realization of the
official plan.
   E.   To arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its activities
for the general purpose of public understanding.
   F.   To cooperate with municipal or regional planning commissions and other
agencies or groups to further the local planning program and to assure
harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
   G.   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted under
authority of an act of the general assembly of the state of Illinois 1 , as may
be conferred by the council of the city. (1961 Code, § 2-55)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-5.
2-2-5: LAND SUBDIVISIONS:
Following the adoption of an official plan in the manner prescribed below, no
map or plat of any subdivision presented for record affecting land within the
corporate limits of the city, or in contiguous territory outside of and distant
not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles from such limits and not included
in any other municipality, shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless
the subdivision thereon shall provide for streets, alleys and public grounds in
conformity with any requirements applicable thereto of such official plan.
(1961 Code, § 2-56)
2-2-6: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
The city clerk shall furnish the plan commission, through its chairman, for its
consideration, a copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public
improvements of any nature. The plan commission may report in relation thereto
if it deems a report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the city
council. (1961 Code, § 2-57)
2-2-7: SUPER MAJORITY VOTE REQUIRED:
It shall take a favorable vote of five (5) members of the city council to
amend, supplement, change or repeal, by ordinance, the boundaries of the
districts or the regulations herein established in either of the following
instances:
   A.   In the event the city plan commission recommends a negative vote on a
proposed amendment to any portion of this title.
   B.   In case of a written protest against any proposed change in the
classification of land, signed by the owners of forty percent (40%) of the lots
proposed to be rezoned, or signed by the owners of forty percent (40%) of the
lots any part of which are included within the area defined by a line extended
two hundred fifty feet (250') outward in all directions from the perimeter of
the land sought to be rezoned, filed with the city clerk of Alton prior to the
commencement of the city council meeting on which a vote on the proposed
rezoning is taken. The protest document need not be acknowledged, but shall
bear the signatures and common street addresses of those signing such document,
and identify the property which each signatory owns. For purposes of this
section, the perimeter of the subject lot shall be considered to be the
property line of the lot of land, excluding any land within a public dedicated
right of way, and excluding any land lying within a railroad right of way; the
owner of property shall be considered to be any of the following: the record
owner of the fee simple title, the contract seller and the contract buyer of
such property. (Ord. 6817, 6-9-2004)
CHAPTER 3
COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Establishment
2-3-2: Organization, Terms, And Compensation
2-3-3: Purpose, Duties, And Reports
2-3-4: Complaint Limitations
2-3-5: Powers And Limitations
2-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby established a community relations commission in and for the
city. The community relations commission shall consist of eleven (11) members,
representative, so far as possible, of all segments of the community. Eight (8)
members of the commission shall be community members, while the police chief,
director of economic development and housing, and city attorney, or their
designee, shall serve as members representing the city. (Ord. 7447, 3-11-2015)
2-3-2: ORGANIZATION, TERMS, AND COMPENSATION:
The members of the commission shall be appointed by the mayor by and with the
consent of the city council. The terms of the appointment shall be staggered as
follows:
   A.   Three (3) for a term of three (3) years, effective March 1, 2015;
   B.   Three (3) for a term of two (2) years, effective March 1, 2015;
   C.   Two (2) for a term of one year, effective March 1, 2015;
   D.   The individuals who serve as police chief, director of economic
development and housing, and the city attorney shall automatically be members
of the commission so long as serving in their respective positions;
   E.   Annually thereafter the mayor shall appoint the number of members
necessary to constitute a full commission of eleven (11), all of whom shall
hold their office for the term of three (3) years, or until their successors
are appointed, and approved.
At the first meeting after its establishment, the commission shall set a
regular meeting schedule whereby it shall meet on a monthly basis or as deemed
necessary from time to time.
At their first meeting each year, the members of the commission shall elect one
of their members to serve as chairperson along with a vice chairperson,
secretary, and treasurer each to serve for a one year term.
The mayor, by and with the consent of the city council, shall be and is hereby
authorized to fill all vacancies in the membership of said commission, in
accordance with this section, and all appointments hereafter, shall be in
accordance with this section.
Members of the community relations commission and any subcommittee or advisory
panel established by said commission shall be persons who are committed to a
philosophy of equal opportunity for, and fair treatment of, all people without
regard to race, color, creed, or national origin, and shall be committed to
fostering, encouraging, and stimulating the improvement of relations among and
between citizens of all races, creed, national origins, and economic and
education levels, and to providing all individuals with an equal opportunity to
grow and participate to the best of their ability in the economic, educational,
social, and cultural activities available in the community.
The commission may be funded by the city, and may pursue and accept funds from
sources other than the city by and with the consent of the city council.
All members serve without compensation. (Ord. 7447, 3-11-2015)
2-3-3: PURPOSE, DUTIES, AND REPORTS:
The purpose and duties of the community relations commission shall be as
follows:
   A.   To promote equality and justice, and to secure an end to discrimination
by reason of religion, sex, age, physical or mental handicap, political
affiliation, race, color, creed, national origin, income, marital status,
sexual harassment or sexual orientation.
   B.   To provide communication between city government and citizen groups and
individual citizens; to promote harmony among citizens in all ways possible.
   C.   To encourage and recommend wise adjustments to social problems and
opportunity, including, but not limited to, equal opportunity in housing and
employment.
   D.   To study the nature and causes of prejudices in the city, its
ordinances and policies and to make recommendations for improvements.
   E.   To receive and research complaints involving discrimination based on
race, religion, national origin, sex, age, or handicap. The research of such
complaints may be delegated to a department head. In conducting its research
the commission shall have all public records available to them which would be
available through a freedom of information act request along with participation
and cooperation of department heads.
   F.   To initiate investigations into areas of possible discrimination which
come to the attention of the commission although there may be no individual
complaint. These class based investigations, after the commission's fact
finding research, may be issued as a community relations commission report and
shall be placed on file with the city council and city clerk and shall be
readily available for public inspection. The commission may make
recommendations to the mayor and city council for mediation or formal court
action to end discrimination it may find as a result of its investigation.
   G.   To assist in the development of public information and programs aimed
at enhancing the life of city residents and eliminating discrimination.
   H.   To assist city departments in establishing and maintaining good
community relations and to serve all segments of the community in an equitable
and professional manner.
   I.   To adopt rules for the transaction of business and make arrangements
for the taking and preserving of minutes of all their meetings in accordance
with the provisions of the Illinois open meetings act. The commission may
appoint any subcommittees it deems necessary to carry out its purpose, however,
those subcommittees shall be subject to the provisions of the Illinois open
meetings act.
   J.   To submit quarterly reports to the city council. These reports shall
consist of commission's activities, complaints filed, outcome of any said
complaints, and any recommendations to the city council. (Ord. 7447, 3-11-2015)
2-3-4: COMPLAINT LIMITATIONS:
All complaints shall be filed within sixty (60) days after the occurrence of
the alleged violation, or sixty (60) days after the discovery thereof, but in
no event shall a complaint be filed more than six (6) months after the
occurrence of the alleged violation. (Ord. 7447, 3-11-2015)
2-3-5: POWERS AND LIMITATIONS:
   A.   The commission and its members may hold meetings and conduct their
responsibilities in the facilities of the Alton City Hall by scheduling the use
of the available facilities through the office of the city clerk.
   B.   In the performance of their responsibilities the commission and its
members shall abide by the Illinois open meetings act and the commission shall
be considered a "public body" for all legal purposes.
   C.   The commission and its members shall have no authority to incur any
financial obligations of any kind in the name of the city without prior
approval of the mayor and city council as to any specific item or expense.
(Ord. 7447, 3-11-2015)
CHAPTER 4
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Commission Created
2-4-2: Appointment, Terms Of Office
2-4-3: Organization Of Commission
2-4-4: Purpose
2-4-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created a parks and recreation commission which shall consist
of five (5) commissioners to be appointed by the mayor with the advice and
consent of the council. All appointees must be electors and must have resided
in the city at least one year prior to appointment. (Ord. 6720, 4-9-2003)
2-4-2: APPOINTMENT, TERMS OF OFFICE:
   A.   The persons serving as members of the board of park commissioners and
the playground and recreation board at the time of the creation of this parks
and recreation commission shall continue in office for the remainder of the
terms of office to which they were appointed, it being the intent of this
chapter simply to ratify and to codify the existing practice.
   B.   Each year after the effective date hereof, the mayor shall appoint one
member, who shall hold his office for the term of five (5) years, or until his
successor is appointed and qualified, unless sooner removed for cause. In case
of vacancy, the mayor shall appoint a successor to serve for the unexpired
term.
   C.   Commissioners, before entering upon the duties of their office, shall
take the oath of office prescribed by law for city officers. (Ord. 6720, 4-9-
2003)
2-4-3: ORGANIZATION OF COMMISSION:
The said commissioners shall organize and shall elect one of their number
president and may elect one vice president, one secretary and one treasurer, or
such officers as they, by resolution, may deem appropriate, who shall hold
their respective offices for the term of one year, or until their successors
are duly elected and qualified. (Ord. 6720, 4-9-2003)
2-4-4: PURPOSE:
   A.   The parks and recreation commission shall exist to assist the city in
the effective organization and operation of the city's parks and recreation
programs for the benefit of the citizens of the community. The commissioners
shall advise the executive director and other officials of the parks and
recreation commission as to appropriate policies to be implemented to best
serve the citizens of the community with regard to the supervision and control
of all public parks, public squares and public grounds in the city. In
addition, the commissioners shall advise as to appropriate programs to maintain
and to equip playgrounds and recreation centers and all of the buildings
thereon, within or beyond the corporate limits of the city. The commissioners
shall encourage cooperation between the city of Alton and various schools,
parks and other governmental authorities or bodies concerned with parks or
recreational activities in the community. (Ord. 6720, 4-9-2003)
   B.   The parks and recreation commission or the parks and recreation
department may solicit and accept any grant or devise of real estate or gift or
bequest of money or other personal property or any donation, the principal or
income of which is to be applied for either temporary or permanent use for
park, playground or recreational purposes; but if the acceptance thereof for
such purposes shall subject the city to expense for improvements, maintenance
or renewal, the acceptance of any grant or devise of real estate may be subject
to the approval of the city council of the city. Money received for such
purposes, unless otherwise provided by the terms of the gift or bequest, shall
be deposited with the treasurer of the city to be used in the acquisition or
maintenance of the parks, public squares, and public grounds of the city, or in
the operation of the recreational programs of the city. (Ord. 6757, 8-27-2003)
CHAPTER 5
ALTON AMPHITHEATER COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Commission Created
2-5-2: Authority
2-5-3: Responsibility To City Council
2-5-4: Accounts
2-5-5: Public Meetings
2-5-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby established an Alton amphitheater commission, which shall be
composed of seven (7) members, all appointed by the mayor, with the advice and
consent of the city council.
The first seven (7) members shall be appointed as aforesaid, with terms which
shall be as follows: three (3) members for the term of three (3) years, two (2)
members for the term of two (2) years and two (2) members for a term of one
year. Annually thereafter, upon the expiration of each respective member's
term, members shall be appointed to serve three (3) year terms. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, all members shall continue to serve until such time as their
respective successors are appointed and qualified unless removed by the mayor.
The mayor shall have the authority to remove any member of the commission at
any time for reasons cited by the mayor in his request to the city council to
approve a resolution of removal of a member of the commission, which shall be
effective upon a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the members present of the city
council. (Ord. 7193, 5-12-2010)
2-5-2: AUTHORITY:
The Alton amphitheater commission shall have the authority to supervise the
management of the Alton amphitheater facility and to coordinate the efforts of
the various departments of the city of Alton to promote the utilization of the
amphitheater in a manner consistent with the original mission statement
defining the purpose of the amphitheater. The Alton amphitheater commission
shall require approval by the City Council before entering into contracts,
leases, licensing agreements and other similar binding commitments on behalf of
the city of Alton with regard to the maintenance and operation of the Alton
amphitheater, but no contract or commitment shall extend beyond the fiscal year
in which such obligations are entered into without approval of the Alton City
Council. (Ord. 7193, 5-12-2010; amd. Ord. 7847, 7-27-2022)
2-5-3: RESPONSIBILITY TO CITY COUNCIL:
The Alton amphitheater commission shall be an entity created by and responsible
to the city council of the city of Alton, Illinois. The Alton amphitheater
commission shall abide by any directives as may be established by resolution of
the city council of the city of Alton as may be adopted from time to time.
(Ord. 7193, 5-12-2010)
2-5-4: ACCOUNTS:
The Alton amphitheater commission shall account for all funds received and
disbursed in the performance of its duties and responsibilities. The city
comptroller and the city treasurer of the city of Alton shall coordinate with
the members of the Alton amphitheater commission so as to permit continuous
transparency of the financial records of the Alton amphitheater commission to
the city treasurer and the city comptroller and through them to the city
council of the city of Alton and through them to the general public. Any assets
acquired by the Alton amphitheater commission or in their name shall be the
municipal property of the city of Alton, managed and disposed of in accordance
with all applicable rules, ordinances and statutory requirements pertaining to
municipal property.
All financial accounts of the Alton amphitheater commission shall be included
in the annual audit of the city of Alton. (Ord. 7193, 5-12-2010)
2-5-5: PUBLIC MEETINGS:
All meetings of the Alton amphitheater commission shall be considered public
meetings and shall be held in accordance with the requirements of the public
meetings act of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 7193, 5-12-2010)
CHAPTER 6
HISTORICAL COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Commission Established; Purpose
2-6-2: Definitions
2-6-3: Members
2-6-4: Powers And Duties
2-6-5: Historical Designation
2-6-6: Certificate Of Compliance; Application
2-6-7: Certificate Of Compliance For Alteration
2-6-8: Certificate Of Compliance For Construction Or Demolition
2-6-9: Certificate Of Compliance; Appeals
2-6-10: Penalty
2-6-11: Application Deadline
2-6-12: Attendance By A Means Other Than Physical Presence
2-6-13: Cultural Or Heritage District
2-6-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE:
There is hereby established the Alton historical commission of the city for the
purpose of:
   A.   Identifying, safeguarding, preserving, protecting, conserving,
enhancing and encouraging the continued use and rehabilitation of such areas,
districts, places, buildings, structures, works of art and other objects having
a historical, architectural, aesthetic, ethnic or cultural interest or value to
the city;
   B.   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration, rehabilitation and
rebuilding of areas, districts, places and buildings, thereby protecting the
vitality and the character of neighborhoods and the community;
   C.   Fostering civic pride in the beauty and accomplishments of the past as
represented in the structures, improvements and areas of historical and
architectural significance within the city and providing the general public
with information concerning preservation;
   D.   Reducing, and eventually eliminating, blight and deterioration,
stabilizing and improving the property values of landmarks and historic
districts and promoting economic development through rehabilitation;
   E.   Enhancing the city's attractiveness to residents, visitors, tourists,
shoppers and homebuyers, thereby supporting and stimulating local business and
commerce;
   F.   Performing such other functions as may be useful or necessary to
safeguard and enhance the city's historic, aesthetic, architectural, and
cultural heritage as embodied in its structures and places. (Ord. 6215, 11-25-
1997; amd. Ord. 7774, 9-10-2020)
2-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms are defined as follows:
              Any act or process requiring a building permit that changes the exterior
ALTERATION:   architectural appearance of a building or structure designated for preservation,
              including the construction of a fence.
              A.   Represents the work of or is associated with a nationally or locally noted
              architect, builder or architectural firm;
              B.   Is an example of a particular style (whether local or typical) in terms of
              detail, material or workmanship and possesses a high degree of integrity;
              C.   Is one of the few remaining examples of a particular style or use, or is an
ARCHITECTURAL example which does not clearly represent a major style and has undergone little
SIGNIFICANCE: or no alteration since its construction;
              D.   Is one of a contiguous grouping of such, having a sense of cohesiveness
              expressed through a similarity of characteristics of a style, period, or method
              of construction and accenting the architectural significance of the area;
              E.   Possesses the detail, material and workmanship which can be valued in and of
              themselves as reflective of or similar to those of the majority of the other
              visual elements in the area.
              Any area of land immediately bordering or adjacent to an area, district,
BUFFER ZONE:  neighborhood or individual property which acts as a buffer between it and a
              contrasting neighboring environment.
BUILDING:     A structure created to shelter any form of human activity, including, but not
              limited to, a house, barn, church, hotel or other similar structure.
CERTIFICATE   A certificate from the Commission authorizing work for alterations, construction,
OF            removal or demolition of an improvement(s) within the Commission's jurisdiction
COMPLIANCE:   as defined by this Chapter.
COMMISSION:   The Alton Historical Commission.
              The process of adding an addition to a building, including a porch, or the
CONSTRUCTION: erection of a new principal building or garage on a lot or property or replacing
              or adding railings for steps.
COUNCIL:      The Alton City Council.
DEMOLITION:   The complete or substantial removal or destruction of any building, excluding a
              detached garage, shed or storage building.
EXTERIOR      The general architectural character, composition and arrangement of the exterior
ARCHITECTURAL of a building or structure.
APPEARANCE:
              Any area or collection of buildings which has been designated a historical
              district in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter, or prior to the
              effective date of this Chapter, has been placed on the U.S. Secretary of
              Interior's National Register of Historic Places, or on the Illinois Register of
HISTORIC      Historic Places. Adopted hereby and incorporated herein as appendices 1A-C are
DISTRICT:     the maps of the following designated historic districts listed on the National
              Register of Historic Places in Alton: a) the Christian Hill Historic District, b)
              the Middletown Historic District and extension thereof, and c) the Upper Alton
              Historic District, copies of which maps shall be maintained at the City Clerk's
              office and which shall be available for inspection by the general public.
              Any building, structure, fence, gate, wall, walkway, steps, parking facility,
IMPROVEMENT:  light fixture, bench, fountain, sign, work of art or other manmade object
              constituting a physical betterment of real property.
              Any structure or improvement which has been designated as a landmark in
              compliance with the provisions of this Chapter, or prior to the effective date of
              this Chapter has been placed on the U.S. Secretary of Interior's National
LANDMARK:     Register of Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places. Adopted
              hereby and incorporated herein as appendix 2 is a list of the structures in Alton
              listed on the National Register of Historic Places, a copy of which shall be
              maintained at the City Clerk's office and which shall be available for inspection
              by the general public.
PROPERTY      The person(s), corporations, partnerships or other legal entities listed on the
OWNER(S):     property tax record of Madison County.
              Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent or semi-
STRUCTURE:    permanent location on or in the ground. (Ord. 6215, 11-25-1997; amd. Ord. 7774,
              9-10-2020)
 
2-6-3: MEMBERS:
   A.   The Alton historical commission shall consist of an expert in the field
of building construction and design, a member of either the building and zoning
department or the planning and development department to be designated by the
mayor, four (4) members who shall reside in the historic districts and a
resident of the city at large. The residents of the historic districts, the
expert and the resident of the city at large shall be appointed by the mayor
with the consent of the city council. All members shall serve without
compensation. Members should be appointed on the basis of demonstrated
experience, expertise or interest in the areas of preservation, architecture,
art, art history, building construction, engineering, finance, history, law,
community or neighborhood organizing, planning or real estate.
   B.   The members of the commission shall elect a chair, a vice chair and a
secretary from among the members of the commission for a term of one year. The
chair or, in the absence of the chair, the vice chair shall preside over the
proceedings of the commission. The secretary shall take the minutes of all
commission proceedings and all records shall be open to the public for
inspection.
   C.   The five (5) members serving on the Alton historical commission at the
adoption of this chapter shall continue on the commission for the balance of
their terms. The names of such members and the dates of their expiration of
appointment are on file in the office of the city clerk. One additional member
shall be appointed for a term to expire September 30, 1999. Thereafter, all
members shall be appointed for terms of four (4) years, unless sooner removed
for cause. Members may be appointed for successive terms and shall serve until
their successors are appointed and qualified. The supervisor of building and
zoning shall provide administrative and technical assistance to the commission.
   D.   The commission shall periodically report its activities to the City
Council.
   E.   Members shall be deemed automatically to have resigned from the
commission upon failing to attend, by unexcused absences, at least two-thirds
(2/3) of all meetings of the commission held within a one year period.
   F.   Any member of the commission having a pecuniary or personal interest in
any matter before the commission shall disclose such interest to the other
members and such interest shall be made a matter of record. Any member having
such an interest shall not be counted in determining a quorum for the purpose
of consideration of the matter, notwithstanding any prior determination of the
presence of a quorum at any meeting. Such a member shall not speak, vote, or
use personal influence in connection with the consideration of such matter.
(Ord. 6215, 11-25-1997; amd. Ord. 6536, 10-25-2000; Ord. 7774, 9-10-2020)
2-6-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The commission is hereby authorized:
   A.   To conduct a survey of the city to identify and inventory improvements,
structures and areas that have historic or architectural significance;
   B.   To recommend to the city council the designation of designate landmarks
and historic districts within the city;
   C.   To designate cultural or heritage districts within the city;
   D.   To keep a register of all designated landmarks, historic districts,
cultural, and heritage districts;
   E.   To issue, modify or deny certificates of compliance for construction or
demolition; to issue with or without suggested revisions certificates of
compliance for alteration;
   F.   To provide information and identify resources to assist property owner
(s) or prospective owner(s) on technical and financial aspects of preservation,
renovation, and reuse;
   G.   To adopt guidelines as may be necessary for review of applications for
certificates of compliance, alteration, demolition or construction;
   H.   To make recommendations for the recognition of property owner(s) of
landmarks or historic district structures by certificates, plaques, markers or
other means and for determining an appropriate system of markers to aid the
public in visiting landmarks, historic districts or historic sites;
   I.   To inform and educate the citizens of Alton of the history,
architecture, and heritage of the city;
   J.   To solicit and receive funds from federal, state and private sources
for deposit in a special account of the city to be referred to as the
preservation fund, which funds shall only be loaned or expended upon
recommendation of the commission for such purposes as are herein set forth; and
in the event that this chapter shall be repealed or the commission shall be
dissolved, any amounts remaining in said fund shall be applied by the city
council to further the purposes of this chapter. If any amounts remain in said
fund after a period of one year following the commission's dissolution, then
such funds may be applied by the city council for the purpose of the
preservation and repair of such certificates, plaques, and markers as may have
been erected pursuant to division G. of this section. The city council shall
have and retain final approval of any receipt or expenditure of funds as
recommended by the commission;
   K.   To call upon city officials and employees for technical advice and
assistance;
   L.   To advise any city department or commission concerning the effects of
their proposed action in connection with designated landmarks or historic
districts;
   M.   To retain such specialists as may be required, subject to approval of
the city council;
   N.   To encourage the establishment of a library of preservation related
documents for public use;
   O.   To assume whatever responsibility and duties assigned to it by the
state under the certified local government provision of the national historic
preservation act of 1966, as amended. (Ord. 6215, 11-25-1997; amd. Ord. 7774,
9-10-2020)
2-6-5: HISTORICAL DESIGNATION:
   A.   Application: Any member of the commission, any member of the city
council, or any other person, organization, or association may request landmark
or historic district designation of structures or improvements located in the
city. The application may be either by letter to the commission or on a form
provided by the commission, and should include or be accompanied by the
following:
      1.   The name and address of the property owner(s), as shown on the tax
assessor's rolls;
      2.   The legal description and street address of the property proposed
for designation;
      3.   A map delineating the boundaries and location of the property
proposed for designation;
      4.   A written statement describing the property and setting forth
reasons in support of the proposed designation;
      5.   An indication of whether the property owner consents to the proposed
designation.
      6.   A nonrefundable application fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00)
plus two dollars ($2.00) per property shall be charged.
   B.   Preliminary Review: Upon receipt of an application for designation, the
commission shall schedule a preliminary review to be held no later than twenty
(20) calendar days after the receipt of a completed application. The commission
shall notify the applicant and the property owner as to the date, time and
place of the meeting. At the meeting, the commission shall consider the
application and determine whether it merits a public hearing. In making the
determination, the commission shall consider the following criteria:
      1.   Landmarks:
         a.   Whether the property embodies distinguishing architectural
characteristics of a style valuable for the study of a period, type, method of
construction or use of indigenous materials;
         b.   Whether the property was a site of a significant local, county,
state or national event;
         c.   Whether the property is identified with a person who
significantly contributed to the development of the community, county, state or
nation;
         d.   Whether the property is identified as the work of a master
builder, designer, or architect whose individual work has influenced the
development of the community;
         e.   Whether the property has archaeological significance to the
community, county or state;
         f.   Whether the property is a particularly fine or unique example of
a utilitarian structure with a high level of integrity or architectural
significance.
      2.   Historic Districts:
         a.   Any criterion for landmarks listed in subsections B1a through B1f
of this section;
         b.   Whether there is a repetition of distinguishing architectural or
land use characteristics through the area; or
         c.   Whether there is identifiable by clear and distinctive boundaries
including any necessary buffer zone, an area containing one or more buildings
which merit designation as landmarks and which may also contain within its
boundaries such other buildings or structures which, while not of such historic
or architectural significance to be designated a landmark, nevertheless
contribute to the overall visual characteristics of the landmark or landmarks.
   C.   Formal Denial: If the commission finds that the application does not
merit a public hearing, it shall enter a formal denial of the application. An
application which has been formally denied may not be reconsidered for a period
of one year.
   D.   Public Hearing Notice: If the commission finds at the time of the
preliminary review that an application merits further consideration, then a
public hearing shall be held within forty five (45) days for review of the
application. The commission shall notify the applicant and property owner as to
the date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing. Such notice shall be
in writing and shall be sent not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the date
of the hearing by first class mail, properly addressed as shown on the tax
assessor's rolls and with sufficient postage affixed thereto. Failure to send
such notice where no address appears on the tax assessor's roll shall not
invalidate the proceedings of the commission. The commission shall also publish
a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, not less than
fifteen (15) days and not more than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing,
describing the property proposed for designation, and setting forth the date,
time, place and purpose of the hearing.
   E.   Public Hearing Procedure And Appeal: The applicant and the property
owner(s) shall be entitled to speak at the public hearing and the commission
may accept comments from any other interested person. The commission shall
review and evaluate all available information. A record of the proceedings
shall be made and retained as a public record. The commission shall approve or
deny the requested designation within thirty (30) days after the public
hearing. The commission shall notify the applicant and property owner(s) of its
decision and such decision shall be in writing. A property owner(s) or the
applicant may appeal the commission's decision to the city council. A written
notice of such appeal must be filed with the city clerk within fifteen (15)
days after the decision of the commission. The city council, sitting in a
quasi-judicial capacity, shall review the record and may, in its sole
discretion, allow new or further evidence to be presented, and shall thereafter
decide upon such appeal within two (2) regular meetings after the filing of the
appeal. The city council may affirm or deny the commission's decision. The city
clerk shall notify the applicant and property owner(s) of the city council's
decision. Failure of the city council to timely conduct such an appeals hearing
or render a decision not later than the conclusion of the next regularly
scheduled city council meeting following such a hearing, shall be deemed to be
for all intents and purposes a final and appealable order of affirmation of the
decision of the commission. The city council's decision shall be deemed a final
order subject to judicial review pursuant to the administrative review act of
Illinois.
   F.   Interim Control: From the date of the filing of an application until
the date of either a final decision by the commission under subsection C of
this section or a final decision by the city council under subsection E of this
section, the provisions of subsection E of this section shall apply as if the
property were designated as requested, provided, however, that this interim
control shall in no case apply for more than one hundred twenty (120) days
after the application is filed. (Ord. 6215, 11-25-1997; amd. Ord. 7532, 8-24-
2016; Ord. 7774, 9-10-2020)
2-6-6: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE; APPLICATION:
   A.   A certificate of compliance shall be required before alteration or
demolition, including any demolition undertaken by the city pursuant to section
9-1-6 of this code, of any landmark or property within a historic district or
before construction on a property within a historic district. The application
shall be filed with the office of the supervisor of building and zoning, on a
form prepared by the commission, along with any documents the commission may
require. An applicant may meet with the commission before submitting an
application and may consult with the commission during the review period of the
application.
   B.   The commission shall consider the standards for rehabilitation as
published by the United States secretary of the interior, a copy of which will
be made available for public inspection, as criteria for reviewing certificates
of compliance as well as any design guidelines the commission may adopt. The
commission shall also consider the following criteria:
      1.   Height: The height of the proposed structure or additions or
alterations should be compatible with surrounding structures.
      2.   Proportions Of Structure's Front Facade: The proportion between the
width and height of the proposed structure should be compatible with nearby
structures.
      3.   Proportions Of Openings Into The Facility: The proportions and
relationships between doors and windows should be compatible with existing
structures.
      4.   Relationship Of Building Masses And Spaces: The relationship of a
structure to the open space between it and adjoining structures should be
compatible.
      5.   Roof Shapes: The design of the roof should be compatible with
adjoining structures.
      6.   Scale Of Structure: The scale of the structure should be compatible
with surrounding structures.
      7.   Directional Expression Of Front Elevation: Street facades should
blend with other structures with regard to directional expression. When
adjacent structures have a dominant horizontal or vertical expression, this
should be carried over and reflected.
      8.   Architectural Details: Architectural details and materials should be
incorporated as necessary to relate the new with the old and to preserve and
enhance the inherent characteristics of that area.
   C.   Areas within the Hunterstown neighborhood revitalization plan, as that
area is defined by said plan previously approved by the city shall not be
included in or affected by the provisions of this chapter, except and unless a
designated landmark is located therein. (Ord. 6215, 11-25-1997; amd. Ord. 7774,
9-10-2020)
2-6-7: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE FOR ALTERATION:
   A.   The commission shall review any application for a certificate of
compliance for alteration of any landmark or property within a historic
district. A certificate of compliance shall issue when the commission has
approved the application, with or without suggested revisions, or if the
commission fails or refuses to act within of fifty (50) days from the date the
application was filed, the application shall be deemed granted. Any suggested
revision shall be advisory only. An application is required only for
alterations that require a building permit and change the architectural
appearance of a building or structure. The commission will provide advice and
consultation to any property owner(s) requesting it for any proposed alteration
or repair whether a building permit is required and whether or not it changes
the architectural appearance of a structure. Notwithstanding the above, the
commission shall have the authority to prohibit certain types of vinyl siding
and deny the application on that basis. The applicant may appeal such denial in
accordance with section nine.
   B.   The commission may establish a subcommittee of three (3) of its
members, including its chair, who shall be a voting member, and also including
an alternate who shall serve in the absence or disqualification of a member, to
review routine applications when delay until the next meeting would create an
unnecessary inconvenience to the applicant. The application may be approved or
approved with suggested revisions upon the affirmative votes of all of the
members of the subcommittee eligible to vote. If all of the members eligible to
vote do not vote to approve with suggested revisions, the application shall be
considered at the next regular meeting of the commission.
   C.   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to require any certificate
of compliance for ordinary maintenance or repair which does not alter the
exterior architectural appearance of a building or structure. (Ord. 6215, 11-
25-1997)
2-6-8: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE FOR CONSTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION:
   A.   The commission shall consider any application for a certificate of
compliance by any owner(s) or other party for demolition of any landmark or
building within a historic district, or for construction on a property within a
historic district. The commission shall review the application at its next
scheduled meeting. Notice of the meeting to consider the application shall be
mailed to the applicant by regular U.S. mail to the address listed on the
application. The commission shall afford the applicant an opportunity to
present a statement and evidence in support of the application. Any person
interested in the application shall also be afforded an opportunity to make a
statement or present evidence.
   B.   The commission shall approve or deny the certificate of compliance
within fifty (50) days of the application. This period may be waived in writing
by the applicant. The commission shall notify the applicant and the supervisor
of building and zoning of its decision and shall be accompanied by a
certificate of compliance in the case of approval.
   C.   This chapter shall not prohibit the demolition of any building which
the supervisor of building and zoning shall certify as posing an immediate
hazard to human health and safety. (Ord. 6215, 11-25-1997; amd. Ord. 7774, 9-
10-2020)
2-6-9: CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE; APPEALS:
If the commission has denied issuance of a certificate of compliance, the
applicant may appeal to the City Council. Such appeal must be filed with the
city clerk within fifteen (15) days after the decision of the commission. The
City Council shall consider and decide upon such appeal within two (2) regular
meetings after the filing of the appeal. The city council may affirm, reverse
or modify the decision consistent with law, after due consideration of the
facts contained in the record submitted to the City Council by the commission.
Upon a decision by the City Council that a certificate of compliance shall be
issued, the commission shall notify the applicant and supervisor of building
and zoning in writing. If the City Council concurs with the decision of the
commission not to issue a certificate of compliance, the commission shall
notify the applicant and supervisor of building and zoning. The decision of the
City Council shall be deemed a final order subject to judicial review on motion
of the applicant, pursuant to the administrative review act of the State of
Illinois. (Ord. 6215, 11-25-1997; amd. Ord. 7774, 9-10-2020)
2-6-10: PENALTY:
Any person who causes the alteration or demolition of any landmark or property
within a historic district without complying with the requirements of this
chapter shall be punished by fine in accordance with the provisions of section
1-4-1 of this code. Every day each violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation. (Ord. 6215, 11-25-1997; amd. Ord. 7774, 9-10-2020)
2-6-11: APPLICATION DEADLINE:
Any person or entity filing an application before the commission as required in
sections
2-6-5,
2-6-6,
2-6-7 and
2-6-8 of this chapter must submit all required documentation to the building
and zoning department no later than twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on the fourth
business day preceding a regularly scheduled meeting of the commission. This
section shall not apply if the application deadline creates a delay that would
cause an unnecessary inconvenience to the applicant in cases of proposed
alterations to historic structures. (Ord. 7532, 8-24-2016; amd. Ord. 7774, 9-
10-2020)
2-6-12: ATTENDANCE BY A MEANS OTHER THAN PHYSICAL PRESENCE:
Any member of the Alton historical commission or the subcommittee of the
commission may attend and participate in a meeting remotely provided that the
following criteria are met:
   A.   The commissioner or subcommittee member shall notify the building and
zoning department in writing no later than twenty four (24) hours prior to the
commencement of the meeting of their desire to attend the meeting remotely.
   B.   In notifying the building and zoning department, the commissioner or
subcommittee member shall state the reason for their physical absence from the
meeting. The stated reason must be an approved reason for attendance by a means
other than physical presence as defined by the Illinois open meetings act. If
the reason is not an approved reason for attendance by a means other than
physical presence as defined by the Illinois open meetings act, the
commissioner or subcommittee member may still attend the meeting remotely as a
member of the public and not in their official capacity as a member of the
commission or subcommittee.
   C.   The commissioner or subcommittee member attending the meeting from a
remote location shall be solely responsible for ensuring that the necessary
communication equipment is working properly; the city of Alton does not
guarantee that it possesses the necessary devices for commission or
subcommittee members to attend meetings remotely.
   D.   All members of the commission and subcommittee, regardless of whether
or not they are physically in attendance of the meeting, shall comply with all
applicable provisions of the Illinois open meetings act and other related
regulations regarding public meetings when conducting official commission or
subcommittee business.
   E.   A commissioner or subcommittee member that lawfully attends a meeting
from a remote location shall be considered "in attendance" as it relates to
section
2-1-1 of this title, subsection
2-6-3E of this chapter, and any other reports that the commission is required
to file.
   F.   A majority of the members of the commission or subcommittee physically
present at a meeting must vote to approve a request of a member to attend a
meeting from a remote location. (Ord. 7532, 8-24-2016; amd. Ord. 7774, 9-10-
2020)
2-6-13: CULTURAL OR HERITAGE DISTRICT:
   A.   Application: Any member of the commission, any member of the city
council, or any person, organization, or association may request cultural or
heritage status designation for an area or neighborhood located in the city.
The application shall be on a form provided by the commission, and, shall
include the following:
      1.    The street address of the properties proposed to be included in the
area;
      2.    A map delineating the boundaries and location of the proposed area;
      3.   A written statement describing the area and setting forth reasons in
support of the designation;
      4.   A proposed name by which to call the area;
   B.   Review: Upon receipt of a completed application, the commission shall
schedule a Public Hearing to be held no more than forty-five (45) days after
receipt of the application. The commission shall notify the applicant of the
date, time, and place of the meeting. Such notice shall be in writing and sent
not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the day of the hearing by first class
mail with sufficient postage affixed thereto.
   C.   Criteria: An area or neighborhood may be designated a cultural or
heritage district if the commission determines that the area has a historic
association with a group based on race, ethnic origin, national origin, or
religious affiliation that has made important contributions to the cultural or
social fabric of the city. In making this determination, the commission may
consider the following criteria:
      1.   The history of the area;
      2.   Location of significant local, county, state, or national events in
the area;
      3.   Connection between the area and a person who significantly
contributed to the development of the community, county, state, or nation;
      4.   Census data of the area;
      5.   The number and location of churches and other houses of worship in
the area;
      6.   The number and location of locally owned businesses in the area;
      7.   The location of schools in the area;
      8.   The number and location of cultural institutions in the area;
      9.   The number and location of fraternal or service organizations in the
area;
      10.   Any national, state, or local migration patterns;
      11.   Patterns or history of segregation;
      12.   Patterns or history of land use;
   D.   Public Hearing Procedure and Appeal: The applicant and any business or
property owner in the area or resident in the area shall be entitled to speak
at the public hearing. The commission may accept comments from any other
interested person, group, or association. The commission shall review and
evaluate all available information. A record of the proceedings shall be made
and retained as a public record. The commission shall approve, deny, or modify
the requested designation within thirty (30) days after the public hearing. The
commission shall notify the applicant of its decision and such decision shall
be in writing. The applicant or a property owner(s) within the designated area
may appeal the commission's decision to the city council. A written notice of
such appeal must be filed with the City Clerk within fifteen (15) days after
the decision of the commission. The City Council, sitting in a quasi-judicial
capacity, shall review the record and may, in its sole discretion, allow new or
further evidence to be presented, and shall thereafter decide upon such appeal
within two (2) regular meetings after the filing of the appeal. The City Clerk
shall notify the applicant and any appealing property owner(s) of the City
Council's decision. Failure of the City Council to timely conduct such an
appeal hearing or render a decision not later than the conclusion of the next
regularly scheduled city council meeting following such a hearing, shall be
deemed to be for all intents and purposes a final order of affirmation of the
decision of the commission. The City Council's decision shall be deemed a
legislative decision of the City Council. (Ord. 7774, 9-10-2020)
CHAPTER 7
FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION FUND BOARD
SECTION:
2-7-1: Firefighters' Pension Fund Created
2-7-2: Board Created; Members
2-7-3: Powers; Duties
2-7-4: Gifts; Grants
2-7-5: Disbursement Of Funds
2-7-6: Board Treasurer
2-7-7: Annual Report
2-7-1: FIREFIGHTERS' PENSION FUND CREATED:
There is hereby created a firefighters' pension fund to be administered as
provided in 40 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-101 et seq., as amended. (1973
Code)
2-7-2: BOARD CREATED; MEMBERS:
The firefighters' pension fund of the city of Alton shall be administered
pursuant to Illinois statutes by a board of trustees to be known as the "board
of trustees of the firefighters' pension fund". The board of trustees of the
firefighters' pension fund shall consist of five (5) members.
Two (2) members of the board shall be appointed by the mayor. Two (2) members
of the board shall be active participants of the pension fund who are elected
from the active participants of the fund. One member of the board shall be a
person who is retired under the firemen's pension fund act of 1919 1  who is
elected from persons retired under the firemen's pension fund act of 1919 2 .
For the purposes of this section, a firefighter receiving a disability pension
shall be considered a retired firefighter. In the event that there are no
retired firefighters under the fund or if none is willing to serve on the
board, then an additional active firefighter shall be elected to the board in
lieu of the retired firefighter that would otherwise be elected.
If the regularly constituted fire department of the city of Alton is dissolved
and 40 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-106.1 is not applicable, the board shall
continue to exist and administer the fund so long as there continues to be any
annuitant or deferred pensioner in the fund. In such cases, elections shall
continue to be held as specified in this section, except that: a) deferred
pensioners shall be deemed to be active members for the purposes of such
elections; b) any otherwise unfillable positions on the board, including ex
officio positions shall be filled by election from the remaining firefighters
and deferred pensioners of the fund, to the extent possible; and c) if the
membership of the board falls below three (3) persons, the Illinois director of
insurance or his designee shall be deemed a member of the board, ex officio.
The members chosen from the active and retired firefighters shall be elected by
ballot at elections to be held on the third Monday in April of the applicable
years under the Australian ballot system, as such place or places, in the
municipality, and under such regulations as shall be prescribed by the board.
No person shall cast more than one vote for each candidate for whom he or she
is eligible to vote. In the elections for board members to be chosen from the
active firefighters, all active firefighters and no others may vote. In the
elections for board members to be chosen from retired firefighters, the retired
firefighters and no others may vote.
Each member of the board so elected shall hold office for a term of three (3)
years and until his or her successor has been duly elected and qualified.
The board shall canvass the ballots and declare which persons have been elected
and for what term or terms respectively. In case of a tie vote between two (2)
or more candidates, the board shall determine by lot which candidate or
candidates have been elected and for what term or terms respectively. In the
event of the failure, resignation, or inability to act of any board member, a
successor shall be elected for the unexpired term at a special election called
by the board and conducted in the same manner as a regular election.
The board shall elect annually from its members a president and secretary.
Board members shall not receive or have any right to receive any salary from a
pension fund for services performed as board members. (Ord. 7021, 9-26-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 40 ILCS 5/4-118 et seq.
2 2. 40 ILCS 5/4-118 et seq.
2-7-3: POWERS; DUTIES:
Said board shall have exclusive control and management of the funds provided by
this chapter, together with all moneys donated, paid, assessed or provided by
law for the relief or pension of disabled, superannuated and retired
firefighters, their widows and dependents, and said board shall assess each
firefighter a sum not to exceed one percent (1%) of the salary of said
firefighters, to be deducted by the city comptroller and withheld from the
monthly pay of each firefighter so assessed, which said sums shall be turned
over to the city treasurer for the fund herein, and together with all interest
accrued thereon to be placed by the city treasurer to the credit of said
pension fund, subject to the order of said board, and said board shall assess
five percent (5%) of an amount equal to the monthly salary or wages of each
firefighter attached to his rank at the time of his retirement after twenty
(20) years service which shall be paid monthly by said retired firefighter to
the city treasurer herein from the time of his retirement until said
firefighter shall reach the age of fifty (50) years.
The board herein created shall keep a record of its meetings and proceedings,
provide for its necessary expenses out of its own funds and make any necessary
rules and regulations for its government. (Ord. 1435, 2-28-1924)
2-7-4: GIFTS; GRANTS:
In addition to the sources of income hereinabove set forth, all rewards in
money, fees, gifts and prizes in money that may be paid or given for on account
of extraordinary service, or which may be raised by individual efforts of a
firefighter of the city, shall be paid into said pension fund.
The board of trustees herein shall have authority to take by gift, grant,
device or bequest any money, real estate or any valuable thing and also all
fines or penalties imposed upon firefighters. (Ord. 1435, 2-28-1924)
2-7-5: DISBURSEMENT OF FUNDS:
The board of trustees herein shall have authority to provide for the payment of
said monthly sums as shall be provided by an act of the legislature of the
state of Illinois providing for and regulating the pensioning of disabled
firefighters.
Said board shall also have the power and authority to pay out said sums as may
be hereafter provided by law by the state of Illinois to the widow and minor
children of any firefighter who shall die from any cause while in service.
Said board shall also have authority to pay said sums as shall be provided by
law for pensions to firefighters who have served at least twenty (20) years of
active service and have reached the age of fifty (50) years. (Ord. 1435, 2-28-
1924)
2-7-6: BOARD TREASURER:
The city treasurer shall be ex officio treasurer of the board herein and shall
keep his books and accounts concerning said fund in a manner to be prescribed
by the board.
In addition to his regular bond as city treasurer, the treasurer of the fund
herein shall furnish a bond for the faithful performance of his duties in such
sum as the board shall direct, which said bond shall be filed in the office of
the city clerk after its approval by the board.
The city comptroller herein shall draw warrants upon the treasurer of said fund
under the direction or request in writing by said board for the payment of said
sums or funds as may properly be paid out. (Ord. 1435, 2-28-1924)
2-7-7: ANNUAL REPORT:
The board of trustees herein shall make an annual report of the condition of
the pension fund herein and of the amount of taxes necessary to be levied for
the carrying out of the provision of this chapter, which said report shall be
made on the first Monday of November. (Ord. 1435, 2-28-1924)
CHAPTER 8
POLICE PENSION FUND BOARD
SECTION:
2-8-1: Police Pension Fund Created
2-8-2: Board Established; Members
2-8-3: Powers And Duties
2-8-1: POLICE PENSION FUND CREATED:
There is hereby created a Police Pension Fund to be administered as provided in
40 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq. (1973 Code)
2-8-2: BOARD ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS:
A board of five (5) members shall constitute a board of trustees to administer
the pension fund and to designate the beneficiaries thereof. The board shall be
known as the Board of Trustees of the Police Pension Fund of the City.
Two (2) members of the Board shall be appointed by the Mayor. The third and
fourth members of the Board shall be elected from the active participants of
the pension fund by such active participants. The fifth member shall be elected
by and from the beneficiaries. (1999 Code)
2-8-3: POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.   The said Board of Trustees shall decide when under the statute in such
case made and provided any individual shall be entitled to have relief or
pension under this Chapter, and the Board shall have further authority to pay
out sums of money as provided by law to the beneficiaries of such police
officers as may be entitled to relief or pension under said Act of the
Legislature.
   B.   The said Board of Trustees shall have exclusive control and management
of the fund or funds which shall herein be established by this Chapter and
under the statute referred to and they shall have power to appoint a clerk and
define his duties and to make all necessary rules and regulations for the
guidance of the said Board of the police officers in conformity with the
provisions of the statute in such case made and provided.
   C.   The said Board of Trustees shall have such other and further powers as
may be conferred upon them by said statute in such case made and provided, and
they shall also collect and keep in their fund or funds established by them all
such sums of money as authorized they should collect and keep. The said Board
shall elect officers, keep records and do all other things and acts they may
have the power to do mentioned in the said statute providing for the
establishing of the Police Pension Fund hereinbefore mentioned. Said Board of
Trustees shall make an annual report of the conditions of said Police Pension
Fund to the City Council, said report shall be made on the first Monday of
November each and every year after this Chapter goes into effect. (Ord. 1540,
2-1-1926)
CHAPTER 9
ALTON MUNICIPAL BAND
SECTION:
2-9-1: Establishment
2-9-2: Organization
2-9-3: Purpose, Duties And Reports
2-9-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
The Alton Municipal Band was established by the City of Alton no later than
1927 by ordinance 1627. The Alton Municipal Band has continued to serve the
citizens and residents of the City of Alton for many decades. The City Council
of the City of Alton, Illinois desires to facilitate the continuation of the
mission of the members of the Alton Municipal Band as they seek to serve their
fellow citizens by delivering free community concerts in City parks each year.
(Ord. 7565, 4-26-2017)
2-9-2: ORGANIZATION:
The Alton Municipal Band shall be organized and managed by a board composed of
no fewer than three (3) active members of the Alton Municipal Band. The members
of the board shall be appointed by the Mayor by and with the consent of the
City Council, from a slate of band members willing and able to serve on said
board. The terms of appointment shall be staggered as follows:
   A.   One member for a term of three (3) years, effective May 1, 2017;
   B.   One member for a term of two (2) years, effective May 1, 2017;
   C.   One or more members for a term of one year, effective May 1, 2017;
   D.   Annually thereafter the Mayor shall appoint by and with the consent of
the City Council, a member who shall hold his or her office for the term of
three (3) years, or until their successor is appointed and approved.
At the first meeting after it is established, the board shall set a regular
meeting schedule, as it may deem appropriate. Annually, the members of the
board shall elect one of their members as Chairman along with a Vice Chairman,
Secretary and Treasurer with each member serving in their respective office for
a one year term. One member may serve in no more than two (2) offices
simultaneously.
The Chairman shall communicate with the Mayor and City Council to apprise the
Mayor and City Council of the dates and locations of all of their concerts or
performances to be held throughout the year. All of the dates and locations of
concerts or performances by the Alton Municipal Band shall be posted on the
website maintained by the City of Alton and whenever possible not less than
fourteen (14) days prior to any concert or performance. (Ord. 7565, 4-26-2017)
2-9-3: PURPOSE, DUTIES AND REPORTS:
The Alton Municipal Band Board shall perform the following functions:
   A.   Oversee selection of persons to serve as members of the Alton Municipal
Band based upon their talents and willingness to serve. Members of the Alton
Municipal Band shall be considered to be independent contractors and in most
instances shall provide their own musical instruments. Members may be
compensated for their contributions to the Alton Municipal Band as-determined
by the Board of the Alton Municipal Band. Any member receiving any compensation
for his or her service to the Alton Municipal Band shall be required to
acknowledge in writing that they are an independent contractor and that they
are not an employee of the Alton Municipal Band or the City of Alton.
   B.   The Board of the Alton Municipal Band shall prepare and submit to the
City Council of the City of Alton, Illinois each fiscal year a copy of its
budget for the operation of the Alton Municipal Band showing anticipated
revenues and expenses. Following the fiscal year of the Alton Municipal Band,
the Board of the Alton Municipal Band shall submit to the City Council a report
of the actual revenues and actual expenses of the operation of the Alton
Municipal Band for the prior fiscal year. The Alton Municipal Band shall be
free to accept revenue from sources other than the City of Alton and shall be
free to perform other concerts or performances (in addition to the free
concerts and performances performed by the Alton Municipal Band for the benefit
of the residents of the City of Alton in the Alton City parks), so long as such
additional revenues and expenses are disclosed to the City Council of the City
of Alton by the aforesaid reports.
   C.   The City Council of the City of Alton, Illinois shall continue to fund
the Alton Municipal Band by way of the established tax levy as adopted in
ordinance 1627 by the citizens of Alton and endorsed each year by the City
Council of the City of Alton, Illinois. (Ord. 7565, 4-26-2017)
CHAPTER 10
APPEARANCE REVIEW COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-10-1: Definition
2-10-2: Commission Created
2-10-3: Members
2-10-4: Terms
2-10-5: Organization
2-10-6: Powers And Duties
2-10-7: Appearance Plan
2-10-8: Public Hearing
2-10-9: City Council To Adopt Plan
2-10-10: Permit; Certificate Of Approval
2-10-11: Issuance Of Certificate
2-10-12: Violation
2-10-13: Appeal
2-10-1: DEFINITION:
EXTERIOR DESIGN FEATURE: The general arrangement, scale and proportion of any
building, portion of a building, sign or structure and includes the kind, color
and texture of the building materials of such portion and the types and designs
of roof, windows, doors, lights, attached or ground signs and other
installations and fixtures pertinent to such portions as will be open to public
view from any street, place or way. (Ord. 4297, 4-12-1978)
2-10-2: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby created an Appearance Review Commission, in and for the City.
(Ord. 4297, 4-12-1978)
2-10-3: MEMBERS:
The Appearance Review Commission, (hereinafter referred to as Commission) shall
consist of seven (7) members appointed by the Mayor by and with the advice and
consent of the City Council. Members of the Commission shall be of known
interest in community appearance. In making appointments to the Commission, the
Mayor shall seek to appoint as members persons who are recognized as
experienced in matters of aesthetic judgment by virtue of training, education,
experience and interest and possessing qualities of impartiality and broad
judgment. No member of the Commission shall participate in discussion or vote
on requests of a certificate of approval from any client he is serving or from
any business or property in which he has a substantial interest or of which he
is an officer or employee. (Ord. 5840, 12-22-1993)
2-10-4: TERMS:
The initial appointment of members of the Commission shall be two (2) for one
year, two (2) for two (2) years, and one for three (3) years. Thereafter, all
appointments shall be made for a term of four (4) years. Vacancies on said
Commission shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member whose place has
become vacant in the same manner as provided in Section
2-10-2 of this Chapter. (Ord. 4297, 4-12-1978)
2-10-5: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   The Commission shall elect its own officers, which shall be a chairman,
vice chairman and secretary. (Ord. 4297, 4-12-1978; amd. Ord. 5840, 12-22-1993)
   B.   All meetings of the Commission shall be held at the call of the
chairman and at such other times as the Commission shall determine. Three (3)
members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum. A majority decision of
members of the presently appointed Board present at a duly constituted meeting
shall be required for all Commission actions. (Ord. 6091, 8-14-1996)
   C.   The Commission may adopt its own rules and procedures, not inconsistent
with this Chapter. (Ord. 4297, 4-12-1978; amd. Ord. 5840, 12-22-1993)
2-10-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   A.   To hold public hearings on and make recommendations for an appearance
plan as provided hereafter. (Ord. 4297, 4-12-1978)
   B.   To consult with and cooperate with other commissions, City departments
and any other governmental bodies affecting the appearance of the Alton
Downtown and Broadway Area Redevelopment District. (Ord. 6027, 2-14-1996)
   C.   To study exterior design drawings, landscape, and site plans and
materials for any proposed public improvement in said district, and to make
recommendations to the City Council as to the architectural or aesthetic
aspects thereof.
   D.   To hold hearings, when required, on the issuance of certificates of
approval as provided hereinafter, in connection with questions pertaining to
applications for building and sign permits in said district and to issue or
deny said certificates pursuant to the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 4297,
4-12-1978)
   E.   To hold hearings, when required by the guidelines of the Alton
Commercial Building Facade Program, on the issuance of certificates of approval
as provided hereinafter, in connection with applications to the said Program,
and to thereafter issue or deny certificates pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter and the policies and guidelines referred to in this Chapter, without
regard to the location of any property which is the subject of such
application, if the same is within the City limits. (Ord. 5901, 8-10-1994)
2-10-7: APPEARANCE PLAN:
The Appearance Commission shall, within ninety (90) days after their
appointment, prepare a proposed appearance plan to apply to the Alton Downtown
and Broadway Area Redevelopment District, which district is set forth in the
legal descriptions, parcel descriptions, and drawings adopted by reference and
made a part of this Chapter as if set out in full. Said appearance plan shall
be based on the intent and purpose of this Chapter and shall consider, among
other things:
   A.   The exterior design features of proposed buildings, landscaping, and
site planning thereof.
   B.   The exterior design features of proposed renovation and repair of
existing buildings, including the landscaping and site planning thereof.
   C.   Existing City ordinances and regulations of the City. (Ord. 6027, 2-14-
1996)
2-10-8: PUBLIC HEARING:
After agreeing on a proposed appearance plan, the Commission shall hold a
public hearing thereon. A copy of the proposed plan shall be on file during the
regular business hours in the office of the City Clerk in the City Hall for
public inspection pending the conclusion of the public hearing. Notice of the
public hearing shall be published at least once in a newspaper of general
circulation in Alton, not more than thirty (30) and not less than fifteen (15)
days before the hearing. Within thirty (30) days after adjournment of the
public hearing, the Commission shall recommend a final appearance plan to the
City Council. (Ord. 4297, 4-12-1978)
2-10-9: CITY COUNCIL TO ADOPT PLAN:
The City Council shall, after the receipt of an approved appearance plan from
the Commission, consider same at a public meeting and may adopt the same in
whole or in part. The appearance plan, as finally approved, shall be adopted by
ordinance. (Ord. 4297, 4-12-1978)
2-10-10: PERMIT; CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL:
After the adoption of the appearance plan as set forth in this Chapter, the
Commission shall have regulatory powers over exterior architectural features of
buildings and structures within the district to which this Chapter applies. No
permit required of the ordinance of the City for a sign or for the erection,
construction, alteration or repair of any building or structure within the
district which involves an exterior design feature, as herein defined, shall be
issued by the Department of Public Works of the City, except upon the granting
of a certificate of approval by the Commission or by direction of the City
Council as hereinafter provided. If the Director of Public Works shall
determine that no exterior design feature as defined in this Chapter is
involved in the work for which the permit is sought in this district, such
permit may be issued without such certificate of approval. (Ord. 4297, 4-12-
1978)
2-10-11: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE:
The following procedure is applicable for the issue of a certificate of
approval:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the Department of Public Works, after receipt
of an application for permit, to determine and advise the applicant whether,
under the provisions of this Chapter, a certificate of approval is required.
   B.   Any applicant or prospective applicant for a permit which may require a
certificate of approval, may file a written request for a preliminary
conference with the Commission. Said conference with the Commission shall be
held within twenty one (21) days of the receipt of the request or at the next
scheduled meeting of the Commission, whichever is sooner. At such conference,
the Commission shall give consideration to the exterior drawings, sketches or
photographic examples, landscapes and site plans and materials on a specific
project, and shall give the applicant its informal opinion to assist said
prospective applicant in the development of a plan which would be considered
with the requirements and purposes of the appearance plan in this Chapter.
   C.   Applicants for permits which require a certificate of approval as set
forth in this Chapter, shall apply for said certificate from the Commission.
Upon receipt of such application, the Commission shall schedule a meeting to be
held within twenty one (21) days and at such meeting the applicant shall be
given a hearing on such application.
      1.   At the time of the hearing, the applicant shall provide the
Commission with drawings which shall include plans and existing elevations,
site plans, landscaping, and screening plans, renderings and specifications of
signs, parking plans and the statement as to kind, color and texture of
materials. The Commission shall make recommendations as to changes in the
drawings, sketches, landscaping, site plan, materials and color, which, in the
judgment of the Commission, would tend to effect the general purposes of the
appearance plan.
      2.   After hearing and considering the material presented, the Commission
shall issue a certificate of approval if it finds that:
         a.   The applicants' plans are substantially consistent with the
appearance plan, and,
         b.   The proposed exterior design features of the development are so
compatible with the character of applicable district building structures
existing or which might be under construction and would contribute to the
valuable environment of the City, and,
         c.   The exterior design features of the development will not be
detrimental to the harmonious and orderly growth of the City, and,
         d.   The exterior design features of the development will not cause
any substantial depreciation in the property values or taxable values in the
district.
      3.   The Commission shall return its decision within the twenty one (21)
days after the conclusion of the hearing and shall notify the Department of
Public Works and the applicant of a certificate to the applicant, no permit
shall be issued on the application except by express direction of the City
Council upon appeal as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 4297, 4-12-1978)
2-10-12: VIOLATION:
Upon the granting of a certificate, the exterior drawings, sketches, landscapes
and site plans, renderings and materials for whence the certificate was granted
would be turned over to the Director of Public Works, whose responsibility it
shall be to determine from time to time, as a project is in progress and
finally upon its completion, that there have been no deviations therefrom. Such
deviations shall constitute a violation of this Chapter and shall affect an
immediate revocation of the certificate and of the permit issued for such work.
(Ord. 4297, 4-12-1978)
2-10-13: APPEAL:
In the event the Commission denies the certificate or fails to timely act as
hereinabove provided, the applicant shall have the right to appeal directly to
the City Council. Such appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed within
thirty (30) days of the decision or within thirty (30) days of the failure by
the Commission to timely act. The City Council shall consider and decide upon
such appeal within two (2) regular meetings after the filing thereof. Upon such
appeal, all records and findings concerning the application shall be submitted
to the City Council by the Director of Public Works and by the Commission.
Thereupon, the City Council may:
   A.   Adopt a decision of the Commission, or,
   B.   Overrule or modify the decision of the Commission and direct the
issuance of a certificate, or,
   C.   In the event the Commission has failed to timely act as hereinabove
provided, direct or deny the issuance of a certificate. (Ord. 4297, 4-12-1978)
CHAPTER 11
EXPOSITION COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 7295, 1-11-2012)
CHAPTER 12
ALTON HOUSING AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2-12-1: Adoption
2-12-1: ADOPTION:
The Alton Housing Authority is established and operated pursuant to 310
Illinois Compiled Statutes 10/1 et seq., as amended, and adopted herein by
reference as if set out in full. A copy of the Alton Housing Authority is
attached to Ordinance 5885 along with a current copy of said statute, with any
amendments, and on file in the office of the City Clerk for public inspection.
All matters regarding the corporate status, operation, number of commissioners,
Mayoral appointment thereof, the powers and duties thereof, the reporting
required to be made to the City Council and the Mayor, the balance sheet and
all financial disclosures shall be in conformity with said State statute. (Ord.
5885, 6-8-1994)
CHAPTER 13
SPORTS AND ENTERTAINMENT COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 7295, 1-11-2012)
CHAPTER 14
NUISANCE ABATEMENT TASK FORCE
(Rep. by Ord. 7295, 1-11-2012)
CHAPTER 15
POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITY SITING COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-15-1: Definitions
2-15-2: City Approval Of Pollution Control Facilities
2-15-3: Established; Committee Chairperson
2-15-4: Application
2-15-5: Findings; Recommendation To City Council
2-15-6: Articles Of Rules And Procedures
2-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to those terms defined in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3 et
seq., the following terms are applicable to this chapter:
ACT: The Illinois environmental protection act, as amended 1 .
APPLICANT: Any person, firm or partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
CHAPTER: This chapter.
CITY: The city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL: The duly elected corporate authorities of the city of Alton
pursuant to title 1, chapter 5 of this code.
COMMITTEE: The duly appointed Alton pollution control facility siting
committee.
COUNTY: Madison County, Illinois.
FACILITY: An Alton pollution control facility. (Ord. 6769, 9-24-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
2-15-2: CITY APPROVAL OF POLLUTION CONTROL FACILITIES:
No site approval for the development or construction of a new facility or
expansion of an existing facility within the city may be granted by the city
council unless an application is filed for approval of such a site and a public
hearing is held before the Alton pollution control facility siting committee.
The form of application is found in appendix A attached to ordinance 6769.
(Ord. 6769, 9-24-2003)
2-15-3: ESTABLISHED; COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON:
The committee is hereby established and shall consist of three (3) council
members to be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council. Committee members shall be appointed for each application received.
Any committee member who has, or feels he or she has any disqualifying interest
in the property of the proposed site or affairs of the applicant, may be
excused from participating in any siting hearing. With the advice and consent
of the city council, replacement appointees shall be appointed by the mayor.
The mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, shall select a
chairperson for the committee. (Ord. 6769, 9-24-2003)
2-15-4: APPLICATION:
   A.   Filing Procedures: Fifteen (15) complete applications, accompanied by
the required filing fee shall be filed in the office of the city clerk of the
city of Alton for any proposed facility or the expansion of an existing
facility within the city. The application shall contain sufficient details
describing the proposed facility to demonstrate compliance, including all site
plans, exhibits and maps. The date an application, including the filing fee, is
filed with the city clerk shall be considered the official filing date for all
time limit purposes.
   B.   Filing Fee: A filing fee of two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00), paid by a cashier's check, shall accompany an application. Said
fee shall be used by the city to defray any costs incurred by the city in
processing the application including, but not limited to: hearing officer(s),
court reporter, transcription services, public notice, building rental,
committee per diems (to be determined by the city council from time to time),
staff review, attorneys, city consultants (i.e., engineers, traffic experts,
land planners, and their tests, exhibits and testimony and travel expenses) and
any other relevant costs incidental to considering the application. The fee
shall also cover the city's costs of preparing a record sufficient to form the
basis of an appeal of the city council decision to the Illinois pollution
control board.
In the event the costs exceed the filing fee, the applicant shall pay to the
city an additional fee of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) within five (5)
business days of being notified of the deficiency. The city will send the
applicant regular invoices for the fees and costs incurred. In the event a
balance remains, the surplus funds will be returned to the applicant upon
written request of the applicant.
   C.   Amended Application: One amended application may be filed pursuant to
the act. In the event the applicant files an amendment, an additional deposit
of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) shall be filed with the amendment. The
fee shall be paid by a cashier's check.
   D.   Public Record: The application and all related documentation shall be
available for public inspection in the office of the city clerk. Any request
for copies of the application and/or related documentation shall be made
available at the cost charged by the city for freedom of information act
requests.
   E.   Public Notice: The applicant shall be responsible for publishing any
required public notices and sending any notices required by 415 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/39.2. Proof of all notice requirements shall be filed with
the city clerk prior to the first hearing date.
   F.   Public Hearing: The committee will operate pursuant to the articles of
rules and procedures found in section
2-15-6 of this chapter. During the course of the public hearing before the
committee, all testimony shall be recorded. Testimony shall be received from
the applicant, the applicant's witnesses, any city witnesses and any other
witnesses or objectors. (Ord. 6769, 9-24-2003)
2-15-5: FINDINGS; RECOMMENDATION TO CITY COUNCIL:
   A.   After all testimony has been received and the written comment period
has expired, the committee shall submit its recommendation, in writing, to the
city council. Recommendations for approval shall be given only if the proposed
facility meets the criteria in 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/39.2.
   B.   Upon receipt of the committee's recommendation, which shall be
accompanied by a copy of the record of the public hearing, the city council
shall consider the application pursuant to the act. (Ord. 6769, 9-24-2003)
2-15-6: ARTICLES OF RULES AND PROCEDURES:
   A.   Rules And Procedures: The following rules and procedures are
supplementary to the act and shall govern the committee:
      1.   Chairperson Responsibilities And Duties: The chairperson shall
supervise the affairs of the committee, preside at all meetings subject to the
powers granted to the hearing officer(s) at a public hearing, set meeting and
hearing dates and times and decide points of order. The chairperson shall be
the only committee member to respond to written and verbal communications.
      2.   Acting Chairperson: In the absence of the chairperson, an acting
chairperson shall perform all the duties and exercise all the powers of the
chairperson.
      3.   Court Reporter: A court reporter shall be employed by the committee
and shall be present at all public hearings and shall provide the committee
with a certified transcript of the hearing as soon as possible.
      4.   Secretary: The city may employ a secretary to assist the hearing
officer(s) during the hearing process.
      5.   Meetings, Hearings, Quorum: All meetings and hearings of the
committee shall be pursuant to the open meetings act. One member present at any
meeting or hearing shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of the
chairperson, those members present shall elect one of their own as the acting
chairperson.
      6.   Hearing Officer: For any public hearing concerning an application
for site approval of a facility, the committee may appoint a hearing officer or
officers. The hearing officer shall serve at the pleasure of the committee.
      7.   Notices: Notice shall be given pursuant to this chapter and the act.
All notices shall contain the following information:
         a.   The name and address of the applicant requesting site location
approval.
         b.   The owner of the site; if ownership is in a land trust, the names
and addresses of the beneficiaries of the trust shall be stated.
         c.   The legal description of the site, street address and property
identification number(s) (PIN). If there is no street address, a description of
the site with reference to location, ownership or occupancy or in some other
manner that will reasonably identify the property.
         d.   The nature and size of the proposed facility.
         e.   The nature of the activity at the proposed facility.
         f.   The probable life of the proposed facility.
         g.   The date, time and location of the public hearing.
         h.   A statement that the application is available to the public in
the office of the city clerk and that copies of the application are available
for purchase at the cost charged by the city for freedom of information act
requests.
   B.   Conduct Of The Hearing:
      1.   The applicant shall have the burden of presenting evidence on the
suitability of the proposed site.
      2.   The applicant may appear on his/her behalf, or be represented by
counsel or agent at the hearing.
      3.   The committee shall hear testimony from the applicant and/or any
witnesses the applicant may call. Upon the close of the applicant's testimony,
evidence and any objectors, the city may present any witnesses and evidence it
may wish to present, unless the city is the applicant. The hearing officer
shall decide the order of the presentation of testimony subject to these rules.
      4.   All witnesses shall testify under oath. Testimony may include the
use of exhibits. All witnesses shall be subject to reasonable examination as
follows: direct, cross, redirect, recross, etc.
      5.   The hearing officer may exclude irrelevant, immaterial, incomplete
or unduly repetitious testimony or other evidence. The hearing officer shall
rule on all questions relating to the admissibility of evidence. These rulings
shall not be appealable to the city council.
   C.   Recommended Committee Hearing Procedure:
      1.   Call to order.
      2.   Introduction of the committee members and hearing officer(s).
      3.   Recognition of the applicant and identification of the application.
      4.   Recognition of fees, notices and the date the application was filed.
      5.   Recognition of the city and other parties wishing to present
evidence and/or cross examination. All parties wishing to present evidence or
cross examine any witnesses must sign in or submit written notification of said
intent in the office of the city clerk on or before the first date of the
hearing. If the hearing should extend beyond one session, no additional parties
shall be allowed to testify or cross examine.
      6.   Presentation of testimony.
      7.   Public comment, subject to limitations imposed by the hearing
officer.
      8.   Summary statements by the applicant, city and other parties, subject
to the limitations imposed by the hearing officer(s).
      9.   Adjourn and declare hearing closed.
   D.   Committee Recommendation: After the public hearing has adjourned the
committee shall hold a public meeting for making its recommendation to the city
council. No further evidence, testimony or input shall be received at the
meeting. Findings and the recommendation shall be pursuant to section
2-15-5 of this chapter.
   E.   Waiver Of Rules: In order to ensure fundamental fairness, compliance
with the act and to protect the public interest, the committee, by majority
vote of the members present and voting, may waive any of the rules and
procedures stated herein. (Ord. 6769, 9-24-2003)
CHAPTER 16
LINCOLN DOUGLAS DEBATE COMMITTEE
(Rep. by Ord. 7295, 1-11-2012)
CHAPTER 17
CLIMATE PROTECTION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-17-1: Committee Established; Members
2-17-2: Organization
2-17-3: Expenditures
2-17-1: COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED; MEMBERS:
There is hereby established a climate protection and energy efficiency
committee consisting of a chairman and not less than six (6) additional members
to be appointed by the mayor, by and with the consent of the city council. All
members shall serve for a term of four (4) years or until their successors have
been duly appointed and qualified, except that as to the initial establishment
of the committee, four (4) members shall be appointed for a term of four (4)
years and three (3) members shall be appointed for a term of two (2) years. All
members of the committee shall serve without compensation. In making the
appointments to the committee, the mayor shall designate one appointee to serve
as chairman for the duration of his or her term. (Ord. 7092, 8-27-2008)
2-17-2: ORGANIZATION:
The climate protection and energy efficiency committee shall establish its own
schedule of meetings, organize and appoint such subcommittees as may be deemed
necessary, and conduct its business in such a manner as to progressively
approach the goals of climate protection and energy efficiency within the
government and jurisdiction of the city of Alton. All elected or appointed
officials of the city of Alton shall make themselves available to meet with the
committee and shall strive to cooperate with the goals of the committee. (Ord.
7092, 8-27-2008)
2-17-3: EXPENDITURES:
Any and all expenditure of municipal funds by the climate protection and energy
efficiency committee shall first be authorized and approved by the city
council. (Ord. 7092, 8-27-2008)
CHAPTER 18
HASKELL HOUSE CHILDREN'S MUSEUM OF ALTON COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-18-1: Commission Created
2-18-2: Authority
2-18-3: Responsibility To City Council
2-18-4: Accounts
2-18-5: Public Meetings
2-18-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
There is hereby established the Haskell House Children's Museum of Alton
Commission, which shall be composed of seven (7) members, all appointed by the
Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council.
The first seven (7) members shall be appointed as aforesaid, with terms which
shall be as follows: three (3) members for the term of three (3) years, two (2)
members for the term of two (2) years and two (2) members for a term of one
year. Annually thereafter, upon the expiration of each respective member's
term, members shall be appointed to serve three (3) year terms. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, all members shall continue to serve until such time as their
respective successors are appointed and qualified unless removed by the Mayor.
The Mayor shall have the authority to remove any member of the commission at
any time for reasons cited by the Mayor in his request to the City Council to
approve a resolution of removal of a member of the commission, which shall be
effective upon a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the Aldermen present at a City
Council meeting. (Ord. 7584, 10-11-2017)
2-18-2: AUTHORITY:
The Haskell House Children's Museum of Alton Commission shall have the
authority to supervise the management of the Haskell House Children's Museum
and to coordinate the efforts of the various departments of the City of Alton
to promote the utilization of the Haskell House Children's Museum in a manner
consistent with the original mission of establishing and maintaining the
Haskell House Children's Museum. The Haskell House Children's Museum Commission
shall require approval by the City Council before entering into any contracts
of any type and to authorize expending any fund of the City of Alton. (Ord.
7584, 10-11-2017)
2-18-3: RESPONSIBILITY TO CITY COUNCIL:
The Haskell House Children's Museum of Alton Commission shall be an entity
created by and responsible to the City Council of the City of Alton, Illinois.
The Haskell House Children's Museum of Alton Commission shall abide by any
directives as may be established by resolution of the City Council of the City
of Alton as may be adopted from time to time. (Ord. 7584, 10-11-2017)
2-18-4: ACCOUNTS:
The Haskell House Children's Museum of Alton Commission shall account for all
funds received and disbursed in the performance of its duties and
responsibilities. The City Comptroller and the City Treasurer of the City of
Alton shall coordinate with the members of the Haskell House Children's Museum
of Alton Commission so as to permit continuous transparency of the financial
records of the Haskell House Children's Museum of Alton Commission to the City
Treasurer and the City Comptroller and through them to the City Council of the
City of Alton and through them to the general public. Any assets acquired by
the Haskell House Children's Museum of Alton Commission or in their name shall
be the Municipal property of the City of Alton, managed and disposed of in
accordance with all applicable rules, ordinances and statutory requirements
pertaining to Municipal property.
All financial accounts of the Haskell House Children's Museum of Alton
Commission shall be included in the annual audit of the City of Alton. (Ord.
7584, 10-11-2017)
2-18-5: PUBLIC MEETINGS:
All meetings of the Haskell House Children's Museum of Alton Commission shall
be considered public meetings and shall be held in accordance with the
requirements of the Public Meetings Act of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 7584,
10-11-2017)
CHAPTER 19
RIVERFRONT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-19-1: Establishment; Term Of Members
2-19-2: Purpose
2-19-3: Organization
2-19-4: Expenditures And Reporting
2-19-1: ESTABLISHMENT; TERM OF MEMBERS:
   A.   There is hereby established a Riverfront Commission, which shall be
composed of seven (7) members, all appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council.
   B.   The first seven (7) members shall be appointed as aforesaid, with terms
which shall be as follows: three (3) members for the term of three (3) years,
two (2) members for the term of two (2) years and two (2) members for a term of
one year. Annually thereafter, upon the expiration of each respective member's
term, members shall be appointed to serve three (3) year terms.
   C.   Membership of the Commission shall be composed of an ex-officio member
of the City Council and representation from the land development industry,
finance and business, river industry, tourism and recreation, the riverfront
casino, public safety and a public at large member.
   D.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all members shall continue to serve
until such time as their respective successors are appointed and qualified
unless removed by the Mayor. The Mayor shall have the authority to remove any
member of the commission at any time for reasons cited by the Mayor in his
request to the City Council to approve a resolution of removal of a member of
the Commission, which shall be effective upon a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the
Aldermen or Alderwomen present at a City Council meeting.
   E.   The said members shall organize and shall elect one of their number
president and may elect one vice president, one secretary and one treasurer, or
such officers as they, by resolution, may deem appropriate, who shall hold
their respective offices for the term of one year, or until their successors
are duly elected and qualified. (Ord. 7848, 7-13-2022)
2-19-2: PURPOSE:
The Riverfront Commission will be charged and authorized to:
   A.   Provide for administrative briefings on the status of riverfront
development and redevelopment progress in Alton and within an area of the City
limits of Alton along its riverfront and elsewhere and to research information
and materials from other riverfront communities and development in the region
and along the Mississippi River.
   B.   Provide suggestions, options and feedback to the intended to further
develop the design of the riverfront that supports, enhances, and grows the
facilities, programs, and services of the City of Alton in a fiscally
responsible manner that meets community needs.
   C.   Engage with members of the public to ensure that all parties in
community, as well as regional stakeholders, have an opportunity to participate
in the stewardship and future development of Alton riverfront in a meaningful
way.
   D.   Review and provide feedback on Land Use Regulations, ordinances and
other such policy changes that affect the riverfront and other areas referred
to the Commission for review and comment.
   E.   Work with the Mayor and City Council and the US Army Corps of Engineers
to develop a Riverfront Strategic Plan and to engage the public soliciting
input that will inform the overarching design, development, and management of a
plan for the Alton Riverfront and to also provide for an evaluation of any
current and or previous recommendations made towards its development or
redevelopment. (Ord. 7848, 7-13-2022)
2-19-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   The Riverfront Commission shall establish its own schedule of meetings,
organize and appoint such subcommittees as may be deemed necessary, and conduct
its business in such a manner as to progressively approach the goals of
Riverfront Development within the government and jurisdiction of the city of
Alton.
   B.   In the performance of their responsibilities the commission and its
members shall abide by the Illinois open meetings act and the commission shall
be considered a "public body" for all legal purposes. (Ord. 7848, 7-13-2022)
2-19-4: EXPENDITURES AND REPORTING:
   A.   Any and all expenditure of municipal funds by the Riverfront Commission
shall first be authorized and approved by the city council.
   B.   The Commission and its members shall have no authority to incur any
financial obligations of any kind in the name of the city without prior
approval of the mayor and city council as to any specific item or expense.
   C.   Where the Commission wishes to make a recommendation or provide advice
to the City Council, the matter will be submitted and considered through City
staff under the City Council's agenda review and approvals process. Any
requests by the Commission to provide recommendations and advice for
presentation to the Council will be approved at the City's discretion.
   D.   On a quarterly basis, the Commission will also work with the municipal
administration to prepare a quarterly report to Council summarizing its
progress and provide any other reports as requested by the City Council as
requested. (Ord. 7848, 7-13-2022)
TITLE 3
DEPARTMENTS
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-1-1: Department Established
3-1-2: Public Works Director
3-1-3: Street Division
3-1-4: Sewer Division
3-1-5: Reserved
3-1-6: Equipment Services Division
3-1-7: Nuisance Abatement Division
3-1-8: Engineering Division
3-1-9: Park Maintenance Director
3-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a public works department in the city of Alton.
(Ord. 7232, 12-15-2010)
3-1-2: PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR:
   A.   The public works director shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with
the consent of the city council. He shall be qualified by education, training,
and experience applicable to municipal public works functions. A temporary
public works director may be appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the
city council, as deemed appropriate from time to time in the absence of a
permanent public works director, and a temporary public works director need not
have the full qualifications required of a permanent public works director. A
temporary public works director shall serve in office no longer than six (6)
consecutive months without reappointment and approval by the city council.
   B.   The duties of the public works director shall be as follows:
      1.   To perform the administrative functions of the public works
department through appropriate staff.
      2.   To generally oversee the operations of the street division, the
sewer division, the park maintenance division, the equipment services division,
the nuisance abatement division, and the engineering division.
      3.   To issue permits for the excavation into or the disturbance of any
public street, alley, or other public property not under the control of the
parks and recreation commission or any other commission designated by the city
council.
      4.   To review all contracts, plans, or specifications that pertain to
any repair, maintenance or construction projects involving expenditures of city
funds or in part controlled by city authority. No city funds or city authority
shall be exercised in connection with said contracts, plans or specifications
without the prior written approval of the public works director. The review of
said contracts, plans, or specifications by the public works director shall be
limited to assuring the technical and professional aspects of said contracts,
plans, or specifications so that the overall objective sought by each project
will be reasonably fulfilled.
      5.   Such other duties as may be assigned by the mayor or by city of
Alton ordinance from time to time.
      6.   To assign all equipment and personnel in the public works
department.
      7.   To utilize any public works department equipment and personnel in
emergency situations as needed. (Ord. 7232, 12-15-2010; amd. Ord. 7768, 8-13-
2020)
3-1-3: STREET DIVISION:
   A.   The street division shall operate as a separate division of the public
works department under the direction of the public works director. The duties
of the street division shall be assigned by the street maintenance operations
supervisor, and they shall include, but not be limited to, the maintenance of
all city streets and alleys located on public right of way or easements.
   B.   The street maintenance operations supervisor shall be qualified by
education, knowledge, and experience in the maintenance and construction of
streets and alleys. The street maintenance operations supervisor shall be
employed under the civil service regulations of the city of Alton. (Ord. 7232,
12-15-2010)
3-1-4: SEWER DIVISION:
   A.   The sewer division shall operate as a separate division of the public
works department under the direction of the public works director. The duties
of the sewer division shall be assigned by the sewer maintenance operations
supervisor, and they shall include, but not be limited to, the maintenance and
operation of all city storm sewers located on public right of way or easements.
   B.   The sewer maintenance operations supervisor shall be qualified by
education, knowledge, and experience in the maintenance, construction, and
operation storm sewers. The sewer maintenance operations supervisor shall be
employed under the civil service regulations of the City of Alton. (Ord. 7232,
12-15-2010; amd. Ord. 7768, 8-13-2020)
3-1-5: RESERVED:
(Reserved by Ord. 7768, 8-13-2020)
3-1-6: EQUIPMENT SERVICES DIVISION:
   A.   The equipment services division shall operate as a separate division of
the public works department under the direction of the public works director.
The duties of the equipment services division shall be assigned by the
equipment maintenance operations supervisor, and they shall include, but not be
limited to, the operation of the city garage; the repair and maintenance of
city vehicles and equipment; and the storage and utilization of fuel and other
supplies with regard to city equipment.
   B.   The equipment maintenance operations supervisor shall be qualified by
education, knowledge, and experience in the maintenance and operation of
municipal equipment. The equipment maintenance operations supervisor shall be
employed under the civil service regulations of the city of Alton. (Ord. 7232,
12-15-2010)
3-1-7: NUISANCE ABATEMENT DIVISION:
   A.   The nuisance abatement division shall operate as a separate division of
the public works department under the direction of the public works director.
The duties of the nuisance abatement division shall be assigned by the nuisance
abatement supervisor, and they shall include, but not be limited to, the
enforcement of all animal control ordinances adopted by the city council; the
mowing of grass and other vegetation on public right of way, easements, or
other city property; the cleanup of litter on public right of way, easements,
or other city property; and the abatement of other public nuisances as may be
assigned by the public works director or by city of Alton ordinance from time
to time.
   B.   The nuisance abatement supervisor shall be qualified by education,
knowledge, and experience in the abatement of public nuisances. The nuisance
abatement supervisor shall be employed under the civil service regulations of
the city of Alton. (Ord. 7232, 12-15-2010)
3-1-8: ENGINEERING DIVISION:
   A.   The engineering division shall operate as a separate division of the
public works department under the direction of the public works director. The
duties of the engineering division shall be assigned by the city engineer, and
they shall include, but not be limited to, the review of all subdivision plats
and plans submitted to the city council and city plan commission, and
recommendations thereon; the study and recommendations of all plans and/or
other data submitted by consulting firms or others dealing with all public
property improvements; the preparation of and recommendation on the annual
budget for motor fuel tax expenditures; and providing assistance to the public
works director in all other areas of the public works department where
necessary.
   B.   The city engineer shall be a qualified engineer with a degree in civil
engineering from an accredited college or university. The city engineer shall
be appointed by the mayor, by and with the consent of the city council. The
city engineer may be designated as an employee of the city, with the rights and
responsibilities of the personnel policies of the city, or as a consultant on a
contractual basis to be agreed upon by the engineer and the city.
   C.   A temporary city engineer may be appointed by the mayor, with the
consent of the city council, as deemed appropriate from time to time in the
absence of a permanent city engineer, and a temporary city engineer need not
have the full qualifications required of a permanent city engineer. A temporary
city engineer shall serve in office no longer than six (6) consecutive months
without reappointment and approval by the city council. (Ord. 7232, 12-15-2010)
3-1-9: PARK MAINTENANCE DIRECTOR:
A park maintenance director shall be appointed by the mayor by and with the
consent of the city council. The park maintenance director shall supervise the
maintenance and control of all public parks, public squares, playgrounds,
buildings and improvements thereon which constitute the parks and common
grounds of the city. The park maintenance director shall be the responsible
party for the day to day administration and supervision of the various
employees and equipment utilized in the maintenance and improvement of the city
parks and improvements thereon. The park maintenance director shall be
qualified by education, knowledge and experience to organize and administer the
activities determined to be appropriate by the director of public works to
carry out the city's responsibilities to maintain and improve the city's parks
and shall coordinate his activities and efforts with the executive director and
the recreation director of the parks and recreation department of the city of
Alton. (Ord. 7411, 6-11-2014)
ARTICLE A. CODE HEARING UNIT 1
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Unit Established
3-1A-2: Purpose
3-1A-3: Hearing Officer
3-1A-4: Administration
3-1A-5: Administrative Hearing Proceedings
3-1A-6: Service Of Violation Notices
3-1A-7: Additional Notice
3-1A-8: Final Determination
3-1A-9: Administrative Review
3-1A-10: Enforcement Of Judgment
3-1A-11: Petition To Set Aside
3-1A-12: Schedule Of Civil Fines
3-1A-13: Defenses To Certain Violations
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., 5/11-31.1-1 et seq.; 625 ILCS 5/11-208.3.
3-1A-1: UNIT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a division of the Department of Public Works of the
City of Alton to be known as the Alton Code Hearing Unit. (Ord. 6348, 11-25-
1998)
3-1A-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the Code Hearing Unit shall be to expedite the fair and
efficient prosecution, adjudication and correction of code violations, thereby
enforcing compliance with the ordinances of the City now in effect and as may
hereafter be enacted, through a system of administrative adjudications. The
jurisdiction of the Code Hearing Unit shall encompass the adjudication of any
violation of any municipal ordinance to the fullest extent permitted by the
constitution and laws of the State. Currently 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
1-2.1-2 excepts therefrom: a) proceedings not within the statutory or home rule
authority of municipalities, and b) any offense under the Illinois Vehicle Code
or a similar offense that is a traffic regulation governing the movement of
vehicles and except for any reportable offense under 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 6/16-204. The adoption of this system of administrative adjudication
shall not preclude the City from using other methods to enforce municipal
ordinances. (Ord. 6348, 11-25-1998)
3-1A-3: HEARING OFFICER:
   A.   The Code Hearing Unit shall provide for adjudicatory hearings which
shall be presided over by a hearing officer, who shall be appointed by the
Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
   B.   The powers and duties of a hearing officer shall include the following:
      1.   Administering oaths, hearing testimony and accepting evidence that
is relevant to the existence of the code violation;
      2.   Issuing subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon the request of the parties or their
representatives;
      3.   Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      4.   Issuing a written finding of fact, decision, and order, determining
on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing whether a code violation
exists and if so, determining the fine, penalty or action with which the
defendant must comply;
      5.   Imposing penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
assessing costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation, except
that in no event shall the hearing officer have authority to impose a penalty
of incarceration or a fine in excess of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00),
exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs imposed to secure compliance, except
that in cases to enforce the collection of a tax there shall be no maximum
limit on fines.
   C.   Every administrative hearing officer must be an attorney licensed to
practice law in the State for at least three (3) years and prior to appointment
must have successfully completed the formal training program of Kathleen Field
Orr, Scariana, Kula, Ellch and Himes, which includes the following:
      1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
which the hearing officer will conduct;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations which the
hearing officer will adjudicate;
      3.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
No hearing officer shall be precluded from engaging in the general practice of
law in any matters not hostile to the interest of the City. (Ord. 6348, 11-25-
1998)
3-1A-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The Code Hearing Unit shall have the powers and duties to administer the system
of administrative adjudication, including the docketing of cases; maintaining
records and case files; adopting, distributing, processing, issuing, and
serving notices; cooperating with the City Treasurer to assess, collect,
receipt for, and account for fines and penalties to be collected; referring
unpaid fines and penalties to appropriate agencies for collection and
enforcement, when necessary; and preserving order and decorum in and around the
hearing room. The Code Hearing Unit is authorized to promulgate such rules,
regulations, forms, and standard operating procedures as are reasonably
required to operate and administer the administrative adjudication system
hereby created, and they shall be published and kept on file in the office of
the Director where they shall be available to the public for inspection and
copying during normal business hours. (Ord. 6348, 11-25-1998)
3-1A-5: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEEDINGS:
This system of administrative adjudication shall afford parties due process of
law, including notice and opportunity for a hearing during which they may be
represented by counsel, present witnesses, and cross-examine opposing
witnesses. Parties may request the hearing officer to issue subpoenas to direct
the attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the production of
relevant documents.
   A.   Hearings shall be scheduled with reasonable promptness, provided that
for hearings scheduled in all nonemergency situations, if requested by the
defendant, the defendant shall have at least fifteen (15) days after service of
process to prepare for a hearing. For purposes of this subsection,
"nonemergency situation" means any situation that does not reasonably
constitute a threat to the public interest, safety, or welfare. If service is
provided by mail, the fifteen (15) day period shall begin to run on the date
that the notice is deposited in the mail.
   B.   A proceeding before a code hearing officer shall be instituted upon the
filing of a written pleading by an authorized official of the City.
      1.   When a Building Inspector finds a code violation while inspecting a
structure, he shall note the violation on a multiple copy violation notice and
report form, indicating the name and address of the structure owner, the type
and nature of the violation, the date and time the violation was observed, the
names of witnesses to the violation, and the address of the structure where the
violation is observed.
      2.   A parking, standing or compliance violation notice ("compliance
violation" means a violation of a municipal regulation governing the condition
or use of equipment on a vehicle or governing the display of a municipal wheel
tax license) shall specify the date, time and place of violation of parking,
standing, or compliance regulation; the particular regulation violated; the
fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment, when so provided by
ordinance; the vehicle make and state registration number; and the
identification number of the person issuing the notice. The violation notice
shall state that the payment of the indicated fine, and of any applicable
penalty for late payment, shall operate as a final disposition of the
violation. The notice also shall contain information as to availability of a
hearing in which the violation may be contested on its merits. The violation
notice shall specify the time and manner in which a hearing may be had.
      3.   Any other code violation may be charged by means of a multiple copy
violation notice and report form which identifies the person or entity charged
and includes the type and nature of the code violation to be adjudicated, the
date and location of the adjudicatory hearing, the legal authority and
jurisdiction under which the hearing is to be held, and the penalties for
failure to appear at the hearing.
   C.   The formal and technical rules of evidence do not apply in an
adjudicatory hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only if it
is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct
of their affairs.
   D.   A person authorized to issue and serve violation notices shall certify
the correctness of the facts entered on the violation notice by signing his
name to the notice at the time of service or in the case of a notice produced
by a computerized device, by signing a single certificate to be kept by the
Code Hearing Unit attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the
device while it was under his control. The original or a facsimile of the
violation notice shall be retained by the Code Hearing Unit and shall be a
record kept in the ordinary course of business. A violation notice issued,
signed and served in accordance with this Section, or a copy of the notice,
shall be prima facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the
correctness of the facts shown on the notice. The notice or copy shall be
admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal proceedings.
   E.   No continuances shall be authorized by the hearing officer except in
cases where a continuance is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the
defendant. Lack of preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any
continuance authorized by a hearing officer shall not exceed twenty five (25)
days. The case for the City may be presented by the Building Inspector, by any
other municipal employee or by an attorney designated by the City. However, in
no event shall the case for the City be presented by an employee of the Code
Hearing Unit. The case for the dwelling owner may be presented by the owner,
his attorney, or any other agent or representative.
   F.   To the extent reasonably possible, cases of alleged building code
violations shall be heard not less than thirty (30) nor more than forty (40)
days after the violation is reported.
   G.   Persons who are not residents of the City may contest the merits of an
alleged parking, standing or compliance violation without attending a hearing
by filing with the Code Hearing Unit an entry of appearance and affidavit duly
signed and stating the person's name, address, and grounds for contesting the
allegations. The hearing officer shall consider the affidavit of such a
nonresident in the same way as if the same testimony were given in person.
   H.   If on the date set for hearing the party or his attorney fails to
appear, the hearing officer may find the defendant in default and shall proceed
with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a code
violation.
   I.   At the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall make a
determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the hearing whether or
not a code violation exists. The determination shall be in writing and shall be
designated as findings, decision and order. The findings, decision and order
shall include the hearing officer's findings of fact, a decision whether or not
a code violation exists based upon the findings of fact, and an order, ordering
the owner to correct the violation or dismissing the case in the event a
violation is not proved. If a code violation is proved, the order may also
impose the sanctions that are provided in the code for the violation proved. A
copy of the findings, decision and order shall be served on the owner within
five (5) days after they are issued. (Ord. 6348, 11-25-1998)
3-1A-6: SERVICE OF VIOLATION NOTICES:
Parties shall be served with process in a manner reasonably calculated to give
them actual notice.
   A.   Methods of service shall include as appropriate, personal service of
process upon a party or its employees or agents; service by mail at a party's
address; or notice that is posted upon the property where the violation is
found when the party is the owner or manager of the property when such posting
is not less than twenty (20) days before the hearing is scheduled.
   B.   A parking, standing or compliance violation notice may be served by
affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully parked
vehicle or by handing the notice to the operator of a vehicle if he is present.
(Ord. 6348, 11-25-1998)
3-1A-7: ADDITIONAL NOTICE:
Service of additional notices may be sent by first class United States mail,
postage prepaid, to the address of the registered owner of the cited vehicle as
recorded with the Secretary of State or, under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-1306, to the lessee of the cited vehicle at the last address known to the
lessor of the cited vehicle at the time of lease. The service shall be deemed
complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail. The notices shall
be in the following sequence and shall include, but not be limited to, the
information specified herein:
   A.   A second notice of violation shall specify the date and location of the
violation cited in the parking, standing, or compliance violation notice, the
particular regulation violated, the vehicle make and state registration number,
the fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment when so provided
by ordinance, the availability of a hearing in which the violation may be
contested on its merits, and the time and manner in which the hearing may be
had. The notice of violation shall also state that failure either to pay the
indicated fine and any applicable penalty, or to appear at a hearing on the
merits in the time and manner specified, will result in a final determination
of violation liability for the cited violation in the amount of the fine or
penalty indicated, and that, upon the occurrence of a final determination of
violation liability for the failure, and the exhaustion of, or failure to
exhaust, available administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid
fine or penalty will constitute a debt due and owing the City.
   B.   A notice of final determination of parking, standing, or compliance
violation liability shall be sent following a final determination of parking,
standing, or compliance violation liability and the conclusion of judicial
review procedures. The notice shall state that the unpaid fine or penalty is a
debt due and owing the City. The notice shall contain warnings that failure to
pay any fine or penalty due and owing the City within the time specified may
result in the City's filing of a petition in the Circuit Court to have the
unpaid fine or penalty rendered a judgment or may result in suspension of the
person's driver's license for failure to pay fines or penalties for ten (10) or
more parking violations under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5.
   C.   A notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be sent to the
person liable for any fine or penalty that remains due and owing on ten (10) or
more parking violations. The notice shall state that failure to pay the fine or
penalty owing within forty five (45) days of the notice's date will result in
the City notifying the Secretary of State that the person is eligible for
initiation of suspension proceedings under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-
306.5. The notice shall also state that the person may obtain a photostatic
copy of an original ticket imposing a fine or penalty by sending a self-
addressed, stamped envelope to the City along with a request for the
photostatic copy. The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be
sent by first class United States mail, postage prepaid, to the address
recorded with the Secretary of State. (Ord. 6348, 11-25-1998)
3-1A-8: FINAL DETERMINATION:
A final determination of violation liability shall occur following failure to
pay the fine or penalty after a hearing officer's determination of violation
liability and the exhaustion of or failure to exhaust any administrative review
procedures provided by ordinance. Where a person fails to appear at a hearing
to contest the alleged violation in the time and manner specified in a prior
mailed notice, the hearing officer's determination of violation liability shall
become final: a) upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that
determination, or b) upon expiration of the period for filing the petition
without a filing having been made. A judgment entered by default may be set
aside and a new hearing ordered upon a petition to set aside if it is filed
within twenty one (21) days after the judgment and if it establishes good cause
for the defendant's failure to appear. (Ord. 6348, 11-25-1998)
3-1A-9: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
The findings, decision and order of the hearing officer shall be subject to
review in the circuit court of the county where the City is located, and the
provisions of the Administrative Review Law, and all amendments and
modifications thereto, and the rules adopted pursuant thereto are adopted and
shall apply to and govern every action for the judicial review of the final
findings, decision and order of a hearing officer. (Ord. 6348, 11-25-1998)
3-1A-10: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:
   A.   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois Administrative
Review Law are a debt due and owing the City and may be collected in accordance
with applicable law.
   B.   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois Administrative Review Law may be sought for a final determination of a
code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings, decision, and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the
same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   C.   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering a defendant to correct a code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred by a
municipality to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to, attorney
fees, court costs, and costs related to property demolition or foreclosure,
after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a hearing officer,
shall be a debt due and owing the city and may be collected in accordance with
applicable law. Prior to any expenses being fixed by a hearing officer pursuant
to this subsection C, the city shall provide notice to the defendant that
states that the defendant shall appear at a hearing before the administrative
hearing officer to determine whether the defendant has failed to comply with
the judgment. The notice shall set the date for such a hearing, which shall not
be less than seven (7) days from the date that notice is served. If notice is
served by mail, the seven (7) day period shall begin to run on the date that
the notice was deposited in the mail.
   D.   Upon being recorded in the manner required by article XII of the code
of civil procedure or by the uniform commercial code, a lien shall be imposed
on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the defendant in the amount
of any debt due and owing the city under this article. The lien may be enforced
in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 6348, 11-25-1998)
3-1A-11: PETITION TO SET ASIDE:
A petition to set aside a determination of parking, standing or compliance
violation liability may be filed by a person owing an unpaid fine or penalty
within twenty one (21) days after such determination. The petition shall be
filed with and ruled upon by the hearing officer on the basis of the petition
and such other evidence as the hearing officer may reasonably require, within
fourteen (14) days after receipt of all such evidence. The grounds for the
petition shall be limited to: a) the person not having been the owner or lessee
of the cited vehicle on the date the violation notice was issued, b) the person
having already paid the fine or penalty for the violation in question, and c)
excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing. After the
determination of parking, standing or compliance violation liability has been
set aside upon a showing of just cause, the party shall be provided with a
hearing on the merits for that violation. (Ord. 6348, 11-25-1998)
3-1A-12: SCHEDULE OF CIVIL FINES:
Fines, penalties and sanctions shall be imposed as provided in connection with
the ordinance provision which was violated. (Ord. 7299, 2-22-2012)
3-1A-13: DEFENSES TO CERTAIN VIOLATIONS:
As to violations of any municipal ordinance or code that establishes
construction, plumbing, heating, electrical, fire prevention, sanitation or
other health safety standards applicable to structures in the city, it shall be
a defense to a code violation if the owner, his attorney, or any other agent or
representative proves to the hearing officer's satisfaction one of the
following:
   A.   The code violation alleged in the notice does not in fact exist, or at
the time of the hearing the violation has been remedied or removed.
   B.   The code violation has been caused by the current property occupants
and that in spite of reasonable attempts by the owner to maintain the dwelling
free of such violations, the current occupants continue to cause the
violations.
   C.   An occupant or resident of the dwelling has refused entry to the owner
or his agent to all or part of the dwelling for the purpose of correcting the
code violation. (Ord. 6348, 11-25-1998)
CHAPTER 2
LAW DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-2-1: Law Department Established
3-2-2: Corporation Counselor
3-2-3: City Attorney
3-2-4: Outside Employment
3-2-5: Assistants
3-2-1: LAW DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Law Department which shall consist of the City
Attorney and Corporation Counselor, and such assistants as may be authorized as
provided in Section
3-2-5 of this Chapter. (1961 Code, § 2-41; amd. 1999 Code)
3-2-2: CORPORATION COUNSELOR:
   A.   Appointment, Qualifications: The Corporation Counselor of the City
shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council.
He shall be the official head of the Law Department and shall be responsible
for its efficient operation. He shall be an attorney licensed to practice law
in the State of Illinois and shall be a bona fide resident of the City. (Ord.
5315, 1-25-1989)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the Corporation Counselor to counsel
and advise the City Council, the Mayor and heads of departments; to prepare or
revise ordinances when so requested by the Council or any committee thereof; to
prepare for execution all contracts and agreements of which the City is a party
and shall approve as to form all such legal instruments; to give legal opinions
upon any legal matter or question submitted to him by the Council or any
officer of the City; and to assist the City Attorney in the prosecution or
defense of all actions in courts of record or all courts of appeal, when
necessary. (Ord. 3171, 4-10-1963)
3-2-3: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.   Appointment, Qualifications: The City Attorney shall be appointed by
the Mayor, by and with the consent of the City Council. He shall be an attorney
licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois and shall be a bona fide
resident of the City. Nothing contained in this Section, nor in Section
3-2-2 of this Chapter, shall be construed to prohibit or preclude the City
Council from employing outside counsel for special projects as they may deem
fit from time to time. (Ord. 5315, 1-25-1989)
   B.   Duties: It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to prosecute all
actions for violation of the provisions of this Code, to prosecute and defend
any and all suits or cause of action of which the City may be a party and to
represent the City in all matters before the Illinois Commerce Commission or
any other judicial or quasi-judicial commissions where there is a possibility
of an appeal to a court of record. He shall also, when necessary, assist the
Corporation Counselor in the performance of his duties as are outlined in this
Chapter. (1961 Code, § 2-45)
3-2-4: OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT:
The duties of the Corporation Counselor and City Attorney shall not preclude
either office from engaging in the general practice of law in any matters not
hostile to the interest of the City. (1961 Code, § 2-46; amd. 1999 Code)
3-2-5: ASSISTANTS:
The Mayor may appoint assistants to the Corporation Counselor and the City
Attorney, by and with the consent of the City Council. Any such assistants
shall be attorneys licensed to practice law in the State of Illinois, and they
shall perform such duties as may be assigned to them by the Corporation
Counselor or the City Attorney from time to time. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 3
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-3-1: Department Established
3-3-2: Ranks Of Police Department
3-3-3: Power Of Arrest
3-3-4: Vacations
3-3-5: Participation In Police Pension Fund Required
3-3-6: Deputy Chief Of Police (Rep. by Ord. 6747, 7-9-2003)
3-3-7: Operation Of All-Terrain Vehicles
3-3-8: Bail Processing Fee
3-3-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
city which shall be known as the police department. (1973 Code)
3-3-2: RANKS OF POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Chief Of Police: There is created the office of chief of the police of
the city of Alton. The chief of police shall be appointed by the mayor, by and
with the advice and consent of the city council, at the first regular meeting
of the new city council of each year or in the event of a vacancy. The chief of
police shall continue to serve until removed by order of the mayor or until his
successor shall be appointed and qualified, whichever event shall first occur.
He shall, in subordination to the mayor, have the full management and control
of the police department, and all regulations and orders thereof shall be
promulgated through him. All subordinate officers and members of said police
department shall be subject to such rules and regulations as shall, from time
to time, be prescribed by said chief of police. (Ord. 6747, 7-9-2003; amd. Ord.
6940, 4-12-2006)
   B.   Deputy Police Chief: There is hereby created the position of deputy
police chief, who shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and
consent of the city council, at the first regular meeting of the new city
council of each year or upon a vacancy. The deputy police chief shall continue
to serve until removed by order of the mayor or until a successor shall be
appointed and qualified, whichever event shall first occur. The deputy police
chief shall perform such duties and have all such powers as may be lawfully
delegated to him by the chief of police. In the event of the absence of the
chief of police, vacancy in the office of chief of police, or at the request of
the chief of police, the deputy police chief shall assume all powers and duties
of the chief of police. The mayor shall have authority to determine that the
chief of police is physically or mentally unable to perform his duties, and
upon notification to the deputy police chief of such a determination by the
mayor, the deputy police chief shall likewise assume all duties of the chief of
police until relieved by directive from the mayor. Any acts by the deputy
police chief, while properly performing the duties of the chief of police under
the circumstances as aforesaid, shall be deemed acts of the chief of police for
all purposes. The compensation fixed for the deputy police chief shall remain
consistent and shall not increase during any period during which he assumes the
duties of the chief of police.
   C.   Captain: The captain, under the general supervision of the chief of
police and deputy police chief, shall perform such duties as assigned from time
to time by the chief of police. The captain shall be a superior officer in the
police department with authority over all police officers except the chief of
police and deputy police chief.
   D.   Lieutenants: Lieutenants, under the general supervision of the chief of
police, deputy police chief, and captain, shall perform duties that may
include, but are not limited to, management responsibilities with advanced
supervisory duties in the direction of uniformed or plain clothes police
officers on an assigned shift or division. The lieutenants shall perform their
duties as assigned by the chief of police from time to time.
   E.   Sergeants: Sergeants, under the general supervision of the chief of
police, deputy police chief, captain, and lieutenants, shall perform duties as
assigned by the chief of police from time to time, including, but not limited
to, supervisory duties with regard to police patrolmen on an assigned platoon.
   F.   Patrolmen: Patrolmen, under the general supervision of the chief of
police, deputy police chief, captain, lieutenants, and sergeants, shall perform
such police duties as may be assigned by superior officers from time to time.
They shall be governed in their activities by the regulations and directions of
their superior officers.
   G.   Personnel: The position of police officer of the city of Alton is
hereby created in addition to the chief of police and deputy police chief, who
shall be police officers. Persons may be appointed to serve as police officers
of the city of Alton with the various ranks as follows:
      1.   Chief of police.
      2.   Deputy police chief.
      3.   Captain.
      4.   Lieutenants, not to exceed six (6) in total.
      5.   Sergeants, not to exceed fourteen (14) in total.
      6.   All others with the rank of patrolmen.
   H.   Appointment And Promotion: Captain, lieutenants, sergeants, and
patrolmen shall be appointed and promoted by merit in accordance with the
statutes, rules and procedures relating to the function of the civil service
commission of the city of Alton, Illinois.
   I.   Existing Contract: The adoption and approval of this section is not
intended to negate or nullify any of the respective rights or obligations of
the parties with regard to the existing contract between the city of Alton and
Police Benevolent & Protective Association Unit #14, covering the period April
1, 1999, to March 31, 2004. (Ord. 6747, 7-9-2003)
3-3-3: POWER OF ARREST:
The several members of the police force, when on duty, shall devote their
entire time to the proper discharge of the duties of their stations, according
to the laws and provisions of this code and the rules and regulations of the
police department, and it shall be their special duty to preserve order, peace
and quiet, and to enforce the provisions of this code throughout the city.
(1917 Code § 236)
3-3-4: VACATIONS:
Full time members of the police department annual vacation leave shall be
computed as follows:
   A.   Two (2) weeks for each employee who has completed one or more years of
continuous service.
   B.   Three (3) weeks for each employee who has completed two (2) or more
years of continuous service.
   C.   Four (4) weeks for each employee who has completed ten (10) or more
years of continuous service.
   D.   Five (5) weeks for each employee who has completed fifteen (15) or more
years of continuous service. (Ord. 3683, 8-12-1971)
3-3-5: PARTICIPATION IN POLICE PENSION FUND REQUIRED:
No person shall be employed as a police officer for the city without having
first applied for and having been accepted as a member of the police pension
fund of the city. The city council hereby provides that it is a condition of
employment with the Alton city police department that all Alton city police
officers shall actively participate and become members of the police pension
fund (municipalities 500,000 and under as provided in 40 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-101 through 5/3-150). The failure of any police officer to
participate in said pension fund shall be grounds for cause for removal from
his position as an Alton city police officer. (Ord. 5279, 9-14-1988; amd. Ord.
5438, 3-28-1990)
3-3-6: DEPUTY CHIEF OF POLICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 6747, 7-9-2003)
3-3-7: OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES:
The members of the city of Alton police department are hereby authorized to
operate vehicles commonly referred to as all- terrain vehicles upon any street,
alley or highway located within the corporate limits of the city, and upon any
public property located within the city, while in the performance of their
respective duties as employees of the city, notwithstanding the fact that said
vehicles are not licensed by the state of Illinois and are otherwise prohibited
from operation upon public street, alley or highways. (Ord. 6493, 6-14-2000)
3-3-8: BAIL PROCESSING FEE 1  :
There is hereby imposed a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for bail
processing against any person arrested for violating a bailable municipal
offense, or a state or federal law. It shall be a duty of the Alton police
department to collect the bail processing fee in addition to any bail
established by statute or order of the court against any person released on
bail who is processed by the police department of the city of Alton. All bail
processing fees collected shall be remitted on a regular basis to the city
treasurer and deposited to the general fund of the city of Alton. (Ord. 7475,
9-9-2015, eff. 10-1-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-12.1.
CHAPTER 4
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-4-1: Department Established
3-4-2: Ranks Of Fire Department
3-4-3: Duties And Responsibilities
3-4-4: Copy Of Rules
3-4-5: Certification
3-4-6: Participation In Firefighters' Pension Fund Required
3-4-7: Foreign Fire Insurance Board
3-4-8: Recovery Of Cost Of Responding To Hazardous Waste/Chemical Spills And/Or
Related Fires
3-4-9: Operation Of All-Terrain Vehicles
3-4-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a department of the municipal government of the
city which shall be known as the fire department. (1973 Code)
3-4-2: RANKS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Fire Chief: There is created the office of chief of the fire department
of the city of Alton. The fire chief shall be appointed by the mayor, by and
with the advice and consent of the city council, at the first regular meeting
of the new city council of each year or upon a vacancy. The fire chief shall
continue to serve until removed by order of the mayor or until his successor
shall be appointed and qualified, whichever event shall first occur. The fire
chief shall be the chief officer of the fire department and shall have full
command and control over said department and all members thereof, with full
power and authority over its organization, government and discipline and to
that end, the fire chief may prescribe and establish, from time to time, such
rules and regulations as the fire chief may deem advisable for administration
of the fire department.
   B.   Deputy Fire Chiefs: There is hereby created the position of deputy fire
chief, who shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and consent
of the city council, at the first regular meeting of the new city council of
each year or upon a vacancy. A deputy fire chief shall continue to serve until
removed by order of the mayor or until a successor shall be appointed and
qualified, whichever event shall first occur. A new deputy fire chief shall
perform such administrative functions as may be assigned by the fire chief from
time to time. There shall not be employed by the fire department more than two
(2) deputy fire chiefs at any one time. (Ord. 6748, 7-23-2003)
   C.   Battalion Chiefs: Battalion chiefs, under the general supervision of
the fire chief and the deputy fire chiefs, shall serve as heads of shifts,
direct the activities of the captains, engineers, and firefighters on their
respective shift and shall perform such administrative functions as may be
assigned by the fire chief or deputy fire chiefs.
   D.   Captains: Captains, under the general supervision of the fire chief,
deputy fire chiefs, and battalion chiefs, shall serve as supervisors of a fire
company. A captain shall command a fire company in the fire station house and
at the scene of a fire or incident outside the fire station house until the
arrival and presence of a superior officer. The captain shall perform such
administrative functions as may be assigned by the fire chief, deputy fire
chief, or battalion chief from time to time.
   E.   Engineers: Engineers, under the general supervision of the fire chief,
deputy fire chiefs, battalion chiefs, and captains, shall perform such
firefighter duties as may be assigned by superior officers from time to time.
The engineers' duties shall include, but not be limited to, driving and
operating any and all firefighting or rescue apparatus.
   F.   Firefighters: Firefighters, under the general supervision of the fire
chief, deputy fire chiefs, battalion chiefs, captains, and engineers, shall
perform such firefighter duties as may be assigned by superior officers from
time to time. Firefighters shall perform such duties as shall be necessary to
extinguish fires, including the handling of hoses, axes, pipes, fire
extinguishers, and other equipment, and they shall drive, operate and maintain
fire vehicles, pumps and rescue equipment, and shall otherwise assist in
general rescue work; also they shall conduct inspections of properties and
otherwise implement the purposes of the fire prevention code. They shall be
governed in their activities by the regulations and directions of their
superior officers. (Ord. 6748, 7-23-2003; amd. Ord. 7251, 5-11-2011)
   G.   Personnel: The position of firefighter of the city of Alton is hereby
created. In addition to the fire chief, through March 31, 2004, there shall be
not to exceed sixty (60) persons required to be appointed to the position of
firefighter with various ranks as follows:
      1.   Fire chief. (Ord. 6748, 7-23-2003)
      2.   Deputy fire chiefs and battalion chiefs, not to exceed six (6) in
total. (Ord. 6859, 12-15-2004; amd. Ord. 7251, 5-11-2011)
      3.   Captains, not to exceed twenty (20) in total.
      4.   Engineers, not to exceed sixteen (16) in total. (Ord. 6876, 4-27-
2005)
      5.   All others with rank of firefighter. (Ord. 6748, 7-23-2003)
   H.   Appointment And Promotion: Battalion chiefs, captains, engineers and
firefighters shall be appointed and promoted by merit in accordance with the
statutes, rules and procedures relating to the function of the civil service
commission of the city of Alton, Illinois. (Ord. 6748, 7-23-2003; amd. Ord.
7251, 5-11-2011)
   I.   Function And Purpose: The fire department shall have primary
responsibility for fighting fires, executing a fire prevention program, and
providing general rescue and assistance services.
   J.   Existing Contract: The adoption and approval of this section is not
intended to negate or nullify any of the respective rights or obligations of
the parties with regard to the existing memorandum of understanding between the
city of Alton and Local Union 1255 of the International Association Of
Firefighters, covering the period April 1, 1999, to March 31, 2004. (Ord. 6748,
7-23-2003)
3-4-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
   A.   Vicinity Of Fire: The chief of police may prescribe the limits in the
vicinity of any fire within which no persons except those who reside therein,
and the members of the fire department, or those admitted by the officers of
the fire department, shall be permitted to come, and it shall be the duty of
the police department to aid in carrying into effect the provisions of this
section. (1917 Code § 367)
   B.   Illegal Acts:
      1.   Hindering Firefighters: It shall be unlawful for any person to
wilfully offer any hindrance or obstruct in any manner, with teams, streetcars,
interurban cars, railroad cars, switch engines, trains, automobiles, auto
trucks, or other vehicles of any kind or description, any member of the fire
department who may be responding to a fire alarm, in and upon the streets,
avenues, alleys and public places of the city; or to wilfully offer any
hindrance, or obstruct in any manner, any member of the fire department in the
performance of his duty at a fire, or to wilfully injure, deface or destroy any
of the fire apparatus belonging to the city. Any person found guilty of so
doing shall be subject to penalty as in this code provided; and, in addition,
be liable for damages for the injury done to any such apparatus. (1917 Code §
370)
      2.   No Loafing In Houses: No person other than a firefighter, police
officer or public officer shall enter or assemble with any other person or
persons in any hose house belonging to the city without the permission of the
officer in charge of such hose house. (1917 Code § 371)
      3.   Injuring Apparatus: It shall be unlawful for any person to break,
deface, destroy or otherwise injure any fire department apparatus belonging to
the city. (1917 Code § 372)
      4.   Impersonating Firefighter: It shall be unlawful for any person not a
member of the fire department to impersonate a firefighter or officer of the
fire department. (1917 Code, § 375)
   C.   Entering Fire Department: It shall be the duty of all members of the
fire department to prevent all persons not belonging to the department from
entering any house or handling any apparatus belonging to the department
without permission. (1917 Code, § 373)
   D.   Property Saved: No person shall be entitled to take away any property
in the possession of the fire department saved from any fire until he shall
make satisfactory proof of ownership thereof. (1917 Code, § 377)
3-4-4: COPY OF RULES:
Every member of the fire department shall be furnished with a copy of the rules
and regulations prescribed by the chief of said department, for the government
of the same. (1917 Code, § 374)
3-4-5: CERTIFICATION:
   A.   If an applicant can provide proof that the state of Illinois recognizes
the applicant's certification as an emergency medical technician--basic, a
preference credit of three (3) points shall be added to the final grade
evaluation of the applicant if that grade evaluation is seventy (70) or higher.
If an applicant can provide proof that the state of Illinois recognizes the
applicant's certification as an emergency medical technician-- paramedic, a
paramedic preference credit of six (6) points shall be added to the final grade
evaluation of the applicant if that grade evaluation is seventy (70) or higher.
Total points to be added based on certification as an emergency medical
technician shall not exceed six (6) points.
   B.   No individual may be certified for regular, full-time employment as a
firefighter of the city unless he or she shall first be certified by the
Illinois State Fire Marshal as a firefighter II, which requires successfully
completing an approved training course as provided by 50 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 740/1 through 740/15. Any firefighter who has not received the
certification as aforesaid by the end of the twelve (12) month probationary
period shall not be retained as an employee of the city but shall be
terminated. (Ord. 6541, 11-8-2000)
3-4-6: PARTICIPATION IN FIREFIGHTER'S PENSION FUND REQUIRED:
No person shall be employed as a firefighter for the city without having first
applied for and having been accepted as a member of the firefighter's pension
fund of the city. The city council hereby provides that it is a condition of
employment with the fire department that all members of the fire department
shall actively participate and become members of the firefighter's pension fund
(municipalities 500,000 and under as provided in 40 ILCS 5/4-101 through 5/4-
144). The failure of any member of the fire department to participate in said
pension fund shall be grounds for cause for removal from his position as a
member of the fire department. (Ord. 5438, 3-28-1990)
3-4-7: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE BOARD:
   A.   In accordance with the Foreign Fire Insurance Act 1 , all foreign fire
insurance company money paid to the city treasurer as provided in 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-10-1 shall be set apart and shall be appropriated
annually by the corporate authorities to the foreign fire insurance board. The
treasurer of the foreign fire insurance board shall receive the appropriated
money and shall pay out the money upon the order of the foreign fire insurance
board for the maintenance, use, and benefit of the department.
   B.   The officers of the foreign fire insurance board created by this
section shall be a chairman, a secretary, a treasurer, and a vice chairman. The
vice chairman shall be the duly appointed chief of the fire department of the
city. The other three (3) officers shall be elected by the full-time members of
the Alton fire department. The chairman shall be elected for an initial term of
three (3) years from 1990 into 1993; and thereafter the term of the chairman
shall be two (2) years. The treasurer shall be elected for an initial term of
two (2) years from 1990 to 1992; and thereafter the term of the treasurer shall
be two (2) years. The secretary shall be elected for an initial term of one
year from 1990 into 1991; and thereafter the term of the secretary shall be two
(2) years. Any elections to be held each year shall be held simultaneously on a
day during the first week of August to be specifically determined by notice
from the chief of the fire department at least thirty (30) days in advance.
Notice of election shall be conspicuously posted in each firehouse of the fire
department.
   C.   The officers of the board shall be required to assure that the
treasurer of the board shall give a sufficient bond to the municipality,
approved by the mayor, conditioned upon the faithful performance by the
treasurer of his duties under this section and any rules or regulations
provided by the board.
   D.   The officers of the board shall give not less than fourteen (14) days'
advance notice of a time and date for a meeting at least annually for the
purpose of allowing any full-time member of the fire department to appear and
suggest proposals for expenditure of funds held by the treasurer. The officers
of the board shall thereafter determine what expenditures are appropriate by
consideration of written resolutions. A majority vote of the persons serving as
officers shall be required before the adoption of any such resolution. The
officers of the board shall develop and maintain a listing of those items that
the board feels are appropriate expenditures. The treasurer of the board shall
make disbursement only in response to written resolution certified by the
secretary to have been passed by a majority vote of the persons then serving as
officers and only to the extent available funds permit the disbursements. No
officer shall be authorized to incur any form of debt in the name of the board.
All checks disbursed from the board shall require the signature of the
treasurer and the chairman of the board. Any decision by the officers of the
board to make disbursements shall be deemed a final decision and not reviewable
after checks are issued. The secretary shall be responsible for the maintenance
of minutes of all meetings of the officers of the board, notices required, and
related documents. The treasurer shall be responsible for the maintenance of
all records concerning receipts and disbursements of funds.
   E.   The officers of the board are hereby empowered to consider and adopt
any additional rules and regulations they determine to be necessary or
appropriate for the effective and efficient management of the board from time
to time.
   F.   As part of the annual municipal audit, these funds shall be audited to
verify that these purchases are for the maintenance, use, and benefit of the
department. (Ord. 6054, 3-27-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-10-1 et seq.
3-4-8: RECOVERY OF COST OF RESPONDING TO HAZARDOUS WASTE/CHEMICAL SPILLS AND/OR
RELATED FIRES:
Any person, firm, business or corporation that is responsible for causing the
fire, police and/or public works department of the city to respond to incidents
involving hazardous waste/chemical spills and/or related fires within and
beyond the corporate limits of the city shall be charged a fee equal to the
cost of said response of the fire, police or public works departments of the
city. (Ord. 6387, 5-12-1999)
3-4-9: OPERATION OF ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES:
The members of the city of Alton fire department are hereby authorized to
operate vehicles commonly referred to as all- terrain vehicles upon any street,
alley or highway located within the corporate limits of the city, and upon any
public property located within the city, while in the performance of their
respective duties as employees of the city, notwithstanding the fact that said
vehicles are not licensed by the state of Illinois and are otherwise prohibited
from operation upon public street, alley or highways. (Ord. 6493, 6-14-2000)
CHAPTER 5
DEPARTMENT OF PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT
SECTION:
3-5-1: Department Established
3-5-2: Director
3-5-3: Deputy Director
3-5-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Department of Planning and Development within the
Municipal government of the City. The Department shall oversee efforts of the
City of Alton to improve and enhance the quality of life for the citizens of
Alton through the provision of programs, activities and initiatives relating to
economic development, zoning/land use administration, community development,
and short and long-range planning. Furthermore, the department shall solicit
and promote private and public investment in the City of Alton so as to promote
economic development, including the creation and retention of jobs within the
City of Alton and the enhancement of its tax base to sustain the efforts of the
City of Alton so as to promote the health, safety and welfare of the citizens
of the City of Alton. (Ord. 7664, 8-22-2018)
3-5-2: DIRECTOR:
There is hereby established the Office of Director of Planning and Development,
which shall be filled by appointment of the Mayor, by and with the consent of
the City Council. Education, knowledge and experience shall qualify the
Director of Planning and Development. The Director of Planning and Development
shall oversee all economic and community development efforts within the City of
Alton, including the administration of all grants and programs related to
economic and community development. The Director of Planning and Development
shall work under the supervision of the Mayor. (Ord. 7664, 8-22-2018)
3-5-3: DEPUTY DIRECTOR:
There is hereby established the Office of Deputy Director of Planning and
Development, which shall be filled by appointment of the Mayor, by and with the
consent of the City Council. Education, knowledge and experience shall qualify
the Deputy Director of Planning and Development. The Deputy Director of
Planning and Development shall serve as the Zoning Administrator and assist the
Director of Planning and Development with economic and community development
efforts within the City of Alton as may be directed by the Director of Planning
and Development. The Deputy Director of Planning and Development shall work
under the supervision of the Director of Planning and Development. (Ord. 7664,
8-22-2018)
CHAPTER 6
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-6-1: Department Established
3-6-2: Directors And Employees
3-6-3: Disposition Of Funds
3-6-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a parks and recreation department in the city of
Alton. (Ord. 6721, 4-9-2003)
3-6-2: DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Executive Director: An executive director of the parks and recreation
department shall be appointed by the mayor by and with the consent of the city
council. The executive director shall administer all of the property, programs,
and activities conducted by the parks and recreation department of the city of
Alton. The executive director shall be the chief administrative officer of the
parks and recreation department. (Ord. 6721, 4-9-2003)
   B.   Maintenance Director 1 : (Rep. by Ord. 7411, 6-11-2014)
   C.   Recreation Director: A recreation director shall be appointed by the
mayor by and with the consent of the city council. The recreation director
shall supervise the recreational programs of the parks and recreation
department and shall supervise all other employees assigned playground or
recreation duties. The recreation director shall be the responsible party for
the day to day administration of playground and recreation activities. The
recreation director shall be qualified by education, knowledge and experience
to organize and administer the recreational programs determined to be
appropriate by the executive director. (Ord. 6721, 4-9-2003)
The executive director and recreation director shall be required to establish
their residence within the city of Alton within ninety (90) days of their
appointment to their position and to maintain their respective residence within
the city of Alton thereafter. (Ord. 6721, 4-9-2003; amd. Ord. 7417, 8-13-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-1-9 of this title.
3-6-3: DISPOSITION OF FUNDS:
The city treasurer shall receive and hold all monies that may come to the parks
and recreation department either by subscription, donation, appropriations or
fees for the improvement and maintenance of the parks or from other sources and
may draw orders, checks or warrants against such funds as he shall hold for
park purposes on proper order in writing as directed to him by the executive
director of the parks and recreation department of the city or by any
legislative or executive order for any necessary expense or expenditures for
playground and recreation purposes or other matters relative thereto or arising
out of playground and recreation matters. (Ord. 6721, 4-9-2003)
CHAPTER 7
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-7-1: Department Established
3-7-2: Information Technology Director
3-7-3: Information Technology Technician
3-7-4: Mission And Goals
3-7-5: Fingerprinting
3-7-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established an Information Technology Department in the City,
to be effective immediately upon passage hereof. (Ord. 7457, 4-22-2015)
3-7-2: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DIRECTOR:
   A.   The Information Technology Director shall be appointed by the Mayor, by
and with the consent of the City Council. The Director shall be qualified by
education, training and experience to carry forth the mission and goals of the
Information Technology Department.
   B.   The duties of the Information Technology Director shall be as follows:
      1.   To generally oversee the operations of the City of Alton with regard
to the demands of information technology, including all computers, networking
capabilities, e-mails and websites owned, operated, or maintained by the City
of Alton.
      2.   To be available to assist the various departments with regard to
issues involving telephones, fax machines, copiers, and scanners.
      3.   To oversee the policies of each department with regard to the
maintenance of records and all policies concerning the destruction of said
records except with regard to the statutory duties of the Office of the City
Clerk and City Treasurer. The City Clerk shall retain ultimate responsibility
with regard to the statutory requirements with regard to the records of the
City Clerk and City Treasurer but the Information Technology Director shall be
available for consultation with regard to the implementation of those
requirements.
      4.   To perform such other duties as may be assigned by the Mayor or by
ordinance, approved by the City Council, from time to time. (Ord. 7457, 4-22-
2015)
3-7-3: INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY TECHNICIAN:
   A.   The information technology technician shall be appointed by the Mayor,
by and with the consent of the City Council. The technician shall be qualified
by education, training and experience to carry forth the mission and goals of
the Information Technology Department.
   B.   The duties of the information technology technician shall be as
follows:
      1.   Identifies and procures the hardware and software needed to satisfy
user requirements.
      2.   Installs hardware and peripheral components such as monitors,
keyboards, printers and disk drives on user's premises.
      3.   Loads appropriate software packages such as operating systems,
networking components, office applications, new software, and hardware, on the
LAN coordinating assistance from IT Director.
      4.   Provides telephone, in person and online support to end users.
      5.   Provides updates, status and completion information to manager and/
or users via e-mail or the help desk support system.
      6.   Refers major hardware problems to IT Director for correction.
      7.   Connects users to networks and provides initial training in
facilities and applications.
      8.   Administers e-mail and antivirus systems.
      9.   Rotates daily backup media.
      10.   Assists in research and procurement of computer accessories and
supplies.
      11.   Adds and maintains users on the network; assigning application
access, ensuring security and maintaining their configurations are within
standards.
      12.   Performs other duties as assigned. (Ord. 7539, 9-14-2016)
3-7-4: MISSION AND GOALS:
The mission and goals of the Information Technology Department shall be to
assist all departments of the City of Alton with regard to all issues involving
information technology including the acquisition of information, the storage of
information, and the permissible destruction of information records in a modern
and efficient manner. (Ord. 7539, 9-14-2016)
3-7-5: FINGERPRINTING:
The City, through its Information Technology Department, will provide livescan
fingerprinting services to all individuals and businesses located in the Alton
area, and the corporate authorities of the City deem it appropriate to impose a
fee for such service in order to partially offset the cost to the City to
provide such service. A fee is hereby imposed upon persons requesting such
service pursuant to the following fee schedule:
Submission Type Electronic/ Live Scan Resubmission Fee
Submission Type                 Electronic/ Live Scan Resubmission Fee
Fee applicants:                                       
 State only                    $35.00                $20.00
 FBI only                      $30.00                $20.00
 State and FBI                 $55.00                $40.00
  National Child Protection
 Act/Volunteers for Children   $55.00                $40.00
  Act and Adam Walsh volunteers
Uniform Conviction Information                        
Act requests:
 Name-based inquiry            $25.00                n/a
 Fingerprint card              $35.00                $20.00
Expungement or sealing
petitions and court orders and                        
subpoena processing:
 Petition to expunge or seal   No charge
  criminal history
 Court order to expunge or     $85.00
  seal criminal history
 Subpoena for criminal history $35.00
  information
FD-258 Cards (Blue Cards)       $35.00 for first and $5.00 each additional card
 
(Ord. 7667, 10-24-2018; amd. Ord. 7850, 8-24-2022)
CHAPTER 8
DEPARTMENT OF CODE ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
3-8-1: Department Established
3-8-2: Director
3-8-3: Housing Division
3-8-4: Housing Inspector
3-8-5: Building Division
3-8-6: Building Coordinator
3-8-7: Building Inspector
3-8-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a Department of Code Enforcement. The Department of
Code Enforcement shall be dedicated to improving the health, safety and welfare
of the City of Alton by maintaining, preserving and improving the City's
physical structures and properties by enforcing Building and Housing
Construction Codes, Life Safety Codes, Property Maintenance Codes,
Accessibility Codes, together with the supervision of occupancy inspections and
landlord licensing requirements. The Department of Code Enforcement shall be
responsible for review, inspection and issuance of all permits relating to
housing, building, sign and structure permits. The Department of Code
Enforcement shall supervise all efforts to obtain the demolition of dangerous
and unsafe structures found to be beyond reasonable repair. (Ord. 7664, 8-22-
2018)
3-8-2: DIRECTOR:
There is hereby established the Office of Director of Code Enforcement, which
shall be filled by appointment of the Mayor, by and with the consent of the
City Council. Education, knowledge and experience shall qualify the Director of
Code Enforcement. The Director of Code Enforcement shall oversee all
responsibilities of the Department of Code Enforcement. The Director of Code
Enforcement shall work under the supervision of the Mayor. (Ord. 7664, 8-22-
2018)
3-8-3: HOUSING DIVISION:
The Housing Division shall operate as a separate division of the Code
Enforcement Department under the direction of the Director of Code Enforcement.
The Housing Division shall be led by a Housing Coordinator who shall be
qualified by education, knowledge and experience in the administration of
Building and Housing Code enforcement, including but not limited to, the
ability to administer and oversee the enforcement of provisions of this Code
related to landlord licensing, vacant property registration programs,
residential Property Maintenance Code enforcement, administration of
residential occupancy permit regulations and shall serve as a liaison to the
Alton Police Department and Alton Fire Department. The initial Housing
Coordinator shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of the
City Council, and the position shall thereafter be under the civil service
regulations of the City of Alton. (Ord. 7664, 8-22-2018)
3-8-4: HOUSING INSPECTOR:
There is hereby created the position of housing inspector in the City of Alton.
Education, knowledge and experience shall qualify the housing inspector to
conduct occupancy inspections, enforce the Property Maintenance Codes of the
City of Alton, enforce the Zoning Codes of the City of Alton and perform such
other duties as may be assigned by the Housing Coordinator or the Director of
the Department of Code Enforcement from time to time. The total number of
housing inspectors shall be determined by the annual budgetary process of the
City of Alton. Initial housing inspectors shall be appointed by the Mayor, by
and with the consent of the City Council, and the positions shall thereafter be
under the civil service regulations of the City of Alton. (Ord. 7664, 8-22-
2018)
3-8-5: BUILDING DIVISION:
The Building Division shall operate as a separate division of the Department of
Code Enforcement under the direction of the Director of Department of Code
Enforcement. The Building Division shall be led by a Building Coordinator who
shall be qualified by education, knowledge and experience in the administration
of Building Code enforcement, including but not limited to, the ability to
administer and oversee the enforcement of provisions of this Code relating to
commercial buildings. The Building Division shall have responsibility for
review and issuance of commercial building and demolition permits, construction
inspections and review, sign permits and enforcement of Subdivision and Zoning
Code requirements of this Code. Additional duties of the Building Division
shall be assigned by the Director of the Department of Code Enforcement. (Ord.
7664, 8-22-2018)
3-8-6: BUILDING COORDINATOR:
The Building Division shall be led by a Building Coordinator who shall be
qualified by education, knowledge and experience to perform the duties of the
administration of the Building Division. The Building Coordinator shall serve
as a liaison to the Appearance Review Commission, Historical Commission,
Planning and Zoning Commission and Zoning Board of Appeals. The Building
Coordinator shall be initially appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent
of the City Council, and the position shall thereafter be under the civil
service regulations of the City of Alton. (Ord. 7664, 8-22-2018)
3-8-7: BUILDING INSPECTOR:
There is hereby created the position of building inspector in the City of
Alton. Education, knowledge and experience shall qualify the building
inspector. The duties of the building inspector shall include inspection of
premises in relation to applications for business licenses, construction
permits and inspections, and all commercial Property Code enforcement, the
demolition of dangerous and unsafe structures beyond reasonable repair in
commercial zoning districts together with such other duties as may be assigned
by the Building Coordinator or the Director of the Department of Code
Enforcement from time to time. The total number of building inspectors shall be
determined by the annual budgetary process of the City of Alton. Initial
building inspectors shall be appointed by the Mayor, by and with the consent of
the City Council, and thereafter the positions shall be under the civil service
regulations of the City of Alton. (Ord. 7664, 8-22-2018)
TITLE 4
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUSINESS REGULATION CERTIFICATES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Title
4-1-2: Definitions
4-1-3: Regulation Certificates Required
4-1-4: Applications For Certificates
4-1-5: Term Of Certificates
4-1-6: Fees
4-1-7: Record Of Certificates
4-1-8: Food Service Sanitation
4-1-9: Conditions And Appeal
4-1-10: Exclusions And Reductions
4-1-11: Administration And Enforcement
4-1-12: Revocation
4-1-13: Conflict
4-1-14: Invalidity
4-1-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited and referred to as the BUSINESS REGULATION
CERTIFICATES. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
4-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms wherever they occur in this chapter shall be
construed as herein defined:
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT: Shall refer to a "food establishment", an "industrial
establishment", a "retail and wholesale establishment" or a "service
establishment", as defined herein.
FOOD ESTABLISHMENT: A building or premises or portion thereof, the principal
use of which is for sale or dispensing or distribution or serving of food,
foodstuff or drink for consumption on or off the premises or in or out of the
building, not to include the sale or dispensing or distribution of alcoholic
beverages.
INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT: A building or premises or portion thereof, the
principal use of which is for manufacturing, including assembly, processing,
fabrication and storage or scientific research and development.
OWNER: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest in any
establishment to maintain and manage its operation.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity.
RETAIL AND WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT: A building or premises or portion thereof,
the principal use of which is for the sale or distribution of any commodity for
a price by a seller to a consumer, or by one business to another business.
SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: A building or premises or portion thereof, the principal
use of which is for the rendering of personal services for a price whether or
not a commodity is worked upon or exchanged. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-
1979; amd. 1999 Code)
4-1-3: REGULATION CERTIFICATES REQUIRED:
   A.   One Business: It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any
commercial establishment as herein enumerated, without having first obtained a
certificate therefor. A class A regulatory certificate shall be required of all
such establishments unless otherwise specified by this code. A separate offense
shall be deemed committed on each day during which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
   B.   Multiple Businesses: In the event the same person or entity is the
owner and operator of more than one commercial establishment located on the
same site and said commercial establishments require, by their varied nature,
two (2) or more regulatory certificates or liquor licenses, said owner and
operator shall be charged only one fee, that being the highest fee required for
a regulatory certificate or a liquor license if the establishment holds a
liquor license. The owner and operator shall be responsible to obtain any other
regulatory certificate or liquor license as may be required by this Code, but
the fee for such additional regulatory certificate or liquor license will be
waived. (Ord. 7557, 2-8-2017; amd. Ord. 7601, 11-21-2017)
   C.   Site Locations:
      1.   There shall be a business certificate for each place of business or
location. For the purposes of this title, a "place of business" shall be
defined as a building or series of connected buildings on one contiguous lot or
parcel of ground, and separately operated and owned by the same person and
conducting the same general business activity.
      2.   Where two (2) or more separate businesses, separately owned or
operated, share floor space in the same building or on the same parcel of
ground and the floor space is subdivided between the separate businesses, or
types of businesses, then each shall be deemed a separate business and shall be
required to attain a separate business regulatory certificate. (Ord. 4364, 10-
25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
4-1-4: APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATES:
All persons operating any commercial establishments within the City shall file
with the City Treasurer an application for the appropriate regulatory
certificate to operate their particular commercial establishment. Applications
for such documents shall be made available by the City. The required fee for
the particular regulatory certificate which is applied for, must accompany the
filing of said application. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
4-1-5: TERM OF CERTIFICATES:
Subject to the terms and provisions of this chapter, the Mayor, or such
personnel as may be designated by the Mayor, shall cause to be issued the
certificate upon the recommendation of the City Treasurer, subject to
investigations by the Building, Fire, Police and Business and Economic
Development Departments, to permit the operation of the establishment in the
City for a period of one year. The term of said certificate shall begin on
January 1 of the year for which such document is issued and shall terminate on
December 31 of the same year. No certificate shall be issued at the yearly rate
of fees except for the full regulatory year; provided, however, that where such
document is issued on or after the first day of July, the regulatory fee shall
be one-half (1/2) of the yearly fee for the unexpired term of the regulatory
year. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979; amd. Ord. 5419, 1-10-1990)
4-1-6: FEES:
   A.   Collection: The yearly fee for a regulatory certificate shall be
collected by the City Treasurer, with the application for a regulatory
certificate. In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any regulatory
fee, or part thereof, said fee being appropriate to the costs incurred by the
City in connection with the initial processing of an application, including
appropriate inspections as may be required. (Ord. 7281, 10-12-2011)
   B.   Annual Fees: Yearly fees for regulatory certificates in the City shall
be as follows:
 
Class A $ 50.00
Class B 100.00
Class C 200.00
Class D 400.00
Class E 600.00
 
   (Ord. 7078, 5-28-2008)
   C.   Late Fee: A late fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be imposed
on renewals received after December 31 of the year in which the renewal is due.
(Ord. 5983, 6-28-1995)
4-1-7: RECORD OF CERTIFICATES:
The City Treasurer shall cause to be maintained, a record of all establishments
and various regulatory documents which may from time to time be deemed
necessary for the purpose of classifying, inspecting, serving and regulating
all establishments in the City. Subject to the terms and provisions of this
chapter, upon payment in full of the required document fee to the City, the
City shall issue a certificate or similar evidence of the regulation which
shall be displayed by the owner of establishment in a conspicuous place. Such
evidence of regulation shall bear the signature of the Mayor and City Clerk and
be issued under the Corporate Seal. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979; amd.
Ord. 5419, 1-10-1990)
4-1-8: FOOD SERVICE SANITATION:
Any food establishment shall, in addition to other regulations provided herein,
comply with all rules and regulations as established by the Madison County,
Illinois, health department. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979; amd. 1999
Code)
4-1-9: CONDITIONS AND APPEAL:
   A.   Conditions: No business regulatory certificate for the operation of any
establishment in the city shall be issued if one or more of the following
conditions are determined by the city treasurer to exist:
      1.   The building or premises utilized by the establishment does not
comply with the provisions and terms of the building code, zoning ordinance,
fire regulations, health regulations 1  or with all other ordinances and
regulations of the city.
      2.   The building or premises utilized by the establishment are in a
condition of being unsanitary or unsafe so as to endanger the public safety,
health or welfare.
      3.   The proposed operation or activity of the establishment constitutes
an unsanitary or unsafe condition so as to endanger the public safety, health
or welfare.
      4.   The owner, investor, operator or manager of the establishment or
such legal entity comprising the establishment is delinquent in indebtedness to
the city.
      5.   The owner, investor, operator or manager of the establishment
represents an unreasonable danger to the public health, safety or welfare of
the public due to the past criminal or business activities of the owner,
investor, operator or manager of the proposed establishment after considering
the particular nature or circumstances of the activities proposed to be
conducted.
   B.   Appeal: In the event a person is denied the issuance of a business
regulatory certificate by the city treasurer for any of the reasons as set
forth in this section, the city treasurer shall provide a written notice of the
denial to the applicant. The denial shall specify the conditions determined by
the city treasurer to exist upon which the denial is based by referencing the
paragraph or paragraphs of this section relied upon by the city treasurer in
determining to deny the business regulatory certificate. If the applicant
desires to appeal the determination of the city treasurer to deny the business
regulatory certificate, the applicant may do so by compliance with the
following administrative procedures:
      1.   The applicant shall file a written notice of appeal with the office
of the mayor of the city of Alton within fourteen (14) days following the
written denial of the city treasurer. The notice of appeal must be accompanied
by a copy of the written denial of the city treasurer along with a statement
from the applicant of his intent to appeal said denial. The applicant must
provide at a minimum the applicant's current name, address and contact
information, including if available, a phone number and e-mail address. If the
applicant desires to be represented by an attorney licensed to practice law in
the state of Illinois, the applicant shall further set forth the name, current
address and if available the phone number and the e-mail address for said
attorney.
      2.   Upon receipt of a notice of appeal as aforesaid, the mayor shall
schedule an administrative hearing to be held before the mayor, or a hearing
officer to be designated by the mayor, in city hall at a time and on a date to
be determined by the mayor, not less than fourteen (14) days and not more than
thirty (30) days following the receipt of the notice of appeal in the office of
the mayor.
      3.   At the administrative hearing before the mayor, or his designated
hearing officer, the appellant will first present his application for a
business regulatory certificate, together with any supporting documents,
testimony or other evidence he may so choose to present to describe the
particular commercial establishment desired to be operated by the applicant,
along with evidence as to the suitability of the location for the proposed
commercial establishment. Following the presentation of the merits of the
application by the applicant as aforesaid, the city treasurer, or his
designated representative, shall present any and all documents, materials,
testimony or other evidence he may so choose to present in support of the
determination to deny the issuance of the business regulatory certificate.
      4.   All persons who testify in the course of the administrative hearing
shall be sworn by the mayor or the hearing officer. All persons who testify
shall be subject to cross examination by the party not calling the person to
testify. The formal rules of evidence applicable in a court of law shall not be
applied but may be used as a guide in the conduct of the hearing. Hearsay and
other forms of evidence may be admitted in the discretion of the mayor or the
hearing officer.
      5.   The hearing may be continued from time to time by the mayor or the
hearing officer with notice to the applicant and city treasurer or his
designated representative delivered in the course of the hearing or later by
mail. A complete record of the hearing shall be caused to be made by the mayor
or the hearing officer by way of audiotape, stenographer or court reporter.
      6.   Upon the conclusion of the evidence and any arguments that may be
permitted on the record in the discretion of the mayor or the hearing officer,
the hearing shall be adjourned. Within fourteen (14) days following the
adjournment of the hearing, the mayor or the hearing officer shall issue a
written decision to either affirm the decision of the city treasurer to deny
the issuance of a business regulatory certificate or, in the alternative, order
the city treasurer to issue a business regulatory certificate. Notice of the
written decision, including findings of fact to support the decision, shall be
mailed to the applicant by regular U.S. postal service and shall be filed with
the city treasurer and with the city clerk contemporaneously with the mailing
thereof and shall thereafter be considered public records.
      7.   The decision of the mayor or hearing officer shall be considered a
final administrative order and shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to
the Illinois administrative review act. (Ord. 7245, 2-23-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. See titles 5, 9, 10 and 11 of this code.
4-1-10: EXCLUSIONS AND REDUCTIONS:
   A.   The terms and provisions of this chapter shall not be made applicable
to any activity carried on or operated by a governmental institution and the
fee established in section
4-1-6 of this chapter shall be reduced by one-half (1/2) for any not for profit
institution or organization.
   B.   From time to time the city council, by majority vote on a resolution,
may exempt the payment of the fee established in section
4-1-6 of this chapter for certain specified not for profit institutions or
organizations, where the city council makes a finding that the essential
character of the specified institution or organization is charitable in nature
and that the particular activity related by this title shall be conducted in
the best interest of the citizens of the city and that such activity when
considered in light of the purposes of such institutions or organizations tends
to promote the health, safety or welfare of the community.
   C.   The terms and provisions of this title shall not be made applicable to
any activity which the state has declared to be within the exclusive regulation
of the state. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
4-1-11: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the city treasurer to administer and enforce the terms
of the provisions of this chapter and to make or cause to be made, such
inspections of buildings or premises as may be necessary to accomplish such
administration or enforcement. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979; amd. Ord.
5419, 1-10-1990)
4-1-12: REVOCATION:
The mayor shall have the power to revoke, for cause, any business regulatory
certificate issued by the city treasurer. In the event a business regulatory
certificate is revoked by the mayor, no portion of the business regulatory
certificate fee shall be refunded.
   A.   Causes For Revocation: The mayor shall have sufficient cause to revoke
any business regulatory certificate granted by him if one or more of the
following conditions are determined to exist following the issuance of said
business regulatory certificate:
      1.   The building or premises utilized by the establishment does not
comply with the provisions and terms of the building code, zoning ordinance,
fire regulations, health regulations 1  or with all other ordinances and
regulations of the city.
      2.   The building or premises utilized by the establishment are in a
condition of being unsanitary or unsafe so as to endanger the public safety,
health or welfare.
      3.   The proposed operation or activity of the establishment constitutes
an unsanitary or unsafe condition so as to endanger the public safety, health
or welfare.
      4.   The owner, investor, operator or manager of the establishment or
such legal entity comprising the establishment is delinquent in indebtedness to
the City.
      5.   The owner, investor, operator or manager of the establishment
represents an unreasonable danger to the public health, safety or welfare of
the public due to the past criminal or business activities of the owner,
investor, operator or manager of the proposed establishment after considering
the particular nature or circumstances of the activities proposed to be
conducted. (Ord. 7245, 2-23-2011)
      6.   The owner, manager, operator, or an employee of the business is
found to have violated any City ordinance upon or within the regulated business
establishment or in connection with the operation of the business. (Ord. 7690,
3-27-2019)
   B.   Revocation Procedures:
      1.   In the event the City Treasurer believes that there may be
sufficient cause to revoke any business regulatory certificate issued by him,
he shall file with the Office of the Mayor a written statement setting forth
the cause believed to exist to revoke any business regulatory certificate. The
written statement shall specify the condition or conditions which exist as
specified in subsection A of this section and which constitute sufficient cause
to revoke the business regulatory certificate.
      2.   The written statement of the City Treasurer filed with the Office of
the Mayor shall be referred to hereafter as "charges".
      3.   Upon receipt of a charges as aforesaid, the Mayor shall schedule an
administrative hearing to be held before the Mayor or a Hearing Officer to be
designated by the Mayor, in City Hall at a time and on a date to be determined
by the Mayor but not less than fourteen (14) days and not more than thirty (30)
days following the receipt of the charges in the Office of the Mayor. The
Office of the Mayor shall give notice of the hearing to the holder of the
business regulatory certificate by mailing by regular U.S. Postal Service the
notice of hearing, together with a copy of the charges, to the last address of
record for the holder of the business regulatory certificate.
      4.   At the administrative hearing before the Mayor or his designated
Hearing Officer, the City Treasurer shall first present his documents,
testimony or other evidence he may so choose to support his charges filed with
the Office of the Mayor. The holder of the business regulatory certificate may
be represented by an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of
Illinois, if they so choose. The holder of the business regulatory certificate
shall have an opportunity to respond to the documents, testimony or other
evidence presented by or on behalf of the City Treasurer by presenting
additional documents, testimony or other evidence. All persons who testify
shall be subject to cross examination.
      5.   The hearing may be continued from time to time in the discretion of
the Mayor or the Hearing Officer with notice to the holder of the business
regulatory certificate and City Treasurer or his designated representative
delivered in the course of the hearing or by regular U.S. Postal Service. A
complete record of the hearing shall be made by the Mayor or the Hearing
Officer by audiotape, stenographer or court reporter.
      6.   Upon the conclusion of the evidence and any arguments that may be
permitted on the record in the discretion of the Mayor or the Hearing Officer,
the hearing shall be adjourned. Within fourteen (14) days following the
adjournment of the hearing, the Mayor or the Hearing Officer shall issue a
written decision whether to revoke the business regulatory certificate. Notice
of the written decision, including findings of fact to support the decision,
shall be mailed to the applicant by regular U.S. Postal Service and shall be
filed with the City Treasurer and with the City Clerk contemporaneously with
the mailing thereof and shall thereafter be considered public records.
      7.   After review of any charges filed with the Office of the Mayor by
the City Treasurer, in the matters aforesaid if the Mayor determines that there
exist not only sufficient cause to conduct a hearing to revoke a business
regulatory certificate granted by the City Treasurer, but that the charges
present the reasonable inference of an immediate and substantial threat to the
public health, safety or welfare, so that a condition exists which requires
immediate emergency action; in that event the Mayor may suspend a business
regulatory certificate during the pendency of the hearing described above. In
the event a business regulatory certificate is suspended under the powers of
this subsection, the hearing to be held as described above, shall be held as
promptly as possible. Upon agreement of all parties concerned, the notice and
time requirements for the hearing of this section may be waived. (Ord. 7245, 2-
23-2011)
      8.   The revocation procedures as established in this subsection B shall
not apply to the regulatory certificate or business license required for any
person or beneficial owner to engage in the business of renting or leasing one
or more residential dwelling units in the City of Alton as established by
chapter 21 of this title; there being specific provisions applicable within
chapter 21 of this title concerning the possible sanctions or remedies in the
event of failure to comply with the requirements established for the holder of
such a regulatory certificate or license. (Ord. 7690, 3-27-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. See titles 5, 9, 10 and 11 of this code.
4-1-13: CONFLICT:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with any of the terms or
provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed. All ordinances or parts of
ordinances which more specifically regulate "commercial activities" as
described or defined in this chapter shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
4-1-14: INVALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision; and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion thereof. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
CHAPTER 2
SPECIAL EVENTS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-2-2: Definition
4-2-3: Exemptions And Exclusions
4-2-4: Exit Lights
4-2-5: Illinois Business Tax Number
4-2-6: Length Of Certificate
4-2-1: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to conduct, promote, or produce
any "special event", as herein defined, without first obtaining a Class B
regulatory certificate as defined in Chapter 1 of this Title. (Ord. 5984, 6-28-
1995)
4-2-2: DEFINITION:
SPECIAL EVENT: Includes, for the purposes of this Chapter, all events which do
not continue in actual and regular business activity for more than a seven (7)
day period and which are not specifically regulated by another chapter or
section of this Title. (Ord. 5984, 6-28-1995)
4-2-3: EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS:
No regulatory certificate shall be required for special events held by churches
or fraternal or social organizations; nor for special events held by public or
private schools. (Ord. 5984, 6-28-1995)
4-2-4: EXIT LIGHTS:
It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of any building or hall
used as an assembly hall with accommodations for one hundred (100) persons or
more in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures and other entertainment
is offered, operated or presented to provide and place a sign on which the word
"EXIT" shall appear in letters at least six inches (6") high, over every door
or other opening from such hall to every means of egress therefrom, and a light
shall be provided with a red globe and placed at or over such sign, which light
shall be kept burning during the entire period that the hall is open to the
public and until the audience has left the hall. (Ord. 5984, 6-28-1995)
4-2-5: ILLINOIS BUSINESS TAX NUMBER:
Upon application for a regulatory certificate, pursuant to the provisions of
this Chapter, any person or persons conducting, promoting or producing any
special event must provide the Illinois business tax number of any vendor
participating in retail sales to the City prior to the start of the special
event. (Ord. 5984, 6-28-1995)
4-2-6: LENGTH OF CERTIFICATE:
The special event certificate shall be valid for only one seven (7) day period
at a time. Any requests for an extension of the seven (7) day period must be
approved by the City Treasurer and an additional fee shall be charged. (Ord.
5984, 6-28-1995)
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL OCCUPATION AND BUSINESS TAXES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Municipal Retailers' And Service Occupation Taxes
4-3-2: Municipal Utility Tax
4-3-3: Municipal Leasing Occupation Tax
4-3-4: Municipal Use Tax
4-3-5: Municipal Automobile Renting Use Tax
4-3-6: Municipal Automobile Renting Occupation Tax
4-3-7: Hotel Room Tax
4-3-7-1: Authority
4-3-7-2: Definitions
4-3-7-3: Hotel Use Tax Imposed
4-3-7-4: Records Kept
4-3-7-5: Rules And Regulations
4-3-7-6: Transmittal Of Tax Revenue
4-3-7-7: Collection Of Tax
4-3-7-8: Proceeds Of Taxes
4-3-7-9: Use Of Funds
4-3-7-10: Other Actions Authorized
4-3-8: Food And Beverages Sales Tax
4-3-8-1: Definitions
4-3-8-2: Tax Imposed
4-3-8-3: Sales Tax Returns
4-3-8-4: Use Of Proceeds
4-3-8-5: Books And Records
4-3-8-6: Penalty
4-3-8-7: Violations
4-3-8-8: Additional Remedies For Collection
4-3-9: Gross Receipts Utility Tax
4-3-9-1: Definitions
4-3-9-2: Gas Tax Imposed
4-3-9-3: Exception To Tax
4-3-9-4: Tax In Addition To Other Taxes
4-3-9-5: Reports To City
4-3-9-6: Provision For Overpayment
4-3-9-7: Violation
4-3-10: Electricity Tax
4-3-10-1: Tax Imposed
4-3-10-2: Exceptions
4-3-10-3: Additional Taxes
4-3-10-4: Collection
4-3-10-5: Reports To Municipality
4-3-10-6: Credit For Overpayment
4-3-10-7: Penalty
4-3-10-8: Constitutionality
4-3-11: Municipal Gas Use Tax
4-3-11-1: Short Title
4-3-11-2: Definitions
4-3-11-3: Tax
4-3-11-4: Collection Of Tax By Public Utility
4-3-11-5: Books And Records
4-3-12: Municipal Cannabis Retailer’s Occupation Tax
4-3-12-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
4-3-12-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
4-3-12-3: Application Of Tax Proceeds
4-3-12-4: Severability
4-3-12-5: Effective Date
4-3-13:    Municipal Grocery Retailers’ And Service Occupation Taxes
4-3-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAXES:
   A.   Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax:
      1.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in this city at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of section 8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code.
      2.   Report Filed: Every such person engaged in such business in the city
shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the
state department of revenue required by section three of an act in relation to
a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property to purchasers for use or consumption, approved June 28, 1933, as
amended.
      3.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be
paid to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on
account of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the
preceding month. (Ord. 3556, 8-27-1969)
      4.   Exclusions: The exclusion contained in section 2(d) of the
retailers' occupation tax act, approved June 28, 1933, as amended, shall not
apply to property within the city. (Ord. 4397, 12-27-1978)
   B.   Municipal Service Occupation Tax:
      1.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
this municipality in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by
said servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form
of real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of section 8-11-5 of the Illinois municipal code.
      2.   Report Filed: Every supplier or serviceman required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of this city shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department
of revenue required by section 9 of the service occupation tax act, approved
July 10, 1961, as amended.
      3.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be
paid to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord.
3557, 8-27-1969)
      4.   Exclusions: The exclusion contained in section 2(e) of the service
occupation tax act, approved July 10, 1961, as amended, shall not apply to
property within the city. (Ord. 4397, 12-27-1978)
   C.   Home Rule Municipal Retailers' And Service Occupation Taxes:
      1.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property, other than an item of tangible
personal property titled or registered with an agency of this state's
government, at retail in this city at the rate of one percent (1.0%) of the
gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while this
subsection is in effect; and a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged
in this city in the business of making sales of service, at the rate of one
percent (1.0%) of the selling price of all tangible personal property
transferred by such serviceman as an incident to a sale of service. Such home
rule municipal retailers' occupational tax and the home rule municipal service
occupation tax shall not be applicable on the sales of food for human
consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food which has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics.
The imposition of these home rule taxes are in accordance with the provisions
of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 and 5/8-11-5. (Ord. 7125, 2-25-2009,
eff. 7-1-2009)
      2.   Collection Of Taxes: The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil
penalties that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and
enforced by the department of revenue of the state of Illinois. The department
of revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this section.
      3.   Certified Copy: The city clerk is hereby directed to file a
certified copy of this section on or before June 1, 1990. (Ord. 5439, 4-25-
1990)
   D.   Business District Taxes:
      1.   Imposed: For the planning, execution and implementation of the Alton
Square business district plan and to pay for Alton Square business district
project costs as set forth in said plan, all as provided in the business
district act, the city hereby imposes the following taxes (collectively, the
"business district taxes"):
         a.   Retailers' Occupation Tax: Except as otherwise provided in
subsection D2 of this section, there is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged
in the Alton Square business district, in the business of selling tangible
personal property, other than an item of tangible personal property titled or
registered with an agency of the state of Illinois, at retail within the Alton
Square business district a retailers' occupation tax at a rate equal to one
percent (1.0%) of the gross receipts from the sales made in the course of such
business.
         b.   Service Occupation Tax: Except as otherwise provided in
subsection D2 of this section, there is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged
in the Alton Square business district in the business of making sales of
service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer
tangible personal property within the Alton Square business district, either in
the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, a service occupation tax at a rate equal to one
percent (1.0%) of the selling price of tangible personal property so
transferred within the Alton Square business district.
      2.   Exclusions From Tax: The retailers' occupation tax and the service
occupation tax imposed pursuant to this subsection D shall not be imposed on
food for human consumption that is to be consumed off the premises where it is
sold (other than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks, and food that has been
prepared for immediate consumption), prescription and nonprescription
medicines, drugs, medical appliances, modifications to a motor vehicle for the
purpose of rendering it usable by a disabled person, insulin, urine testing
materials, syringes, and needles used by diabetics for human use.
      3.   Transmittal To Department Of Revenue: The city clerk is hereby
expressly directed to transmit: a) a certified copy of this subsection D to the
department of revenue (the "department") of the state of Illinois (the "state")
not later than April 1, 2008, for administration and enforcement by the
department commencing on July 1, 2008, b) in the manner prescribed by the
department, the boundaries of the Alton Square business district in such a way
that the department can determine by its address whether a business is located
in the Alton Square business district, and c) such other information as the
department may require for the administration and enforcement of the business
district taxes.
      4.   Business District Taxes Deposited To Fund: It is hereby expressly
provided that each distribution to the city by the state of business district
taxes shall be deposited by the city treasurer upon receipt into the fund and
shall be used as provided in the business district act.
      5.   Termination Of Business District Taxes And Fund: When all Alton
Square business district costs, including, without limitation, all obligations
financing Alton Square business district project costs incurred under section
11-74.3-3 of the business district act, have been paid, all surplus funds then
remaining in the fund shall be distributed to the city treasurer for deposit to
the city's general corporation fund. Upon payment of all Alton Square business
district project costs and retirement of obligations, but in no event more than
twenty three (23) years after the date of adoption of the ordinance approving
the Alton Square business district plan, March 26, 2031, the city shall adopt
an ordinance immediately rescinding the business district taxes, and the fund
shall be closed. (Ord. 7067, 3-26-2008)
4-3-2: MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following
occupations or privileges:
      1.   Persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying,
furnishing, or selling water for use or consumption within the corporate limits
of the city and not for resale, at the rate of five percent (5%) of the gross
receipts therefrom 1 .
No tax is imposed by this section with respect to any transaction in interstate
commerce or otherwise to the extent to which such business may not under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made subject to taxation by
this state or any political subdivision thereof; nor shall any persons engaged
in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling gas, water or
electricity or engaged in the business of transmitting messages be subject to
taxation under the provisions of this section for such transactions as are or
may become subject to taxation under the provisions of the municipal retailers'
occupation tax act authorized by section 8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code.
Such tax shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products or
services furnished to this city by the taxpayer as compensation for the use of
its streets, alleys or other public places, or installation and maintenance
therein, thereon or thereunder of poles, wires, pipes or other equipment used
in the operation of the taxpayers' business. (Ord. 3343, 4-27-1966; amd. Ord.
6672, 9-11-2002)
   B.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply:
    GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for the transmission of
messages, or for distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling water for use
or consumption and not for resale, as the case may be; and for all services
rendered in connection therewith valued in money, whether received in money or
otherwise, including cash, credit, services and property of every kind and
material and for all services rendered therewith; and shall be determined
without any deduction on account of the cost of transmitting said messages
without any deduction on account of the cost of the service, product or
commodity supplied, the cost of materials used, labor or service cost, or any
other expenses whatsoever.
   PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership,
association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this State, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   TRANSMITTING MESSAGES: In addition to the usual and popular meaning of
person-to-person communication, shall include the furnishing, for a
consideration, of services or facilities (whether owned or leased), or both, to
persons in connection with the transmission of messages where such persons do
not, in turn, receive any consideration in connection therewith, but shall not
include such furnishing of services or facilities to persons for the
transmission of messages to the extent that any such services or facilities for
the transmission of messages are furnished for a consideration, by such persons
to other persons, for the transmission of messages. (Ord. 3343, 4-27-1966)
   C.   Basis Of Tax: The tax provided for herein shall be based on the gross
receipts, as herein defined, actually paid to the taxpayer for services billed
and shall be reported and paid on or before the last day of every third month
ending March, June, September and December, each taxpayer shall make a like
return to the City Treasurer for a corresponding three (3) month period. (Ord.
3343, 4-27-1966; amd. 1999 Code)
   D.   Payment Of Tax: The taxpayer making the return herein provided for
shall, at the time of making such return, pay to the City Treasurer the amount
of tax herein imposed; provided that in connection with any return the taxpayer
may, if he so elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of
business subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made
(exclusive of any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later
payments based upon any differences between such billings and the taxable gross
receipts.
   E.   Erroneous Payment: If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been
paid which was not due under the provisions of this section, whether as the
result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this section, from the
taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be
so credited.
No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions hereof shall be
commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such amount. (Ord.
3343, 4-27-1966)
   F.   Penalty: If for any reason a tax return or report is not timely filed
and/or the appropriate tax is not timely paid when due as required by this
section, interest and penalties shall be assessed and due as set forth in
section
1-19-11 of this Code. (Ord. 7596, 11-21-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
4-3-3: MUNICIPAL LEASING OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting or leasing tangible personal property to the users thereof
at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the gross receipts from such
renting or leasing made in the course of such business while this section is in
effect, in accordance with the provisions of section 8-11-6 of the Illinois
Municipal Code.
   B.   Report Filed: Every person engaged in such business in the City shall
file with the State Department of Revenue the return in the manner as required
by section five of the Leasing Occupation Tax Act.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such return is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipts from renting or leasing tangible personal property during the
preceding month. (Ord. 3309, 9-8-1965)
4-3-4: MUNICIPAL USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed in accordance with provisions of
section 8-11-6 of the Illinois Municipal Code upon the privilege of using in
the City any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside
Illinois at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an
agency of Illinois government. The tax shall be at a rate of one percent (1%)
of the selling price of such tangible property with selling price to have the
meaning as defined in the Use Tax Act, approved July 14, 1955.
   B.   Collection Of Tax: Such tax shall be collected by the Illinois
Department of Revenue for all municipalities imposing the tax and shall be paid
before the title or certificate of registration for the personal property is
issued.
   C.   Certify Copy: The City Clerk is hereby directed to transmit to the
Illinois Department of Revenue a certified copy of this Section not later than
five (5) days after its effective date. (Ord. 4441, 7-11-1979)
4-3-5: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in
this City an automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and
which is titled or registered with an agency of this State's government in this
City at the rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile
while this Section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section
8-11-8 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   B.   Collection Of Tax: The tax provided for in this Section shall be
collected from the persons whose Illinois address for titling or registration
purposes is given as being in this City.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: The tax imposed by this Section shall be paid to the
Illinois Department of Revenue. (Ord. 4670, 1-27-1982)
4-3-6: MUNICIPAL AUTOMOBILE RENTING OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of renting automobiles in this City at the rate of one percent (1%) of
the gross receipts from such rentals made in the course of such business while
this Chapter is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of section 8-11-
7 of the Illinois Municipal Code.
   B.   Report Filed: Every such person engaged in such business in the City
shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the
State Department of Revenue required by sections two and three of An Act in
Relation to a Tax Upon Persons Engaged in the Business of Selling Tangible
Personal Property to Purchasers for Use or Consumption, approved June 29, 1933,
as amended.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the State Department of Revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord. 4671, 1-27-
1982)
4-3-7: HOTEL ROOM TAX:
4-3-7-1: AUTHORITY:
This Section
4-3-7 is passed pursuant to the home rule authority granted to the City
pursuant to section 6 of article VII, Local Government of the Constitution of
the State. (Ord. 4988, 12-18-1985)
4-3-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them as
follows:
             Any person or entity who provides a means through which a person may book a Hotel
             room and/or Short-Term Rental Unit to Lessees, regardless of whether payment is
FACILITATOR: transferred through or processed by such Facilitator. Facilitators are considered
             Lessors, as used herein. Online Travel Companies are considered Facilitators, as
             used herein.
             The total amount of consideration for occupancy, valued in money, whether received
             in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits, and property or
             services of any kind or nature, including but not limited to, amounts charged for
             the making, booking, facilitating or servicing of reservations. Gross rent means
             both (a) the "net rate" paid to the hotel or motel by a Facilitator for room
GROSS RENT:  occupancy by the consumer; and (b) the amount retained by the Facilitator for
             travel-related services provided to the consumer (sometimes referred to as a
             "facilitation fee"), and any additional amounts retained by the Facilitator as
             compensation for its services to the consumer for the individual transaction, or,
             in the instance of a consumer's direct rental of a room with the hotel or motel,
             gross rent shall mean the amount charged by the hotel or motel directly to the
             consumer for the occupancy of the room.
             A structure kept, used or maintained as or advertised or held out to the public,
             for consideration, to be an inn, motel, hotel, apartment, tourist homes, lodging
HOTEL:       house, dormitory or place where sleeping, rooming, conference or exhibition
             accommodations are furnished for lease or rent, whether with or without meals. For
             avoidance of doubt, Short-Term Rental Unit are Hotels under this definition.
LESSEE:      Any person who pays for the privilege of occupying all or part of a hotel.
             Any person having a sufficient proprietary interest in conducting the operation of
LESSOR:      a Short-Term Rental, a Hotel, or receiving the consideration for the rental of all
             or part of such Short-Term Rental or Hotel, so as to entitle such person to all or
             a portion of the net receipts thereof, including Facilitators, as defined herein.
ONLINE       An organization that books, reserves, or rents hotel or motel rooms and makes
TRAVEL       other travel arrangements for consumers via the World Wide Web, internet or other
COMPANY:     digital means. Online Travel Companies are considered Facilitators, as used
             herein.
PERMANENT    Any person who has occupied or has the right to occupy all or part of a Hotel for
RESIDENT:    more than (30) consecutive days. The term also applies to a person who works and
             lives in the same hotel or motel.
             Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator, assignee,
             trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, co-partnership, joint venture, club,
             company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation, association, syndicate,
             society or any group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative,
PERSON:      fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise, whenever the term “Person” is used in any
             clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as applied to associations
             shall mean the owners or part-owners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the
             offices thereof, or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights
             and duties.
             An accommodation for one group of transient guests where a residential dwelling is
             rented for licensed lodging for a period of time no less than 24 hours and not to
SHORT-TERM   exceed 30 days. For the purpose of this definition, a residential dwelling shall
RENTAL UNIT: include all housing types. This includes “Type A” and “Type B” Short-Term Rental
             Units as defined in Title 11 of this code. This definition does not apply to a
             lease-back provision as part of a sale in a real estate transaction. (Ord. 4988,
             12-18-1985; amd. Ord. 7817, 11-10-2021; Ord. 7878, 4-12-2023)
 
4-3-7-3: HOTEL USE TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax of eight (8) percent of the
Gross Rent charged for the privilege and use of renting a Hotel room within the
City for each twenty-four (24) hour period or any portion thereof for which a
room charge is made.
   B.   Accommodations within said buildings or structures which are leased to
the same occupant for a period of more than thirty (30) consecutive days shall
be exempt from the tax provisions of this Article.
   C.   Lessors renting or leasing Hotel rooms within the City are required to
collect the Hotel Use Tax.
   D.   The Hotel Use Tax shall be paid in addition to any and all other taxes
and charges.
   E.   It shall be the duty of every Lessor of every Hotel within the City to
separately state such tax at the eight percent (8%) rate upon the total amount
of compensation charged for the use of the Hotel. The Lessor shall also state
separately the amount of tax on the invoice for the transaction that will be
tendered to the Lessee.
   F.   It shall be the duty of every Lessor of every Hotel within the City to
collect the tax from the Lessee at the time the Lessee pays for the privilege
of occupying all or part of a Hotel Short-Term Rental Unit, and to remit to the
City the tax under procedures provided for in this chapter or otherwise
prescribed by the City. If more than one Person is the Lessor as related to a
particular transaction, the Lessors are jointly and severally responsible for
collecting and remitting the tax.
   G.    It shall not be a defense to this ordinance that the Lessor is not
licensed by the City to rent Hotels and the Lessor will still be required to
remit the proper tax to the City. (Ord. 4988, 12-18-1985; amd. Ord. 5233, 6-8-
1988; Ord. 6628, 12-12-2001, eff. 1-1-2002; Ord. 7579, 7-26-2017; Ord. 7817,
11-10-2021)
4-3-7-4: RECORDS KEPT:
Every operator shall keep records of every occupancy and of all rent paid,
charged or due thereon and of the tax payable thereon in such form as may be
required by regulation prescribed by the City Treasurer or as otherwise
provided in this section
4-3-7. Such records shall be available for inspection and examination for any
proper purpose at any reasonable time upon demand by the City Treasurer or a
duly authorized agent or employee of the City and shall be preserved for a
period of three (3) years unless the City Treasurer shall prescribe a shorter
period of time. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or
interfere with the City Treasurer, or the duly authorized deputy or
representative of the City Treasurer, in the discharge of his duties. (Ord.
4988, 12-18-1985)
4-3-7-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The City Treasurer may promulgate rules and regulations not inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter concerning enforcement and application of this
chapter. The phrase "rules and regulations" includes, but is not limited to,
case-by-case determination of whether or not the tax imposed by this chapter
applies. (Ord. 7817, 11-10-2021)
4-3-7-6: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX REVENUE:
   A.   The Lessor of each Hotel within the City shall file returns and remit
collected taxes, to the City Treasurer showing tax receipts received with
respect to each Hotel during each monthly period commencing on December 1, 2021
and continuing on the first day of every month thereafter on forms prescribed
by the City. The return shall be due on or before the last day of the calendar
month succeeding the end of the monthly filing period. Each Lessor shall file
an application with the City for a City Taxpayer Identification Number prior to
filing its first tax return.
   B.   The first taxing period for the purpose of this chapter shall commence
on December 01, 2021; and the tax return and payment for such period shall be
due on or before December 31, 2021. Thereafter, reporting periods and tax
payments shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. At the
time of filing such tax returns, the owner shall pay to the City all taxes due
for the period to which the tax return applies.
   C.   Penalty: If for any reason a tax return or report is not timely filed
and/or the appropriate tax is not timely paid when due as required by this
section, interest and penalties shall be assessed and due as set forth in
section
1-19-11 of this Code. (Ord. 7817, 11-10-2021)
4-3-7-7: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax due hereunder or any penalty
provided for herein, the City Treasurer shall cause to be brought in the name
of the City an action to enforce payment of the tax, together with the costs of
such collection, including the City's reasonable attorney fees. (Ord. 4988, 12-
18-1985; amd. Ord. 7817, 11-10-2021)
4-3-7-8: PROCEEDS OF TAXES:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax herein, including
penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the City and shall be credited to
and deposited in a separate fund of the City, entitled Tourism Fund. All
proceeds shall be separately accounted for by the City Treasurer and by the
City Comptroller. (Ord. 4988, 12-18-1985; amd. Ord. 7817, 11-10-2021)
4-3-7-9: USE OF FUNDS:
   A.   One-eighth (1/8) of all taxes and penalties received by the City
accruing for any period after the effective date hereof shall be deposited by
the City Treasurer, to the "Emergency Vehicle Replacement Fund", which is an
account devoted to the purchase of new emergency vehicles for the Police and
Fire Departments of the City of Alton. No expenditures from that fund shall be
permitted without prior authorization by the City Council in the form of a
resolution authorizing each specific purchase. It is the intent of the City
Council that the Police Department and the Fire Department shall receive
approximately equal funding over time for the purchase of emergency vehicles
from this specific fund.
   B.   After the payment of the one-eighth (1/8) share as provided by
subsection A of this section, forty three percent (43%) of all taxes and
penalties received by the City accruing for any period after the effective date
hereof shall be paid over, by the City Treasurer, to the Alton Regional
Convention and Visitor's Bureau, a not for profit Illinois corporation (or its
successor in interest), to be expended by it solely to promote tourism,
conventions, and other special events within the area and otherwise to attract
nonresidents to visit the area. The said not for profit corporation shall
account to the City for the expenditure of said funds no less frequently than
semiannually. In the event said not for profit corporation is voluntarily or
involuntarily dissolved, the funds otherwise payable to the Alton Regional
Convention and Visitor's Bureau shall thereafter be paid as set forth in
subsection C of this section.
   C.   After the payment of the one-eighth (1/8) share as provided by
subsection A of this section, twenty nine percent (29%) of all taxes and
penalties received by the City accruing for any period after the effective date
hereof shall be paid over, by the City Treasurer, to the "Riverfront Park
Development and Revitalization Fund" of the City of Alton, which is an account
devoted to financing improvements to Riverfront Park, enhancing its ability to
promote tourism, conventions, and other special events within the area and
otherwise to attract nonresidents to visit the area.
   D.   After the payment of the one-eight (1/8) share as provided by
subsection A of this section, twenty eight percent (28%) of all taxes and
penalties received by the City accruing for any period after the effective date
hereof shall be paid over, by the City Treasurer, to the "Amphitheater Concert
Series Account" maintained by the City of Alton to be applied by the Alton
Amphitheater Commission in furtherance of its mission. (Ord. 7579, 7-26-2017;
amd. Ord. 7689, 4-10-2019; Ord. 7817, 11-10-2021)
4-3-7-10: OTHER ACTIONS AUTHORIZED:
The officers, employees and/or agents of the City shall take all action
necessary or reasonably required to carry out, give effect to and consummate
the amendments contemplated by this ordinance and shall take all action
necessary in conformity therewith. The officers, employees and/or agents of the
City are specifically authorized and directed to draft and disseminate any and
all necessary forms to be utilized in connection with these amendments. Any and
all actions previously performed by officials, employees and/or agents of the
City in connection with carrying out and consummating the intent of this
ordinance are hereby authorized, approved and ratified by this reference. (Ord.
7817, 11-10-2021)
4-3-8: FOOD AND BEVERAGES SALES TAX:
4-3-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this section
4-3-8, unless the context otherwise requires, the following words shall have
the meaning hereinafter ascribed to them:
BUREAU: The Greater Alton/Twin Rivers Convention and Visitors Bureau, Inc., a
not for profit Illinois corporation, or its successor corporation, so long as
the same is a not for profit Illinois corporation.
BUSINESS: Any commercial establishment which has been issued a regulatory
certificate to operate a particular commercial establishment pursuant to the
provisions of chapter 1 of this title.
CITY: The City of Alton, Illinois.
FARM PRODUCE STAND: Those temporary and sometimes semipermanent stands utilized
by farmers and other produce growers to sell primarily their own products in
season.
FOOD AND BEVERAGES PREPARED FOR IMMEDIATE CONSUMPTION: Any food and/or
beverages capable of consumption without further preparation. Consumption on
the premises is not required. Items that require only the removal of wrappers
or packaging before consumption are included, specifically including, but not
limited to, prepared salads, sandwiches, deli trays or deli foods ready to eat,
hors d'oeuvres and other related similarly packaged items. Items that have any
form of cooling, heating, cleaning, cutting or trimming, or mixing, or the
like, applied on the premises, are considered prepared for immediate
consumption. "Food and beverages prepared for immediate consumption" shall
exclude items sold at:
   A.   Places of business where the percentage of food and beverages prepared
for immediate consumption is less than thirty percent (30%) of the total sales
of the business on an annual basis and total sales of food and beverages are
less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) per year.
   B.   Places of business that are commonly referred to as "farm produce
stands".
PERSON: Any individual, firm, unincorporated association, partnership, joint
venture, limited partnership, corporation, representative or other entity.
(Ord. 5599, 9-25-1991, eff. 11-1-1991)
4-3-8-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all retail sales of food and beverages that have
been prepared for immediate consumption within the City at the rate of one-half
percent (0.5%) of the selling price of such food and/or beverages. This tax is
imposed in addition to any other tax imposed by the City or any other
governmental entity with respect to such food and beverages. The purchaser of
such food and beverages shall be liable for the payment of the tax imposed, but
the person engaged in the business of selling such food and beverages at retail
assumes the responsibility of collecting and paying said tax to the City. (Ord.
5599, 9-25-1991, eff. 11-1-1991)
4-3-8-3: SALES TAX RETURNS:
   A.   To Alton: Every person engaged in the retail business of selling food
and beverages for immediate consumption, within the City, shall file with the
City Treasurer, on or before the last day of each calendar month, a report in
the form required by the City Treasurer, and the report shall be accompanied by
a check or other form of payment, in the amount of the tax due and payable upon
such taxable sales made during the preceding month.
   B.   To Illinois: Every report filed above shall be accompanied by a
photocopy or other copy of the Sales Tax return filed by the person engaged in
the business of selling such food and beverages at retail with the Illinois
Department of Revenue pursuant to 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/3, as
amended, (commonly known as “the Sales Tax return”) showing the total retail
sales made by such person for the preceding calendar month. (Ord. 5599, 9-25-
1991, eff. 11-1-1991)
4-3-8-4: USE OF PROCEEDS:
   A.   Alton Main Street: Eight percent (8.0%), or a minimum of $37,500, of
all proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax imposed by this section
4-3-8, including interest and penalties collected in association therewith,
shall be paid over by the City Treasurer, to the Alton Main Street, a not for
profit Illinois corporation, to be expended by it solely to bring economic
vitality and social activity to the City of Alton’s historic downtown district.
Main Street shall account to the City for the expenditure of said funds not
less frequently than semiannually.
   B.   Tourism: Sixty percent (60%) of all proceeds resulting from the
imposition of the tax imposed by this section
4-3-8, including interest and penalties collected in association therewith,
shall be paid over by the City Treasurer, to the Greater Alton/Twin Rivers
Convention and Visitors Bureau, Inc., a not for profit Illinois corporation, to
be expended by it solely to promote tourism, conventions and other special
events within the City and otherwise to attract nonresidents to the City. The
bureau shall account to the City for the expenditure of said funds not less
frequently than semiannually.
   C.   Community Enrichment: After the payment of the eight percent (8%) share
as provided in subsection A and (60%) in subsection B of this section, all
remaining proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax imposed by this
section \, including interest and penalties collected in association therewith,
shall be held by the City Treasurer in a separate account. Such account shall
be designated to establish a reserve fund for the payment of one year’s
principal and interest on the City’s marina development bonds. Said fund amount
shall be determined by the City Treasurer. Proceeds not designated for the
Marina Development Fund may be used for beautification efforts, recreational
development, educational development or encouragement of economic development.
The City Council shall have the right to approve expenditure of proceeds not
designated for marina development, and in the event of such approval, the City
Treasurer shall thereafter disburse the funds. The City Council shall not be
required to make any recommendations to expend said funds but may elect to
allow said funds to accumulate until an appropriate recommendation for
expenditure is determined by the City Council. (Ord. 5982, 5-24-1995; amd. ord.
7911, 11-8-2023)
4-3-8-5: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every person engaged in the business of selling food and beverages prepared for
immediate consumption at retail shall keep complete and accurate books and
records of all such retail sales according to standards adopted by the Illinois
Department of Revenue for retail sales generally. The City Treasurer or
authorized representative may enter the premises of every such person at
reasonable times and upon reasonable advance notice to inspect the books and
records of such person in order to effectuate the proper administration of the
tax imposed by this section
4-3-8, and to ensure compliance with this section
4-3-8. It shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to
hinder, interfere with or prevent the City Treasurer or authorized
representative from performing his duties hereunder. (Ord. 5599, 9-25-1991,
eff. 11-1-1991)
4-3-8-6: PENALTY:
If for any reason a tax return or report is not timely filed and/or the
appropriate tax is not timely paid when due as required by sections
4-3-8-2 and
4-3-8-3 of this chapter, interest and penalties shall be assessed and due as
set forth in section
1-19-11 of this Code. (Ord. 7597, 11-21-2017)
4-3-8-7: VIOLATIONS:
Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this section
4-3-8, including the late filing of a return or the late payment of the tax,
shall be subject to penalty as set out in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. A separate offense is committed upon each
day that a violation exists. (Ord. 5599, 9-25-1991, eff. 11-1-1991; amd. 1999
Code)
4-3-8-8: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES FOR COLLECTION:
In addition to the penalties imposed for late filing, late payment, and
violation of this section
4-3-8, the City may elect to file civil proceedings for collection of the tax,
plus penalties which in the event of such civil proceedings shall include the
City's reasonable counsel fees, or the City may elect to file a lien upon the
real estate upon which the violator's business is conducted and may foreclose
such lien pursuant to the applicable statute. The City may pursue any and all
of such remedies contemporaneously or concurrently. (Ord. 5599, 9-25-1991, eff.
11-1-1991)
4-3-9: GROSS RECEIPTS UTILITY TAX:
4-3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this section
4-3-9, the following definitions shall apply:
GROSS RECEIPTS: The consideration received for distributing, supplying or
furnishing or selling gas, electricity, or water for use or consumption and not
for resale, as the case may be; and for all services rendered in connection
therewith valued in money, whether received in money or otherwise, including
cash, credit, services and property of every kind and material and for all
services rendered therewith; and shall be determined without any deduction on
account of the cost of the service, product or commodity supplied, the cost of
material used, labor or service cost or any other expenses whatsoever.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation,
municipal corporation, the State or any of its political subdivisions, and
State university created by statute, or a receiver, trustee, conservator or
other representative appointed by order of any court. (Ord. 6385, 5-26-1999)
4-3-9-2: GAS TAX IMPOSED:
A tax in the City shall continue, and is imposed continuously in the future on
all persons engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling natural gas for use or consumption within the corporate limits of the
City, and not for resale, at the rate of three percent (3%) of the gross
receipts therefrom. (Ord. 7471, 7-22-2015, eff. 9-1-2015)
4-3-9-3: EXCEPTION TO TAX:
No tax is imposed by this section
4-3-9 with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to
the extent to which such business may not, under the Constitution and Statutes
of the United States, be made subject to taxation by this State or any
political subdivision thereof. (Ord. 6385, 5-26-1999)
4-3-9-4: TAX IN ADDITION TO OTHER TAXES:
The tax under this section
4-3-9 shall be in addition to the payment of money, or value of products or
services furnished to this City by the taxpayer or person required to collect
such tax as compensation for the use of its streets, alleys or other public
places, or other equipment used in the operation of the taxpayer's business.
Any account(s) of the City of Alton shall be exempt from the taxes imposed by
this section
4-3-9. (Ord. 6385, 5-26-1999; amd. Ord. 7496, 12-16-2015)
4-3-9-5: REPORTS TO CITY:
On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer, or person required to
collect the tax, shall make a return to the City Clerk for the preceding month,
stating:
   A.   The name;
   B.   The place of business;
   C.   The gross receipts and/or kilowatt hour usage during that month upon
the basis of which the tax is imposed;
   D.   Amount of tax;
   E.   Such other reasonable and related information as the Corporate
Authorities may require. (Ord. 6385, 5-26-1999)
4-3-9-6: PROVISION FOR OVERPAYMENT:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not due under
the provisions of this section
4-3-9, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such
amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this
section
4-3-9, from the taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that no
amount erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a
claim therefor shall be so credited. (Ord. 6385, 5-26-1999)
4-3-9-7: VIOLATION:
Any taxpayer, or person required to collect the tax, who fails to make a
return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other
provision of this section
4-3-9 is guilty of an offense and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), and in addition, shall be liable in a
civil action for the amount of tax due. (Ord. 6385, 5-26-1999)
4-3-10: ELECTRICITY TAX:
4-3-10-1: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is imposed on all persons engaged in the following occupations or
privileges:
   A.   The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase
at retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the Municipality
at the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
      1.   For the first 2,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month: 0.61
cents per kilowatt-hour;
      2.   For the next 48,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month: 0.40
cents per kilowatt-hour;
      3.   For the next 50,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month: 0.36
cents per kilowatt-hour;
      4.   For the next 400,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.35 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      5.   For the next 500,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.34 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      6.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.32 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      7.   For the next 2,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.315 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      8.   For the next 5,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month:
0.310 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      9.   For the next 10,000,000 kilowatt-hours used or consumed in a month;
0.305 cents per kilowatt-hour;
      10.   For all electricity used or consumed in excess of 20,000,000
kilowatt-hours in a month: 0.300 cents per kilowatt-hour.
   B.   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, the rates set forth
in subsection A of this section shall be effective on September 1, 2017 for
residential and nonresidential customers. (Ord. 7580, 7-26-2017, eff. 9-1-2017)
4-3-10-2: EXCEPTIONS:
None of the taxes authorized by this section
4-3-10 may be imposed with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or
otherwise to the extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the
Constitution and Statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation
by this State or any political sub-division thereof; nor shall any persons
engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing, or selling or
transmitting gas, water, or electricity, or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages, or using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase
at retail, be subject to taxation under the provisions of this section
4-3-10 for those transactions that are or may become subject to taxation under
the provisions of the Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax Act as authorized by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1; nor shall any tax authorized by this
section
4-3-10 be imposed upon any person engaged in a business or on any privilege
unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons
engaged in businesses of the same class in the Municipality. All accounts of
the City of Alton shall be exempt from the taxes imposed by this section
4-3-10. (Ord. 7580, 7-26-2017, eff. 9-1-2017)
The City of Alton does hereby exempt ninety percent (90%) of those taxes
imposed by this section
4-3-10 as to those businesses located in the enterprise zone so long as those
businesses are or shall be certified by the Department of Commerce and Economic
Opportunity, as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2(4)(e)(3), as
complying with the requirements specified in clauses (1) and (2) of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2(4)(e) for a period of not to exceed twenty (20)
years from the date such exemption shall be effective as provided in 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2(4)(e). (Ord. 7599, 11-8-2017, eff. 1-1-
2018)
4-3-10-3: ADDITIONAL TAXES:
Such tax shall be in addition to other taxes levied upon the taxpayer or its
business. (Ord. 7580, 7-26-2017, eff. 9-1-2017)
4-3-10-4: COLLECTION:
The tax authorized by this section
4-3-10 shall be collected from the purchaser by the person maintaining a place
of business in this State who delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This
tax shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the person who delivers the
electricity to the purchaser and if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner
as the original charge for delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to this section
4-3-10 and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the Municipality by such person delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering electricity.
Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to such gross
charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse the person
delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records, billing
customers, preparing and filing returns, remitting the tax and supplying data
to the Municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity fails to
collect the tax from the purchaser, then the purchaser shall be required to pay
the tax directly to the Municipality in the manner prescribed by the
Municipality. On or before the last day of each month, persons delivering
electricity shall make a return to the City for the preceding month and shall,
at the time of filing such return, pay the Municipality the amount of the tax
collected pursuant to this section
4-3-10. (Ord. 7580, 7-26-2017, eff. 9-1-2017)
4-3-10-5: REPORTS TO MUNICIPALITY:
On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer who has not paid the tax
imposed by this section
4-3-10 to a person delivering electricity as set forth in section
4-3-10-4 of this chapter and who is not otherwise exempted from paying such tax
shall make a return to the City Treasurer for the preceding month stating:
   A.   His name.
   B.   His principal place of business.
   C.   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt-hour usage during the month upon the
basis of which the tax is imposed.
   D.   Amount of tax.
   E.   Such other reasonable and related information as the Corporate
Authorities may require.
The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the time of making
such return, pay to the City of Alton, the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he so elects,
report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of businesses subject to
the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of any
amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based upon
any differences between such billings, and the taxable gross receipts. (Ord.
7580, 7-26-2017, eff. 9-1-2017)
4-3-10-6: CREDIT FOR OVERPAYMENT:
If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which is not due under
the provisions of this section
4-3-10, whether as the result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then
such amount shall be credited against any tax due, or to become due, under this
section
4-3-10 from the taxpayer who made the erroneous payment; provided that no
amounts erroneously paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a
claim therefor shall be so credited. No action to recover any amount of tax due
under the provisions of this section
4-3-10 shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount. (Ord. 7580, 7-26-2017, eff. 9-1-2017)
4-3-10-7: PENALTY:
Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a fraudulent return, or
who willfully violates any other provisions of this section
4-3-10 is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) and in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due 1 . (Ord. 7580, 7-26-2017, eff. 9-1-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
4-3-10-8: CONSTITUTIONALITY:
In the event that Public Act 90-561 is declared unconstitutional, or if this
section
4-3-10 is voided by court action, the provisions of section
4-3-9 of this chapter, (commonly known as the Gross Receipts Utility Tax) shall
remain in effect in all respects as if it had never been amended by this
section
4-3-10, and any amounts paid to the City by any person delivering electricity
pursuant to this section
4-3-10 shall be deemed to have been paid pursuant to the Gross Receipts Utility
Tax as it existed prior to the passage of this section
4-3-10. (Ord. 6399, 6-23-1999)
4-3-11: MUNICIPAL GAS USE TAX:
4-3-11-1: SHORT TITLE:
The tax imposed by this section
4-3-11 shall be known as the Municipal Gas Use Tax and is imposed in addition
to all other taxes imposed by the City of Alton, the State of Illinois, or any
other municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof. (Ord. 7371, 10-9-
2013)
4-3-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this section
4-3-11, the following definitions shall apply:
GAS: Natural gas.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association, joint
stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, municipal
corporation or political subdivision of this State, or a receiver, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
PUBLIC UTILITIES ACT: The Public Utilities Act 1  as amended.
PUBLIC UTILITY: A public utility as defined in section 3-105 of the Public
Utilities Act.
RETAIL PURCHASER: Any person who purchases gas in a sale at retail.
SALE AT RETAIL: Any sale of gas by a retailer to a person for use or
consumption, and not for resale. For this purpose, the term "retailer" means
any person engaged in the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or
selling gas. (Ord. 7371, 10-9-2013)
 
Notes
1 2. 220 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
4-3-11-3: TAX:
   A.   Except as otherwise provided by this section, a tax is imposed on the
privilege of using or consuming gas in the City of Alton that is purchased in a
sale at retail at the rate of 3.3 cents per therm. (Ord. 7471, 7-22-2015, eff.
9-1-2015)
   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of the tax is on
the retail purchaser, and nothing in this section shall be construed to impose
a tax on the occupation of distributing, supplying, furnishing, selling or
transporting gas.
   C.   The retail purchaser shall pay the tax, measured by therms of gas
delivered to the retail purchaser's premises, to the public utility designated
to collect the tax pursuant to section
4-3-11-4 of this chapter on or before the payment due date of the public
utility's bill first reflecting the tax, or directly to the City Treasurer on
or before the fifteenth day of the second month following the month in which
the gas is delivered to the retail purchaser if no public utility has been
designated to collect the tax pursuant to section
4-3-11-4 of this chapter or if the gas is delivered by a person other than a
public utility so designated.
   D.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to impose a tax upon any
person, business or activity, which, under the Constitutions of the United
States or State of Illinois, may not be made the subject of taxation by the
City.
   E.   A person who purchases gas for resale and therefore does not pay the
tax imposed by this section with respect to the use or consumption of the gas,
but who later uses or consumes part or all of the gas, shall pay the tax
directly to the City Treasurer on or before the fifteenth day of the second
month following the month in which the gas is used or consumed.
   F.   The tax shall apply to gas for which the delivery to the retail
purchaser is billed by a public utility on or after December 1, 2013.
   G.   To prevent multiple taxation, the use of gas in the City of Alton by a
retail purchaser shall be exempt from the tax imposed by this section if the
gross receipts from the sale at retail of such gas to the retail purchaser are
properly subject to a tax imposed upon the seller of such gas pursuant to the
City of Alton's Municipal Utility Tax, as amended from time to time, section
4-3-9-2 of this chapter, authorized pursuant to section 8-11-2 of the Illinois
Municipal Code 1 . (Ord. 7371, 10-9-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
4-3-11-4: COLLECTION OF TAX BY PUBLIC UTILITY:
The Mayor of the City of Alton, or his designee is authorized to enter into a
contract for collection of the tax imposed by this section
4-3-11 with any public utility providing gas service in the City of Alton. The
contract shall include and substantially conform with the following provisions:
   A.   The public utility will collect the tax from retail purchasers as an
independent contractor;
   B.   The public utility will remit collected taxes to the City Treasurer no
more often than once each month;
   C.   The public utility will be entitled to withhold from tax collections a
service fee equal to three percent (3%) of the amounts collected and timely
remitted to the City Treasurer;
   D.   The public utility shall not be responsible to the City of Alton for
any tax not actually collected from a retail purchaser; and
   E.   Such additional terms as the parties may agree upon. (Ord. 7371, 10-9-
2013)
4-3-11-5: BOOKS AND RECORDS:
Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records, including original source
documents and books of entry, denoting the activities or transactions that gave
rise, or may have given rise to any tax liability or exemption under this
section
4-3-11. All such books and records shall, at all times during business hours,
be subject to and available for inspection by the City of Alton. (Ord. 7371,
10-9-2013)
4-3-12: MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS’ OCCUPATION TAX:
4-3-12-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the City at the rate of three
percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of that
business.
   B.   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Sections 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22). (Ord.
7719, 9-25-2019)
4-3-12-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax imposed by this subchapter shall be remitted by such retailer
to the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this subchapter and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller’s tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
   B.   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this subchapter. (Ord. 7719, 9-25-2019)
4-3-12-3: APPLICATION OF TAX PROCEEDS:
One hundred percent of the three percent (3%) tax imposed by Title 4 Chapter 3
Section 12 of the City of Alton Municipal Code shall be held in a designated
fond and not be distributed for one year from the date the City receives the
first Cannabis Retailers’ Occupation Tax disbursement. (Ord. 7880, 4-12-2023)
4-3-12-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this subchapter, or the application of any provision of
this subchapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence
shall not affect other provisions of this subchapter, or their application,
that can be given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or
its application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of
such provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this subchapter.
(Ord. 7719, 9-25-2019)
4-3-12-5: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This subchapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval and publication as required by law, provided, however, that the
tax provided for herein shall take effect for all sales on or after the first
day of January, 2020. Copies of this ordinance shall be certified and sent to
the Illinois Department of Revenue prior to September 30, 2019. (Ord. 7719, 9-
25-2019)
4-3-13: MUNICIPAL GROCERY RETAILERS’ AND SERVICE OCCUPATION TAXES:
A.   Municipal Grocery Retailers’ Occupation Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby
imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling groceries at retail
in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from
such sales made in the course of such business while this section is in effect.
The imposition of this tax is in accordance with and subject to the provisions
of section 8-11-24 of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   B.   Municipal Grocery Service Occupation Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon
all persons engaged in this municipality in the business of making sales of
service, who, as an incident to making those sales of service, transfer
groceries as an incident to a sale of service. The rate of this tax shall be
the same rate identified in paragraph A above. The imposition of this tax is in
accordance with and subject to the provisions of section 8-11-24 of the
Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-24).
   C.   Illinois Department Of Revenue To Administer Both Taxes: The taxes
hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed as an incident
thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department of Revenue of the
State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of Revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this section. (Ord. 7978, 7-9-2025)
CHAPTER 4
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
4-4-1: Definitions
4-4-2: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
4-4-3: Licenses Required
4-4-4: Classification Of Licenses And Fees
4-4-5: Applications For License
4-4-6: Property Owners Consent
4-4-7: License Particulars
4-4-8: General Restrictions On Issuing Licenses
4-4-9: Special Event Permits
4-4-10: Conditions Of License
4-4-11: Location Restrictions
4-4-12: Provisions Applicable To Minors
4-4-13: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
4-4-14: Emergency Closings
4-4-15: Violations; Penalty
4-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
This chapter shall be liberally construed, to the end the health, safety and
welfare of the people of this city shall be protected and temperance in the
consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered or promoted by sound and
careful control, under the home rule powers of the city, the following words
and phrases shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. It does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOL SERVERS TRAINING PROGRAM: The alcohol servers training program shall
include training servers on how to identify fraudulent personal identification
cards and driver's licenses, educating servers of alcoholic liquor on relevant
local and state laws regarding alcoholic liquor service and explanation of the
role of law enforcement with regard to minimizing the sale of alcoholic liquor
to minors and the prevention of underage drinking of alcoholic liquor. The
training program must be approved in advance by the liquor commissioner of the
city of Alton to meet the requirements of this chapter. The alcohol servers
training program shall provide a certificate of completion to successful
participants.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing more
than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume which is fit for
beverage purposes.
BANQUET FACILITY: A properly zoned building utilized for the purpose of
accommodating large gatherings of people for special events in one room where
food and drinks can be served. To qualify as a banquet facility, the room must
be capable of seating not less than one hundred (100) individual diners in
accordance with all other applicable codes.
BEER: A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of a infusion or concoction
of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes among other
things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
CLUB: A patriotic or veterans' society organized under the laws of the United
States or the state of Illinois; or
A corporation organized under the laws of the United States or the state of
Illinois but not for pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common
object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors kept, used and
maintained by its members through the payment of annual dues and owning, hiring
or leasing a building or space in a building of such extent and character as
may be suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and
accommodation for its members and their guests and provided with suitable and
adequate kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining a
sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving
food and meals for its members and guests; provided, that such club files with
the Mayor at the time of its application for a license under this chapter two
(2) copies of a list of names and residences of its members and similarly files
within ten (10) days of the election of any additional member, his name and
address; and provided further, that its affairs and management are conducted by
a board of directors, executive committee or similar body chosen by the members
at their annual meeting and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of
the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives in the form of salary or
other compensation, any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic
liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests introduced by
members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any
annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or other governing
body out of the general revenue of the club which:
   A.   Is affiliated with a national club or organization and/or clubs or
organizations in all fifty (50) states; or
   B.   Maintains eating, golf and swimming facilities on club premises for the
use of members and their guests; or
   C.   Was chartered as a not for profit corporation prior to December 3,
1933, and regularly and routinely restricts admittance to the premises to
members of the club and their guests.
CONTINUOUS OPERATION: Operation of the licensed business for at least five (5)
hours a day for a period of at least five (5) days a week.
DISTRIBUTOR: Any person, other than a manufacturer, who is engaged in the City
in purchasing, storing, possessing or warehousing any alcoholic liquors for
resale.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five (25)
or more rooms are used for sleeping accommodations of such guests and having
one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests, such
sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same building
or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure
or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL ACT: An Act passed by the 58th Illinois General
Assembly entitled An Act Relating to Alcoholic Liquors, approved January 31,
1934, as amended 1 .
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION; STATE COMMISSION: The commission created by
article III, section 1 of the Illinois Liquor Act.
INTOXICATING LIQUORS: See definition of alcoholic liquor.
LICENSED PREMISES: The premises described in the application for the license or
in the license, as the place where the business to be covered, or covered by
the license is to be, or is carried on. This term shall include only the
permanent structure housing the licensed business as distinguished from the
parking lots and the remainder of the property outside such structure, but on
property owned or rented by the licensee. In the event that a liquor license
includes a sidewalk cafe, as defined in chapter 7, article B of this title, on
proof of ownership or a leasehold interest in the said sidewalk cafe premises
and upon compliance with all other provisions of this Code including provision
of dramshop insurance covering the sidewalk cafe portion of the business
included, a liquor license hereunder may include on its face a description of
such sidewalk cafe as part of the described licensed premises; provided, that
alcohol may not be served or consumed upon any property not specifically within
the licensed premises as set forth in the liquor license.
LICENSEE: All persons who are owners or are in control of any place where the
sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor is carried on, whether they be
individuals, partners, corporations, joint stock companies, fiduciaries or
officers, directors, stockholders or employee, manager or bartender.
MANAGER: A person employed by a licensee for the purpose of overseeing the
operation of a licensed business and exercising discretionary authority on
behalf of the licensee during the hours that the manager is on duty.
MINOR: For the purposes of this chapter, any person under twenty one (21) years
of age.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: A bottle, flask, jug, can, barrel, keg, hogshead or other
receptacle or container whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and labeled
by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any alcoholic
liquor.
PACKAGE SALES: The sale or offering for sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, in
the original package, and not to be consumed or in fact consumed in whole or in
part on the premises where sold.
RENTAL HALL BUSINESS: A business organized in such a way that it provides a
place available for rental by members of the general public. The building
housing the business must be designed to accommodate a minimum of two hundred
fifty (250) persons safely. Such a business is typified by wedding
celebrations, parties or dances by private clubs or individuals. In this type
of business the lessor/licensee is paid a fee by the lessee for the use of the
hall and for providing alcoholic liquor.
RESTAURANT: Any public place having regular menus which is kept, used,
maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where meals are
served, and where meals are actually and regularly served, such space being
provided with adequate and separate sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment
and capacity and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of
employees to prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests. In addition,
any business claiming to be a restaurant must document, upon demand, that fifty
percent (50%) or more of its gross receipts is derived from the sale of food as
distinguished from alcoholic liquor.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT WHERE THE SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IS NOT THE PRINCIPAL
BUSINESS: Any establishment holding a license for the sale of alcoholic liquor
wherein more than fifty percent (50%) of its gross sales or revenues for any
calendar month in the preceding twelve (12) months are for items or services
other than alcoholic liquors.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: A transfer, exchange or barter of alcoholic liquor in any manner or by
any means whatsoever, for a consideration, and includes all sales made by a
person, whether principal proprietor, agent, servant or employee. Sale shall
also include any delivery of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises
of any property zoned for commercial or industrial use.
SEALED GROWLER: The sale of a sealed growler containing beer or ale shall be
considered a permitted package sale for a liquor licensee entitled to sell beer
and wine in the original package. A sealed growler shall be defined and meet
the requirements as set forth herein.
SELL AT RETAIL; SALE AT RETAIL: Sales or delivery of alcoholic liquor for use
or consumption and not for resale in any form.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
STATE CERTIFIED BEVERAGE ALCOHOL SELLERS AND SERVERS EDUCATION AND TRAINING
(BASSET) PROGRAM: A BASSET Program licensed by the State of Illinois Liquor
Control Commission (ILCC) as required by 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-12
(11.1) and 5/6-27 and title 77 of the Illinois Administrative Code, chapter
XVI, section 3500. All licensed BASSET providers shall be required to have on
file with the City of Alton Liquor Control Commissioner, all licenses and
certificates to prove current qualification and shall provide a certificate of
completion to any of their respective participants as part of the proof of
completion of their respective BASSET Program in order to be recognized as a
qualified BASSET Program by the City of Alton Liquor Control Commissioner.
TO SELL: To solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for sale or
delivery, or to keep with intent to sell or deliver alcoholic liquor.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits", as hereinabove
defined. (Ord. 4714, 11-24-1982, eff. 1-1-1983; amd. Ord. 4795, 8-24-1993; Ord.
5872, 5-11-1994; Ord. 7001, 5-9-2007; Ord. 7060, 3-26-2008; Ord. 7109, 12-10-
2008; Ord. 7294, 1-11-2012; Ord. 7601, 11-21-2017; Ord. 7600, 12-13-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS.
4-4-2: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER 1 :
   A.   Mayor To Serve As Commissioner: The Mayor shall serve as the Local
Liquor Control Commissioner of the City and shall be charged with the
administration of the provisions of the Liquor Control Act, of this chapter and
of such ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be
enacted by the City. The Mayor may appoint a person or persons to assist him in
the exercise of the powers and the performance of the duties provided for such
Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   B.   Compensation: The Mayor and City Council may establish and pay
compensation to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner prior to the term of a
new Mayor. The Mayor and City Council may from time to time fix and pay
compensation to the deputies, assistants or employees of the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner as may be deemed necessary for the proper performance of
the duties vested in them.
   C.   Powers, Duties And Functions: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner
shall have the following powers, duties and functions with respect to local
liquor licenses:
      1.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause, all local licenses issued to persons or entities for premises within
his jurisdiction if he determines that the licensee has violated any provision
of chapter 235 of Illinois Compiled Statutes or any valid City ordinance or
resolution or any applicable rule or regulation established by him or the State
Commission which is not inconsistent with law.
      2.   To adopt rules and regulations for the conduct and operation of a
licensee's business which are not inconsistent with State law or this Code.
      3.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the State law, this chapter or any rules or regulations adopted
by him or by the State Commission have been or are being violated, and at such
time to examine the premises of the licensee in connection therewith.
      4.   To receive complaints from any citizen within his jurisdiction that
any of the provisions of the State law, of this chapter or any rules or
regulations adopted by him have been or are being violated and to act upon such
complaint in the manner provided by law.
      5.   To receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the City
Treasurer.
      6.   To examine, or cause to be examined, under oath, any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
revocation or suspension has been served, and to examine, or cause to be
examined, the books and records of any such applicant or licensee or
respondent; and to hear testimony and take proof for his information in the
performance of his duties and for such purposes to issue subpoenas which shall
be effective in any part of this State. For the purpose of obtaining any of the
information desired by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this
section, he may authorize his agent to act on his behalf.
      7.   Without notice or hearing, to order, upon the issuance of a written
order stating the reason for such conclusion, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner can cause a licensed premises to be closed for not more than seven
(7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that period, if
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner has reason to believe that any continued
operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten the
welfare of the community, except that if such licensee shall also be engaged in
the conduct of another business or businesses on the licensed premises, such
order shall not be applicable to such other business or businesses. (1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5/4-2.
4-4-3: LICENSES REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, either by himself or his agent, or any
person acting as agent, barkeeper, clerk or servant of another, to sell or
offer for sale at retail in the City any alcoholic liquor without first having
obtained a license so to do as provided in this chapter. It shall likewise be
unlawful for any such person to sell or offer for sale any intoxicating
liquors, alcoholic or malt or vinous beverages in violation of the terms and
conditions of such license. (1961 Code § 4-12)
4-4-4: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES AND FEES:
   A.   Classifications; Fees: Licenses to sell alcoholic liquor at retail
shall be the following classes:
      CLASS A: Entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor at retail for
consumption either on the premises by the drink or pitcher or off of the
premises where sold in the original package.
      CLASS B: Entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor, in the original
package only, for consumption off of the premises, but shall not authorize
consumption on the premises.
      CLASS C:
         Class C-1: Entitles the licensee to sell beer and wine only, in the
original package only, for consumption off of the premises, but shall not
authorize consumption on the premises.
         Class C-2: Entitles the licensee to sell beer and wine only, in the
original package only, for consumption off of the premises and by the drink or
pitcher for consumption on the premises.
      CLASS D: Entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor, by the drink or
pitcher, as part of a restaurant business, for consumption on the premises
only.
      CLASS E: Entitles the licensee to sell beer and wine only, by the drink
or pitcher, as part of a restaurant business, for consumption on the premises
only.
      CLASS F: Entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor, at retail by the
drink or pitcher, for consumption on the premises, or off the premises where
sold in the original package, by clubs as the same are herein defined.
      CLASS G: Entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor at retail for
consumption either on the premises by the drink or pitcher or off of the
premises where sold in the original package. A Class G license shall only issue
to a golf course. Any business claiming to be a golf course for purposes of
this section must document, upon demand, that fifty one percent (51%) or more
of its gross receipts is derived from golf related activities, as distinguished
from liquor.
      CLASS H: Entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor at retail for
consumption either on the premises by the drink or pitcher or off the premises
where sold in the original package. A Class H liquor license may issue to the
City of Alton, the Parks and Recreation Commission of the City of Alton, or to
the authorized operator of the Alton Marina for the marina location at 1 Henry
Street, Alton, Illinois, if in compliance with the requirements of and approved
by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner of the City of Alton and so long as
said licensee shall comply with the restrictions placed on the use of marina
property by the United States Army Corps of Engineers on the premises.
      CLASS I: Entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor at retail for
consumption only on the premises as part of a banquet facility.
      CLASS J: Entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor at retail for
consumption on the premises of the Jacoby Arts Center at 627 East Broadway and
on the surrounding area to the east and south consisting of approximately
18,000 square feet, including an outbuilding of approximately 2300 square feet,
after said area to the east and south of the Jacoby Arts Center is developed
into a park or recreation area. Outdoor consumption of alcoholic liquor shall
be allowed in the aforesaid area to the east and south of the Jacoby Arts
Center if purchased within the premises of said area or within the Jacoby Arts
Center.
      CLASS M: Entitles the licensee to sell or deliver beer and wine on the
premises of Rock Springs Golf Course and on the premises of Robert Wadlow Golf
Course. The only entity entitled to receive a Class M liquor license shall be
the entity to manage a golf course on each respective golf course named herein
and only for so long as the entity is actively engaged in the maintenance and
operation of a golf course.
      CLASS P: 
         Class P-1: Entitles the licensee to sell or deliver beer and wine at
Gordon Moore Community Park. The Liquor Control Commissioner may issue a liquor
license to the Parks and Recreation Commission of the City of Alton authorizing
the sale of beer and wine upon the aforesaid premises, upon the request of the
commission and upon proof that said commission shall provide and maintain
dramshop liability with the maximum insurance coverage limits so as to save
harmless the City of Alton, the Parks and Recreation Commission, the
Commissioners, their respective agents and employees from all financial loss,
damage or harm which may arise in connection with dramshop liability for sales
related to the aforesaid license. Only the Parks and Recreation Commission
shall be entitled to receive the Class P-1 license and only for the purposes
and the premises hereinabove described.
      Class P-2: Entitles the licensee to sell or deliver beer and wine at
Lloyd Hopkins Field in Gordon Moore Community Park during baseball games are
related baseball activities of the River Dragons. The licensee of a Class P-
2 liquor license must be preapproved by the Alton Parks and Recreation
Commission before a liquor license may issue by the Alton Liquor Commissioner.
      CLASS R: Entitles the licensee to sell alcoholic liquor at retail for
consumption only on premises under the ownership or control of an entity
licensed by the State of Illinois to operate a riverboat gaming facility so
long as said premises are contiguous to the docking facility of the riverboat
so licensed.
   B.   Fee And Number Issued: The following limits are hereby established on
the number of licenses to sell alcoholic beverages in the City:
Class Of License Annual Fee Number Authorized
Class Of License Annual Fee Number Authorized
Class A          $625.00    29
Class B          500.00     23
Class C-1        150.00     9
Class C-2        450.00     3
Class D          625.00     32
Class E          300.00     5
Class F          525.00     5
Class G          625.00     1
Class H          200.00     1
Class I          500.00     8
Class J          625.00     1
Class M          None       2
Class P-1        None       1
Class P-2        None       2
Class R          $625.00    1
 
(Ord. 4714, 11-24-1982, eff. 1-1-1983; amd. Ord. 6354, 12-16-1998; Ord. 6607,
10-10-2001, eff. 1-1-2002; Ord. 6730, 5-14-2003; Ord. 6991, 2-28-2007; Ord.
7023, 9-26-2007; Ord. 7026, 9-12-2007; Ord. 7051, 12-19-2007; Ord. 7059, 3-26-
2008; Ord. 7085, 6-11-2008; Ord. 7109, 12-10-2008; Ord. 7135, 4-22-2009; Ord.
7173, 12-16-2009; Ord. 7192, 4-28-2010; Ord. 7199, 5-26-2010; Ord. 7242, 2-23-
2011; Ord. 7271, 8-24-2011; Ord. 7279, 10-12-2011; Ord. 7297, 2-22-2012; Ord.
7303, 3-28-2012; Ord. 7318, 8-8-2012; Ord. 7324, 10-10-2012; Ord. 7369, 8-28-
2013; Ord. 7426, 10-22-2014; Ord. 7430, 12-10-2014; Ord. 7511, 4-13-2016; Ord.
7535, 9-14-2016; Ord. 7609, 12-20-2017; Ord. 7611, 12-20-2017; Ord. 7671, 12-
12-2018; Ord. 7684, 2-27-2019; Ord. 7688, 3-13-2019; Ord. 7726, 11-13-2019;
Ord. 7746, 3-12-2020; Ord. 7781, 10-15-2020; amd. 7798, 2-25-2021; Ord. 7799,
3-11-2021; Ord. 7803, 4-29-2021; Ord. 7804, 4-29-2021; Ord. 7806, 4-29-2021;
Ord. 7809, 5-13-2021; Ord. 7810, 5-13-2021; Ord. 7816, 10-27-2021; Ord. 7836,
5-25-2022; Ord. 7842, 6-8-2022; Ord. 7844, 6-22-2022; Ord. 7845, 6-22-2022;
Ord. 7924, 1-10-2024; Ord. 7979, 7-23-2025)
      1.   Council Authority: By separate ordinance, the City Council may set a
limitation upon the number of licenses to sell alcoholic liquor at retail to be
issued for each classification of license. This restriction upon the number of
licenses shall not limit the right to the renewal of any existing licenses nor
to the issuance of a license to the purchaser of an established licensed
business as a going concern, but as licenses are revoked, expire without
renewal or for any reason cease to exist, then the total number of licenses for
each classification shall be reduced until the total of each such class shall
not exceed the number authorized by the city council.
      2.   Annexation: In the event that any establishment selling alcoholic
liquor is hereby annexed to and becomes a part of the city, then the various
alcoholic liquor licenses as enumerated in this section shall be increased in
number only in the class which the annexed establishment(s) qualifies, and
provided further, that the annexed establishment holds a current valid liquor
license from the governmental entity from which said establishment was annexed
and from the state. (Ord. 4714, 11-24-1982, eff. 1-1-1983)
4-4-5: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Initial License: All applications for the license required by this
chapter shall be made in writing to the mayor, or to the person designated by
him, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent
thereof, if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall
contain the following information and statements:
      1.   The applicant's name and mailing address;
      2.   The name and address of the applicant's business;
      3.   If applicable, the date of the filing of the "assumed name" of the
business with the county clerk;
      4.   In case of a copartnership, the date of the formation of the
partnership; in the case of an Illinois corporation, the date of its
incorporation; or in the case of a foreign corporation, the state where it was
incorporated and the date of its becoming qualified under the business
corporation act to transact business in the state of Illinois;
      5.   The name and address of the landlord if the premises is leased;
      6.   The date of the applicant's first request for a state liquor license
and whether it was granted, denied or withdrawn;
      7.   The address of the applicant when the first application for a state
liquor license was made;
      8.   The applicant's current state liquor license number;
      9.   The date the applicant began liquor sales at his place of business;
      10.   The address of the applicant's warehouse if he warehouses liquor;
      11.   The applicant's retailers' occupation tax registration number;
      12.   The applicant's document locator number on his federal special tax
stamp;
      13.   Whether the applicant is delinquent in the payment of the
retailers' occupational tax, and if so, the reasons therefor;
      14.   Whether the applicant is delinquent under the cash beer law, and if
so, the reasons therefor;
      15.   In the case of a retailer, whether he is delinquent under the
thirty (30) day credit law, and if so, the reasons therefor;
      16.   Whether the applicant has ever had any previous liquor license
suspended or revoked, and if so, the reasons therefor;
      17.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a gambling offense
or felony, and if so, the particulars thereof;
      18.   Whether the applicant possesses a current federal wagering stamp,
and if so, the reasons therefor;
      19.   Whether the applicant, or any other person, directly in his place
of business is a public official, and if so, the particulars thereof;
      20.   The applicant's name, sex, date of birth, social security number,
position and percentage of ownership in the business; and the name, sex, date
of birth, social security number, position and percentage of ownership in the
business of every sole owner, partner, corporate officer, director, manager and
any person who owns five percent (5%) or more of the shares of the applicant
business entity or parent corporations of the applicant business entity.
      21.   That he has not received or borrowed money or anything else of
value, and that he will not receive or borrow money or anything else of value
(other than merchandising credit in the ordinary course of business for a
period not to exceed 90 days as expressly permitted by State law), directly or
indirectly, from any manufacturer, importing distributor or distributor or from
any representative of any such manufacturer, importing distributor or
distributor, nor be a party in any way, directly or indirectly, to any
violation by a manufacturer, distributor or importing distributor of section 6-
6 of the Illinois Liquor Control Act. (1961 Code § 4-14; amd. 1999 Code)
   B.   Renewal Licenses: All applications for the renewal of a license shall
be made in writing to the Mayor at least fifteen (15) days prior to December 31
of each year. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may develop an application
for renewal that would be limited requiring verification that the information
on the original application for liquor license has not changed. (Ord. 7601, 11-
21-2017)
   C.   Initial License Fee: Any initial application for a license required by
this chapter must be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) to partially cover the administrative costs incurred by the
City of Alton in connection with the investigations, inspections and other
processes involved with the consideration of an initial liquor license
application. (Ord. 7173, 12-16-2009)
4-4-6: PROPERTY OWNERS CONSENT:
   A.   Consent Of Property Owners Prerequisite:
      1.   No Class A license shall be issued for any locality in the City
unless the owner or owners of two-thirds (2/3) of the individual parcels of
property, located within three hundred feet (300') in all directions from the
property line of the property on which the proposed license would be issued,
grant written consent to use such place of business for the sale of alcoholic
liquors of any nature; provided, however, that this section is not applicable
to special event licenses as set forth in section
4-4-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 6301, 6-24-1998)
      2.   No Class B, C, D, E, F or I license shall be issued for any locality
in the City unless the owner or owners of two-thirds (2/3) of the individual
parcels of residentially zoned property and medical or higher education zoned
property located within three hundred feet (300') in all directions from the
property line of the property on which the proposed license would be issued,
grant written consent to use such place of business for the sale of alcoholic
liquors by the particular class of license requested.
      3.   "Property", as used in this section, shall not include property or
properties owned by any unit of government or by any not for profit corporation
or organization, and such property or properties shall be excluded in
determining the consents required for issuance of liquor licenses.
   B.   Continuing Effect Of Consent: Any and all consents of property owners
given or granted for the use of premises for sale of any alcoholic liquors
shall continue in effect regardless of change of the licensee owning or
operating the business of selling alcoholic liquors on such premises unless a
subsequent licensee requests a different license classification be granted
other than that approved at the time written consent was secured. Any consent
given shall be valid for one year from the date of the execution of the consent
or until revoked in writing by the person who gave the consent, whichever shall
first occur. If no liquor license is in effect for a particular premises for a
continuous period of three (3) years or more, the previously granted consents
shall be considered null and void and an applicant for a liquor license at
those premises shall be required to obtain new consents as required by this
chapter. (Ord. 7303, 3-28-2012)
   C.   Exceptions: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the provisions of this
section shall not apply to any:
      1.   Business situated in a shopping center if the entrance to said
business is more than one hundred feet (100') from the nearest street as
measured by the shortest possible line. For the purpose of this section, a
shopping center is defined as a group or cluster of four (4) or more business
establishments, having a common connection in the same primary structure or
building.
      2.   Business situated in a "hotel" as that term is defined in this
chapter.
      3.   Locality in the City, as to Class B or C licenses, proposed to be
licensed if the owner or operator of the locality proposed to be licensed is
transferring a current license from a validly existing location within the same
city block. "Within the same city block", as used herein, shall be defined as
an area not divided by any through street, highway or alley. (Ord. 5736, 1-27-
1993)
4-4-7: LICENSE PARTICULARS:
   A.   Term: Each license required by this chapter shall terminate at the end
of the calendar year next following its issuance, except as otherwise provided,
unless sooner revoked as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Fees: The fee for licenses issued hereunder as provided for in section
4-4-4 of this chapter shall be payable in advance. All liquor fees, including
renewals, shall be paid to the city treasurer and a receipt therefor showing
payment of such license fee, shall be attached to every application for a
license or for the renewal of a license to sell alcoholic liquor at retail. No
application shall be considered, acted upon or granted until and unless such
application for such license has been filed with the mayor, or a person
designated by him, and a receipt showing payment to the city treasurer of the
license fee required by this chapter to be paid therefor is attached to such
application. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be
refunded to the applicant. (1961 Code § 4-19; amd. Ord. 3153, 11-28-1962; 1999
Code)
   C.   Record Of Licenses, Copies: The mayor shall keep or cause to be kept a
complete record of all licenses issued hereunder and shall furnish the city
clerk, city treasurer and the chief of police each with a copy thereof. Upon
the issuance of any new license or the revocation of any old license, the mayor
shall give written notice of such action to each of these officers within forty
eight (48) hours of such action. (1961 Code § 4-26)
4-4-8: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUING LICENSES:
   A.   No license authorized by this chapter shall be issued to:
      1.   A person who is not a resident of the city;
      2.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the city;
      3.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
      4.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, unless the mayor determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person's application and any investigation. The burden of proof of
sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant;
      5.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
      6.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
      7.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause;
      8.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
      9.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder for any reason other than residence within the political
subdivision, unless residency is required by local ordinance;
      10.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
political subdivision;
      11.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it
is a foreign corporation which is qualified under the business corporation act
to transact business in Illinois; (1961 Code § 4-20; amd. 1999 Code)
      12.   A person whose place of business is conducted by an agent or
manager, if the agent or manager would be disqualified to be issued a license
for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the city; (Ord.
7255, 6-8-2011)
      13.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this act or has forfeited his bond to appear in
court to answer charges for any such violation;
      14.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued; (1961 Code § 4-20; amd. 1999 Code)
      15.   Any law enforcing public official, the mayor or members of the city
council, and no such official shall be interested in any way, either directly
or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor,
except in their official capacity in connection with a class M license, as
provided in section
4-4-4 of this chapter; (Ord. 5528, 3-13-1991)
      16.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee;
      17.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed
by any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(11) of section 28-1 of, or as
proscribed by section 28-1.1 or 28-3 of the Illinois criminal code, or as
proscribed by a statute replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
      18.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued
by the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued
a license under the raffles act or the Illinois pull tabs and jar games act;
(1961 Code § 4-20; amd. 1999 Code)
      19.   A person who is delinquent in the payment of any indebtedness or
obligation to the city. (Ord. 6302, 7-8-1998)
   B.   No license authorized by this chapter shall be issued unless the
applicant therefor has complied with each and every business licensing
provision set forth in this code. (Ord. 5872, 5-11-1994)
4-4-9: SPECIAL EVENT PERMITS:
   A.   Permit, License Holders: Upon application in form prescribed by the
commissioner and investigation and payment of a permit fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00), the holder of a class A, D or F license may be issued a
permit to sell liquor as authorized by his classification outside of the
permanent structure of his premises under the following conditions:
      1.   Sales must be made on the licensed premises as defined in original
license application.
      2.   No sales will be permitted or consumption be allowed on any public
property.
      3.   Notification must be given at least fourteen (14) days prior to the
first day of the scheduled event.
      4.   The area used for special events must be enclosed or designated in
some manner to mark the boundaries for special events use.
      5.   No liquor of any nature may be removed from the enclosed or
designated boundaries for the special event. (Ord. 5175, 10-14-1987)
      6.   Special events permit shall not exceed ten (10) days per calendar
year for any one licensed premises. (Ord. 5196, 12-9-1987)
   B.   Nonlicense Holders: Upon application in form prescribed by the
commissioner and investigation and meeting all requirements for said event, a
special events permit may be issued to the following nonlicense holders: 1)
city of Alton (city sponsored event); 2) a not for profit corporation or other
not for profit organization; 3) religious organization; 4) charitable
organization; provided, however, that approval of a special events permit to
any of the foregoing nonlicense holders shall be approved as follows:
      1.   Use of public parks must be approved in writing by the parks and
recreation commission. However, no alcoholic beverages may be sold, given away
or consumed in Rock Springs Park due to deed restrictions.
      2.   Use of any public property (including parks) must be approved by the
city council. (Ord. 5175, 10-14-1987)
      3.   Any special event in any public park will be under the control and
authority of the Alton parks and recreation commission. (Ord. 7303, 3-28-2012)
      4.   All special event permits are subject to final approval by the local
liquor control commissioner. (Ord. 5175, 10-14-1987)
      5.   Fees for nonlicensed holder special events permits shall be twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per day, and such events shall not exceed ten (10) days
per year. (Ord. 5196, 12-9-1987)
      6.   No fee shall be charged for a special event permit issued to the
City of Alton or any of its commissions, boards, or committees. In addition,
there will not be a limitation on the number of days per year applicable to
special event permits issued to the City of Alton, its commission, board, or
committees. (Ord. 7611, 12-20-2017)
   C.   Special Events Of License And Nonlicense Holders: Upon application in
form prescribed by the Commissioner and approval by the City Council, a not for
profit nonlicense holder may be issued a special event permit for a
specifically defined area under the following conditions:
      1.   The area used for the special event must be enclosed and designated
for the special event. (Ord. 6521, 8-23-2000)
      2.   The applicant for the special event permit must provide a
certificate of liability insurance to cover any portion of the designated area
which is public property belonging to the City of Alton listing the City of
Alton as an additional insured. Said certificate of insurance must be approved
by the Commissioner prior to the special event. (Ord. 6768, 10-8-2003)
      3.   Any and all license holders located within the designated boundary
of any special event held pursuant to this subsection C shall be allowed to
sell alcoholic beverages, pursuant to the provisions of their respective
licenses, in paper or plastic cups, to be transported by patrons throughout the
designated special event area. (Ord. 6521, 8-23-2000)
   D.   Catering By Alton License Holders: Upon application in a form to be
prescribed by the Liquor Commissioner, together with a two hundred dollar
($200.00) annual fee, the holder of a Class D or Class E liquor license may be
issued a caterer liquor license to sell liquor as authorized by the licensee's
classification outside of the premises applicable to the liquor license at
various other locations under the following conditions:
      1.   Liquor sales must be made only in connection with a catering event.
"Catering event", as used herein, shall mean an event which shall include as a
principal portion of the event the preparation, delivery and/or service of
foods prepared as would be customary in the operation of a restaurant or
banquet facility. "Catering event", as used herein, shall not apply if the only
service provided to those in attendance is the furnishing, delivery or service
of alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages.
      2.   The caterer liquor licensee must notify the Liquor Commissioner at
least seven (7) days prior to the first day of any catering event to occur
within the City of Alton. Said notification shall include the address of the
catering event to be held, the owner or occupant of the property where the
catering event is to be held, and the full identity of the individual or
organization that has retained the services of the caterer for the catering
event.
      3.   Proof of dramshop insurance coverage applicable to the service of
alcoholic liquor at a catering event must be provided to the Liquor
Commissioner.
      4.   A caterer liquor license issued pursuant to this subsection D shall
be valid through the end of the calendar year in which the license is issued.
No proration of the annual fee shall be made either in the initial grant of the
caterer liquor license or in the event of its surrender, suspension or
revocation. (Ord. 7189, 3-24-2010)
   E.   Catering By Non-Alton License Holders: The holder of a liquor license
issued by the State of Illinois and a Local Liquor Control Commissioner other
than the City of Alton may register with the City of Alton Liquor Commissioner
for the privilege to do business within the City of Alton as an outside
caterer. The person or business requesting to be approved to do business within
the City of Alton as an outside caterer with the ability to dispense or serve
alcoholic liquor must present the following information and/or documents to the
City of Alton Liquor Commissioner as part of the registration process:
      1.   Proof of a valid license for the preparation of food for services
off the licensed premises, issued by the appropriate licensing authority of the
jurisdiction in which the applicant's catering business is located.
      2.   Proof of his, her or its ability to store, handle, prepare,
transport and serve food in a safe and sanitary manner, in accordance with
standards no less stringent than those imposed by the various regulations
applicable to businesses within the City of Alton.
      3.   Proof of a valid license for the sale of alcoholic liquor, issued by
the appropriate licensing authority of the jurisdiction in which the
applicant's catering business is located.
      4.   Proof of dramshop insurance in an amount equal to that required of a
licensee under this chapter. (Ord. 7171, 12-16-2009)
      5.   Payment of a fee per registration period, in an amount equal to the
annual fee for a Class D liquor license as provided by this chapter.
Notwithstanding the provisions of section
4-4-3 of this chapter, if the Local Liquor Commissioner finds that a person or
business has complied with all of the aforesaid requirements for registration
of an outside caterer, the Liquor Commissioner of the City of Alton may issue a
certificate of registration of a person or business as an outside caterer. A
registered outside caterer shall be entitled to sell liquor at various
locations within the City of Alton, but only under the conditions as set forth
in subsection D of this section, which conditions are applicable to catering by
Alton license holders.
The registration periods for each outside caterer shall be valid for the
remainder of the calendar year in which it is issued. Renewal of a certificate
of registration of an outside caterer shall be subject to all the requirements
of the original certificate of registration of an outside caterer.
The Liquor Control Commissioner may revoke, suspend or levy a fine on the
registered outside caterer for violation of any ordinance or law. Procedures
for any revocation, suspension or levy of a fine shall be in accordance with
the procedures applicable to a licensee of the City of Alton as provided in
this chapter. Revocation or suspension of an outside caterer's license for the
sale of alcoholic liquor or for the preparation and sale of food, issued by
another jurisdiction, shall act as cause for revocation of the outside
caterer's registration as an outside caterer in the City of Alton. A registered
outside caterer must notify the Liquor Control Commissioner of the City of
Alton of each and every suspension, revocation, fine or disciplinary action of
any such license issued by another jurisdiction, no later than the second
business day following the suspension, revocation, levy of a fine or other
disciplinary action. Notification must be in writing, delivered by the outside
caterer, or by messenger, to the Office of the Liquor Control Commissioner of
the City of Alton. Failure to timely report any such action of another
jurisdiction shall constitute cause for revocation of the privileges granted by
the certificate of registration of the outside caterer by the City of Alton.
(Ord. 7601, 11-21-2017)
4-4-10: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
   A.   Hours Of Sale:
      1.   General:
         a.   Except as provided below, it shall be unlawful for any liquor
licensee, or employee of such licensee, to sell or offer for sale at retail, on
the premises, any alcoholic liquor during the following hours:
 
Monday - Saturday 1:00 A.M. - 6:00 A.M.
Sunday            1:00 A.M. - 9:00 A.M.
 
         b.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, any holder of a Class A, D, or G
license may request the privilege to extend the lawful hours of sale of
alcoholic liquor on the respective licensed premises by obtaining a late night
liquor license. The late night liquor license shall afford to the licensee the
right to extend the lawful hours of the sale of alcoholic liquor on the
respective licensed premises, subject to the restrictions and conditions of the
original liquor license with regard to the licensed premises during the
specific hours as specified below:
 
Monday - Friday 1:00 A.M. - 2:00 A.M.
Saturday        1:00 A.M. - 3:00 A.M.
Sunday          1:00 A.M. - 3:00 A.M.
 
         Prior to the issuance of a license to grant the privilege to extend
the hours for the sale of alcoholic liquor on the respective licensed premises,
there shall be due an additional fee of three hundred seventy five dollars
($375.00) annually which must be paid in full without proration. The Liquor
Control Commissioner may impose disciplinary action upon the licensee by way of
a suspension or revocation of the privilege to extend the lawful hours of sale
of alcoholic liquor on the respective licensed premises as may be deemed
appropriate. The maximum number of late night liquor licenses issued in the
City of Alton shall be  twenty (20) .
          The foregoing extension of lawful hours of sale of liquor shall not
apply to the portion of the licensed premises operated as a sidewalk cafe
pursuant to chapter 7, article B of this title.
          The foregoing extension of lawful hours of sale of liquor shall not
apply to the sale of packaged liquor. Packaged liquor shall not be sold between
one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day and on Sunday
between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon.
         c.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no alcoholic liquor shall be sold
for consumption off the licensed premises between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Sunday.
         d.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the holder of a class R liquor
license from the city of Alton shall be entitled to serve liquor during any
hours as permitted by the regulations of the state of Illinois pertaining to
riverboat gaming licensing and the restrictions of hours of the city of Alton
as set forth herein shall not apply.
      2.   Closed Hours: The periods of time the sale of liquor is prohibited
until the time that liquor may again be sold shall be known as the "closed
hours".
         a.   No patron shall remain or be permitted to remain or be admitted
to any licensed premises more than thirty (30) minutes after the sale of
alcoholic liquors is prohibited hereinabove for the remainder of the "closed
hours" described hereinabove.
         b.   Consumption of liquor is prohibited, with exception, more than
thirty (30) minutes after the sale of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this
chapter for the remainder of the "closed hours" described hereinabove.
         c.   The doors of each licensed premises shall be locked and no person
not in the employ of the licensee shall be admitted to or upon the premises
during the times when patrons are prohibited from being on the licensed
premises.
      3.   Businesses Offering Other Sales: Any licensed premises where the
sale of alcoholic beverages is not the principal business, which fact is
certified by the mayor in the manner provided in this chapter, may remain open
to the public during the hours that the public would otherwise be prohibited
from being on the premises, providing the following conditions are observed:
         a.   All alcoholic beverages must be either removed from view or
placed behind doors or slides or screens or counters or shades, or other
apparatus clearly indicating that such beverages are not presently offered for
sale.
         b.   A sign shall be displayed prominently and shall read:
   Closed hours, no alcoholic liquors sold or served.
         c.   No alcoholic liquors shall be sold, donated, bartered, exchanged,
served or consumed therein during said closed hours.
         d.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as granting any
licensee the privilege to sell alcoholic liquor during the aforesaid closed
hours and any licensee not certified by the mayor to be in fact a retail
establishment where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business
must keep its doors locked and the public barred therefrom during said closed
hours.
         e.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed as requiring any
adult clerk in a licensed premises where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not
the principal business to be limited in duties solely relating to the sale of
alcoholic liquor.
      4.   Election Days: On any election day the hours of sale for liquor
shall be the same as those of the day as provided in subsection A1 of this
section, notwithstanding the scheduling of the election.
      5.   New Year's Eve: Any provisions herein to the contrary
notwithstanding, sales of alcoholic liquor, pursuant to class A, D, E, and F
city liquor licenses, which are otherwise lawful under this code and such
provisions in the liquor control act as may preempt home rule authority and
vest exclusive jurisdiction thereof in the state, shall, on each January 1,
between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) A.M.
hereafter be authorized and shall not be a violation of subsection A1 of this
section.
   B.   Dramshop Insurance: All persons or corporations issued a liquor license
hereunder shall provide evidence of dramshop insurance in an amount approved by
the liquor commissioner. Said insurance shall be evidenced by a certificate of
insurance acceptable to the liquor commissioner and delivered prior to opening
of the establishment.
      No liquor license which includes as any part of the licensed premises,
any public property operated pursuant to chapter 7, article B of this title,
shall be issued or renewed unless the applicant or licensee shall provide a
certificate of insurance showing dramshop and general liability insurance
coverage naming the City as an additional insured with the licensee, in such
amounts as may be reasonably required by the Mayor.
   C.   Condition Of Premises: All premises used for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor, or for the storage of such liquor for retail sale, shall be
kept in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be kept in full compliance
with the provisions regulating the condition of premises used for the storage
or sale of food for human consumption.
   D.   Unobstructed View Of Licensed Premises: In premises upon which the sale
of alcoholic liquor for consumption upon the premises is licensed, other than a
restaurant or hotel, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or other
thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed
premises, nor inside such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the
interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all
times, and no booth, screen, partition or other obstruction nor any arrangement
of lights shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the
street, road or sidewalk and said premises must be so located that there shall
be a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the street, road or
sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises
shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or
artificial white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall
be clearly visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required
by the foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee, or by
him wilfully suffered to be obscured, or in any manner obstructed, then his
license shall be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. In order
to enforce the provisions of this section, the Mayor shall have the right to
require the filing with him of plans, drawings and photographs showing the
clearance of the view as above required.
   E.   Display Of License: Every licensee shall cause his license issued under
this chapter to be framed and kept in plain view in a conspicuous place on the
licensed premises.
   F.   Sales In Certain Retail Establishments Prohibited: No Class A, D, E or
F license shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor at retail, for
consumption on the premises, in any confectionery, grocery store or drugstore,
or in any establishment, commonly known as a "self-service" store, where
patrons are permitted physically to select and reduce to possession goods for
purchase from open shelves or displays, making payment therefor upon leaving
the premises, or in any establishment where the patronage of persons for the
purchase of raw or unprepared food or medicines, is solicited by signs,
newspaper advertising or other public announcement. A licensee may sell
prepared food upon the premises, but only when all food sold is consumed on the
premises by the purchaser thereof. Nothing in this subsection contained shall
be held or construed to forbid the sale by a registered pharmacist of alcoholic
liquor for medicinal purposes upon the prescription of a licensed physician or
surgeon.
   G.   Size Of Containers: It is hereby declared unlawful for any "licensee",
as defined in section
4-4-1 of this chapter, holding any license to sell "alcoholic liquor" as
therein defined, to hereafter offer for sale at retail at any "licensed
premises", as therein defined, any packaged goods container of beer or
alcoholic liquor of the size of thirty two (32) ounces or larger, which has
been chilled or refrigerated below the room temperature of the licensed
premises.
   H.   Beer Garden: Notwithstanding any prohibitions to the contrary, the
holder of a Class A, C-2, D, E, F, G, M, P or R license shall be entitled to
sell alcoholic liquor as permitted by each such respective license in an
outdoor area of the licensed premises so long as access to the outdoor area is
limited by fencing or other structures so as to prohibit access to the outdoor
area except through the principal structure of the licensed premises or by an
access which is continuously guarded by an agent of the licensee so as to
prevent underage persons from entering the beer garden in violation of the
liquor ordinances of the City of Alton.
   I.   Filling And Selling Of Beer In A Container Other Than The Original
Container By Liquor License Holders: Liquor license holders and their employees
may fill, refill and sell beer in a container other than the original
container, otherwise known as a growler as defined herein.
      1.   Definition: "Growler", for the purpose of this subsection I, is a
sealable vessel used to transport craft beer from a liquor licensed premises
permitted to sell packaged beer to a private residence.
      2.   Sales Criteria And Restrictions: All sales made pursuant to this
subsection I shall be made in person. Beer packaged and sold pursuant to this
subsection I shall not be delivered or direct-shipped to consumers.
      3.   Filling And Refilling Requirements:
         a.   A growler shall have the capacity to hold no more than seventy
two (72) ounces.
         b.   A growler shall be filled or refilled only by the licensee or the
licensee's employees who are eighteen (18) years of age or older.
         c.   A growler shall be filled or refilled only on demand by a
consumer at the time of the in-person sale.
         d.   A growler shall be filled or refilled only with beer from the
original container procured from a duly licensed wholesaler.
         e.   A retailer may exchange a growler to be filled or refilled,
provided the exchange occurs at the time of the in-person sale.
         f.   The filling or refilling of a growler shall at all times be
conducted in compliance with applicable State and Federal food safety statutes
and regulations.
      4.   Sealing Requirements: A filled or refilled growler shall be securely
sealed at the time of the sale by the licensee or the licensee's employees in
the following manner:
         a.   A growler shall bear a twist-type cap, screw-on cap, flip- top
lid, swing-top lid, stopper, or plug.
         b.   A plastic heat shrink wrap band, strip, or sleeve shall extend
around the twist-type cap, screw-on cap, flip-top lid, or swing-top lid or over
the stopper or plug to form a seal that must be broken upon the opening of the
growler.
         c.   The heat shrink wrap seal shall be so secure that it is visibly
apparent when the seal on a growler has been tampered with or a sealed growler
has otherwise been reopened.
         d.   A growler shall not be deemed an open container, provided the
sealed growler is unopened and the seal has not been tampered with and the
contents of the growler have not been partially removed.
         e.   A growler shall be treated as "original packaging", provided the
sealed growler is unopened and the seal has not been tampered with and the
contents of the growler have not been partially removed.
      5.   Restrictions:
         a.   Beer shall not be consumed from the growler on the premises of a
Class A liquor license holder.
         b.   A growler shall not be filled in advance of a sale.
         c.   A growler filled pursuant to this subsection I shall not be
delivered or direct-shipped to a consumer.
         d.   A growler filled pursuant to this subsection I shall not be sold
or otherwise distributed to a retailer.
         e.   A licensee or a licensee's employees shall not allow a consumer
to fill or refill a growler.
         f.   The filling, refilling and selling of a growler shall be limited
to the hours in which beer may be legally sold.
         g.   A filled or refilled growler shall not be sold to any consumer
who is under legal age, intoxicated, or simulating intoxication. (1961 Code §§
4-10, 4-11, 4-23; amd. Ord. 4170, 1-12-1977; Ord. 4714, 11-24-1982, eff. 1-1-
1983; Ord. 4935, 7-24-1985; Ord. 5175, 10-14-1987; Ord. 5730, 1-13-1993; Ord.
5872, 5-11-1994; Ord. 5903, 8-24-1994; Ord. 5937, 12-22-1994; Ord. 6426, 9-8-
1999; Ord. 6607, 10-10-2001, eff. 1-1-2002; Ord. 6764, 9-24-2003; Ord. 7600,
12-13-2017; Ord. 7601, 11-21-2017; Ord. 7723, 10-9-2019; Ord. 7745, 3-12-2020;
Ord. 7813, 9-8-2021)
4-4-11: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Zoning Districts:
      1.   No Class A license shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor
at retail on any premises zoned residential (R-1, R-2, R-3 or R-4) pursuant to
the Alton zoning ordinance 1 .
      2.   No Class A license shall be issued for the sale of alcoholic liquor
at retail on any premises not adjoined on all sides by premises zoned C or M
pursuant to the Alton zoning ordinance. (Ord. 4935, 7-24-1985)
   B.   Proximity To Other Uses: No license shall be issued for sale at retail
of any alcoholic liquor within two hundred feet (200') of the nearest part of
any buildings used as a church, school, hospital, Young Men's Christian
Association, Young Women's Christian Association, home for the aged or indigent
persons or veterans, their wives or children or any military or naval station.
Said two hundred feet (200') shall be measured from the nearest part of the
building for which the retail liquor license is issued to the nearest part of
the buildings of the respective institutions enumerated above. Provided,
however, that this prohibition shall not apply to the renewal of a license for
the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor at hotels offering restaurant service,
regularly organized clubs or to restaurants, food shops or other places where
sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on, if the
church, school, hospital, Young Men's Christian Association, Young Women's
Christian Association, home for the aged or indigent persons or veterans, their
wives or children, or any military or naval station has been established within
such two hundred feet (200') since the issuance of the original liquor license.
      1.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Class D liquor license may be
issued to a qualified licensee for the location commonly known as the old Post
Office building on the northwest corner of the intersection of Third Street and
Alby Street in the City of Alton, Illinois. (Ord. 6935, 2-8-2006)
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Class E liquor license may be
issued to a qualified licensee for the location commonly known as the Honke
Building on the northeast corner of the intersection of Third Street and Henry
Street in the City of Alton, Illinois. (Ord. 7000, 4-25-2007)
      3.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, a liquor license may be issued to a
qualified licensee if the licensee can produce written evidence that the
church, school, hospital or other protected entity located within two hundred
feet (200') of the proposed location of the licensed premises has granted
consent that a particular class of liquor license may issue to that particular
location. Any consent given shall be valid for one year from the date of the
execution of the consent or until revoked in writing by the entity which gave
the consent delivered to the Office of the Local Liquor Control Commissioner,
whichever shall first occur. Once a liquor license has been granted for the
particular location to be licensed, that consent may not be thereafter revoked,
unless no liquor license is in effect for that particular location for a
continuous period of three (3) years or more, in which case the previously
granted consent shall be considered null and void and a subsequent applicant
for a particular class of liquor license at that location shall be required to
obtain new consents as required by this chapter. (Ord. 7673, 12-19-2018)
   C.   Change Of Location: Any license issued hereunder shall permit the sale
of alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the application and
license. No change of location shall be permitted. (Ord. 6982, 11-21-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 11 of this Code.
4-4-12: PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO MINORS:
   A.   Employment: It shall be unlawful for any minor to draw, pour or mix any
alcoholic liquor in any licensed retail premises, and it shall be unlawful for
any minor to sell, serve or deliver alcoholic liquor in a licensed retail
premises, except under the following conditions:
      1.   The minor has attained the age of eighteen (18) years.
      2.   The minor is a bona fide employee of the licensed retail premises.
      3.   The licensee of the licensed retail premises or the manager or
another employee of the licensed premises who is over twenty one (21) years of
age is present on the licensed retail premises with the minor. (Ord. 4795, 8-
24-1983)
   B.   Sales To Minors, Intoxicated Persons:
      1.   No licensee under this chapter shall sell, give away or deliver or
allow the same to be done, any alcoholic liquor or malt or vinous beverage to
any minor or to any intoxicated person. No minor shall patronize, frequent or
loiter in any establishment deriving its principal business from the sale of
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises. (1961 Code § 4-4; amd. 1999
Code)
      2.   No licensee under this chapter, or his agent or employee, shall
suffer or permit any minor to remain in any room or compartment adjoining or
adjacent to or situated in the room or place where such licensed premises are
located; provided, however, that this prohibition shall not apply to any minor
who is accompanied by his parent or guardian, or to any licensed premises which
derives its principal business from the sale of service or of commodities other
than alcoholic liquor. (1961 Code § 4-4)
      3.   The provisions of this section shall not apply to a minor who is a
lawful employee of a licensed retail premises under the provisions of
subsection A of this section during the time such a minor is actually engaged
in such employment and to the extent necessary in connection therewith. (Ord.
4795, 8-24-1983)
   C.   Misrepresenting Age: Any minor who misrepresents his age for the
purpose of purchasing or receiving alcoholic liquor in any place in the City
where liquor is sold, or in any manner makes any attempt to purchase alcoholic
liquor in this City shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in
this Code.
   D.   Possession: No minor shall at any time have any alcoholic liquor in his
possession. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to a minor who is
a lawful employee of a licensed retail premises under the provisions of
subsection A of this section during the time such minor is actually engaged in
such employment and to the extent necessary in connection therewith. (Ord.
4312, 5-24-1978; amd. Ord. 4795, 8-24-1983)
   E.   Beverage Alcohol Sellers And Servers Education And Training Certificate
Required:
      1.   No liquor license shall hereafter issue to any licensee until the
licensee, by its owner or manager, provides proof of completion of a state
certified beverage alcohol sellers and servers education and training (BASSET)
program or proof of completion of the alcohol servers training program approved
by the liquor commissioner of the city of Alton. The program shall include as
its goals and objectives the following:
         a.   Train and educate sellers and servers to engage in responsible
alcohol service;
         b.   Spot signs of intoxication and utilize various intervention
techniques;
         c.   Prevent DUIs and alcohol related fatalities;
         d.   Stop underage sales and underage drinking;
         e.   Create safer communities and establishments where alcohol is
served;
         f.   Educate owners, managers and staff on dramshop insurance, state
laws, and local ordinances regarding alcohol service. (Ord. 7527, 7-27-2016)
      2.   Any establishment holding a liquor license from the city of Alton
which employs any person who is convicted of an ordinance violation of "sales
of alcoholic liquor to minor" or a similar state statute, from the licensed
premises, shall be required to complete a new state certified beverage alcohol
sellers and servers education and training (BASSET) program or a new alcohol
servers training program approved by the liquor commissioner of the city of
Alton within ninety (90) days of such conviction or face possible revocation or
suspension of the liquor license privileges. (Ord. 7001, 5-9-2007; amd. Ord.
7294, 1-11-2012)
      3.   A certificate of completion of a BASSET program or an alcohol
servers training program shall be valid for the period of time as shown on the
certificate or five (5) years whichever period is the shorter period. (Ord.
7303, 3-28-2012)
      4.   The provisions of this subsection E shall apply only to licensees
entitled to sell alcohol for consumption on the premises of the licensed
establishment. (Ord. 7527, 7-27-2016)
4-4-13: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Peddling: It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the city.
(1961 Code § 4-6)
   B.   Lewd Entertainment: No person licensed under this chapter shall permit
any employee, entertainer or patron to engage in any live act, demonstration,
dance, or exhibition on the licensed premises which:
      1.   Exposes his or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal
region or pubic hair region; or
      2.   Exposes any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance
of or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or
pubic hair region; or (Ord. 4756, 4-13-1983)
      3.   Exposes any portion of the breast at or below the areola thereof.
(Ord. 4756, 4-13-1983; amd. Ord. 7114, 12-17-2008)
   C.   Curb Service: No curb service for the sale of alcoholic liquors shall
be permitted on or in connection with premises for which a license has been
granted for the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises,
either upon the public street or private property contiguous to such premises
so licensed. (1961 Code § 4-9; amd. 1999 Code)
   D.   Resale Of Alcoholic Beverages: No entity or person licensed under this
chapter, or his agent or employee, shall circumvent the laws of the state of
Illinois by purchasing alcoholic beverages from a retail establishment in a
neighboring state for resale on premises licensed for retail sale of alcoholic
liquor in the city of Alton. (Ord. 6839, 9-22-2004)
   E.   Removal Of Alcoholic Beverages From Premises: No licensee under this
chapter shall suffer, permit or allow any alcoholic beverage to be removed from
the licensed premises except in the unopened original package if package sales
are permitted. No licensee under this chapter shall allow the transfer of an
alcoholic beverage from its original glass or other container to a paper cup or
other container commonly referred to as a "go cup" for any purpose. (Ord. 7227,
12-8-2010)
   F.   Restaurant Or Banquet Facility: No owner or operator of any restaurant
or banquet facility shall allow or permit the consumption of any alcoholic
liquor, beer, or wine on the premises of the restaurant or banquet facility by
customers, patrons or guests, during any such time that the owner or operator
of the restaurant or banquet facility does not enjoy the privileges of a liquor
license issued by the city of Alton. (Ord. 7558, 2-22-2017)
4-4-14: EMERGENCY CLOSINGS:
In all cases where, in the opinion of the mayor, or, if the mayor is
unavailable, the acting mayor, the public peace or the safety of any person is
likely to be endangered by the keeping open of such places where intoxicating
liquor is sold at retail or dispensed, it shall be lawful for the mayor or
acting mayor, without a hearing, to close such place or places. Such
proclamation shall state the reasons for such closing, commanding and enjoining
any or all persons so licensed by the city, and their servants and agents, to
neither sell, give away nor suffer to be drunk any alcoholic liquors in or
about their premises during the time mentioned in said proclamation or order.
In any event, no such emergency order shall be valid beyond seven (7) days
without a hearing granted to any affected licensees. The chief of police may,
at his discretion, order a licensed premises to be closed without hearing for a
period of twenty four (24) hours, if the premises constitutes a crime scene and
such closing could prevent the loss or destruction of evidence and facilitate a
police investigation, or if the premises was the scene of a violent disturbance
involving injury or threat to citizens or the use of firearms. Such closing,
and the reasons therefor, will be documented by the chief of police and a
report submitted to the mayor. (Ord. 4714, 11-24-1982, eff. 1-1-1983)
4-4-15: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation: The mayor may revoke or suspend any license
issued by him if he determines that the licensee has violated any of the
provisions of the Illinois liquor control act or of any valid ordinance or
resolution enacted by the city of Alton or any applicable rule or regulations
established by the local liquor commissioner of the city of Alton or the state
commission which is not inconsistent with law.
   B.   Fines: In addition to a suspension, the mayor may levy a fine on the
licensee for such violations as are established. The fine imposed shall not
exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the first violation within a twelve
(12) month period; one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second
violation within a twelve (12) month period; and two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) for a third or subsequent violation within a twelve (12)
month period. Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation. Not more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in
fines under this section may be imposed against any licensee during the period
of his license. Proceeds from such fines shall be paid into the general
corporate fund of the city of Alton.
   C.   Hearing: No such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the mayor with not
less than a three (3) day written notice to the licensee affording the licensee
an opportunity to appear and defend. All such hearings shall be open to the
public and the mayor shall reduce all evidence to writing and shall maintain an
official record of the proceedings. If the mayor has reason to believe that any
continued operation of a particular licensed premises will immediately threaten
the welfare of the community, he may, upon the issuance of a written order
stating the reason for such conclusion and without notice or hearing, order the
licensed premises closed for not more than seven (7) days, giving the licensee
an opportunity to be heard during that period, except that if such licensee
shall also be engaged in the conduct of another business or businesses on the
licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other business or
businesses.
   D.   Decision: The mayor shall, within five (5) business days after such
hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license should be
suspended or revoked or that the licensee should be fined, state the reason or
reasons for such determination in a written order, and either the amount of the
fine, the period of suspension, or that the license has been revoked shall be
clearly set forth, and the mayor shall cause to be served a copy of such order
within the five (5) days upon the licensee or the licensee's employee or agent
found upon the premises of the license.
   E.   Appeal: The licensee, after the receipt of such order of fine,
suspension or revocation, shall have the privilege within a period of twenty
(20) days after the receipt of notice of such order of fine, suspension or
revocation, of appealing the order to the state liquor control commission for a
decision sustaining, reversing or modifying the order of the mayor. In any case
where a licensee appeals to the state liquor control commission from an order
or action of the mayor having the effect of suspending or revoking a license,
denying a renewal application, or refusing to grant a license, the licensee may
resume the operation of the licensed business pending the decision of the state
liquor control commission and the expiration of the time allowed for an
application for rehearing. If an application for rehearing is filed, the
licensee shall continue the operation of the licensed business until the denial
of the application, or, if the rehearing is granted, until the decision on the
rehearing. In any case in which a licensee appeals to the state liquor license
commission, a suspension or revocation by the mayor that is the second or
subsequent such suspension or revocation placed on that licensee within the
preceding twelve (12) month period, the licensee shall consider the suspension
or revocation to be in effect as ordered by the mayor until a reversal of the
mayor's action has been issued by the state liquor control commission and the
licensee shall cease all activity otherwise authorized by the license from the
city of Alton. The appeal to the state liquor control commission shall be
limited to a review of the official record of the proceedings before the mayor.
A certified official record of the proceedings taken before the mayor shall be
prepared by a certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter and
shall be filed by the local liquor control commissioner within five (5) days
after notice of the filing of such an appeal, if the appellant licensee pays
for the cost of the transcript, or within two (2) days following receipt of the
transcript from the certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter if
not received from the certified court reporter or certified shorthand reporter
within five (5) days of the notice of the filing of such appeal.
   F.   Appellate Procedure: The rules and procedures to be followed in the
event of an appeal to the state liquor control commission of an order of the
mayor of the city of Alton shall be in accordance with the rules, regulations
and procedures of the state of Illinois liquor control commission and the
statutes of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 7090, 8-13-2008)
CHAPTER 5
VENDING MACHINES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: License Required
4-5-3: Application For License
4-5-4: License Fee
4-5-5: Issuance Of Emblem Or Decal
4-5-6: Joint Responsibility
4-5-7: Inspection; Enforcement
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates:
VENDING MACHINE: Any automatic vending machine used for the purpose of selling
goods, wares or merchandise, and controlled by the insertion of a coin or
coins. It shall not include machines or devices used for the purpose of
providing amusement. (Ord. 3519, 12-11-1968)
4-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person displaying for use any vending machine in the city shall be required
to obtain a license from the city on a per machine basis upon payment of the
license fee as hereinafter provided. The license period shall commence on
January 1 and end December 31 of each year. (Ord. 3519, 12-11-1968; amd. Ord.
5419, 1-10-1990)
4-5-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license under this chapter shall be made to the city upon a
form to be supplied by the city treasurer for that purpose. The application for
such license shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name and address of the vending machine owner or lessee.
   B.   The place where the machine is to be displayed or operated.
   C.   The name of the owner of the premises at which the machine is to be
displayed or operated. (Ord. 3519, 12-11-1968)
4-5-4: LICENSE FEE:
No person shall operate or permit to be operated any vending machine in the
city without having paid to the city treasurer for each such machine the sum of
twenty dollars ($20.00) for one year's license, effective January 1 for each
calendar year or part thereof. Where multiple vending machines owned by the
same person are located immediately adjacent to each other at one location and
offer products with a cost of no more than fifty cents ($0.50), up to four (4)
separate vending machines may be subject to the same license with a total fee
for such multiple machines in the amount of twenty dollars ($20.00) per
calendar year. (Ord. 7081, 6-11-2008)
4-5-5: ISSUANCE OF EMBLEM OR DECAL:
Upon making proper application and payment of the necessary license fee to the
city treasurer, the city treasurer shall issue a sticker emblem or decal to the
applicant to be affixed by the licensee to each machine in such a place so as
to be visible and conspicuous from the outside of said machine. The sticker
emblems shall be numbered consecutively by the city treasurer and any emblems
which are destroyed by vandalism, repair, cleaning, machine substitution or for
any other purpose, shall be replaced by the licensee and a new decal will be
issued by the city treasurer for the sum of one dollar ($1.00) upon submission
of an appropriate affidavit by the licensee. (Ord. 5504, 12-19-1990)
4-5-6: JOINT RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the joint responsibility of the vending machine owner or lessee and
the person housing said machine to see that full compliance of this chapter has
been made. (Ord. 3519, 12-11-1968)
4-5-7: INSPECTION; ENFORCEMENT:
The city treasurer shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, including the determination that the decal has been affixed to each
machine so licensed. In addition thereto, he shall be responsible for
inspecting each machine, not less frequently than semiannually, to determine
that the machine is in good working order and that no deleterious or spoiled
products are being sold therefrom. (Ord. 3519, 12-11-1968)
CHAPTER 6
SERVICE BUSINESSES
ARTICLE A. AUCTIONS
SECTION:
4-6A-1: Definitions
4-6A-2: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-6A-3: Exceptions
4-6A-1: DEFINITIONS:
AUCTION: An auction occurs where any person, at public outcry, offer for sale
to the highest bidder any goods, wares or merchandise for profit.
AUCTION HOUSE: A particular location where auctions are held periodically and
where said auctions are conducted by the same person each time. (Ord. 4364, 12-
25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
4-6A-2: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to operate or to conduct
business as an auction house, as defined herein, without first obtaining a
Class B regulatory certificate, as defined in Chapter 1 of this Title. All
auctions not conducted in an auction house, as defined herein, are hereby
declared to be "special events" as defined in Chapter 2 of this Title. (Ord.
4364, 12-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
4-6A-3: EXCEPTIONS:
Nothing contained herein shall apply to judicial sales, to sales by executors
or administrators, by trustees or assignees under deed of assignment, by
lienors or by public officers in the manner described by law, or to the sale of
household effects sold on the premises of the housekeeper owning same. (Ord.
4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
ARTICLE B. ADVERTISEMENTS
SECTION:
4-6B-1: Handbills
4-6B-2: Outdoor Advertisers
4-6B-1: HANDBILLS:
   A.   Definitions: The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
Article have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
    COMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature:
      1.   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity or
thing; or
      2.   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interest thereof by sales; or
      3.   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising
matter, is predominately and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed
or circulated for advertising purposes, or for the private gain and benefit of
any person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   NEWSPAPER: Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by statute, any
newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United States in
accordance with Federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper filed and
recorded with any recording officer as provided by law, or which has made or is
making bona fide application for entry into the United States mail as second
class matter, or any neighborhood newspaper, containing current news and
information as well as advertising matter, distributed partly to subscribers
and partly to the general public; and in addition thereto, shall mean and
include any periodical or current magazine regularly published with not less
than four (4) issues per year and sold to the public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL: Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a commercial handbill
or newspaper. (1961 Code, § 3-5)
   B.   Passing Handbills: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit,
place, throw, scatter or cast any commercial handbill in or upon any public
place, or cause the same to be done; and it shall be also unlawful for any
person to hand out or distribute or sell any commercial handbill in any public
place; provided, however, that it shall not be unlawful for any person to hand
out or distribute, without charge to the receiver thereof, any noncommercial
handbill in any public place to any person willing to accept such noncommercial
handbill. (1961 Code, § 3-6)
   C.   Placing In Or On Automobiles: It shall be unlawful for any person to
distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast any commercial or
noncommercial handbill in or upon any automobile or other vehicle standing or
parked in the public streets of the City or in any City-owned off-street
parking lot, or cause the same to be done. The provisions of this Section shall
not be deemed to prohibit the handing, transmitting or distributing of any
noncommercial handbill to the owner or other occupant of any automobile or
other vehicle who is willing to accept the same. (1961 Code, § 3-7)
   D.   Placing On Private Premises When Vacant: It shall be unlawful for any
person to distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast or cause the same
to be done, any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private
premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant. (1961
Code, § 3-8)
   E.   Placing On Private Premises Contrary To Notice: It shall be unlawful
for any person to distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast, or cause
the same to be done, any commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any
premises, if requested by anyone in authority not to do so or if there is
placed upon such premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a
sign bearing the words "No Trespassing", "No Peddlers or Agents", "No
Advertisements" or any similar notice, indicating that the occupants of such
premises do not desire to be molested or to have their right of privacy
disturbed, or to have any such handbills left upon such premises. (1961 Code, §
3-9)
   F.   Manner Of Distributing On Private Premises: No person shall distribute,
deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast, or cause the same to be done, any
commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any private premises which are
inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the
owner, occupant or any other person then present in or upon such private
premises; provided, that in the case of inhabited private premises which are
not posted as provided in this Section, the person distributing such handbills,
unless requested by anyone in authority not to do so, may place or deposit any
such handbill in or upon such inhabited private premises, if such handbill is
so placed or deposited as to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown
or drifted about such premises or elsewhere, except that mailboxes may not be
so used when so prohibited by Federal postal laws or regulations. (1961 Code, §
3-10)
   G.   Information Placed On Handbills Distributed: It shall be unlawful for
any person to distribute, deposit, scatter, hand out or circulate, or cause the
same to be done, any commercial or noncommercial handbill in any place, under
any circumstances, which does not have printed thereon, the name and address of
the person who caused the same to be distributed; provided, that in the case of
a fictitious person or club, in addition to such fictitious name, the true
names and addresses of the owners, managers or agents of the person sponsoring
such handbill shall also appear thereon. (1961 Code, § 3-11)
   H.   Regulatory Certificate Required: No person shall engage as principal in
distributing of commercial or noncommercial handbills for hire without first
obtaining a Class A regulatory certificate as defined in Chapter 1 of this
Title. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
   I.   Newspapers Exempt: The provisions of this Section shall not be deemed
to apply to the distribution of newspapers as defined in this Article. (1961
Code, § 3-13)
4-6B-2: OUTDOOR ADVERTISERS:
   A.   Definition:
    OUTDOOR ADVERTISER: Any person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
of placing, posting or painting any sign, advertisement, notice or display in
or on any place for the purpose of outdoor advertising so that the resultant
display is visible from any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place.
(1961 Code, § 3-15)
   B.   Regulatory Certificate Required: No person shall do business as an
outdoor advertiser as defined in this Section within the City without obtaining
a Class C regulatory certificate as defined in Chapter 1 of this Title. (Ord.
4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
   C.   Construction To Comply With Building Code 1 : It shall be unlawful for
any person to erect or relocate a sign or other outdoor advertising structure
in a manner contrary to the requirements of the building code or without first
having secured a building permit therefor. (1961 Code, § 3-17)
   D.   Refuse: It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in the outdoor
advertising business to permit any refuse resulting from his work to accumulate
anywhere in the City excepting by placing it in properly established
receptacles. It shall be unlawful to permit any loose or flapping or
combustible materials to hang from or be attached to any billboard or signboard
or other place used for display or advertising purposes. (1961 Code, § 3-18)
   E.   Responsibility For Condition Of Ground Sign Area: The owner of any
property on which a ground sign is placed and the person maintaining the sign
shall be equally responsible for the condition of the area in the vicinity of
the sign, and shall be required to keep it clean, sanitary and free from
noxious or offensive substances. Grass and weeds shall be kept cut to a height
not to exceed ten inches (10"). (1961 Code, § 3-19)
   F.   Unlawful Advertising: It shall be unlawful for any person to post or
display any advertisement of an obscene or immoral character, or any
advertisement tending to promote or cause a riot, breach of the peace, or any
advertisement of any unlawful gathering or advertisement of unlawful sales.
(1961 Code, § 3-20)
   G.   Name Of Advertiser Shown: It shall be unlawful for any outdoor
advertiser to carry on his business unless the name of such advertiser is
attached, displayed or printed on all billboards or signboards used by him or
on any notice, placard, advertisement posted by him, in such lettering as to be
visible from a distance of at least five feet (5') from the notice or
advertisement. (1961 Code, § 3-21)
   H.   Interference With Egress And Ingress; Attachment To Fire Escapes: No
sign shall be so erected as to prevent free ingress to and free egress from any
door, window or fire escape. No sign of any kind shall be attached to a fire
escape. (1961 Code, § 3-22)
   I.   Interference With Traffic Devices: No sign shall be erected at any
location where by reason of the position, shape or color of the sign, it may
interfere with, obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized traffic
sign, signal or device. (1961 Code, § 3-23)
   J.   Unsafe Signs: It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any sign
or other structure regulated by this Article when the same has been declared
unsafe and dangerous by the chief building inspector. (1961 Code, § 3-24)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 9 of this Code.
ARTICLE C. NURSING HOMES
SECTION:
4-6C-1: Definitions
4-6C-2: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-6C-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Article, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms are defined:
HOME FOR THE AGED: Any home operated not-for-profit under the auspices of a
religious, fraternal, charitable or other nonprofit organization, or operated
not-for-profit under an endowment, which through its ownership or management,
and as its principal objective, provides maintenance, personal care, nursing or
sheltered care to aged persons, and in the conduct of which provides such
services to not less than three (3) persons over sixty (60) years of age who
are not related to the applicant by blood or marriage.
NURSING HOME: A private home, institution, building, residence or other place,
whether operated for profit or not, or a county home for the infirm and
chronically ill operated pursuant to the County Home Act, approved April 11,
1967, as now or hereafter amended 1 , or any similar institution operated by a
political subdivision of the State of Illinois, which provides, through its
ownership or management, maintenance, personal care or nursing for three (3) or
more persons, not related to the applicant or owner by blood or marriage, or
any similar facility in which maintenance is provided to three (3) or more
persons who by reason of illness or physical infirmity require personal care or
nursing.
SHELTERED CARE HOME: A County sheltered care home or a sheltered care home
operated as part of a County nursing home pursuant to "The County Home Act",
referred to above, or a private boarding home, institution, building,
residence, or other place whether operated for profit or not which through its
ownership or management, provides sheltered care to three (3) or more persons
who are not related to the applicant or owner by blood or marriage, or any
similar facility in which maintenance is provided to three (3) or more persons
who by reason of physical infirmity require personal care. (Ord. 2734, 6-25-
1958; amd. Ord. 3591, 4-9-1970; Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. 55 ILCS 5/5-1005 et seq.
4-6C-2: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
No person or persons shall open, conduct, manage or maintain a nursing home,
sheltered care home, or home for the aged, without first obtaining a Class C
regulatory certificate, as defined in Chapter 1 of this Title; provided
however, that if such establishment is in operation at the time of the
effective date hereof, they may file application for same within sixty (60)
days after the effective date hereof and continue to operate until said
application is acted upon by the City. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
ARTICLE D. HOTELS
SECTION:
4-6D-1: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-6D-2: Condition Of Premises
4-6D-3: Water Closets
4-6D-4: Register Of Guests
4-6D-5: Inspection
4-6D-1: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a hotel or a building or part
thereof used or held out to the public as a place where sleeping accommodations
are furnished for twenty (20) or more persons for a period of one day or more
without first having obtained a Class C regulatory certificate therefor. (Ord.
4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
4-6D-2: CONDITION OF PREMISES:
All premises used for hotel purposes shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition, and all portions of such premises that are open for use by guests or
by the public shall be kept lighted at all times they are so open to use. All
such premises shall be kept heated between October 1 and May 1 to a temperature
of not less than sixty eight degrees (68°) between the hours of seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and to a temperature of not less than
fifty five degrees (55°) at all other hours. (Ord. 3458, 11-24-1967)
4-6D-3: WATER CLOSETS:
Water closets and lavatories shall be available to all guests using any hotel
and there shall be at least one bathroom equipped with water closet, shower or
tub, and lavatory facilities for each ten (10) residents on the premises. (Ord.
3458, 11-24-1967)
4-6D-4: REGISTER OF GUESTS:
It shall be unlawful to knowingly permit any fugitive from justice to stay in
any hotel. Each hotel proprietor shall keep or cause to be kept a register of
guests as required by State law. Such registration shall be available for
inspection by any member of the Police Department at any time. (Ord. 3458, 11-
24-1967)
4-6D-5: INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the license inspector to inspect or cause to be
inspected every hotel operated in the City as frequently as may be necessary to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this Article. (Ord. 3458, 11-24-1967)
ARTICLE E. AMBULANCE SERVICE AND INVALID COACH SERVICE
SECTION:
4-6E-1: Definitions
4-6E-2: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-6E-3: Application For License
4-6E-4: Vehicle Registration
4-6E-5: Issuance Of License
4-6E-6: Licensing Authority
4-6E-7: Standards For Ambulances And Invalid Coaches
4-6E-8: Driver And Attendant Standards
4-6E-9: Ambulance Service Or Invalid Coach Service
4-6E-10: Insurance Of Licensee
4-6E-11: Revocation Or Suspension
4-6E-12: Cooperation
4-6E-13: Rules And Regulations
4-6E-1: DEFINITIONS:
AMBULANCE: Any motor vehicle that is especially designed, constructed,
equipped, and intended to be used, maintained and operated for the
transportation of patients in emergency and nonemergency situations.
AMBULANCE SERVICE: The maintenance, operation, or use on the streets, alleys or
any public ways of the City, of a vehicle or vehicles which respond to
emergency calls for the transportation of persons who are sick, injured,
wounded or otherwise incapacitated or helpless at the time of the dispatch of
the vehicle.
ATTENDANT: A trained and qualified individual responsible for the interim care
of a patient at the scene of an emergency and/or during transit in an ambulance
or invalid coach. Nothing in this definition precludes the attendant from also
serving in the capacity of a driver.
INVALID COACH: Any motor vehicle that is used for the routine transportation of
persons who are physically incapacitated and who must be transported by
stretcher or litter.
INVALID COACH SERVICE: The maintenance, operation, or use on the streets,
alleys or any public ways of the City, of a vehicle or vehicles which respond
to nonemergency calls for the transportation of persons who are physically
incapacitated and who must be transported by stretcher or litter.
PATIENT: An individual who is, or has been sick, wounded or otherwise
incapacitated or helpless at the time of the dispatch of the vehicle.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, association or other
legal entity. (Ord. 5008, 3-26-1986)
4-6E-2: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   Ambulance Service: As used in this Article, ambulance license shall be
interpreted to mean a Class B regulatory certificate as defined in Chapter 1 of
this Title. The requirements of this Article shall be in addition to the
requirements as established for the Class B regulatory certificate of Chapter 1
of this Title. In case of a conflict the requirements of this Article are
hereby declared to prevail.
No person shall own, conduct or operate an ambulance service in the City
without first obtaining an ambulance license as defined herein.
   B.   Invalid Coach Service: As used in this Article, invalid coach license
shall be interpreted to mean a Class B regulatory certificate as defined in
Chapter 1 of this Title. The requirements of this Article shall be in addition
to the requirements as established for the Class B regulatory certificate of
Chapter 1 of this Title. In case of a conflict the requirements of this Article
are hereby declared to prevail.
No person shall own, conduct or operate an invalid coach service in the City
without first obtaining an invalid coach license as defined herein. (Ord. 5008,
3-26-1986)
4-6E-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for a license to operate an ambulance or invalid coach service and
renewals thereof shall be made upon forms provided by the City Comptroller. The
application shall contain the following:
   A.   The name and address of the applicant; the name and address of the
owner of the ambulances or invalid coaches, if different from that of
applicant.
   B.   The trade or other fictitious name, if any, under which the applicant
does business or proposes to do business.
   C.   The location and description, in such detail as required by licensing
authority, of the place or places from which the ambulance service or invalid
coach service operates or is intended to be operated.
   D.   A description of each ambulance or invalid coach which the applicant
operates or intends to operate within the license year, including the make,
model, year of manufacture, serial number, the length of time the ambulance or
invalid coach has been in use, color scheme, insignia, name, monogram or other
distinguishing characteristics to be used to designate applicant's ambulances
or invalid coaches.
   E.   A detail of training and experience of the applicant in the
transportation and care of patients.
   F.   Such other information as the licensing authority may deem necessary
for a fair determination as to applicant's compliances or ability to comply
with all the provisions of this Article. (Ord. 5008, 3-26-1986)
4-6E-4: VEHICLE REGISTRATION:
All applications for license provided herein shall be accompanied by evidence
of a current valid motor vehicle registration for each ambulance or invalid
coach listed in the application. (Ord. 5008, 3-26-1986)
4-6E-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
The licensing authority shall consider in addition to the items provided in the
application form:
   A.   The experience and responsibility of the applicant;
   B.   The effect the proposed service may have on the general health, safety
and welfare of the community;
   C.   Whether applicant is in compliance or can comply with the standards for
ambulances or invalid coaches, including equipment standards;
   D.   Such other matters as may appear to the licensing authority to be
germane to the purpose of this Article. (Ord. 5008, 3-26-1986)
4-6E-6: LICENSING AUTHORITY:
The Mayor shall be the licensing authority. (Ord. 5008, 3-26-1986)
4-6E-7: STANDARDS FOR AMBULANCES AND INVALID COACHES:
   A.   Ambulances: Every vehicle used as an ambulance shall be designed to
meet the Federal Specification for Ambulances dated July 1, 1985, as prepared
by the General Services Administration, a copy of which shall be kept on file
in the office of the City Clerk; and every vehicle to be used as an ambulance
shall conform to the specifications outlined in said report. Every vehicle used
as an ambulance shall be equipped as outlined in said specifications and shall
include all other equipment and supplies deemed appropriate by the Alton Fire
Chief, except that the equipment specified for release from entrapment or
confinement and the power wrench equipment shall not be required. An ambulance
which meets the criteria set out herein may be used as an invalid coach. (Ord.
5166, 9-9-1987)
   B.   Invalid Coaches: Every vehicle used as an invalid coach shall be
designed and constructed by the manufacturer to safely and comfortably
transport sick, disabled or invalid persons.
Furthermore, an invalid coach shall have installed and contain the following
equipment and supplies:
      1.   Radio communications equipment linked to a hospital or dispatcher;
      2.   Spare oxygen cylinder with a regulator;
      3.   Lateral suction unit;
      4.   Stretcher with linen and pillow;
      5.   Extra linen;
      6.   Extra pillow;
      7.   Two (2) blankets;
      8.   One each large and small emesis basin;
      9.   One complete set of airways;
      10.   Two (2) oxygen cannulas;
      11.   Two (2) oxygen masks;
      12.   All other equipment and supplies as may be deemed appropriate by
the Alton Fire Chief and filed in the City Clerk's Office. (Ord. 5008, 3-26-
1986)
4-6E-8: DRIVER AND ATTENDANT STANDARDS:
   A.   Every ambulance driver or invalid coach driver must possess a valid
driver's license as is issued and required by the State for operation of this
type vehicle 1 .
   B.   In addition to the driver, each ambulance or invalid coach shall have
assigned to it a qualified attendant while such ambulance or invalid coach is
being used for ambulance or invalid coach purposes on the streets, alleys, or
any public way of this City.
   C.   Every ambulance or invalid coach attendant and driver must be qualified
as provided hereafter, except that an ambulance service or invalid coach
service may provide such ambulance or invalid coach with one unqualified driver
or attendant during a period not to exceed ninety (90) days, during which
period such unqualified person is actively engaged in acquiring the necessary
qualifications provided in subsection C4 of this section. A qualified ambulance
or invalid coach attendant and driver shall:
      1.   Be of reputable character and sound physical condition;
      2.   Be free of addiction to intoxicating liquor or drugs;
      3.   Read, write and speak the English language;
      4.   Be certified as an emergency medical technician by the State, or
licensed physician, nurse, physician's assistant, or other licensed medical
professional person. (Ord. 5008, 3-26-1986)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/6-104.
4-6E-9: AMBULANCE SERVICE OR INVALID COACH SERVICE:
   A.   Each ambulance service licensed by the City shall be operated
continuously at all hours of every day and shall be constituted so as to
provide not less than one approved properly equipped and manned ambulance in
operation, and with one ambulance in immediately operable reserve, all with the
necessary central control and ambulance personnel. (Ord. 7585, 10-11-2017)
   B.   Each invalid coach service licensed by the City shall be operated
continuously from six o'clock (6:00) A.M. until seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. of
every day and shall be constituted so as to provide not less than one approved,
properly equipped and manned invalid coach in operation during said hours with
the necessary central control and invalid coach personnel.
   C.   Each licensee must maintain in his office, at all times during the day
or night, a telephone and qualified dispatcher.
   D.   Each ambulance service and invalid coach service licensed shall keep
such adequate records of its equipment and the maintenance thereof, a log of
calls and responses, and records regarding its personnel as the licensing
authority may require. (Ord. 5008, 3-26-1986)
4-6E-10: INSURANCE OF LICENSEE:
Every ambulance and invalid coach licensee shall file with the City Clerk,
prior to start of operation under said license, a certificate of insurance of a
reputable and acceptable insurance carrier showing current insurance coverage
for each driver, attendant and ambulance or invalid coach used by the licensee.
The minimum amount of such insurance for personal injury or death shall be one
hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for each person and three hundred
thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for each accident; fifty thousand dollars
($50,000.00) for loss of or damage to property, including personal property and
incidental malpractice coverage in the amounts of one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) through three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00). (Ord. 5008,
3-26-1986)
4-6E-11: REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION:
In addition to any penalty that may be provided in this Article, violation of
any of the provisions hereof or a failure to comply with any of the standards
or specifications provided herein, after reasonable notice to licensee and an
opportunity to so comply, may be grounds for suspension or revocation by the
licensing authority, and the privileges thereunder, then once revoked, shall
not again be granted to the same person, firm or corporation, or any such firm
or entity made up in part of the person or persons formerly of interest in the
revoked license or privileges. Any licensee, whose license is revoked or whose
licensee is suspended for a period of more than two (2) weeks, may, in writing,
request of the licensing authority a hearing on such revocation or suspension,
which hearing shall be held within ten (10) days after being notified of the
revocation or suspension. The hearing will be held by the licensing authority,
or his qualified designee, at which hearing anything touching upon any aspect
of the license, the vehicle's equipment, operation, personnel, qualifications,
character, or any other consideration involving the licensee or ambulance
service or invalid coach service of such licensee may be considered. Upon the
conclusion of the hearing, the licensing authority or his qualified designee
shall reduce to writing, within five (5) days, his findings with regard to such
hearing, a copy of which is to be furnished to licensee. (Ord. 5008, 3-26-1986;
amd. 1999 Code)
4-6E-12: COOPERATION:
All ambulance services listed by the City and the personnel thereof shall
cooperate with one another and with the other public safety and emergency
services operating within the City, both generally and specifically, at the
scene of an emergency. In the event the Fire Chief or his designated assistant
is on the scene, they shall be in charge until the patient is released to the
ambulance service. (Ord. 5008, 3-26-1986)
4-6E-13: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The licensing authority is authorized to make such reasonable rules and
regulations not contrary to or in conflict with the provisions of this Article
as he may deem necessary and desirable to implement, clarify, refine, or
enforce the provisions hereof, all in the public interest. (Ord. 5008, 3-26-
1986)
ARTICLE F. HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-6F-1: Definitions
4-6F-2: Applications
4-6F-3: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-6F-4: Route Proposals
4-6F-5: Review By City Officials
4-6F-6: License, License Fees, Proof Of Insurance
4-6F-7: Change, Discontinue Service; Transfer Of Certificates
4-6F-8: Offices Required
4-6F-9: Safety And Health
4-6F-10: Stops And Stands
4-6F-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, wherever they occur in this Article, shall be
construed as herein defined:
APPLICANT: Any person who has filed an application to become a certificate
holder under the provisions of this Article.
CERTIFICATE HOLDER: Any person holding one or more business regulatory
certificates issued pursuant to the provisions contained in Chapter 1 of this
Title for the operation of horse-drawn vehicles.
FOR HIRE: The provision of services, or the offering of services, of a horse-
drawn vehicle for the payment of money or other consideration.
HORSE-DRAWN VEHICLE: A coach or other vehicle which is powered in whole or in
part by one or more horses, mules or other animals.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity. (Ord. 5577, 7-24-1991)
4-6F-2: APPLICATIONS:
An application for the appropriate regulatory certificate shall be made
pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 1 of this Title, with the following
exceptions and additions:
   A.   The portion of subsection
4-1-6A of this Title which addresses the movement of a commercial establishment
from one location in the City to another location in the City shall not be
applicable to horse-drawn vehicles.
   B.   Subsection
4-1-3C of this Title shall not be applicable to horse-drawn vehicles.
   C.   Subsection
4-1-3B of this Title shall not be applicable to horse-drawn vehicles.
   D.   The operation of a horse-drawn vehicle or vehicles shall be considered
the same as the operation of a commercial establishment for application
purposes.
   E.   In addition to any other information which may be requested, the
application shall contain information concerning the previous experience of the
applicant with respect to horse-drawn vehicle operations, the number of
vehicles the applicant desires to operate, and the passenger capacity of each
such vehicle. Further, the application shall contain information concerning the
type of insurance to be carried, the amount of the insurance and the company
issuing the policy. (Ord. 5577, 7-24-1991)
4-6F-3: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any horse-drawn vehicle
operations or to provide horse-drawn vehicle services for hire, as herein
defined, without first obtaining a Class A regulatory certificate as defined in
Section
4-1-6 of this Title. (Ord. 5577, 7-24-1991)
4-6F-4: ROUTE PROPOSALS:
Along with the application for regulatory certificate, all applicants will file
a proposed routing or routings for each horse-drawn vehicle which is to be
operated. All such proposed routings shall include all anticipated stopping
and/or standing locations for each respective horse-drawn vehicle. (Ord. 5577,
7-24-1991)
4-6F-5: REVIEW BY CITY OFFICIALS:
In addition to the investigations listed in Section
4-1-5 of this Title, all applications submitted pursuant to the terms of this
Article shall be subject to an investigation by the Business and Economic
Development Director and the Park Commission. (Ord. 5577, 7-24-1991)
4-6F-6: LICENSE, LICENSE FEES, PROOF OF INSURANCE:
Upon the making of a determination that a business regulatory certificate may
be issued, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 1 of this Title, the applicant
shall pay an annual license fee provided for Class A certificates in Section
4-1-6 of this Title for each horse-drawn vehicle which is to be operated by the
applicant. No regulatory certificate will issue until all necessary license
fees have been paid by the applicant. The license shall be in the possession of
the operator of all such horse-drawn vehicles at all times when said vehicle is
on a public right of way. Further, the applicant shall present a copy of the
insurance policy, which is intended to cover the operation of all licensed
horse-drawn vehicles, at the time the applicant pays any license fees. (Ord.
5577, 7-24-1991; amd. 1999 Code)
4-6F-7: CHANGE, DISCONTINUE SERVICE; TRANSFER OF CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Any proposed changes in routes, number of horse-drawn vehicles and/or
levels or type of insurance shall be submitted in writing to the City
Treasurer's office. No such proposed changes shall take effect until permission
has been granted by the City Treasurer's office.
   B.   An increase in the number of horse-drawn vehicles to be operated will
result in an additional license fee for each such vehicle. A decrease in the
number of horse-drawn vehicles will not result in any refund of license fees.
   C.   No person who has received a regulatory certificate to operate horse-
drawn vehicles may discontinue the operation of such horse-drawn vehicles
without first filing a written request to discontinue operation and without
first obtaining permission therefor from the City Treasurer's office. The
withdrawal of any vehicle from operation, for the purpose of conditioning,
overhauling or repairing, shall not be considered a discontinuance of operation
under this Section.
   D.   No holder of a regulatory certificate may sell, assign, lease or
otherwise transfer the rights and privileges granted thereunder, including any
licenses which have been issued, to any other person without first having
obtained the written permission of the City Treasurer's office. (Ord. 5577, 7-
24-1991)
4-6F-8: OFFICES REQUIRED:
Each certificate holder is required to have and maintain an office to which can
be directed any reports of lost articles, complaints, inquiries and related
matters. (Ord. 5577, 7-24-1991)
4-6F-9: SAFETY AND HEALTH:
   A.   Each horse harness shall be equipped with a leather diaper. Each
operator of a horse-drawn vehicle shall ensure that any feces deposited on the
public right of way or any private property within the City is cleaned up
immediately after such deposit or as soon thereafter as is reasonable.
   B.   All restrictions and requirements for motorized vehicles contained in
this Code or in the Illinois State Statutes shall apply to horse-drawn vehicles
except those which by nature could have no application. All carriages shall, in
addition, display the international sign for slow-moving vehicles on the rear
of each such vehicle. (Ord. 5577, 7-24-1991)
4-6F-10: STOPS AND STANDS:
For the purposes of taking on and discharging passengers, a horse-drawn vehicle
shall stop at the far corner of all intersections, and while so stopped, shall
keep as close to the right-hand curb as practicable, and shall take on and
discharge passengers as quickly as possible, so as not to reasonably interfere
with traffic. (Ord. 5577, 7-24-1991)
ARTICLE G. TAXICABS
SECTION:
4-6G-1: Definitions
4-6G-2: Taxicab License
4-6G-3: Application For License
4-6G-4: Markings
4-6G-5: Rates
4-6G-6: Driver's License
4-6G-7: Taxicab Safety
4-6G-8: Revocation
4-6G-1: DEFINITIONS:
DRIVER: When used in this article shall include every person in charge of or
operating any "taxicab" as herein defined, either as agent, employee or
otherwise.
OWNER: When used in this article shall be construed to mean any person, firm or
corporation who has the bona fide legal title or control, direction, operation,
maintenance, leasing or the collection of revenues deriving from such taxicabs
so operated for hire on the streets in the city.
TAXICAB: As used in this article means all motor vehicles propelled and
operated for passenger hire, including limousines, and except motor buses
running and operating on established routes, sightseeing buses, charter buses,
and funeral vehicles. (Ord. 4711, 8-11-1981)
4-6G-2: TAXICAB LICENSE:
No owner or driver shall operate any taxicab without first having obtained a
license therefor. (Ord. 4711, 8-11-1981)
4-6G-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license for any taxicab shall:
   A.   File an application with the city treasurer on a form provided for that
purpose setting forth the name, business and residence address of the
applicant, full description of the motor vehicle for which a license is
desired, and the registration plate of such motor vehicle as set forth in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-412(e), as amended from time to time;
   B.   File with the city treasurer a proof of financial responsibility as set
forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-101 et seq., as amended from time
to time; (Ord. 4711, 8-11-1981)
   C.   Submit to the city treasurer, with the application, a taxicab license
regulatory fee in the amount applicable to a class A business regulation
certificate as set forth in chapter 1 of this title as established from time to
time; (Ord. 7158, 10-28-2009)
   D.   Taxicab licenses issued under this article shall not be assignable
unless the proposed assignee shall first file with the city treasurer the
information required by this section; (Ord. 4711, 8-11-1981)
   E.   Taxicab licenses issued shall run for one calendar year and may be
renewed upon the payment of a new yearly regulatory fee, and proof of proper
registration and financial responsibility as set forth above. The license
period shall commence on January 1 and end December 31 of each year. (Ord.
6055, 4-10-1996)
4-6G-4: MARKINGS:
Each and every taxicab which may be licensed under this article, and operated
in the city, shall exhibit the license issued in a conspicuous place inside the
vehicle. (Ord. 4711, 8-11-1981)
4-6G-5: RATES:
Each and every taxicab licensed under this article and operated in the city
shall post inside the vehicle at a location visible to passenger(s) the rates
of fare being charged. (Ord. 4711, 8-11-1981)
4-6G-6: DRIVER'S LICENSE:
No person shall operate and drive a taxicab unless he has a valid driver's
license as prescribed in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-100 et seq., as
amended from time to time. (Ord. 4711, 8-11-1981)
4-6G-7: TAXICAB SAFETY:
No taxicab shall be operated in the City unless it is equipped with proper
brakes, lights, tires, horn, muffler, rear vision mirrors and windshield wipers
in good condition. It shall be the duty of any person operating any taxicab in
the City, whether as owner, operator, driver, lessee or licensee, to submit the
same, upon request to the Chief of Police or any other police officer of the
City, for examination for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not said
taxicab is in good condition and otherwise complied with all the requirements
of the laws of the State with reference to motor vehicles and the operation
thereof. (Ord. 4711, 8-11-1981; amd. Ord. 5802, 8-11-1993)
4-6G-8: REVOCATION 1 :
The Mayor of the City is hereby empowered and authorized to remove or suspend
the license of any taxicab found not to be safe or not in good condition; and
the Mayor may revoke any license issued under the provisions of this Article
for failure on the part of the owner, operator, driver, lessee or licensee to
comply with all of the provisions of this Article, or for failure to comply
with any State law pertaining to the operation of motor vehicles or for failure
to comply with any provision or traffic regulations at any particular time in
force in the City. In the event of the suspension or revocation of a license,
no refund shall be made to the person to whom said license was issued for any
portion of the license fee previously paid. (Ord. 4711, 8-11-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  4-1-12 of this Code for due process procedures.
ARTICLE H. SURFACE BLASTING
SECTION:
4-6H-1: Definitions
4-6H-2: License Required
4-6H-3: Blasting Signs, Warnings And Access Control
4-6H-4: Control Of Adverse Effects
4-6H-5: Records Of Blasting Operations
4-6H-6: Penalties
4-6H-7: Administrative Remedies
4-6H-1: DEFINITIONS:
SURFACE BLASTING: The practice of using explosives to loosen earth or stone at
or near the surface of property for mining, construction, excavation,
demolition of existing structures or obstructions, or related activities.
"Surface blasting" shall not include underground mining activities which do not
immediately affect the exposed surface of the earth. (Ord. 5723, 11-25-1992)
4-6H-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person engaged in blasting operations must obtain and maintain a Class E
regulatory certificate as defined in Chapter 1 of this Title. The Fire Chief of
the City shall be charged with the responsibility to review the application for
a regulatory certificate pertaining to blasting operations and to monitor the
compliance with the terms of this Article by the person conducting the blasting
operation from time to time. It shall be unlawful to conduct any blasting
operation without a valid City issued regulatory certificate. (Ord. 5723, 11-
25-1992)
4-6H-3: BLASTING SIGNS, WARNINGS AND ACCESS CONTROL:
The owner or operator of any blasting operation shall:
   A.   Conspicuously display signs reading "Blasting Area" along the edge of
any blasting area that comes within one hundred feet (100') of any public road,
and at the point where any other road provides access to the blasting area;
   B.   At all entrances to the blasting area from public roads, place
conspicuous signs which state "Warning! Explosives in Use" and which clearly
list and describe the meaning of the audible blast warning;
   C.   Give warning signals that are audible within one-half (1/2) mile of the
blast one minute before each blast occurs;
   D.   Access to the blasting area shall be controlled to prevent the presence
of unauthorized personnel during blasting;
   E.   Conduct all blasting operations between the hours eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M.;
   F.   In an ongoing blasting operation (such as a mining or long-term
construction project), a daily blasting schedule shall be established and made
available to the City for public dissemination which schedule shall specify
within fifteen (15) minutes the time at which blasting shall occur each day and
blasting shall occur at no time other than as determined by said schedule. The
Fire Chief of the City may require such a schedule by giving notice to any
owner or operator that their blasting operation is one required to comply with
this Section due to its ongoing regular blasting operations. (Ord. 5723, 11-25-
1992)
4-6H-4: CONTROL OF ADVERSE EFFECTS:
   A.   Air Blast Limits:
      1.   Air blast shall be controlled so that it does not exceed the values
specified below at any dwelling, public building, school, church, or commercial
or institutional structure, unless such structure is owned by the person who
conducts the blasting operation and is not leased to any person. If a building
owned by the person conducting the blasting operations is leased to another
person, the lessee may sign a waiver relieving the operator from meeting the
air blast limitations of this subsection. The waiver shall be submitted to the
City Clerk before beginning the blasting.
         Lower frequency limited    Maximum
         measuring system, Hz+3dB    Level in dB
         2.0 Hz or lower-flat response    133 peak
      2.   The measuring systems used shall have a flat frequency response of
at least two hundred (200) Hz at the upper end.
   B.   Flyrock: Flyrock, including blasted material traveling in the air or
along the ground, shall not be cast beyond the permit boundaries or more than
one-half (1/2) the distance to the nearest dwelling or other occupied
structure. "Permit boundaries" as used herein shall be the area described
within the permit issued by the City within which surface blasting is to be
allowed.
   C.   Peak Particle Velocity: In all blasting operations the maximum peak
particle velocity, as measured from any one of three (3) mutually perpendicular
directions, shall not exceed one inch (1") per second at the location of any
dwelling, public building, school, church or commercial or institutional
building.
   D.   Recordings: As used herein, airblast or peak particle velocity
recording or record shall mean a visually inspectable cartesian representation
of the time history of the particle velocity levels, and air blast levels
versus time. Time is represented on the "X" axis. The particle velocity is
shown by three (3) traces representing mutually perpendicular components are
oriented vertically, transversely and longitudinally to the horizontal
direction from the recording location to the location of the blast. The air
blast time history is represented by a single trace. The record or recording
includes either analog representation of, or a written description of the
vertical scale for the particle velocity traces and the air blast trace. The
units for the particle velocity traces and scale are in inches per second. The
units for the air blast trace and scale are millibars, pounds per square inch,
or decibels. The recording also includes an analog or descriptive time scale.
The time units are in seconds. (Ord. 5723, 11-25-1992)
4-6H-5: RECORDS OF BLASTING OPERATIONS:
A record level of each blast shall be retained by the operator for at least
three (3) years and shall be available for inspection by the City and the
public on request. The record is to be completed by the end of the work day
following the day in which the blast occurred, and shall contain the following
data:
   A.   Name of the operator conducting blast;
   B.   Location, date, and time of the blast;
   C.   Name, signature and certification of the blaster conducting the blast;
   D.   Type of material blasted;
   E.   Number of holes, burden and spacing;
   F.   Diameter and depth of holes;
   G.   Types of explosives used;
   H.   Total weight of explosives used;
   I.   Weight of explosives per hole;
   J.   Maximum weight of explosives and detonated within any eight (8)
millispeed period;
   K.   Initiation system;
   L.   Type of length of stemming;
   M.   Type of delay, detonator and delay periods used. (Ord. 5723, 11-25-
1992)
4-6H-6: PENALTIES:
Any violation of the regulations of this Article shall be considered an
ordinance offense. Each and every time a violation occurs shall be considered a
separate offense. Each offense shall be punishable as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. The penalties herein provided are in addition to the
administrative remedies provided by Section
4-6H-7 of this Article. (Ord. 5723, 11-25-1992; amd. 1999 Code)
4-6H-7: ADMINISTRATIVE REMEDIES:
   A.   In the event the Fire Chief of the City determines that the owner or
operator of any blasting operation has failed to comply with the requirements
set forth in this Article, the Fire Chief shall give notice to the owner or
operator, which notice shall set forth the specific nature of the alleged
failure to comply. The certificate holder shall then have seven (7) calendar
days to dispute in writing the alleged failure to comply. If he fails to so
dispute the alleged failure in writing within seven (7) days of receipt of the
notice as aforesaid, a violation will be deemed to have occurred. For each
violation cited by the Fire Chief, the holder of the regulatory certificate
shall be assessed a penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per violation. The
one hundred dollars ($100.00) penalty must be paid within three (3) days of
demand for same served upon the holder by the Fire Chief.
Failure to pay the penalties as aforesaid shall result in revocation of the
regulatory certificate permitting blasting operations.
   B.   In the event the holder of the regulatory certificate disputes the
allegations of violations made by the Fire Chief, the matter shall be referred
to the Mayor. The Mayor or his designee shall then conduct a hearing to
determine whether a violation of this Article has been committed. Notice of any
such hearing shall be given to those persons to whom the regulatory certificate
involved was issued by mailing such notices to such persons by regular U.S.
Postal Service not less than three (3) days prior to the commencement of such
hearing. The notice of hearing shall include a brief summary of the causes
believed to exist, which may lead to the revocation of any regulatory
certificate. Those persons receiving said notices may appear at said hearing,
where they may be represented by counsel, and have an opportunity to respond to
any charges or evidence against them, question any witnesses who may present
testimony or evidence at said hearing, and present testimony or evidence in
their own behalf relative to the question of revocation of any regulatory
certificate issued to them. A record of any such hearing will be made upon
written request of any person to whom notice of said hearing was mailed,
provided said written request is received by the office of the Mayor not less
than one day prior to the commencement of said hearing, and further provided
that the person requesting that a record be made agrees to pay for the cost of
such record. At the conclusion of any hearing the Mayor shall make written
findings of fact to support his conclusions. Said findings shall be mailed in
the same manner as were the notices of the respective hearing, and further said
findings shall be filed with the City Clerk and considered public records.
   C.   In the event the Mayor determines that there exists not only sufficient
cause to revoke a regulatory certificate granted by him, but that such cause
presents an immediate and substantial threat to the public safety, health or
welfare, so that a condition exists which requires immediate emergency action;
the Mayor, in that event, may suspend a regulatory certificate during the
pendency of the hearing described in this Section. In the event a regulatory
certificate is suspended under the powers of this Section, the hearing to be
held in accordance with this Section shall be held as promptly as possible.
Upon agreement of all parties concerned, the notice and time requirements of
this Section may be waived in the event a regulatory certificate has been
suspended under the power of this Section. In addition to the power to revoke
the regulatory certificate following a hearing as aforesaid, the Mayor shall
further have the power to suspend the regulatory certificate for blasting for
any period up to one year or, in the alternative, to suggest financial
penalties to the holder of the regulatory certificate which may be paid in lieu
of suspension.
   D.   The decision of the Mayor following the hearing process described above
shall be considered a final administrative decision, appealable under the
Administrative Review Act of Illinois 1 . (Ord. 5723, 11-25-1992)
 
Notes
1 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
ARTICLE I. FORTUNETELLING
SECTION:
4-6I-1: Authority
4-6I-2: Definitions
4-6I-3: Permit Required
4-6I-4: Application For Permit
4-6I-5: Approval By Police Chief
4-6I-6: Prohibited Acts Or Conditions
4-6I-7: Enforcement
4-6I-8: Severability
4-6I-9: Violation; Penalty
4-6I-1: AUTHORITY:
It is hereby declared that the business of fortunetelling, as defined herein,
is a business affecting the public health, safety and general welfare; that the
City is a home rule city under the Constitution of the State of Illinois, 1970.
(Ord. 3963, 12-26-1974)
4-6I-2: DEFINITIONS:
FORTUNETELLING: The practice by anyone of fortunetelling, palmistry,
clairvoyance, spirits, mediumship, seership, prophecy, necromancy or other
craft, science, cards, talismans, charms, potions, magnetism or magnetized
articles or substances, oriental mysteries or magic of any kind or nature, by
which the past, present or future is prophesied, or the restoration of lost
love, friendship or affection is represented as being possible, or the uniting
or procuring of lovers, husbands, wives, lost relatives or friends is
represented, or the removal of evil or hexes is represented, any of the above
of which is offered for or without pay; provided, however, that this definition
shall not be construed to include, prohibit or interfere with the exercise of
any religious or spiritual function of any priest, minister or any accredited
representative of any bona fide church or religion where such priest, minister
or accredited representative holds a certificate of accreditation, commission
or ordination under the ecclesiastical laws of a religious corporation or any
voluntary religious association, and who fully conforms to the rights and
practices prescribed by the law, supreme conferences, convocation, convention,
assembly, association or synod of the system or faith with which they are
affiliated. (Ord. 3963, 12-26-1974; amd. 1999 Code)
4-6I-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in or carry on the business of fortunetelling unless he
has a valid and subsisting fortunetelling permit issued by the City, pursuant
to the provisions of this Article for each and every separate office or place
of business conducted by such person. (Ord. 3963, 12-26-1974)
As used herein, fortunetelling permit shall be interpreted to mean a Class D
regulatory certificate as defined in Chapter 1 of this Title, and the
requirements of a Class D regulatory certificate as so defined shall apply in
addition to the requirements of this Article. In case of conflict, the
requirements of this Article shall be valid. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-
1979)
4-6I-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Any person desiring a fortunetelling business permit shall file a written
application with the Police Chief on a form to be furnished by the Police
Chief. The applicant shall accompany the application with a tender of the
correct permit fee as hereinafter provided and shall, in addition, furnish the
following:
   A.   The type of ownership of the business, whether individual, partnership,
corporation or otherwise;
   B.   The name, style and designation under which the business or practice is
to be conducted;
   C.   The business address and all telephone numbers where the business or
practice is to be conducted;
   D.   Name, complete residence address and residence telephone number of
applicant;
   E.   Age of applicant;
   F.   Two (2) front face portrait photographs taken within thirty (30) days
of the date of the application of the applicant;
   G.   A complete set of fingerprints taken and to be retained on file by the
Police Chief or his authorized representative;
   H.   The names and addresses of three (3) adult residents of the County of
Madison who will serve as character references. These references must be
persons other than relatives;
   I.   Such other information, identification and physical examination of the
person as shall be deemed necessary by the Police Chief to discover the truth
of the matters hereinbefore required to be set forth in the application;
   J.   Written declaration by the applicant, under penalty of perjury, that
the information furnished on the application is true and correct. (Ord. 3963,
12-26-1974; amd. 1999 Code)
4-6I-5: APPROVAL BY POLICE CHIEF:
Upon receiving the application for a fortuneteller's permit, the Police Chief
shall conduct an investigation into the applicant's moral character and shall
investigate or cause to be investigated an investigation of the premises where
the business or practice is to be carried on. Before any permit shall issue
under this Article, the Police Chief shall first sign his approval of the
application based upon his investigation as set forth above. (Ord. 3963, 12-26-
1974)
4-6I-6: PROHIBITED ACTS OR CONDITIONS:
   A.   False Advertising; Identification Sign: No person shall make claim or
advertise by sign, circular, handbill, or in any newspaper, periodical,
magazine or other publication or publications, or by any other means, the
business or practice of fortunetelling as defined herein, to hold themselves
out to be able to cure, alleviate or relieve physical or mental ailments.
Nothing in this subsection shall preclude a nameplate identification sign, not
exceeding four feet by four feet (4' x 4') lighted only with a nonintermittent
light, to be placed where the business or practice is located. (Ord. 3963, 12-
26-1974; amd. Ord. 3970, 3-26-1975)
   B.   Age Limit For Permit: No person shall be eligible to make application
for a permit as provided herein unless he has attained the age of eighteen (18)
years.
   C.   Alcoholic Beverages: No person shall give, sell, dispense, provide or
keep or cause to be sold, given, dispensed, provided or kept, any alcoholic
beverage on the premises of any fortunetelling business or practice. (Ord.
3963, 12-26-1974)
4-6I-7: ENFORCEMENT:
The Chief of Police or his authorized representatives may make and enforce
reasonable rules and regulations not in conflict with but to carry out the
intent of this Article. (Ord. 3963, 12-26-1974)
4-6I-8: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
in this Article is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or
ineffective by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not
affect the validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Article.
(Ord. 3963, 12-26-1974)
4-6I-9: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Every person, except those persons who are specifically exempted by definition
in this Article, whether acting as an individual, owner, employee of the owner,
operator or employee of the operator, or whether acting as a mere helper for
the owner, employee or operator, or acting as a participant or worker in any
way in the business of fortunetelling, who practices the business of
fortunetelling without first obtaining a permit and paying a license fee to do
so from the City, or shall violate any of the provisions of this Article shall,
upon conviction, be punished as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 3963, 12-26-1974; amd. Ord. 4255, 11-23-1977; 1999
Code)
CHAPTER 7
FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
ARTICLE A. RESTAURANTS
SECTION:
4-7A-1: Definitions
4-7A-2: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-7A-1: DEFINITIONS:
CARRYOUT RESTAURANT: Any place where food or drink is prepared and served to
the public for immediate consumption on the premises and where the food or
drink is available for carryout of the premises by consumers.
CONVENIENCE STORE: A retail establishment offering a variety of products,
including prepared and ready to eat food products or ready to drink soft drinks
sold in single serving containers.
GROCERY STORE: A retail establishment offering a variety of products for sale,
but with an inventory primarily concentrated in food products to be further
prepared by the customer at a future time. If a grocery store also offers for
sale prepared or ready to eat food products or soft drinks in single serving
disposable containers, a grocery store shall also be considered a convenience
store for purposes of this article.
RESTAURANT: Any place where food or drink is prepared and served to the public
for immediate consumption on the premises. (Ord. 7007, 5-9-2007, eff. 6-15-
2007)
4-7A-2: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate a restaurant, carryout restaurant or
convenience store in the city without having first obtained a class C
regulatory certificate as defined in chapter 1 of this title, and without full
compliance with the provisions of this code. No restaurant, carryout restaurant
or convenience store operator shall be required to obtain a class C regulatory
certificate for any period of time during which the restaurant, carryout
restaurant or convenience store in question holds a liquor license from the
city of Alton. (Ord. 7007, 5-9-2007, eff. 6-15-2007)
ARTICLE B. SIDEWALK CAFES
SECTION:
4-7B-1: Definitions
4-7B-2: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-7B-3: Applications For Certificate
4-7B-4: Proof Of Insurance Required
4-7B-5: Compliance With Design Proposed
4-7B-6: Maintenance Of Cafes
4-7B-7: Location And Site Restrictions
4-7B-8: Hours Of Operation
4-7B-9: Revocation Of Certificates
4-7B-10: Violation
4-7B-11: Renewal
4-7B-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, wherever they occur in this article, shall be
construed as herein defined:
APPLICANT: Any person who has filed an application to become a certificate
holder under the provisions of this article.
CERTIFICATE HOLDER: Any person holding one or more business regulatory
certificates issued pursuant to the provisions contained in chapter 1 of this
title for the operation of a sidewalk cafe.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity.
SIDEWALK CAFE: A publicly accessible outdoor seating area, on public property,
where alcoholic beverages, nonalcoholic beverages, or food may be served. (Ord.
5669, 6-24-1992; amd. Ord. 7268, 8-24-2011; Ord. 7345, 12-19-2012; Ord. 7601,
11-21-2017)
4-7B-2: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a "sidewalk cafe", as herein
defined, without first obtaining a liquor license or a Class C regulatory
certificate, as defined in chapter 1 of this title. (Ord. 7601, 11-21-2017)
4-7B-3: APPLICATIONS FOR CERTIFICATE:
An application for the appropriate regulatory certificate to operate a sidewalk
cafe may be made pursuant to the provisions of chapter 1 of this title, with
the following additional requirements:
   A.   Only the holder of a liquor license or a Class C regulatory certificate
issued by the City of Alton may apply for a regulatory certificate to operate a
sidewalk cafe. Applicants holding a Class C regulatory certificate shall apply
to the City Treasurer and applicants holding a liquor license shall apply to
the Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
   B.   The application for a regulatory certificate to operate a sidewalk cafe
shall contain a design of the proposed layout of the sidewalk cafe, including
the location of all tables, chairs, and other items intended to be used or
located within the defined area of the sidewalk cafe. The design submitted
shall include accurate dimensions of the area and the various furnishings,
fixtures and other items to be included within the sidewalk cafe. A description
of the furniture, fixtures, and other items to be used on or within the
proposed sidewalk cafe shall also be furnished with the application.
   C.   All applications submitted to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or
City Treasurer shall be referred to the City Treasurer, Police Department, Fire
Department, Public Works and City Planner for an opportunity to review and
comment before the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or City Treasurer
concludes his investigation and decision. (Ord. 7601, 11-21-2017)
4-7B-4: PROOF OF INSURANCE REQUIRED:
Following approval of an application for issuance of a regulatory certificate,
but prior to the issuance of said regulatory certificate, an applicant shall
provide to the Local Liquor Control Commissioner a certificate of liability
insurance which names the City of Alton as an additional insured commensurate
with the information contained in the application. (Ord. 6683, 10-23-2002; amd.
Ord. 7601, 11-21-2017)
The certificate of liability insurance shall be effective from January 1 of
each year through December 31st of each year and a new certificate of liability
insurance shall be provided on or before January 1st of each year and upon any
renewals for each year that the lease is in effect. (Ord. 7601, 11-21-2017)
4-7B-5: COMPLIANCE WITH DESIGN PROPOSED:
The holder of a regulatory certificate permitting the operation of a sidewalk
cafe shall at all times maintain the sidewalk cafe in compliance with the
design of the sidewalk cafe as proposed in the original application for the
regulatory certificate to operate the sidewalk cafe. Should the holder of the
regulatory certificate permitting the operation of a sidewalk cafe desire to
vary the design, furniture, or fixtures utilized within the sidewalk cafe, a
revised design or plan must be submitted to the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner or the City Treasurer before changes are made by the holder of the
regulatory certificate. The Local Liquor Control Commissioner or the City
Treasurer upon review of the requested modifications may approve the same in a
written approval or request review and input from other departments of the City
of Alton. (Ord. 7601, 11-21-2017)
4-7B-6: MAINTENANCE OF CAFES:
All sidewalk cafes shall be cleaned, maintained and repaired on a regular
basis. Any public property damaged as a result of the operation of the sidewalk
cafe shall be the responsibility of the certificate holder to repair. All such
repairs and maintenance shall be undertaken immediately upon the request of the
City. (Ord. 5669, 6-24-1992)
4-7B-7: LOCATION AND SITE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Sidewalk cafes shall only be allowed on property within zoning
districts zoned C-2, C-4 and MR. (Ord. 5669, 6-24-1992)
   B.   All sidewalk cafes located on City property shall maintain at least
three feet (3') in width of unimpeded sidewalk space for pedestrian movement.
(Ord. 7268, 8-24-2011)
   C.   Sidewalk cafes located on City property shall not unreasonably
interfere with pedestrian circulation and shall not interfere with the
circulation or parking of vehicular traffic.
   D.   Sidewalk cafes located on City property shall be directly adjacent to
the principal place of business of the certificate holder and no point of the
sidewalk cafe shall be greater than one hundred twenty five feet (125') from
the main entrance of the principal place of business.
   E.   No permanent additions or structures of any type shall be permitted
upon City property. (Ord. 5669, 6-24-1992)
   F.   There shall be no sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption off of
the premises from a sidewalk cafe. (Ord. 7268, 8-24-2011)
   G.   All sidewalk cafes shall provide lighting which is appropriate and
adequate for the safety of the patrons of the sidewalk cafe and for all others.
(Ord. 5669, 6-24-1992)
   H.   All patrons on the sidewalk cafe must be seated while holding any
alcoholic beverage. (Ord. 7268, 8-24-2011)
4-7B-8: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The lawful hours of operation shall be:
 
Monday - Saturday 6:00 A.M. - 1:00 A.M.
Sunday            12:00 Noon - 1:00 A.M.
(Ord. 5898, 7-27-1994)
No alcoholic liquor may be sold or consumed except during the lawful hours of
operation. (Ord. 7601, 11-21-2017)
4-7B-9: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATES 1 :
All regulatory certificates issued pursuant to the terms of this article shall
be subject to revocation upon a determination that the certificate holder or
the sidewalk cafe is in violation of the terms of this article or is in
violation of any other provisions of this Code or any other relevant regulatory
requirement. All such regulatory certificates shall also be subject to
revocation upon a determination that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety or welfare. There shall be no compensation or other recompense
to a certificate holder or anyone else in connection with the revocation of a
regulatory certificate pursuant to the terms of this article. (Ord. 5669, 6-24-
1992)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-1-12 of this title.
4-7B-10: VIOLATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any of the restrictions
established in this article with regard to the operation of a sidewalk cafe.
Any person who violates the restrictions of the sidewalk cafe regulatory
certificate as established herein may be charged with an ordinance violation
and the holder of the regulatory certificate may also be charged for permitting
or allowing the violation to occur or to continue. (Ord. 7268, 8-24-2011)
4-7B-11: RENEWAL:
Following approval of the application for issuance of a regulatory certificate
for a sidewalk cafe, a lease agreement shall be established for a term of five
(5) years between the applicant and the City of Alton. In the event that no
changes are made to the design, space or application for regulatory
certificate, and the licensee has been in full compliance with all City Code
requirements, the application fee shall be waived and the application for
renewal and renewal may be approved without being referred to the Police
Department, Fire Department, Public Works and City Planner for approval. (Ord.
7601, 11-21-2017)
CHAPTER 8
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS
ARTICLE A. DANGEROUS WEAPONS
SECTION:
4-8A-1: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-8A-2: Reports
4-8A-3: Knives, Knuckles
4-8A-4: Revocation
4-8A-1: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of selling, or to
sell or to give away to any person within the City, any pistol, revolver,
derringer, shotgun or rifle, antique firearm or weapon, stiletto, sword,
bayonet or machete of any and all description, or any knife with a blade three
inches (3") or more in length (except those commonly used in food preparation),
or any blackjack or sap, or any other weapon of like character, which can be
concealed on the person, without first obtaining a Class B regulatory
certificate as defined in Chapter 1 of this Title. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff.
1-1-1979)
4-8A-2: REPORTS:
Every person who is licensed to deal with deadly weapons described in Section
4-8A-1 of this Article shall make out and deliver to the Chief of Police of the
City every Monday before the hour of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon a legible and
correct report of every sale or gift of firearms made under authority of the
said license during the preceding week, which report shall contain the date of
such sale or gift, the name of the purchaser or donee, with his address and
age, the number, kind, description of such weapon, and the purpose given by
such person for the purchase of said weapon. (Ord. 2588, 10-15-1955)
4-8A-3: KNIVES, KNUCKLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or barter to any person within the
City, spring or switch blade knives or knuckles. (Ord. 2588, 10-15-1955)
4-8A-4: REVOCATION 1 :
In case the officers and officials of the City shall be satisfied that such
licensee wilfully and intentionally violated any provision of this Article,
they then may and shall revoke the license of such person from the selling of
such weapons and the money paid for such license shall be forfeited to the City
and license shall be issued to such licensee for a period of three (3) years
thereafter subject to judicial review. (Ord. 2588, 10-15-1955)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  4-1-12 of this Title for due process procedures.
ARTICLE B. LIQUID PETROLEUM AND OTHER HAZARDOUS MATERIALS DEALERS
SECTION:
4-8B-1: Liquid Petroleum Products
4-8B-2: Hazardous Materials
4-8B-1: LIQUID PETROLEUM PRODUCTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage or continue in the business of
selling, dispensing, dealing, peddling or delivering any liquid petroleum
products within the City, commonly used as a combustible fuel, without first
having obtained a Class C regulatory certificate as defined in Chapter 1 of
this Title. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
4-8B-2: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage or continue in the business of
selling, dispensing, dealing, peddling or delivering any hazardous materials
within the City, without having first obtained a Class C regulatory certificate
as defined in Chapter 1 of this Title. For the purpose of this Section,
"hazardous materials" shall be those materials so defined in the United States
Department of Transportation, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
and Materials Transportation Bureau in their publication entitled "Emergency
Action Guide for Selected Hazardous Materials" dated 1978. Copies of said
publication are on file with the City Clerk. (Ord. 4483, 12-27-1979)
ARTICLE C. LUMBERYARDS
SECTION:
4-8C-1: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-8C-2: Inspections
4-8C-1: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in the business of keeping or maintaining a lumberyard
or other place of business where lumber is stacked in a yard or lumbershed,
without first having obtained a Class D regulatory certificate as defined in
Chapter 1 of this Title. (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
4-8C-2: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of the Fire Department to make regular
monthly inspections of each and every lumberyard within the City for the
purpose of ascertaining that said lumberyards are not conducted in such a way
as to constitute a fire hazard. If, at any time, the Chief of the Fire
Department shall be of the opinion that any lumberyard, by reason of the manner
in which said lumber is arranged or laid out, or by reason of the manner in
which it is being conducted, constitutes a fire hazard, he shall report such
fact to the Mayor, and if, upon investigation, it is found that any such
lumberyard does constitute a fire hazard, at the place where it is being
operated, the regulatory certificate of such lumberyard shall be revoked by the
Mayor but only after the owners of same are given an opportunity to be heard in
opposition to such revocation 1 . (Ord. 4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  4-1-12 of this Title for due process procedures.
ARTICLE D. GOING OUT OF BUSINESS AND BANKRUPTCY SALES
SECTION:
4-8D-1: License Required
4-8D-2: Application For License, Term, Fee
4-8D-3: Supplemental License
4-8D-4: Records
4-8D-5: License Valid; One Event
4-8D-6: Additional Stock
4-8D-7: Sale Of Listed Goods Only
4-8D-8: Compliance Required
4-8D-9: Exception
4-8D-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall hereafter, within the city, advertise, represent or hold out
that any sale of goods, wares and merchandise is an insurance, bankruptcy,
mortgage, insolvent, assignee's, executor's, administrator's, receiver's,
trustee's, removal or closing out sale, or a sale of goods, wares and
merchandise damaged by fire, smoke, water or otherwise, unless the person so
desiring to conduct such sale shall have first obtained a license to conduct
such sale from the city clerk as hereinafter set forth and provided. (Ord.
1765, 2-24-1932)
4-8D-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE, TERM, FEE:
The applicant for such a license shall make to such city clerk an application
therefor in writing and under oath, upon a form to be supplied by such city
clerk for that purpose.
No such sale shall exceed three (3) months in duration, and a fee in the amount
applicable to a class A business regulation certificate as set forth in chapter
1 of this title as established from time to time shall be paid prior to the
issuance of said license. (Ord. 7158, 10-28-2009)
4-8D-3: SUPPLEMENTAL LICENSE:
If it shall be made to appear upon sworn application to the city clerk, at any
time during said period of three (3) months, that all of the goods, wares and
merchandise described and inventoried in the original application for such
license have not been sold, accompanied by a statement or inventory of what
remains unsold thereof, a license supplemental to the one hereinabove provided
for, shall be issued by the city clerk upon the same terms and conditions as
said original license, granting authority to continue such sale for a period of
three (3) months. In such case the city clerk, upon the payment of an
additional fee in the amount applicable to a class A business regulation
certificate as set forth in chapter 1 of this title as established from time to
time and in the manner provided in section
4-8D-2 of this article, shall endorse upon the original application, in a blank
to be provided, consent for such supplemental license, and issue a license
therefor in compliance with the provisions of this article. (Ord. 7158, 10-28-
2009)
4-8D-4: RECORDS:
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to endorse upon the application made for
such license, the date of its filing, and the city clerk shall preserve the
same as a record of his office, and shall make an abstract of the facts set
forth in such application in a book kept for that purpose, properly indexed,
containing the name of the person asking such license, the nature of the
proposed sale, the place where such sale is to be conducted, its duration, the
inventory value of the goods, wares and merchandise to be sold, and a general
statement as to where the same came from, and shall make in said book a
notation as to the issuance or refusal of the license applied for, together
with the date of the same. Said city clerk shall endorse on said application
the date the license therein applied for is granted or refused. (Ord. 1765, 2-
24-1932)
4-8D-5: LICENSE VALID; ONE EVENT:
The license as provided for in this article shall be valid only for a sale of
the goods, wares and merchandise inventoried and described in the application
for such license, in the manner and at the time and place mentioned and set
forth in such application, and any renewal of such goods, wares and
merchandise, so inventoried and described in such application, from the place
of sale mentioned in such application, shall cause such goods, wares and
merchandise to lose their identity as an insurance, bankruptcy, mortgaged,
insolvent's, assignee's, executor's, administrator's, receiver's or trustee's
stock of goods, wares and merchandise, or a stock of goods, wares and
merchandise damaged by fire, smoke, water or otherwise, and no license shall
thereafter be issued for the conducting of a sale of any of such goods, wares
or merchandise, so removed from the place set forth and described in such
application, under the provisions of this article, at any other place or
places. (Ord. 1765, 2-24-1932)
4-8D-6: ADDITIONAL STOCK:
No person in contemplation of conducting a sale of goods, wares or merchandise
as described in this Article, under a license as provided for in this Article,
shall order any goods, wares or merchandise for the purpose of selling and
disposing of the same at such sale, and any unusual purchase and additions to
the stock of such goods, wares and merchandise within sixty (60) days prior to
the filing of the application for license to conduct such sale mentioned in
this Article, shall be presumptive evidence that such purchases and additions
to stock were made in contemplation of such sale, and for the purpose of
selling the same at such sale. (Ord. 1765, 2-24-1932)
4-8D-7: SALE OF LISTED GOODS ONLY:
No person carrying on or conducting a sale of goods, wares or merchandise as
described in this Article, under a license as provided herein shall, during the
continuance of such sale, add any goods, wares or merchandise to the stock of
goods, wares or merchandise described and inventoried in his original
application for such license; and no goods, wares or merchandise shall be sold
at or during such sale, excepting the goods, wares or merchandise described and
inventoried in such original application; and each and every addition of goods,
wares or merchandise to such stock of goods, wares or merchandise described and
inventoried in said application; and each sale of such goods, wares or
merchandise as were not inventoried and described in such application, shall
constitute a separate violation of the terms of this Article. (Ord. 1765, 2-24-
1932)
4-8D-8: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
Any person who shall advertise, represent or hold out a sale of goods, wares or
merchandise to be a sale of goods as described in this Article without having
first complied with the provisions of this Article shall be deemed guilty of a
violation thereof, and upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine as in this
Code provided 1 . (Ord. 1765, 2-24-1932)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-4-1 of this Code.
4-8D-9: EXCEPTION:
The provisions of this Article shall not apply to sheriffs, constables or other
public or court officers, trustees, executors, administrators, guardians or any
other person or persons acting under the license, direction or authority of any
court, State or Federal, selling goods, wares or merchandise in the course of
their official duties, and none of the provisions of this Article shall apply
to so-called "rummage sales" that may be held by any church or charitable
institution for the purpose of financially aiding such institutions. (Ord.
1765, 2-24-1932)
ARTICLE E. GOLD AND SILVER PURCHASES
SECTION:
4-8E-1: Identity Of Seller Required
4-8E-2: Purchaser To Maintain Records
4-8E-3: Exclusion
4-8E-1: IDENTITY OF SELLER REQUIRED:
Any person who purchases gold or silver in the City must require the seller of
said gold or silver to produce not less than two (2) forms or proof as to the
true identity of the seller and further, that the buyer shall be required to
maintain a list of those persons from whom he purchased gold or silver within
the City, the dates of each respective purchase and a general description of
the gold or silver items purchased in connection with each transaction. (Ord.
4604, 4-22-1981)
4-8E-2: PURCHASER TO MAINTAIN RECORDS:
The information required in Section
4-8E-1 of this Article shall be maintained by any person purchasing gold or
silver within the City for a period of not less than two (2) years from the
date of the respective purchases and said information shall be made available
to the Police Department of the City upon request at any time. (Ord. 4604, 4-
22-1981)
4-8E-3: EXCLUSION:
The aforesaid information shall not be required with regard to the purchase of
gold or silver minted and issued by the United States of America, when said
coins are purchased at their face value. (Ord. 4604, 4-22-1981)
CHAPTER 9
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, TRANSIENT MERCHANTS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
4-9-1: Definitions
4-9-2: Solicitors And Peddlers
4-9-3: Itinerant Vendors And Transient Merchants
4-9-4: Revocation Of Certificate
4-9-5: Trespassing
4-9-6: Failure To Leave After Notice
4-9-7: Penalty
4-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who transports tangible personal property for
retail sale within the City who does not maintain in this City an established
office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse, service center or residence
from which such business is conducted; provided, however, this term shall not
include any person who delivers tangible personal property within the City who
is fulfilling an order for such property which was solicited or placed by mail
or other means.
PEDDLING: Selling or offering for sale, barter or exchange at retail any goods,
wares, merchandise or services of any kind whatsoever by traveling from place
to place along the streets of the City or from residence to residence therein,
but shall not include solicitation or canvassing for orders for future
delivery. "Peddling" may, in some instances, include the activities of an
"itinerant vendor" or "transient merchant" as defined herein. If a peddler is
also an itinerant vendor or transient merchant as defined herein, then those
provisions shall also be applicable. To the extent that the provisions of this
Chapter relative to peddling are inconsistent with those relating to itinerant
vendors and/or transient merchants, the more restrictive provisions shall
apply.
REGISTERED SOLICITOR AND REGISTERED PEDDLER: Any person who has obtained a
valid certificate of registration as hereinafter provided together with a valid
photo ID as issued by the City Treasurer, where such certificate is in the
possession of, and on the person of, the one soliciting or peddling during all
soliciting or peddling.
REGISTERED TRANSIENT MERCHANT AND REGISTERED ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who
is a transient merchant or itinerant vendor as defined in this Section and who
has obtained and has in his possession a valid certificate of registration, and
valid photo ID as issued by the City Treasurer.
RESIDENCE: Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by one
or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
SOLICITING: Any one or more of the following activities:
   A.   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise,
foodstuffs, insurance, services of any kind, character or description whatever,
for any kind of consideration whatever, all for future delivery; or
   B.   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who is engaged temporarily in the retail sale of
goods, wares or merchandise in this city and who, for the purpose of conducting
such business, occupies any building, room, vehicle, structure of any kind or
vacant lot; provided, however, this term does not include any person selling
goods, wares or merchandise which are raised, produced or manufactured by such
person, to any person selling vegetables, fruit or perishable farm products at
an established city market, to any person operating a store or refreshment
stand at a resort, or to any person operating a stand or booth on or adjacent
to property owned by such person or upon which such person resides. (1999 Code;
amd. Ord. 7022, 9-26-2007)
4-9-2: SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS:
   A.   Certificate Of Registration Required; Restriction:
      1.   Solicitation: A certificate of registration as hereinafter provided
shall be secured by every person desiring to engage in "soliciting" or
"peddling", as defined herein, from persons in residences within this city,
and, in addition, by every person desiring to engage in soliciting from any
business, office or manufacturing facility within this city, for gifts or
contributions of money, clothing or other valuable thing for the support or
benefit of any charitable or nonprofit association, organization, corporation
or project.
      2.   Retail Sales: A certificate of registration as hereinafter provided
shall be secured by every person desiring to engage in retail sales within this
city as a "transient merchant" or "itinerant vendor", as defined herein. (1999
Code)
      3.   Hours Restricted: Soliciting, peddling or selling by a registered
transient merchant or itinerant vendor is prohibited before nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. every day and after seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. or sundown, whichever shall
first occur, every day. (Ord. 7183, 3-10-2010)
   B.   Application For Certificate:
      1.   Information Requested: Application for a certificate of registration
shall be made upon a form provided by the city clerk and filed with the city
treasurer. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the following
information requested on the application:
         a.   Name and present residence address and length of residence at
such address, applicable business address if other than residence address which
must include street address, social security number, driver's license number,
if any;
         b.   Residence addresses, if any, during the past three (3) years if
other than present address;
         c.   Age of applicant and marital status and, if married, the name of
spouse;
         d.   Physical description of the applicant, including height, weight,
color of hair and color of eyes;
         e.   Name and address of the person by whom the applicant is employed
or represents and the length of time of such employment or representation,
residence address of corporate officers and principal;
         f.   Location at which applicant intends to do business, nature of the
business, whether a certificate of registration under the retailers' occupation
tax act has been issued, a list of inventory the applicant intends to offer for
sale;
         g.   Name and address of all employers during the past three (3) years
if other than the present employer;
         h.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter
of the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
         i.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied for;
         j.   A list of all certificates of registration to conduct business as
transient merchant or itinerant vendor received or applied for within this
state for preceding twelve (12) months;
         k.   The date, or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for certificate in this city, if any;
         l.   Whether or not a certificate of registration issued to the
applicant under this chapter has ever been revoked;
         m.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter or the ordinances of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting or peddling; and
         n.   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of the commission
of a felony under the laws of the state of Illinois or any other state or
federal law of the United States.
      2.   Oath: All statements made by the applicant upon the application or
in connection therewith shall be under oath.
      3.   Photographic Identification: In connection with the application for
a certificate, the applicant shall submit to identification photographing.
      4.   City Treasurer's Record: The city treasurer shall cause to be kept
in his office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon
by the mayor together with all other information and data pertaining thereto
and all certificates of registration issued under the provisions of this
chapter and of the denial of applications. (1999 Code)
      5.   Registration Fee: The applicant for a peddler's or solicitor's
certificate shall pay a fee upon application for a certificate of registration
in the amount applicable to a class B business regulation certificate as set
forth in chapter 1 of this title from time to time. (Ord. 7158, 10-28-2009)
      6.   Felony Or Ordinance Violation: Upon the filing of a complete and
accurate application, as provided herein, a certificate of registration shall
be issued by the mayor or the mayor's other designee within thirty (30) days of
application, except that no certificate shall be issued to any person who has
been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state of
Illinois or any other state or federal law of the United States, within five
(5) years of the date of the application; nor to any ordinance of this city nor
to any person whose certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously
been revoked as herein provided.
      7.   Constitutional Rights: Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted
or enforced to deprive any person of any rights guaranteed under the
constitutions of the state of Illinois or the United States. (1999 Code)
4-9-3: ITINERANT VENDORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS:
The applicant for an itinerant vendor's or transient merchant's certificate of
registration shall pay a fee upon application for a certificate of registration
in the amount applicable to a class E business regulation certificate as set
forth in chapter 1 of this title from time to time. The city treasurer or his
designee shall determine, based upon the application submitted, whether the
applicant under this chapter is a transient merchant or itinerant vendor. It
shall be prima facie evidence that a person is a transient merchant or
itinerant vendor if the person does not transact business from a fixed location
or if the person does not own or lease for a term of at least six (6) months
the property from which business is conducted. A certificate of registration
shall issue to any qualified applicant upon the posting of the appropriate bond
or cash deposit as follows: (1999 Code; amd. Ord. 7158, 10-28-2009)
   A.   Surety Bond: The applicant for a transient merchant's or itinerant
vendor's certificate shall file with the city treasurer's office a surety bond
or shall make a cash deposit. The amount of the bond or deposit shall be equal
to fifty percent (50%) of the wholesale value of the merchandise that the
applicant intends to offer for sale; however, the amount of the bond or deposit
shall not be less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) nor more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
   B.   Bond Transferred To Attorney General: The city treasurer's office shall
transfer said deposit or bond to the attorney general of this state within
fourteen (14) days after the applicant ceases to do business in its
jurisdiction, and the attorney general shall hold such deposit or bond for two
(2) years for the benefit of any person who suffers loss or damage as a result
of the purchase of merchandise from said person certified under this chapter or
as the result of the negligent or intentionally tortious act of the person
certified under this chapter. The attorney general shall pay any portion of the
bond or deposit to any person in accordance with the order of a court without
making an independent finding as to the amount of the bond or deposit that is
payable to that person. Any balance of said deposit held by the attorney
general two (2) years after the expiration of the certificate of a person under
this chapter shall be refunded to the person.
   C.   Expiration Of Certificate: A certificate issued under this section
shall expire on December 31 of the year it was issued.
   D.   Sales Without Certificate: If any person makes retail sales as a
transient merchant or itinerant vendor without having obtained a certificate
under this chapter, the police department serving the city may hold the
inventory, truck or other personal property of the person until he obtains a
certificate to conduct business as a transient merchant or itinerant vendor. If
the property has been held by the police department serving the city for more
than sixty (60) days and the person whose property is being held has not
obtained a certificate under this chapter, the city may petition the circuit
court for an order for the sale of the property being held. If the court finds
that the person whose property is held has not obtained a certificate under
this chapter, the court may order the city to sell the property, less
reimbursement to the city of the reasonable expenses of storage and sale of the
property, shall become the property of the city.
   E.   Additional Requirements: It is a violation of this section for any
person, either as principal or agent, to conduct business as a transient
merchant or itinerant vendor in this city without first:
      1.   Complying with the requirements of section 2a of the retailers'
occupation tax act 1 ;
      2.   Obtaining a certificate of registration and posting such bond or
other approved security as required under this section;
      3.   Display current photo ID, as issued by the city treasurer's office.
(1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-3-1 of this title.
4-9-4: REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   A.   Disqualification: Any certificate of registration issued hereunder
shall be revoked by the mayor if the holder of the certificate has committed a
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, has made a false material
statement in the application or otherwise becomes disqualified for the issuance
of a certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation: Immediately upon such revocation written notice
thereof shall be given by the city treasurer to the holder of the certificate
in person or by certified U.S. mail addressed to his residence address set
forth in the application.
   C.   Registration Null And Void: Immediately upon the giving of such notice
the certificate of registration shall become null and void. (1999 Code)
4-9-5: TRESPASSING:
   A.   Notice By Owner: It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon any
property of another in this city after receiving, immediately prior to such
entry, notice from the owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden or to
remain upon the property of another after receiving notice from the owner or
occupant to depart.
   B.   Oral, Written Or Printed Notice: A person shall be deemed to have
received notice from the owner or occupant within the meaning of this section
if such person has been notified, personally, either orally or in writing or if
a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been conspicuously posted
at the main entrance to said property or the forbidden part thereof.
   C.   Posted Notice: The owner or occupant of any residence who desires to
forbid trespasses by solicitors or peddlers, or uncertified solicitors and
peddlers, may attach or exhibit upon or near the main front door, and the main
rear or side door (if any and if to be protected), a card or plaque stating
such of the following as may be appropriate, in letters at least one-third inch
(1/3") in height:
   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS FORBIDDEN
   or
   SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS FORBIDDEN
   UNLESS REGISTERED WITH THE CITY
(1999 Code)
4-9-6: FAILURE TO LEAVE AFTER NOTICE:
Peddler, solicitor deemed guilty of remaining on property after receiving
notice to depart where notice given in compliance with chapter. Notice not to
prevent access where peddler or solicitor has received prior invitation from
owner or occupant.
   A.   Any person soliciting or peddling who is forbidden entry by notice
given in compliance with this chapter shall be deemed guilty of remaining on
the property after receiving notice to depart if he shall ring the doorbell or
knock or create any sound calculated to attract the attention of the occupant.
   B.   Notices exhibited pursuant to this Chapter shall not be deemed
applicable to and shall not prevent access to residential property by a
solicitor or peddler who has received prior invitation, written or oral, from
the owner or occupant thereof. (Ord. 92-O-19, 5-19-1992)
4-9-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Violation, Penalty: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating any provision of this Chapter or of failing
to comply with any requirement thereof, or of violating any permit, any
approval or any directive issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
fined as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   Court Costs: Any person who shall be found guilty by a court of
competent jurisdiction of violating a provision of this Chapter or of failure
to comply with any requirement thereof, or of violating any permit, any
approval, or any directive issued under the provisions of this Chapter shall,
in addition to the fines provided, be obligated to reimburse the City for its
attorney fees, court costs, court reporter costs, expert witness fees, and all
other out-of-pocket costs incurred by the City in the prosecution of said
violation or violations.
   C.   Injunction: The City may make application to the Circuit Court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this Chapter and such other order as the
Court deems necessary to secure compliance with this Chapter. (1999 Code)
CHAPTER 10
PAWNBROKERS
SECTION:
4-10-1: Definitions
4-10-2: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-10-3: Bond Required
4-10-4: Electronic Recordkeeping Requirement
4-10-5: Memorandum To Pledgor
4-10-6: Redemption To Pledgor
4-10-7: Application To Minors
4-10-8: Revocation Of License
4-10-9: Limitation Upon Number Of Licenses Issued
4-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
            Any person or entity who, within the City of Alton, Madison County,
CUSTOMER OR Illinois, deposits, pledges, sell, trades, barters or exchanges personal
PAWNER:     property, secondhand goods, wares, merchandise or other valuable things to a
            pawnbroker or secondhand dealer.
            Any person or entity who, within the City of Alton, Madison County,
            Illinois, loans money on deposit or pledge of personal property, secondhand
            goods, wares, merchandise or other valuable things, or who deals in the
            purchasing of personal property, secondhand goods, wares, merchandise or
PAWNBROKER: other valuable things on the condition of selling the same back at a
            stipulated price, whether he or she does the same for him or herself, or as
            an agent of some person or firm or corporation, who by any means, method or
            device loans money for personal property when same is deposited for security
            or is deposited for any other purpose.
            Any person or entity, who, within the City of Alton, Madison County,
            Illinois, as a business, engages in the purchase, sale, trade, barter, or
            exchange of secondhand goods, wares or merchandise; or any person who keeps
            any store, shop, room or place where secondhand goods, wares or merchandise
            of any kind or description, are bought, sold, traded, bartered, recycled or
SECONDHAND  exchanged is defined as a secondhand dealer within the meaning of this
DEALER:     Chapter; provided, however, that this Chapter shall not apply to bona fide
            trade or turn-ins of secondhand goods, wares or merchandise or other good
            where no cash is transferred or paid by the merchant, or to auction houses
            or to the transaction of any property that it titled and of record with a
            State or the Federal government, or entities/individuals engaged in the
            purchasing of scrap metals. (1917 Code, § 1093) (amd. Ord. 7828, 4-13-2022)
 
4-10-2: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, carry on, operate or conduct
the business of a pawnbroker within the City without first having obtained a
Class E regulatory certificate as defined in Chapter 1 of this Title. (Ord.
4364, 10-25-1978, eff. 1-1-1979)
4-10-3: BOND REQUIRED:
Every person so licensed shall, at the time of receiving such license, execute
a bond to the City in the sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), with at
least two (2) good and sufficient sureties, conditioned for the due observance
of the provisions of this Code, respecting pawnbrokers and loanbrokers or
keepers of loan offices, at any time during the continuance of such license.
(1917 Code, § 1096)
4-10-4: ELECTRONIC RECORDKEEPING REQUIREMENT:
   A.   Any and all pawnbrokers and secondhand dealers doing business within
the City of Alton, Madison County, Illinois shall, beginning on the effective
date of the amended Ordinance from which this Chapter is derived, register with
LeadsOnline at www.leadsonline.com and shall upload, on at least a daily basis,
all information relating to personal property, secondhand goods, wares,
merchandise or other valuable things purchased, received, or otherwise acquired
by such pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to the databases maintained by
LeadsOnline. For each transaction involving the receipt of personal property,
secondhand goods, wares, merchandise or other valuable things, the pawnbroker
or secondhand dealer shall record or report the following information:
      1.   The name, current address, date of birth, and digital copy of the
current government issued photo ID of the pawner or customer; date and time of
the transactions; and description and photograph of each article;
      2.   The time of the loan and the amount of money loaned thereon for each
transaction;
      3.   For each article of personal property, secondhand goods, wares,
merchandise or other valuable things, the following shall be provided if
applicable: type, brand name/make/manufacturer, model number, serial number or
other identification number installed by the manufacturer; the description
shall also include every other identifying marking, such as an inscription, a
social security number, a name, a nickname or address appearing on the item,
and color/finish and any other identifying marks, writing or engraving;
      4.   The description of each watch shall include: the brand name, model
number, metal or metals of composition, a description of the band, a
description of the face numbers, the color, cut and type of stone or stones and
any inscriptions appearing on the watch;
      5.   The description of each item of jewelry shall include the color,
type of metal or metals of composition when known, the type and cut of each
stone, all inscriptions and the weight of each item;
      6.   A digital photograph of each article of personal property,
secondhand goods, wares, merchandise or other valuable things with sufficient
detail to allow reasonable identification of the article; and
      7.   For articles that are not individually identifiable, articles may be
described in groups of similar type, but only within the same transaction made
by the same pawner or customer.
   B.   There shall be no direct cost to the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer
for the registration with LeadsOnline or with the uploading of the information
required by this Chapter, other than the cost of computers and internet
service.
   C.   All costs charged for the use of the LeadsOnline service shall be borne
by the Alton Police Department from its current budget.
   D.   It shall be a defense to compliance with this Chapter if the pawnbroker
or secondhand dealer is able to prove that a power failure or computer system
malfunction prohibited timely entry of the required data into LeadsOnline and
the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer promptly uploaded the required data within
twenty-four (24) hours of computer system restoration.
   E.   Should a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer fail to maintain an operable
computer system so as to prohibit the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer from
complying with this Chapter, then the pawnbroker or secondhand dealer may be
cited for failure to comply with this Chapter.
   F.   The failure of any pawnbroker or secondhand dealer to strictly comply
with the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed a Class A Misdemeanor and
shall be punishable by a fine of five-hundred dollars ($500.00) for a first
violation and one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for subsequent violations. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
   G.   Record Of Transactions: Throughout the term of the license, every
pawnbroker and secondhand dealer shall report/upload to LeadsOnline, the
required information for each and every transaction conducted during each day
they are open for business by the end of that business day. All information
shall be recorded in the English Language.
A transaction shall consist of all articles brought in to a pawnbroker or
secondhand dealer for purchase, sale, barter, trade, pledge, recycling,
exchange, or pawn by an individual (customer or pawner) at one specific time
and date. Articles brought in to a pawnbroker or secondhand dealer for
purchase, sale, barter, trade, pledge, exchange or pawn at different times or
different dates by the same person shall be considered separate transactions,
regardless of how short the difference in time is between those transactions.
Separate transactions, either from the same person or different persons, shall
not be combined and reported collectively.
   H.   Exemptions: This Chapter shall not apply to the purchase or sale of
used motor vehicles, including motorcycles and motor driven cycles, as defined
in the Illinois Vehicle Code, nor shall it apply to charitable organizations
that accept donated goods for resale as a fund-raising program for the charity.
(amd. Ord. 7828, 4-13-2022)
4-10-5: MEMORANDUM TO PLEDGOR:
Every pawnbroker and secondhand dealer shall at the time of each loan deliver
to the person pawning or pledging any goods, article, or thing, a memorandum or
note signed by him/her, containing the substance of the entry required to be
made in the LeadsOnline system by Section
4-10-4 of this Chapter, and no charge shall be made or received by any
pawnbroker or secondhand dealer for any such entry, memorandum, or note. (1917
Code, § 1101) (amd. Ord. 7828, 4-13-2022)
4-10-6: REDEMPTION TO PLEDGOR:
No personal property received on deposit or pledge by any such licensed person
shall be sold or permitted to be redeemed or removed from the place of business
of such licensed person for the period of twenty-four (24) hours after the
information is entered into the LeadsOnline database as required by Section
4-10-4 of this chapter. (1917 Code § 1103) (amd. Ord. 7828, 4-13-2022)
4-10-7: APPLICATION TO MINORS:
   A.   Pledges: No person licensed as aforesaid shall take or receive in pawn
or pledge, for money loaned, any property, bonds, notes, securities, article or
other valuable thing from any minor, or which may be in the possession or under
the control of any minor. (1917 Code § 1105)
   B.   Employees Under Eighteen: No person licensed as aforesaid shall permit
any person under the age of eighteen (18) years to take pledges in pawn for
him. (1917 Code § 1106; amd. 1999 Code)
4-10-8: REVOCATION OF LICENSE 1 :
It shall be the duty of the chief of police to report to the mayor any failure
to comply with or any violation of any provision of this chapter, on the part
of any such licensee, and the mayor may thereupon revoke the license of such
person. (1917 Code § 1107)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-1-12 of this title for due process procedures.
4-10-9: LIMITATION UPON NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED:
There shall be no more than two (2) licenses issued to pawnbrokers by the city
at any one time. (Ord. 7427, 10-8-2014)
CHAPTER 11
RETAIL TOBACCO STORE
SECTION:
4-11-1: Retail Tobacco Store Defined
4-11-2: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-11-3: Regulations Enforced
4-11-4: Alcohol Prohibited By Workers
4-11-5: Prohibition
4-11-6: Violations; Penalty
4-11-1: RETAIL TOBACCO STORE DEFINED:
Retail tobacco store as used herein shall be defined as the premises of a
retail tobacco store which are exempt from the prohibition of smoking in public
places otherwise prohibited by the Smoke Free Illinois Act. (Ord. 7683, 2-27-
2019)
4-11-2: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit the operation of a
retail tobacco store which allows the smoking of tobacco by persons within or
upon the premises of the retail tobacco store without first having obtained a
Class C Regulatory Certificate as defined in chapter 1 of this title. (Ord.
7683, 2-27-2019)
4-11-3: REGULATIONS ENFORCED:
It shall be the obligation of any owner, operator, or manager of any retail
tobacco store to assure that all of the regulations for the operation of such a
facility as established by the Smoke Free Illinois Act of the State of Illinois
now found that 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 82/1 are strictly adhered to at
all times. (Ord. 7683, 2-27-2019)
4-11-4: ALCOHOL PROHIBITED BY WORKERS:
It should be unlawful for the owner, operator or manager or authorized employee
of any retail tobacco store operating within the City of Alton Illinois to
permit, suffer or allow the possession or consumption of alcoholic liquor,
including beer, within the premises of the location operated as a retail
tobacco store. (Ord. 7683, 2-27-2019)
4-11-5: PROHIBITION:
It should be unlawful for any person to possess or consume alcoholic liquor,
including beer, within the premises of any location operated as a retail
tobacco store within the City of Alton. (Ord. 7683, 2-27-2019)
4-11-6: VIOLATIONS; PENALTY:
Upon the violation of any regulations pertaining to a retail tobacco store as
established by this chapter, established by a preponderance of the evidence
presented, sufficient cause to revoke the business regulatory certificate of a
retail tobacco store may be determined to exist in accordance with the
procedures for revocation as set forth in section
4-1-12 of this title. (Ord. 7683, 2-27-2019)
CHAPTER 12
MOBILE HOME OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE FACILITIES
SECTION:
4-12-1: Definitions
4-12-2: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-12-3: Water Requirements
4-12-4: Sewer Connections
4-12-5: Lighting
4-12-6: Occupancy Permits
4-12-7: Trash
4-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
MOBILE HOME: A structure designed for permanent habitation and so constructed
so as to permit its transport on wheels, temporarily or permanently attached to
its frame, from the place of its construction to the location or subsequent
locations at which it is intended to be a permanent habitation and designed to
permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place of one or more persons.
MOBILE HOME COURT: An area of land upon which two (2) or more occupied mobile
homes are harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall
include any buildings, structures, tents, or enclosures used or intended for
use by the occupants of such mobile home court.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A trailer, vehicle or similar portable structure used or
so constructed so as to permit its being transported from place to place on
public streets or highways either by its own power or by some vehicle attached
to it, and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling place for one
or more persons on a temporary basis.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE FACILITY: An area of land upon which two (2) or more
occupied recreational vehicles are harbored, either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any buildings, structures, tents, or
enclosures used or intended for use by the occupants of the recreational
vehicles. (Ord. 7118, 12-17-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
4-12-2: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct, operate, maintain, suffer or permit within the limits
of the city any "mobile home court" as herein defined without obtaining a class
C regulatory certificate as defined in chapter 1 of this title. No person shall
conduct, operate, maintain, suffer or permit within the limits of the city any
"recreational vehicle facility" as herein defined without obtaining a class C
regulatory certificate as defined in chapter 1 of this title. In the event a
single location is operated as both a recreational vehicle facility and a
mobile home court, two (2) separate class C regulatory certificates shall be
required for such a location. (Ord. 7118, 12-17-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
4-12-3: WATER REQUIREMENTS:
An adequate supply of water of safe, sanitary quality approved by the Illinois
department of public health shall be furnished within each recreational vehicle
facility or mobile home court. At least one cold water supply outlet shall be
provided for each recreational vehicle or mobile home. (Ord. 7118, 12-17-2008,
eff. 1-1-2009)
4-12-4: SEWER CONNECTIONS:
All sewage and other water carried wastes shall be disposed of into the city
sewerage system. If the city sewers are not available, disposal shall be into a
private system which includes a sanitary means of disposal, the operation of
which creates neither a nuisance nor a menace to health.
When a water carriage of sewage is used, each recreational vehicle or mobile
home site shall be provided with a sewer connection for the combined liquid
waste outlet or outlets of each recreational vehicle or mobile home, and
trapped below the front line. It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of
each recreational vehicle facility or mobile home court to provide an approved
type of water and odor tight connection from the recreational vehicle or mobile
home water drainage to the sewer connection and it shall be the duty of said
owner or operator to make such connection and keep all occupied recreational
vehicles or mobile homes connected to said sewer while located in the
recreational vehicle facility or mobile home court. Sewer connections in
unoccupied recreational vehicle or mobile home sites shall be closed so that
they will emit no odors or cause a breeding place for flies. No water or waste
shall be allowed to fall on the ground from any recreational vehicle or mobile
home. (Ord. 7118, 12-17-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
Prior to the connection or reconnection of any recreational vehicle or mobile
home to the public sewer or a lateral leading to the public sewer, a permit
shall be required. The application for a permit as required herein shall be on
a form to be provided by the public works department and an application fee of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be required to be paid to the city prior to
the issuance of the permit. Prior to backfilling and/or connection of any pipe
or appurtenances thereto, the public works department shall cause a physical
inspection to be made of each recreational vehicle or mobile home connection to
the public sewer or to the lateral connecting to the public sewer system of the
city of Alton to assure that the connection is water and odor tight and
otherwise fully in compliance with the requirements of the city of Alton. (Ord.
7211, 8-11-2010)
4-12-5: LIGHTING:
It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of any recreational vehicle
facility or mobile home court to provide adequately maintained outdoor lighting
at all times so that the grounds will be safe for occupants and visitors. (Ord.
7118, 12-17-2008, eff. 1-1-2009)
4-12-6: OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
   A.   The use of a mobile home as a dwelling is further regulated by title 9
of this code, specifically section
9-2-8 of this code that requires an occupancy permit. The owner or operator of
a mobile home court shall notify all tenants of the mobile home court of the
need to comply with the requirements of title 9 of this code, including, but
not limited to, the requirements of an occupancy permit for each mobile home.
   B.   The owner or operator of a recreational vehicle facility, and the
tenants thereof, shall not be required to obtain an occupancy permit under the
provisions of section
9-2-8 of this code. For the purposes of this code, a "recreational vehicle", as
defined herein, shall not be considered a dwelling for the purposes of section
9-2-8 of this code. However, all other provisions of this code and the
regulations related thereto shall be applicable to the operation of a
recreational vehicle facility. In addition, the owner or operator of a
recreational vehicle facility shall be required to provide not less than once
each week a list of all tenants or occupants of the recreational vehicle
facility stating their name, permanent address and identifying the space within
the recreational vehicle facility occupied by such persons along with the make,
model and license number of the respective recreational vehicle. The weekly
list may be submitted to the city of Alton, department of building, housing and
zoning, electronically in a format to be approved by the director of the
department of building, housing and zoning. (Ord. 7118, 12-17-2008, eff. 1-1-
2009)
4-12-7: TRASH:
Each mobile home within a mobile home court shall be required to comply with
the ordinances of the city of Alton pertaining to trash and refuse disposal,
including the payment of a monthly refuse fee as set forth in section
5-2-8 of this code. The owner or operator of any recreational vehicle facility
shall be required to provide for the collection and removal of garbage or trash
or other waste material and to otherwise maintain a recreational vehicle
facility in a thoroughly clean and sanitary condition. (Ord. 7118, 12-17-2008,
eff. 1-1-2009)
CHAPTER 13
RAFFLES
SECTION:
4-13-1: Definitions
4-13-2: Licensing, Fee
4-13-3: Application For License
4-13-4: Limitations
4-13-5: Conduct Of Raffles
4-13-6: Raffle Manager, Bond
4-13-7: Records
4-13-8: Ineligibility
4-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms defined in this section have the
meanings given them.
ENABLING ACT: The Illinois public act number 81-1365 (1980) entitled "an act to
provide for licensing and regulating certain games of chance and amending
certain acts herein named" 1 .
NET PROCEEDS: The gross receipts from the conduct of raffles, less reasonable
sums expended for prizes, license fees as provided herein and other reasonable
operating expenses incurred as a result of operating a raffle.
RAFFLE: A form of lottery, as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-2
(b), conducted by an organization licensed under the terms of this chapter, in
which:
   A.   The player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a chance,
represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of numbers or by
some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be designated the winning
chance;
   B.   The winning chance is to be determined through a drawing or by some
other method based on element of chance by an act or set of acts on the part of
persons conducting or connected with the lottery, except that the winning
chance shall not be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting
contest. (Ord. 5734, 1-27-1993)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 15/1 et seq.
4-13-2: LICENSING, FEE:
   A.   License Required: No person shall conduct raffles or chances within the
city without first having obtained a license therefor as provided in this
chapter; provided, however, that such a license hereunder may be issued only to
bona fide religious, charitable, labor, fraternal, educational or veterans
organizations that operate without profit to their members and which have been
in existence continuously for a period of five (5) years immediately before
making application for a license and which have had during that entire five (5)
year period a bona fide membership engaged in carrying out their objects.
   B.   Applicability: For purposes of this chapter, the following terms,
namely: nonprofit, charitable, educational, religious, fraternal, veterans and
labor, all referring to organizations and/or institutions established for such
purposes, shall have the same meanings as are given to such terms pursuant to
section 2(b) of the enabling act. (Ord. 5734, 1-27-1993)
   C.   Fee: Each application for a raffle license filed pursuant to this
chapter shall be accompanied by a filing fee in the amount applicable to a
class A business regulation certificate as set forth in chapter 1 of this title
from time to time. (Ord. 7158, 10-28-2009)
4-13-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Any person applying for a raffle license pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter shall file a written application therefor in the office of the
City Treasurer. Such application shall be in writing and shall contain the
following information:
      1.   The area or areas within the City in which raffle chances will be
sold or issued; and
      2.   The time period during which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
and
      3.   The time of determination of winning chances; and
      4.   The location or locations at which winning chances will be
determined; and
      5.   A sworn statement attesting to the not for profit character of the
prospective licensee organization signed by the presiding officer and the
secretary of that organization.
   B.   Any such application for a raffle license filed pursuant hereto shall
be acted upon by the City within thirty (30) days from the date on which it is
filed. (Ord. 5734, 1-27-1993)
4-13-4: LIMITATIONS:
The following limitations shall apply as to prizes, merchandise and chances in
connection with any raffle conducted within the City: (Ord. 5734, 1-27-1993)
   A.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes or merchandise awarded by a
licensee in connection with a single raffle shall not exceed one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00). (Ord. 5734, 1-27-1993; amd. Ord. 5771, 5-26-
1993)
   B.   The maximum retail value of each prize awarded by a licensee in a
single raffle shall not exceed two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00). (Ord. 7589, 10-25-2017)
   C.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or
sold shall not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   D.   The maximum number of days during which chances may be issued or sold
shall not exceed three hundred sixty five (365) days. (Ord. 5734, 1-27-1993)
4-13-5: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The following limitations shall apply in respect to the conduct of raffles
within the City:
   A.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purposes of the organization permitted to conduct that game.
   B.   No person except a bona fide member of the sponsoring organization may
participate in the management or operation of the raffle.
   C.   No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   D.   A licensee may rent a premises on which to determine the winning chance
or chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under
this chapter.
   E.   Raffle chances may be sold or issued only within the area specified on
the license and winning chances may be determined only at those locations
specified on the license.
   F.   No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may participate in the
conducting of raffles or chances. A person under the age of eighteen (18) years
may be within the area where winning chances are being determined only when
accompanied by his parent or guardian.
   G.   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid for only one
raffle, or for a specified number of raffles to be conducted during a specified
period not to exceed one year, and the same may be suspended or revoked for any
violation of the terms of this chapter or the enabling Act. (Ord. 5734, 1-27-
1993)
4-13-6: RAFFLE MANAGER, BOND:
All operation of and the conduct of raffles within the City shall be under the
supervision of a single raffles manager designated by the organization. The
manager shall give a dishonesty bond in the sum of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) in favor of the organization, conditioned upon the honesty of such
manager in the performance of his duties. The terms of the bond shall provide
that notice shall be given in writing to the City by filing the same with the
Office of the City Treasurer not less than thirty (30) days prior to the
cancellation of such bond. The Aldermen of the City may waive this bond
requirement by the affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the members of the
City Council; and provided further, that a waiver provision as to such bond
shall be contained in the license issued to the applicant organization pursuant
to this chapter; provided, however, and notwithstanding any contrary provision
contained in this section, a license containing such bond waiver provision
shall be granted only by the unanimous vote of the members of the licensed
organization. (Ord. 6891, 8-10-2005; amd. Ord. 7158, 10-28-2009)
4-13-7: RECORDS:
   A.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles and chances shall keep
records of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single
gathering or occasion at which winning chances are determined. All deductions
from gross receipts for each single gathering or occasion shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
   B.   Each organization conducting raffles pursuant to this chapter shall
have separate records of each raffle conducted pursuant hereto. The person who
accounts for gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds from the operation of
raffles on behalf of such organization shall not be the same person who
accounts for other revenues of the organization.
   C.   Each organization licensed to conduct raffles shall report monthly to
its membership, and to the city, its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds
from raffles, and the distribution of net proceeds itemized as required in this
section.
   D.   Records required by this section shall be preserved for three (3)
years, and organizations shall make available their records relating to
operation of raffles for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
(Ord. 5734, 1-27-1993)
4-13-8: INELIGIBILITY:
Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereinabove contained, the following are
ineligible for any license under this chapter:
   A.   Any person who has been convicted of a felony;
   B.   Any person who is or has been a professional gambler or gambling
promoter;
   C.   Any person who is not of good moral character;
   D.   Any firm or corporation in which a person defined in subsection A, B or
C of this section has a proprietary, equitable or credit interest, or in which
such a person is active or employed;
   E.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B or C of
this section is an officer, director or employee, whether compensated or not;
   F.   Any organization in which a person defined in subsection A, B or C of
this section is to participate in the management or operation of a "raffle" as
defined in this chapter. (Ord. 5734, 1-27-1993)
CHAPTER 14
CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-14-1: Short Title
4-14-2: Intent And Purposes
4-14-3: Definitions
4-14-4: Grant Of Authority; Franchise Required
4-14-5: Franchise Characteristics
4-14-6: Franchisee Subject To Other Laws, Police Power
4-14-7: Interpretation Of Franchise Terms
4-14-8: Applications For Grant, Renewal, Modification Or Transfer Of Franchises
4-14-9: Grant Of Franchises
4-14-10: Insurance; Surety; Indemnification
4-14-11: Security Fund
4-14-12: Minimum Facilities And Service
4-14-13: Franchise Fee
4-14-14: Reports And Records
4-14-15: Customer Service Requirements
4-14-16: Cable Service And Repair Standards
4-14-17: Billing
4-14-18: Refunds And Credits
4-14-19: Subscriber's Right Upon Failure Of Service
4-14-20: Notification Procedures
4-14-21: Reports To The Franchisor
4-14-22: Identification Of Employees
4-14-23: Compliance Procedure
4-14-24: Review By The Franchisor
4-14-25: Verification Of Compliance
4-14-26: Noncompliance With Standards
4-14-27: Discrimination Prohibited
4-14-28: Use Of Rights Of Way
4-14-29: Subscriber Privacy And Unauthorized Reception
4-14-30: Technical Standards
4-14-31: Enforcement Remedies
4-14-32: Renewal Of Franchise
4-14-33: Transfers
4-14-34: Revocation Or Termination Of Franchise
4-14-35: Continuity Of Service Mandatory
4-14-36: Unlawful Solicitation Or Acceptance Of Gifts
4-14-37: Access Facilities
4-14-38: Cable Advisory Committee
4-14-39: Performance Evaluation
4-14-40: Administration
4-14-41: Applicability
4-14-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the ALTON CABLE TELEVISION
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-2: INTENT AND PURPOSES:
It is the intent of the City to promote the public health, safety, and general
welfare by providing for the grant of one or more franchises for the
construction and operation of a cable system; to provide for the regulation of
each cable system; to provide for the regulation of each cable system by the
City; to provide for the payment of fees and other valuable consideration by a
franchisee to the City for the privilege of using the public rights of way for
constructing and operating a cable system; to promote the availability of cable
service to City residents; to encourage the development of cable as a means of
communication between and among the members of the public and public
institutions; to encourage the development of competitive cable services; and
to encourage the provision of diverse information to the community over cable.
(Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following words and their derivations have
the meanings defined below. Words not defined herein are given their meaning in
section 602 of the Cable Act (as hereinafter defined), 47 USC section 522 and
regulations promulgated thereunder, and, if none, their common and ordinary
meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number include the singular
number, and words in the singular number include the plural number. The words
"must" or "shall" are mandatory and the word "may" is permissive. In the event
of any conflict between the definitions, Federal law will control.
ACCESS CHANNEL: Any channel set aside for educational use, or governmental use
without a charge by TCI for channel usage.
ANCILLARY SERVICES: All services of any nature or kind provided by a
franchisee, or affiliated entity, except the following:
   A.   Cable service;
   B.   Institutional services;
   C.   Any and all nonvideo data transmission services;
   D.   Services provided by the franchisee jointly with a nonaffiliated third
party for educational, training, or informational purposes where said
programming is provided to person or persons through a contractual or
subscription arrangement for said programming which does not require the
receiver of such programming to subscribe to or contract for services provided
on the basic service tier as a condition of receiving such programming; and
   E.   In the event that persons or entities other than the franchisee are
engaged in activities that are substantially similar to the franchisees within
the corporate limits of the City of Alton, no "service" defined herein shall be
considered to be an ancillary service unless all providers of substantially
similar services provide such service and are required to include revenue
derived from the provision of such service in any calculation for the purposes
of computing gross revenues derived from the provision of such services or the
calculation of franchise, license, or other fees paid to the City of Alton for
privilege of operating said business within the corporate limits of the City of
Alton.
APPLICATION: A proposal to construct and operate a cable system within the
City, transfer a franchise, renew a franchise or modify a franchise. An
application includes the initial proposal plus all subsequent amendments or
supplements to the proposal and relevant correspondence.
BASIC CABLE RATES: The monthly charges for a subscription to the basic service
tier.
BASIC SERVICE TIER: A separately available service tier to which subscription
is required for access to any other tier of service, including as a minimum,
but not limited to, all must-carry signals, all educational and governmental
channels, and all domestic television signals.
BENCHMARK: A per channel rate of charge for cable service and associated
equipment which the FCC has determined is reasonable.
CABLE ACT: The Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, 47 USC section 521 et
seq.
CABLE ACT OF 1992: The Cable Television Consumer Protection Competition Act of
1992.
CABLE OPERATOR: Any person or group of persons:
   A.   Who provide any cable service over a cable system and directly or
through one or more affiliates owns a significant interest in such a cable
system; or
   B.   Who otherwise controls or is responsible for, through any arrangement,
the management and operation of such cable system.
CABLE SERVICE: The one-way transmission of video or other programming service
to subscribers together with any subscriber interaction provided in connection
with such service.
CABLE SYSTEM: A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission paths and
associated signal generation, reception and control equipment that is designed
to provide cable service which includes video programming and which is provided
to multiple subscribers within the City. Such term does not include: a) a
facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of one or more
television broadcast stations; b) a facility that serves only subscribers in
one or more multiple unit dwellings under common ownership, control, or
management, unless such facility uses any public right of way; c) a facility of
a common carrier that is subject, in whole or in part, to the provisions of
title II of the Communications Act of 1914, 47 USC section 201 et seq., except
that such facility will be considered a cable system to the extent it is used
in the transmission of video programming directly to subscribers; or d) any
facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating its electric
utility systems.
CHANNEL: A unit of cable service identified and selected by a channel number or
similar designation.
CITY: Alton, Illinois, in its present incorporated form or in any form which
may subsequently be adopted.
CITY CLERK: The administrative officer of the City or designee.
CONTROL OF A FRANCHISEE OR APPLICANT: The legal or practical ability to direct
the affairs of the franchisee or applicant either directly or indirectly,
whether by contractual agreement or majority ownership of an economic interest.
COST OF SERVICE SHOWING: A filing in which the cable operator attempts to show
that the benchmark rate or the price cap is not sufficient to allow the cable
operator to fully recover the cost of providing the basic service tier and to
continue to attract capital.
COUNCIL: The City Council that is the legislative body of the City.
EG CHANNEL: The channel capacity designated for educational, or governmental
use, and facilities and equipment for the use of that channel capacity.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission.
FAIR MARKET VALUE: The price that a willing buyer would pay to a willing seller
for a going concern based on the system valuation prevailing in the industry at
the time.
FRANCHISE: The right granted by the City to a franchisee to construct, maintain
and operate a cable system over, on or under streets, roads and all other
public ways, easements and rights of way within all or specified areas of the
City. The term does not include any license or permit that may be required by
other laws, ordinances or regulations of the City for the privilege of
transacting and carrying on a business within the City or for disturbing the
surface of any street or public thoroughfare.
FRANCHISE AGREEMENT: A contract entered into in accordance with the provisions
of this Chapter between the City and a franchisee that sets forth the terms and
conditions under which the franchise will be exercised.
FRANCHISEE: Any person granted a franchise pursuant to this Chapter and who
operates a cable system within the City of Alton, Illinois pursuant to a
franchise agreement with the City of Alton, Illinois.
GROSS REVENUES: All revenues derived by the franchisee, or an affiliated
entity, from the operation of its cable system within the City, including, but
not limited to, revenues derived from cable service, home shopping channels,
institutional services, rental or lease of equipment, installation fees or
ancillary services.
INITIAL BASIC CABLE RATES: The rates that the cable operator is charging for
the basic service tier, at the time the City notifies the cable operator of the
City's qualification and intent to regulate basic cable rates.
LEASED ACCESS CHANNEL: A channel designated in accordance with section 612 of
the Cable Act, 47 USC section 532, for commercial use by persons unaffiliated
with the franchisee.
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: Those hours during which most similar businesses in the
community are open to serve customers. In all cases, normal business hours must
include some evening hours at least one night per week and/or some weekend
hours.
NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS: Those service conditions which are within the
control of the franchisee. Those conditions which are not within the control of
the franchisee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages and severe or unusual
weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of
the cable operator include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-
per-view events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods and
maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
OUTAGE: A service interruption which affects not less than two hundred fifty
(250) subscribers.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint venture or
organization of any kind and the lawful trustee, successor, assignee,
transferee or personal representative thereof.
PRICE CAP: The ceiling set by the FCC on future increases in basic cable rates
regulated by the City, based on a formula using the GNP fixed weight price
index, reflecting general increases in the cost of doing business and changes
in overall inflation.
REASONABLE RATES STANDARD: A per channel rate that is at, or below, the
benchmark or price cap level.
SERVICE INTERRUPTION: Loss of picture or sound on one or more channels.
STANDARD INSTALLATION: Installations that are located up to one hundred twenty
five feet (125') from the existing distribution system.
SUBSCRIBER: Any person, firm or other entity who or which subscribes to, for
any purpose, a service provided by the cable operator by means of or in
connection with the cable system.
SYSTEM MALFUNCTION: An equipment or facility failure that results in the loss
of satisfactory service on one or more channels. A malfunction is major if
renders unviewable two (2) or more channels carrying off-the-air television
signals, or a total of five (5) channels regardless of the signals carried, and
it affects five (5) or more subscribers.
TRANSFER OF A FRANCHISE: Any transaction in which: a) an ownership or other
interest in a franchisee is transferred from one person or group of persons to
another person or group of persons so that control of the franchisee is
transferred, or b) the rights held by the franchisee under a franchise
agreement are transferred or assigned to another person or group of persons. A
transfer is pro forma if it involves no significant change in the ultimate
control of the franchisee. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-4: GRANT OF AUTHORITY; FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
The City may grant one or more franchises in accordance with this Chapter. No
person may construct or operate a cable system in the City without a current
and valid franchise granted by the City. If the City determines that it is in
its best interest to grant an additional franchise or franchises, it shall
conform all such additional franchises to the requirements of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-42-11. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-5: FRANCHISE CHARACTERISTICS:
   A.   A franchise authorizes use of the public rights of way for installing
and maintaining cable, wires, lines and other facilities to operate a cable
system within the City, but does not expressly or implicitly authorize the
franchisee to provide service to, or install cables, wires, lines or any other
equipment or facilities upon private property without owner consent (except for
use of compatible easements pursuant to 47 USC section 541 (a)(2)), or to use
publicly or privately owned utility poles or conduits without a separate
agreement with the owners.
   B.   A franchise is nonexclusive and will not expressly or implicitly
preclude the issuance of other franchises to operate cable systems within the
City or affect the City's right to authorize use of public rights of way to
other persons as it determines appropriate.
   C.   A franchise conveys no property right to the franchisee or right to
renewal other than as may be required by State or Federal law.
   D.   A franchise agreement constitutes a contract between the franchisee and
the City once it is accepted by the franchisee. A franchisee contractually
commits itself to comply with the terms, conditions and provisions of the
franchise agreement and with all applicable laws, ordinances, codes, rules,
regulations and orders. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-6: FRANCHISEE SUBJECT TO OTHER LAWS, POLICE POWER:
   A.   A franchisee is subject to and must comply with all applicable local,
City, State and Federal laws, ordinances, codes, rules, regulations and orders.
A franchisee is also subject to the City's police power in accordance with
Illinois law 1 .
   B.   A franchisee or other person may not be excused from complying with any
of the terms and conditions of this Chapter or a franchise agreement by any
failure of the City, upon one or more occasions, to require compliance or
performance.
   C.   The City may, on its own motion or at the request of an applicant or
franchisee for good cause shown, waive any requirement of this Chapter. (Ord.
5910, 9-28-1994)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-1-1.
4-14-7: INTERPRETATION OF FRANCHISE TERMS:
   A.   The provisions of this Chapter will apply to a franchise agreement as
if fully set forth in the franchise agreement. The express terms of this
Chapter will prevail over conflicting or inconsistent provisions in a franchise
agreement.
   B.   The provisions of a franchise agreement will be liberally construed in
order to effectuate its purposes and objectives consistent with this Chapter
and the public interest.
   C.   A franchise agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance
with the laws of the State. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-8: APPLICATIONS FOR GRANT, RENEWAL, MODIFICATION OR TRANSFER OF
FRANCHISES:
   A.   An application must be filed with the City for grant of a new
franchise, renewal of a franchise under either the formal or informal
procedures in accordance with section 626 of the Cable Act, 47 USC section 546,
modification of a franchise agreement, or a transfer of a franchise. An
applicant has the burden to demonstrate compliance with all requirements of
this Chapter and of Federal law.
   B.   To be acceptable for filing, an application must be submitted in the
number of copies required by the City, be accompanied by the application filing
fee where required, conform to any applicable request for proposals, and
contain all required information. All applications must include the names and
addresses of persons authorized to act on behalf of the applicant with respect
to the application.
   C.   All applications accepted for filing must be made available by the City
for public inspection. The City shall advertise the receipt of all accepted
applications in accordance with standard procedure.
   D.   An application of the grant of a new franchise may be filed pursuant to
a request for proposals issued by the City or on an unsolicited basis. The
City, upon receipt of an unsolicited application, may issue a request for
proposals. If the City elects to issue a request for proposals upon receipt of
an unsolicited application, the applicant may submit an amended application in
response to the request for proposals, or may inform the City that its
unsolicited application should be considered in response to the request for
proposals, or may withdraw its unsolicited application. An application which
does not conform to the requirements of a request for proposals may be
considered nonresponsive and returned.
   E.   An application for the grant of a new franchise must contain, at
minimum, the following information:
      1.   Name and address of the applicant and identification of the
ownership and control of the applicant, including: the names and addresses of
the ten (10) largest holders of an ownership interest in the applicant, and all
known persons with five percent (5%) or more ownership interest; the persons
who control the applicant; all officers and directors of the applicant; and any
other business affiliation and cable system ownership interest of each named
person;
      2.   An indication of whether the applicant, or any person controlling
the applicant, or any officer or major stockholder of the applicant, has been
adjudged bankrupt, had a franchise agreement revoked, or not renewed, or been
found guilty by any court or administrative agency of a violation of a security
or antitrust law, or a felony, or any crime involving moral turpitude; and, if
so, identification of any such person or entity and a full explanation of the
circumstances;
      3.   A demonstration of the applicant's technical, legal and financial
liability to construct and operate the proposed cable facility, including
identification of key personnel;
      4.   A description of applicant's prior experience in cable operations
and identification of communities in which applicant or its principals have, or
had, a cable franchise or an interest therein, including the identification of
litigation involving any such franchisees and their franchising authorities;
      5.   A detailed description of the physical facility proposed, including
channel capacity, technical design, performance characteristics, headend, and
access facilities to be provided to satisfy the requirements of Section
4-14-30 of this Chapter;
      6.   A description of the construction of the proposed system, including
an estimate of aboveground and belowground mileage and its location, the
proposed construction schedule, a description, where appropriate, of how
services will be converted from existing facilities to new facilities, and
information on the availability of space on poles and conduits including, where
appropriate, an estimate of the cost of rearrangement of facilities to
accommodate such use;
      7.   A description of the services to be provided initially, including
all broadcast and nonbroadcast signals to be carried and all nontelevision
services, and if services will be offered by tiers, identification of the
signals and/or services to be included on each tier;
      8.   The proposed rate structure including charges for each service tier,
installation, converters, and other equipment or services;
      9.   A demonstration of how the proposal will reasonably meet the future
cable-related needs and interests of the community, including a description of
how the proposal will meet the needs described in any recent community needs
assessment conducted for the City;
      10.   Pro forma financial projections for the first three (3) years of
the franchise term, including statement of income, balance sheet, sources and
uses of funds and schedule of capital additions, with all significant
assumptions explained in notes or supporting schedules;
      11.   An affidavit of the applicant or authorized officer certifying the
truth and accuracy of the information in the application, and acknowledging the
enforceability of application commitments, and certifying that the proposal
meets all Federal and State requirements; and
      12.   Any other information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the
requirements of this Chapter and information that the City may request of the
applicant.
   F.   An application for modification of a franchise must include, at
minimum, the following information:
      1.   The modification requested;
      2.   The justification for the requested modification, including the
impact of the requested modification on subscribers and others, and the impact
on the applicant if the modification is not approved;
      3.   A statement whether the modification is sought pursuant to section
625 of the Cable Act, 47 USC section 545, and, if so, a demonstration that the
requested modification meets the legal standards of 47 USC section 545; and
      4.   Any other information necessary for the City to make a
determination.
   G.   An application for renewal of a franchise must comply with the
requirements of Section
4-14-32 of this Chapter.
   H.   An application for approval of a transfer of a franchise must comply
with the requirements of Section
4-14-33 of this Chapter.
   I.   To be acceptable for filing an application must be accompanied by a
filing fee in the following amount, as appropriate:
 
For a new franchise:                                              $10,000.00
For a transfer of a franchise (other than a pro forma transfer):  2,000.00
For a modification of a franchise pursuant to 47 USC section 545: 3,000.00
 
(Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-9: GRANT OF FRANCHISES:
   A.   The City may grant a franchise for a term not to exceed fifteen (15)
years to serve the City.
   B.   The City may make the grant of a franchise conditioned upon the
completion of construction within a prescribed time or upon the performance of
other specific obligations, specifying in the franchise agreement that
unreasonable failure to timely comply with the condition will cause the
franchise to become subject to revocation or termination as provided
hereinafter.
   C.   When evaluating an application for a new franchise, the City shall
consider the applicant's character, the applicant's technical, financial and
legal qualifications to construct and operate the proposed system; the nature
of the proposed facilities, equipment and services; the applicant's record in
other communities; if any, and whether the proposal will meet anticipated
community needs and serve the public interest.
   D.   Based upon the application, the written and oral testimony and other
material presented at a public hearing before the City Council, and any other
information relevant to the application, the City Council shall decide whether
to grant or deny a franchise application.
   E.   If the City Council grants a franchise application, the City Law
Department and the applicant must agree on the terms of a franchise agreement
within ninety (90) calendar days from the date of the resolution making the
grant. This period may be extended for good cause by the City Council. If
agreement is not reached with the City Attorney within ninety (90) calendar
days or if the period is not extended by the City Council, the franchise grant
will be null and void without further action by the City.
   F.   The text of a proposed franchise agreement must be made available by
the City to the public and advertised as required by City procedure and/or
applicable State law.
   G.   After complying with the requirements of subsections C through F of
this Section, the City Council shall approve or disapprove the proposed
franchise agreement by resolution.
   H.   Prior to the franchise becoming effective, the approved applicant must
demonstrate compliance with the surety, insurance and similar provisions of the
franchise agreement. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-10: INSURANCE; SURETY; INDEMNIFICATION:
   A.   Unless a franchise agreement specifies otherwise, the following
insurance coverage shall be in force at all times during the franchise period:
workmen's compensation insurance to meet all State requirements; and general
comprehensive liability insurance with respect to the construction, operation
and maintenance of a cable system, including the operation of motor vehicles,
in the following minimum amounts:
      1.   For bodily injury, including death, one million dollars
($1,000,000.00) for any one person, and five million dollars ($5,000,000.00)
for any one accident;
      2.   For property damage one million dollars ($1,000,000.00); and
      3.   For damages resulting from any liability of any nature that may
arise from or be occasioned by operation of the cable system, including any
communication over the cable system, excepting programming on government
channels, two million dollars ($2,000,000.00).
   B.   All insurance policies must be with sureties qualified to do business
in Illinois and have a minimum B+ best insurance rating. The City may require
in a franchise agreement coverage and amounts in excess of the above minimums.
   C.   A franchisee must, at its sole cost and expense, indemnify, hold
harmless and defend the City, its officials, boards, commissions, agents and
employees, against any and all claims, suits, causes of action, proceedings and
judgments for damages or equitable relief arising out of the construction,
maintenance or operation of its cable system regardless of whether the act or
omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by the franchise
agreement. This provision includes, but is not limited to, claims arising out
of copyright infringements or a failure by the franchisee to secure consents
from the owners, authorized distributors or licensees of programs to be
delivered by the cable system.
   D.   The franchise agreement may require the franchisee to have in force at
all times a performance bond or an irrevocable letter of credit in an amount as
necessary to ensure faithful performance by the franchisee of its obligation
under the franchise agreement. Such surety instruments must be provided by an
entity qualified to do business in the State and in a form approved by the City
Attorney. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-11: SECURITY FUND:
   A.   Prior to the franchise becoming effective, the franchisee must post
with the City a cash security deposit, in such form as the City, in its sole
discretion, shall determine, in the minimum amount of twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00) or such other amount as specified in the franchise
agreement to be used as a security fund to ensure the faithful performance of
all provisions of law and the franchise agreement and compliance with all
orders, permits and directions of the City, and the payment by the franchisee
of any claims, liens or taxes due the City which arise by reason of the
construction, operation or maintenance of the system.
   B.   The City shall place the security deposit in an interest-bearing
account. The interest will accrue to the benefit of the franchisee but may not
be withdrawn; all interest will be added to and become part of the original
security fund during the term of the franchise.
   C.   If a franchisee fails to pay the City any fees or taxes due, liquidated
damages, damages or costs or expenses incurred by the City by reason of any act
or default of the franchisee, or if the franchisee fails to comply with any
provision of the franchise agreement that the City reasonably determines can be
remedied by an expenditure of the security fund, the City may withdraw that
amount with any interest from the security fund. Prior to such withdrawal, the
City shall provide notice to the franchisee of the intention to withdraw, the
reason for such withdrawal, the amount to be withdrawn and the intended date of
such withdrawal. Such notice shall be provided not less than ten (10) days
prior to the intended date of withdrawal.
   D.   If the franchisee objects to such withdrawal, it shall give written
notice as provided in the franchise agreement postmarked prior to the date of
such withdrawal and request arbitration of the withdrawal pursuant to Section
4-14-34 of this Chapter.
   E.   Within thirty (30) calendar days after notice to it that an amount has
been withdrawn by the City from the security fund, the franchisee must deposit
a sum of money sufficient to restore the security fund to the original amount.
If the franchisee fails to restore the security fund to the original amount
within thirty (30) calendar days, the entire security fund remaining may be
forfeited, and/or such failure may be considered a material breach of this
Chapter and may be used as grounds for revocation of the franchise.
   F.   The security fund will become the property of the City in the event the
franchise is revoked. The franchisee is entitled to the return of the security
fund that remains following termination of the franchise, less any outstanding
default or unpaid amounts owed to the City by the franchisee.
   G.   The rights reserved to the City with respect to the security fund are
in addition to all other rights of the City whether reserved by this Chapter or
authorized by other law, and no action, proceeding or exercise of a right with
respect to such security fund will affect any other right the City may have.
   H.   If the City is convinced that its interests can be comparably protected
by a surety device other than a security fund, a franchise agreement may
specify such alternative device and set the terms and conditions of its use.
(Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-12: MINIMUM FACILITIES AND SERVICE:
   A.   The following minimum requirements for facilities and services apply to
all franchises. The City may require that a franchise exceed these minimum
requirements:
      1.   A cable system constructed or rebuilt after the effective date of
this Chapter must have a minimum capacity of seventy two (72) video channels
available for immediate or potential use and may have the capability for two-
way communications.
      2.   A cable system may be required to provide one or more access
channels for public, educational or governmental access. In addition, the City
may require a franchisee to reserve one or more additional channels for present
or future access use. If the City determines that the use of existing access
facilities warrants the activation of such reserve channels, the franchisee
shall activate them upon one hundred twenty (120) days notice from the City.
The City may require in a franchise agreement that the franchisee contribute to
capital costs for access studios and related equipment and facilities.
      3.   A cable system must provide channel space for programming upon
request, leased access as required by Federal law.
      4.   Service to public buildings may be required without charge as set
forth in the franchise agreement.
   B.   Unless a franchise agreement provides otherwise, a franchisee must make
cable service available to every unserved noncommercial structure within the
franchise service area. Where the franchise service area is the entire City,
the franchisee shall extend service to any annexed areas according to the
following schedule:
      1.   For areas of territory annexed to the City of five (5) acres or
more, the franchisee shall extend service to such areas within fifteen (15)
months of the date of annexation; or
      2.   For those areas of less than five (5) acres, the franchisee shall
extend service to such annexed areas within six (6) months of the date of
annexation;
provided, however, the franchisee is not required to extend service in areas
where the cable would pass fewer than thirty (30) homes per cable mile. (Ord.
5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-13: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.   Unless a franchise agreement provides otherwise, a franchisee, in
consideration of the privilege granted under a franchise for the use of public
rights of way to construct and operate a cable system, must pay to the City
five percent (5%) of the franchisee's gross revenues derived from the operation
of its cable system within the City during the period of its franchise.
Franchise fees are payable quarterly. A franchisee must pay the franchise fee
due to the City for the preceding quarter within forty five (45) calendar days
of the end of that quarter.
   B.   Any payment of franchise fees to adjust for a shortfall in the
quarterly payments for the preceding year must be made no later than the filing
date for the annual financial statements. Adjustments for any overpayment will
be credited to subsequent quarterly payments.
   C.   Unless a franchise agreement provides otherwise, franchisee fee
payments shall be accompanied by a financial statement showing the gross
revenues received by the franchisee during the period covered by the payments
and the number of subscribers served at the end of the period.
   D.   A franchisee must file within four (4) months of the end of its fiscal
year the franchisee's annual financial statements for the preceding year
audited by a certified public accountant or certified as accurate by the
franchisee's chief financial officer. The franchisee will bear the cost of the
preparation of such financial statements.
   E.   The City may inspect and audit any and all books and records of the
franchisee, and recompute any amounts determined to be payable under the
franchise. The cost of the audit will be borne by the franchisee if the annual
payment to the City has been underpaid by more than five percent (5%) as
disclosed by the audit.
   F.   In the event that a franchise payment is not received by the City on or
before the due date, interest will be charged from the due date at an interest
rate of one and one-half percent (11/2%) per month. In addition, the franchisee
will pay a late charge of five percent (5%) of the amount of such payment.
Interest and late charges will not be imposed for any payment necessary as a
result of the yearly adjustment provided for in subsection B of this Section,
if the payment to correct for a shortfall does not exceed ten percent (10%) of
the total payments made during the year. In the event such payment exceeds ten
percent (10%) of the total payments made during the year, the franchisee will
be liable for interest and late charges for the entire amount due.
   G.   When a franchise terminates for whatever reason, the franchisee must
file with the City within one hundred twenty (120) calendar days of the date
its operations cease a financial statement, audited by a CPA or certified by
the franchisee's chief financial officer, showing the gross revenues received
by the franchisee since the end of the previous fiscal year. Adjustments will
be made at that time for franchise fees due to the date that the franchisee's
operations ceased. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-14: REPORTS AND RECORDS:
   A.   Within one hundred twenty (120) days of the close of its fiscal year, a
franchisee must file with the City an annual report that includes the following
information:
      1.   Upon the request of City, a summary of the previous calendar year's
activities in development of the system, including, but not limited to,
services begun or dropped, number of subscribers (including gains and losses),
homes passed, and miles of cable distribution plants in service. The summary
shall also include a comparison of any construction, including system upgrades,
during the year with any projections previously provided to the City.
      2.   An annual report, due by June 1 of the succeeding year, including a
statement of income, a balance sheet, and where the franchisee is in a
significant construction phase, a statement of sources and applications of
funds. The statement shall include notes that specify all significant
accounting policies and practices upon which it is based. A summary shall be
provided comparing the current year with previous years since the beginning of
the franchise. If the franchisee is a corporation, a list of officers and
members of the board and the officers and board members of any parent
corporation; and where a parent corporation's stock is publicly traded, a copy
of its most recent annual report.
      3.   A copy of updated maps depicting the location of all cable where
there was construction in the year of the report.
      4.   A summary of written complaints, identifying the number and nature
of complaints and their disposition. Where complaints involve one or more
recurrent system problems, the nature of each problem and what steps have been
taken to correct it shall be identified. More detailed information on
complaints shall be submitted upon request of the City.
      5.   A list of all partners or stockholders holding five percent (5%) or
more ownership interest in the franchisee and any parent corporation; provided,
however, when any such entity has fewer than ten (10) persons holding five
percent (5%) ownership interest, the ten (10) largest such holders.
Alternatively, the annual ownership information required by the FCC for
broadcast licensees may be supplied. If a publicly traded corporation, it shall
be deemed in compliance.
      6.   A copy of all the documentation required under Section
4-14-20 of this Chapter.
   B.   A franchisee must maintain a complete set of books and records
available for inspection upon reasonable prior notice by the City during normal
business hours.
   C.   Upon written request of the franchisee and approval by the City
Attorney, information of a proprietary nature submitted to the City pursuant to
this Chapter or a franchise agreement will not be made available for public
inspection.
   D.   The franchisee shall, upon request of the City, provide to the City a
copy of all filings of the franchisee or affiliated entity made with the
Federal Communications Commission, the Securities Exchange Commission, or other
Federal agency where such filings involve matters that affect, or could affect,
the operation of the franchised cable system or the franchisee's capability to
carry out its obligations under the franchise agreement and this Chapter. (Ord.
5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-15: CUSTOMER SERVICE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   A franchisee must maintain within fifty (50) miles of the City a
business office open during normal business hours with a listed local toll-free
telephone number and employ a sufficient number of telephone lines to allow
reasonable access by subscribers and members of the public. When the business
office is closed, an answering machine or service capable of receiving service
complaints and inquiries must be employed.
   B.   A franchisee must have available at all times personnel, equipment and
procedures capable of locating and correcting major system malfunction. Major
system malfunctions must be corrected without delay. Corrective action for all
other malfunctions must be initiated not later than the next business day after
the subscriber service call is received, and must be completed as promptly as
possible.
   C.   A franchisee must provide each subscriber at the time cable service is
installed written instructions for placing a service call, filing a complaint,
or requesting an adjustment. Each subscriber must also be provided with a
schedule of the subscriber's rates and charges, a copy of the service contract,
delinquent subscriber disconnect and reconnect procedures, and a description of
any other of the franchisee's policies in connection with its subscribers.
   D.   A franchisee must maintain a complete record of service complaints
received and action taken. These records must be open to the City for
inspection during normal business hours. Such records must be retained for not
less than two (2) years.
   E.   Upon termination of cable service to a structure containing four (4)
units or less, a cable system operator shall give a subscriber the opportunity
to acquire the wiring at the replacement cost, with the cost to be determined
based on the replacement cost per foot of the cabling multiplied by the length
in feet of the cable home wiring. If the subscriber declines to acquire the
cable home wiring, the cable system operator must then remove it within thirty
(30) days, or make no subsequent attempt to remove it or to restrict its use.
   F.   If warranted in the City's judgment, the City may adopt regulations
governing customer service so as to assure prompt, courteous or responsive
treatment of the public by a cable operator.
   G.   The franchisee shall maintain a customer service center and bill
payment locations which provide the necessary facilities, equipment and
personnel to comply with the following customer service standards under normal
operating conditions:
      1.   Sufficient trained customer service representatives and toll-free
telephone line capacity during normal business hours to assure that calls will
be answered before the fifth ring, and all callers for service will not be
required to wait in excess of thirty (30) seconds before being connected to a
service representative and if the call needs to be transferred, transfer time
shall not exceed thirty (30) seconds. Franchisee be deemed in compliance with
this Section when the standard has been met no less than ninety percent (90%)
of the time on all calls, measured on a quarterly basis.
      2.   Emergency toll free telephone line capacity on a twenty four (24)
hour basis, including weekends and holidays.
      3.   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered by a
service or an automated response system, including an answering machine,
inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by a
trained company representative on the next business day.
      4.   Under normal operating conditions the customer will receive a busy
signal less than three percent (3%) of the time.
      5.   The franchisee will not be required to acquire equipment or perform
surveys to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above
unless an historical record of complaints indicates a clear failure to comply.
      6.   A customer service center and bill payment locations, open during
normal business hours and conveniently located and adequately staffed to accept
subscriber payments and respond to service requests and complaints.
      7.   An emergency system maintenance and repair staff, capable of
responding to and repairing major system malfunction on a twenty four (24) hour
basis.
      8.   An installation staff, normally capable of standard installation
service to any subscriber within seven (7) business days after the order has
been placed, in all areas where trunk and feeder cable have been activated. In
no event shall the time to install or initiate a new service exceed thirty (30)
days from the date of receipt of a request, in all areas where trunk and feeder
cable have been activated. Franchisee shall be deemed in compliance with this
Section when the standard has been met no less than ninety five percent (95%)
of the time on all calls for service, measured on a quarterly basis. (Ord.
5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-16: CABLE SERVICE AND REPAIR STANDARDS:
   A.   Franchisee shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible.
Scheduled interruptions, on trunk and major electronic components, shall be
preceded by notice and shall occur during periods of minimum use of the system,
preferably between twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
   B.   Franchisee shall maintain a written log, or an equivalent, stored in
computer memory and capable of access and reproduction in printed form, for all
service interruption; and requests for service that result in a service call.
   C.   Franchisee shall maintain a repair force of technicians capable of
responding to subscriber requests for service within the following time frames:
      1.   For a system outage, within two (2) hours, including weekend and
holidays, of receiving subscriber calls or requests for service which identify
a system outage of all channels.
      2.   For an isolated outage, within twenty four (24) hours, including
weekend and holidays, of receiving requests for service identifying an outage
of all channels for any subscriber.
      3.   For inferior signal quality, within forty eight (48) hours,
including weekend and holidays, of receiving a request for service identifying
a problem concerning picture or sound quality, affecting any subscriber.
         a.   Franchisee shall be deemed to have responded to a request for
service under the provisions of this Section when a technician arrives at the
service location and begins work on the problem or otherwise responds to the
request for service.
         b.   Franchisee shall be deemed in compliance with this Section when
the standard has been met no less than ninety five percent (95%) of the time on
all calls for service, measured on a quarterly basis.
         c.   Unless excused, franchisee shall identify the nature of the
problem within twenty four (24) hours of beginning work and resolve all cable
system related problems within five (5) business days unless technically
infeasible. Failure to resolve cable system related problems within thirty (30)
days pursuant to this Section shall be a material violation of this Section.
         d.   The "appointment window" alternatives for installations, service
calls and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four (4) hour time block during normal business hours. The
franchisee may schedule service calls and other installation activities outside
of normal business hours for the express convenience of the customer.
         e.   If a customer misses a service call, a new date for the repair
must be given within ten (10) business days which include Monday through
Friday, eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. If an employee of
the franchisee misses a service call, a new date for repair shall be made at
the customer's convenience and in accord with the franchisee's business hours.
         f.   A franchisee may not cancel an appointment with a customer after
the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment.
         g.   If a franchisee representative is running late for an appointment
with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled, as necessary,
at a time which is convenient for the customer.
         h.   The franchisee will initiate prompt corrective action if any is
needed to satisfy unresolved complaints. If a customer is not satisfied with
the solution of a complaint, the customer shall automatically be referred to a
management person. Local management shall work with the person to resolve the
problem within forty eight (48) hours.
         i.   Customers shall receive a copy of the service report and a phone
number to call to resolve any additional problems at the time the service is
completed. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-17: BILLING:
   A.   Subscribers shall receive a monthly statement with a date for payment
due.
   B.   All statements shall clearly denote a postmark or initiated date of
bill.
   C.   A phone number for bill adjustment shall be printed on the statement.
   D.   The statement shall clearly state the dates for bill adjustment.
   E.   The statement shall clearly state the dates of service for which the
subscriber is being billed.
   F.   Billing complaints shall be resolved within a reasonable time but in no
event shall resolution of the billing complaints exceed a maximum of thirty
(30) days from receipt of a written complaint by the subscriber.
   G.   Late payment charges and the time of institution shall be clearly
stated.
   H.   Bills will be clear, concise and understandable. Bills must be fully
itemized, with itemizations including, but not limited to, basic and premium
service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also clearly delineate all
activity during the billing period, including optional charges, rebates and
credits. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-18: REFUNDS AND CREDITS:
   A.   Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than either of the
following:
      1.   The customer's next billing cycle following resolution of the
request or forty five (45) days, whichever is earlier; or
      2.   The return of the equipment supplied by the cable operator if
service is terminated.
   B.   Credits for service will be issued no later than the customer's next
billing cycle following the determination that a credit is warranted. (Ord.
5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-19: SUBSCRIBER'S RIGHT UPON FAILURE OF SERVICE:
In the event that all service to any subscriber is interrupted except for
reasons beyond the control of the franchisee and except in circumstances for
which prior approval of the interruption is obtained from the franchisor, the
franchisee shall provide a prorata credit of the monthly fees to affected
subscribers upon the subscriber's request. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-20: NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES:
   A.   The franchisee shall, at the time service is initiated, and thereafter
at least annually or at any time upon request, provide the customer with
written information covering:
      1.   The time allowed to pay outstanding bills.
      2.   Grounds for termination.
      3.   Steps taken before termination.
      4.   How customers may resolve billing disputes.
      5.   Steps necessary to restore service.
      6.   The fact that customer service representatives and service
technicians shall identify themselves.
      7.   The fact that customers have the right to speak to a supervisor.
      8.   The time frame for resolving reception and billing problems.
      9.   The appropriate regulatory authority with whom to register a
complaint and a listed phone number.
      10.   The address of the regional office to whom complaints may be
forwarded in the event a customer is dissatisfied.
      11.   Charges for late payment or returned checks.
      12.   Products and services offered.
      13.   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services.
      14.   Installation and service maintenance policies.
      15.   Instructions on how to use the cable service.
      16.   Channel positions of programming carried on the system.
   B.   Subscribers will be notified of any changes in rates, programming
services or channel positions as soon as possible through announcements on the
cable system and in writing. Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of
thirty (30) days in advance of such changes if the change is within the control
of the cable operator. In addition, the cable operator shall notify subscribers
thirty (30) days in advance of any significant changes in the other information
required in subsection A of this Section. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-21: REPORTS TO THE FRANCHISOR:
   A.   The franchisee shall notify the franchisor of the resolution of all
written complaints received by the franchisor on written request of franchisor,
information shall be provided within fourteen (14) business days.
   B.   The franchisee shall notify the franchisor of all outages, system
malfunctions and service interruptions, location of the occurrence, and the
homes affected on written request of franchisor, information shall be provided
within fourteen (14) business days.
   C.   Upon the request of the franchisor, the franchisee shall make a written
report of an outage within the franchise area within forty eight (48) hours.
   D.   The franchisee shall notify the franchisor on written request of
franchisor, information shall be provided within fourteen (14) business days,
giving a breakdown during normal business hours of phone statistics, as defined
by FCC regulations on all phone lines for customer service and repair. (Ord.
5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-22: IDENTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES:
Every officer, agent or employee of the franchisee or its contractors or
subcontractors who enter private dwellings shall carry an identification card
bearing their name and photograph and shall present said identification upon
request. Franchisee shall account for all identification cards at all times.
Every service vehicle of the franchisee, but not contractors or subcontractors,
shall be clearly identified on sight to the public as working for the
franchisee. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-23: COMPLIANCE PROCEDURE:
Franchisee shall establish written procedures for receiving, acting upon and
resolving subscriber complaints without intervention by the franchisor. The
written procedures shall prescribe the manner in which a subscriber may submit
a complaint whether orally or in writing specifying the subscriber's grounds
for dissatisfaction. These procedures shall comply with all standards and
specifications of this Chapter. Franchisee shall file a copy of these
procedures with the franchisor. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-24: REVIEW BY THE FRANCHISOR:
The City reserves the right to conduct a public hearing concerning written
complaints of a unique and continuing nature. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-25: VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE:
Upon fourteen (14) business days' notice, the franchisee shall establish its
compliance with any or all of the provisions of this Chapter. The franchisee
shall provide sufficient documentation to permit the franchisor to verify the
compliance. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-26: NONCOMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS:
A repeated and verifiable pattern of noncompliance with the consumer protection
standards of this Chapter after franchisee's receipt of due notice and an
opportunity to cure, may be termed a material violation of this Chapter.
Franchisor, at its option, may direct franchisee to add sufficient personnel
and/or telephone lines and related equipment to ensure compliance. Franchisor
reserves the right to utilize any other lawful remedy as well. (Ord. 5910, 9-
28-1994)
4-14-27: DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Unless approved by the City and to the extent consistent with Federal
law, no franchisee may in its rates or charges, or in the availability of the
services or facilities of its system, or in any other respect, make or grant
undue preferences or advantages to any subscriber or potential subscriber to
the system, or to any user or potential user of the system, nor subject any
such persons to any undue prejudice or any disadvantage.
   B.   A franchisee must not deny cable service to any potential subscribers
because of the income of the residents of the area in which the subscribers
reside. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-28: USE OF RIGHTS OF WAY:
   A.   A franchisee must utilize, with the owner's permission, existing poles,
conduits or such other facilities whenever possible. The franchisees shall make
copies of its pole contracts available for inspection, upon request.
   B.   All transmission lines, equipment and structures must be installed and
located to cause minimum interference with the rights and reasonable
convenience of property owners. The City may from time to time issue such
reasonable rules and regulations concerning the installation and maintenance of
the cable system installed in the public rights of way and payment of costs in
construction therewith as may be consistent with this Chapter, the franchise
agreement and other franchise agreements granted by the City.
   C.   Suitable safety devices and practices as required by local, City, State
and Federal laws, ordinances, regulations and permits must be used during
construction, maintenance and repair of a cable system.
   D.   On streets and roads where electrical and telephone utility wiring are
located underground, either at the time of initial construction or
subsequently, the cable must also be located underground at the franchisee's
expense. Between a street or road and a subscriber's residence, the cable must
be located underground if electrical and telephone utility wiring are located
underground. If electric or telephone utility wiring is aerial, a franchisee
may install aerial cable except where a property owner or resident requests
underground installation and agrees to bear the additional cost over aerial
installation.
   E.   Any damage or disturbance to public thoroughfares or private property
as a result of its construction or operations shall be restored to
substantially their former condition such private property and public
thoroughfares, the latter in a manner approved by the City. If such restoration
is not satisfactorily performed within a reasonable time, the City may, after
prior notice to the franchisee, cause the repairs to be made at the expense of
the franchisee.
   F.   A franchisee may trim trees within public rights of way at its own
expense as necessary to protect its wires and facilities, subject to any
direction that may be provided by the City. Trees on private property may be
trimmed with the consent of the property owner.
   G.   At the request of any person, upon sufficient notice, the franchisee
must temporarily raise, lower or cut its wires as necessary to facilitate
operations upon not less than ten (10) days advance notice. The direct expense
of such temporary changes, including standby time, must be paid by the permit
holder and the franchisee may require payment in advance. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-
1994)
4-14-29: SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY AND UNAUTHORIZED RECEPTION:
   A.   A franchisee must protect the privacy of all subscribers pursuant to
the provisions of section 631 of the Cable Act, 47 USC section 551. A
franchisee must not condition subscriber service on the subscriber's grant of
permission to disclose information which, pursuant to Federal law, cannot be
disclosed without the subscriber's explicit consent.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person to intercept or use any video, voice, or
data signal transmissions over a cable system, unless such interception or use
is authorized by the franchisee or other person having the lawful right to
authorize the reception or use. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-30: TECHNICAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Any cable system constructed within the City must meet or exceed
technical standards promulgated by the FCC for similarly constructed systems.
   B.   All construction, installation and maintenance must comply with the
National Electrical Safety Code, the National Electric Code, the standards of
the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, all State and local
regulations and good and accepted industry practices.
   C.   Upon request, at the stages of any construction specified in the
franchise agreement, the franchisee must perform at its expense proof of
performance tests designed to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of
this Chapter, the franchise agreement and FCC requirements. The franchisee must
provide the proof of performance test results promptly to the City.
   D.   Upon request, the franchisee shall provide to the City copies of all
"proof of performance" test reports filed by the franchisee with the Federal
Communications Commission.
   E.   Upon request, the franchisee must advise the City when the next proof
of performance test is scheduled so that the City may have an observer present.
   F.   A franchisee must not design, install or operate its facilities in a
manner that will interfere with the signals of any broadcast station, the
electrical system located in any building, the cable system of another
franchisee, or individual or master antennas used for receiving television or
other broadcast signals. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-31: ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
   A.   The City has the right to apply any one or combination of the following
remedies in the event a franchisee violates any provision of the law or its
franchise agreement:
      1.   Impose liquidated damages in such amount, whether per day, incident
or other measure of violation, as provided in the franchise agreement. Payment
of liquidated damages by the franchisee will not relieve the franchisee of its
obligation to meet the franchise requirements.
      2.   Revoke the franchise as provided for in Section
4-14-34 of this Chapter.
   B.   In determining which remedy or remedies are appropriate, the City must
take into consideration the nature of the violation, the person or persons
bearing the impact of the violation, the nature of the remedy required in order
to prevent further violations and such other matters as the City determines are
appropriate. The City shall not impose any remedy without first giving the
franchisee notice of the violation and thirty (30) days to cure it.
   C.   In addition to or instead of any other remedy, the City may seek legal
or equitable relief from any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-
1994)
4-14-32: RENEWAL OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   If a franchisee decides to initiate a franchise renewal process in
accordance with section 626(a) through (g) of the Cable Act, 47 USC section 546
(a) through (g), it must notify the City within thirty (30) to thirty six (36)
months of the franchise expiration date. Upon such notification, or at the
City's own initiative, the City may commence the following process:
      1.   The City shall review and evaluate the future cable related
community needs and interests and the franchisee's past performance. The review
and evaluation process must include opportunity for public comment.
      2.   Immediately upon completion of the review and evaluation process,
the City must notify the franchisee that it may file a renewal application. The
notice must specify the information to be included in the renewal application
and the deadline for filing the application, which must be no earlier than
sixty (60) calendar days following the date of the notice. If the franchisee
does not submit a renewal application by the specified date, it will be deemed
not to be seeking renewal of its franchise.
      3.   Upon receipt of the renewal application, the City shall publish
notice of its receipt and may schedule one or more public meetings or implement
other procedures under which comments from the public on the application may be
received.
   B.   In considering a renewal application, the City must consider whether:
      1.   The cable operator has substantially complied with the material
terms of the existing franchise and with applicable law;
      2.   The quality of the cable operator's service, including signal
quality, response to consumer complaints, and billing practices (but without
regard to the mix, quality, or level of cable services or other services
provided over the system) has been reasonable in light of community needs;
      3.   The cable operator has the financial, legal and technical ability to
provide the services, facilities, and equipment set forth in its proposal; and
      4.   The cable operator's proposal is reasonable to meet the future cable
related community needs and interests, taking into account the cost of meeting
such needs and interests.
   C.   The City Council shall hold at least one public hearing to consider the
application. An advisory committee or a committee of the City Council may make
recommendations to the City Council prior to its consideration, a copy of which
recommendations shall be made available to the franchisee in advance of the
City Council's consideration. Following the public hearing on the renewal
application, the City Council must either:
      1.   Pass a resolution agreeing to renew the franchise, subject to the
negotiation of a franchise agreement satisfactory to the City and the
franchisee; or
      2.   Pass a resolution that makes a preliminary assessment that the
franchise should not be renewed.
   D.   The City Council's action under subsection C of this Section must be
taken within four (4) months of the date of the renewal application notice to
the franchisee required in subsection A2 of this Section.
   E.   If a preliminary assessment is made that a franchise should not be
renewed, at the request of the franchisee or on its own initiative, the City
must commence an administrative proceeding in accordance with section 626(c) of
the Cable Act, 47 USC section 546(c).
   F.   The City shall commence an administrative proceeding, initiated by a
hearing order which establishes the issues to be addressed in the hearing and
the procedures to be followed and appoints a presiding officer for the hearing.
Upon the completion of the hearing, the presiding officer shall issue a
recommended decision. Parties to the hearing and the public shall have thirty
(30) calendar days to comment on the recommended decision after its issuance.
   G.   Based on the recommended decision, the comment and arguments presented,
and other evidence of record, the City Council, following a public hearing,
shall make a final determination on whether to grant or deny the renewal
application. The City Council shall issue a written decision setting forth the
reasons for its decision.
   H.   The provisions of subsections A through G of this Section
notwithstanding, a franchisee may submit a proposal for renewal of a franchise
in accordance with 47 USC section 546(h). The City must hold one or more public
hearings or implement other procedures within section 546(h). The City must
hold one or more public hearings or implement other procedures under which
comments on the proposal from the public may be received. Following such public
hearings or other procedures, the City Council shall determine whether the
franchise should be renewed in the terms and conditions of any renewal. In
making its determination the City Council shall not consider the pendency of
any other application for a franchise.
   I.   Once the City Council grants a renewal application, the City and the
franchisee must agree on a franchise agreement, pursuant to the procedures
specified in subsections
 4-14-9E through G of this Chapter, before the renewal becomes effective.
   J.   If renewal of a franchise is denied, the City may acquire ownership of
the cable system or effect a transfer of ownership of the system to another
person upon the agreement of the owner of the facilities and approval of the
City Council. Any such acquisition by the City must be at fair market value,
determined on the basis of the cable system valued as a going concern.
   K.   If renewal of a franchise is denied and the City does not purchase the
cable system, the City may require the former franchisee to remove its
facilities and equipment. If the former franchisee fails to do so within a
reasonable period of time, the City may have the removal done at the former
franchisee's and/or surety's expense.
   L.   Notwithstanding any provision of this Section, the City Council may
suspend, by majority vote at a regularly schedule meeting, the renewal
provisions contained herein and direct the Mayor or a committee to be appointed
by the Mayor to negotiate the terms and conditions of a renewal franchise
agreement with the franchisee. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-33: TRANSFERS:
   A.   A transfer of a franchise must not occur without prior approval of the
City.
   B.   An application to transfer a franchise must meet the requirements of
Section
4-14-8 of this Chapter and provide complete information on the proposed
transaction, including details on the legal, character, financial, technical
and other pertinent qualifications of the transferee, and on the potential
impact of the transfer on subscriber rates. At minimum, the information
required in subsections
4-14-8E1 through 4 of this Chapter must be provided by the proposed transferee.
The information required in subsections
4-14-8E5 through 10 of this Chapter must also be provided whenever the proposed
transferee expects material changes to occur in those areas. Transfer
applications should be filed at least ninety (90) days prior to the anticipated
date of the proposed transaction.
   C.   Final action on an application for transfer of a franchise must be
taken by the City Council. In making a determination on such an application,
the City Council will consider the legal, financial, technical and character
qualifications of the transferee to operate the system and whether operation by
the transferee would adversely affect the cable services to subscribers or
otherwise be contrary to the public interest.
   D.   Approval by the City of a transfer of a franchise does not constitute a
waiver or release of any of the rights of the City under this Chapter or the
franchise agreement.
   E.   No transfer sought hereunder shall be unreasonably withheld. (Ord.
5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-34: REVOCATION OR TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE:
   A.   A franchise may be revoked by the City Council for failure to construct
as required, operate or maintain the cable system as required by this Chapter
or the franchise agreement or for other material breach of this Chapter or the
franchise agreement. However, where the City has issued a franchise
specifically conditioned upon the completion of construction or other specific
obligation by a specified date pursuant to subsection
4-14-9B of this Chapter, failure of the franchisee to complete construction or
comply with other specific obligation as required will result in the automatic
forfeiture of the franchise without further action by the City, unless the
City, at its discretion and for good cause demonstrated by the franchisee,
grants an extension of time. If within thirty (30) calendar days following
written notice from the City to the franchisee that it is in material breach of
this Chapter or the franchise agreement, the franchisee has not taken
corrective action or corrective action is not being actively and expeditiously
pursued, the City Council, acting on its own motion or upon the recommendation
of the Mayor, may give written notice to the franchisee of its intent to
consider revocation of the franchise or reducing its term, stating its reasons.
   B.   Before final action can be taken, the City Council shall hold a public
hearing at which time the franchisee and members of the public must be given an
opportunity to present evidence and make argument. Following the public hearing
the City Council shall determine whether or not to revoke the franchise based
on any recommended decision, the evidence and argument presented at the
hearing, and other evidence of record. The City Council's determination shall
be reflected in a written opinion setting forth the reasons for its decision.
   C.   Any franchise may, at the option of the City, be revoked one hundred
twenty (120) calendar days after an assignment for the benefit of creditors or
the appointment of a receiver or trustee to take over the business of the
franchisee whether in a receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy assignment for
the benefit of creditors or other action or proceeding, unless within that one
hundred twenty (120) day period:
      1.   Such assignment, receivership or trusteeship has been vacated; or
      2.   Such assignee, receiver or trustee has fully complied with the terms
and conditions of this Chapter and the franchise agreement and has executed an
agreement, approved by the court having jurisdiction, assuming and agreeing to
be bound by the terms and conditions of the franchise.
   D.   In the event of foreclosure or other judicial sale of any of the
facilities, equipment or property of a franchisee, the City may revoke the
franchise by serving notice upon the franchisee and the successful bidder at
the sale, in which event the franchise and all rights and privileges of the
franchise will be revoked thirty (30) calendar days after serving such notice,
unless:
      1.   The City has approved the transfer of the franchise to the
successful bidder; and
      2.   The successful bidder has covenanted and agreed with the City to
assume and be bound by the terms and conditions of the franchise.
   E.   If the City revokes a franchise, or if for any other reason a
franchisee abandons, terminates or fails to operate or maintain service to its
subscribers, the following procedures and rights are effective:
      1.   The City may require the former franchisee to remove its facilities
and equipment. If the former franchisee fails to do so within a reasonable
period of time, the City may have the removal done at the franchisee's and/or
surety's expense.
      2.   The City, by resolution of the City Council, may acquire ownership
of the cable system at an equitable price.
      3.   If a cable system is abandoned by a franchisee, the City may sell,
assign or transfer all or part of the assets of the system.
   F.   Upon nonrenewal, revocation or forfeiture of a franchise, the City may,
upon resolution of the City Council, acquire ownership of and operate a cable
system. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-35: CONTINUITY OF SERVICE MANDATORY:
   A.   It is the right of all subscribers to receive all available services
from the franchisee as long as their financial and other obligations to the
franchisee are satisfied.
   B.   In the event of a termination or transfer of the franchise for whatever
reason, the franchisee must do everything in its power to ensure that all
subscribers receive continuous, uninterrupted service regardless of the
circumstances. The franchisee must cooperate with the City to operate the
system for a temporary period following termination or transfer as necessary to
maintain continuity of service to all subscribers. The temporary period will
not exceed six (6) months without the franchisee's written consent. During such
period the cable system must be operated under such terms and conditions as the
City and the franchisee may agree or such other terms and conditions that will
continue, to the extent possible, the same level of service to subscribers and
that will provide reasonable compensation to the cable operator.
   C.   If the franchisee discontinues service to its subscribers without City
approval, the franchise may immediately be terminated, and the City is
empowered to occupy and take possession of all facilities and property, real
and personal, related to the cable system for the purpose of temporarily
operating the system. The City may undertake such operation itself or authorize
operation by a contractor. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-36: UNLAWFUL SOLICITATION OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS:
It is unlawful for any person to offer any gift, favor, loan, service, promise,
employment or anything of value to a City official or employee, or for a City
official or employee to solicit or accept any such thing of value, for the
purpose of influencing the grant, modification, renewal, transfer or any other
matter affecting a franchise or the administration or enforcement of this
Chapter. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-37: ACCESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Applications for a franchise or franchise renewal shall include
proposals for the provision of educational and governmental access channels
sufficient to meet community needs during term of franchise as determined by
City. A franchisee or applicant shall specify what grants, if any, it is
willing to make for studio equipment and facilities to be used for local
program production by all cable access users.
   B.   All access channel operations must conform to the following minimum
requirements:
      1.   The City may require that a franchisee provide studio space for
access use. Access channels shall be carried on the franchisee's lowest priced
service offering.
      2.   The franchisee shall have no control over the content of any
programming carried on access channels. The City may require a franchisee, or
select a nonprofit corporation or other entity, to manage the access program
and to establish reasonable rules for the use of access channels consistent
with the requirements of this Chapter, the franchise agreement and the intended
purpose of such channels. Such rules shall be subject to review and approval by
the City.
   C.   At the request of a franchisee the City shall promulgate rules under
which channel capacity dedicated to access use may be used by the franchisee
when it is not being used for access purposes. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-38: CABLE ADVISORY COMMITTEE:
   A.   The City may establish a cable advisory committee to advise it on
matters related to the use of cable systems and facilities. Unless otherwise
provided, any such committee shall consist of five (5) residents of the City
appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the City Council. If such a committee
is to have a continuing or indefinite existence, members shall serve for
overlapping terms of five (5) years, or until their successors are appointed
and confirmed. A vacancy on the committee shall be filled for the unexpired
term of the departing member.
   B.   Each franchisee shall have the right to participate in the cable
advisory committee by the appointment of an ex officio member of the committee
who shall be at all times during such service an employee or officer of the
franchisee. Such member shall be appointed by the franchisee informing, in
writing, the Mayor of the person designated to act on behalf of the franchisee
for such purpose. Upon receipt of such notification the Mayor shall inform the
chairperson of the cable advisory committee of the appointment of such ex
officio member.
   C.   An advisory committee shall advise the City on matters related to the
use of cable communications operations as specified by the Mayor or City
Council at the time of its establishment. Its functions may be modified from
time-to-time by the Mayor or City Council.
   D.   Members of the cable advisory committee shall receive no compensation
for their services except reasonable and necessary expenses as may be provided
in the budget. Ex officio members of the cable advisory committee shall receive
no compensation for their services and shall not be reimbursed for any expenses
in connection with participation in the cable advisory committee. (Ord. 5910,
9-28-1994)
4-14-39: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION:
   A.   The City may periodically evaluate the performance of a franchisee
during the franchise term. A franchisee shall cooperate fully with these
evaluations and supply the City with all relevant information requested. If the
City desires to implement a survey of subscribers in connection with its
evaluation of service, a franchisee shall distribute the City's questionnaire
to its subscribers. Any meetings between the City and the franchisee for
purposes of evaluation shall be publicized in advance and open to the public.
   B.   If evaluation indicates the need for modification to the franchise
agreement, the City shall attempt to negotiate the necessary changes. The City
shall issue a report to the City Council of the results of the performance
evaluation and any recommended changes to the franchise agreement as negotiated
with the franchisee.
   C.   The City Council may hold a public hearing on any performance
evaluation reports. Any franchise agreement modifications must be approved by
the City Council before they become effective. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-40: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   The City Clerk shall have the responsibility for overseeing the day-to-
day administration of cable communication operations within the City as
governed by this Chapter and the applicable franchise agreement. The City Clerk
shall be empowered to take all administrative actions on behalf of the City
except for those actions specified herein which are reserved to the City
Council or other named entity.
   B.   The City Council has the sole authority to grant franchises, authorize
the execution of franchise agreements, modify franchise agreements, renew
franchises, revoke franchises and authorize the transfer of franchises. Where
this Chapter or a franchise agreement specifies that a certain action will be
taken by the City Council or other named City entity, that action is reserved
to the named entity.
   C.   All filings and reports required of franchisees or applicants pursuant
to this Chapter or a franchise agreement shall be made with the City Clerk
unless otherwise specified. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
4-14-41: APPLICABILITY:
This Chapter, or any amendment thereto, shall be applicable to all cable
franchises issued by the City, whether or not such franchises were issued prior
to the effective date of this Chapter or an amendment thereto. However, this
Chapter shall not act to unilaterally abrogate prior contractual commitments of
the City as contained in any franchise agreement. (Ord. 5910, 9-28-1994)
CHAPTER 15
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
4-15-1: Definitions
4-15-2: Tax Imposed
4-15-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
4-15-4: Returns To Department
4-15-5: Resellers
4-15-6: Severability
4-15-7: Effective Date
4-15-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in such
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in such municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross
charges" for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel
point within this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate
interoffice channel provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not
include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this chapter, 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, 4) 911 surcharges, or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of such
municipality;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that the
charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or between
wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the corporations
and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this chapter.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this chapter, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this act. For purposes of this section,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act. (Ord. 6672, 9-11-2002)
4-15-2: TAX IMPOSED:
A tax is hereby imposed upon any and all the following acts or privileges:
   A.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality intrastate telecommunications by a person at a rate of five
percent (5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer.
   B.   The act or privilege of originating in the municipality or receiving in
the municipality interstate telecommunications by a person at a rate of five
percent (5%) of the gross charge for such telecommunications purchased at
retail from a retailer. To prevent actual multistate taxation of the act or
privilege that is subject to taxation under this subsection, any taxpayer, upon
proof that the taxpayer has paid a tax in another state on such event, shall be
allowed a credit against any tax enacted pursuant to or authorized by this
section to the extent of the amount of such tax properly due and paid in such
other state which was not previously allowed as a credit against any other
state or local tax in this state.
   C.   The tax imposed by this chapter is not imposed on such act or privilege
to the extent such act or privilege may not, under the constitution and
statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by the
municipality. (Ord. 6672, 9-11-2002)
4-15-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this chapter shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this chapter and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this chapter shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this chapter shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 6672, 9-11-2002)
4-15-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed under this chapter on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the department pursuant to the Illinois simplified
municipal telecommunications tax act (public act 92-526, section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement this
act. (Ord. 6672, 9-11-2002)
4-15-5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this chapter on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person's having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided hereinabove in this section, the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax
free on the grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active
resale number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 6672, 9-11-2002)
4-15-6: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter, or the application of any provision of this
chapter, is held unconstitutional or otherwise invalid, such occurrence shall
not affect other provisions of this chapter, or their application, that can be
given effect without the unconstitutional or invalid provision or its
application. Each unconstitutional or invalid provision, or application of such
provision, is severable, unless otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 6672,
9-11-2002)
4-15-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage and
approval and publication as required by law, provided, however, that: a)
sections
4-15-2 and
4-15-3 of this chapter shall take effect for all bills issued on or after
January 1, 2003, b) the tax provided for herein shall take effect for all bills
issued on or after January 1, 2003, and c) any amounts due or payable to the
municipality for any tax periods ending prior to January 1, 2003, shall
nevertheless remain payable as if this chapter had not been adopted. Copies of
ordinance 6672 shall be certified and sent to the Illinois department of
revenue prior to October 1, 2002. (Ord. 6672, 9-11-2002)
CHAPTER 16
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
SECTION:
4-16-1: Purpose And Findings
4-16-2: Definitions
4-16-3: Classification
4-16-4: License Required
4-16-5: Issuance Of License
4-16-6: Fees
4-16-7: Inspection
4-16-8: Expiration Of License
4-16-9: Suspension
4-16-10: Revocation
4-16-11: Hearing; Denial, Revocation, And Suspension; Appeal
4-16-12: Transfer Of License
4-16-13: Hours Of Operation
4-16-14: Regulations Pertaining To Exhibition Of Sexually Explicit Films Or
Videos
4-16-15: Loitering, Exterior Lighting, Visibility, And Monitoring Requirements
4-16-16: Penalties And Enforcement
4-16-17: Applicability Of Chapter To Existing Businesses
4-16-18: Prohibited Activities
4-16-19: Scienter Required To Prove Violation Or Business Licensee Liability
4-16-20: Failure Of City Of Alton To Meet Deadline Not To Risk Applicant/
Licensee Rights
4-16-21: Location Of Sexually Oriented Businesses
4-16-22: Severability
4-16-23: Conflicting Code Provisions Repealed
4-16-1: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses in order to promote the health, safety, moral, and general
welfare of the citizens of the city of Alton, and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious secondary effects of sexually
oriented businesses within the city of Alton. The provisions of this chapter
have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or restriction on
the content or reasonable access to any communicative materials, including
sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the intent nor effect of
this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented
materials protected by the first amendment, or to deny access by the
distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market. Neither is it the intent nor effect of this chapter to condone
or legitimize the distribution of obscene material.
   B.   Findings And Rationale: Based on evidence of the adverse secondary
effects of adult uses presented in hearings and in reports made available to
the city council of the city of Alton, and on findings, interpretations, and
narrowing constructions incorporated in the cases of City of Littleton v. Z.J.
Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 124 S. Ct. 2219 (June 7, 2004); City of Los Angeles v.
Alameda Books, Inc., 535 U.S. 425 (2002); Pap's A.M. v. City of Erie, 529 U.S.
277 (2000); City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986);
Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre,
Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); World Wide
Video of Washington, Inc. v. City of Spokane, 368 F.3d 1186 (9th Cir. 2004);
Ben's Bar, Inc. v. Village of Somerset, 316 F.3d 702 (7th Cir. 2003); and based
upon reports concerning secondary effects occurring in and around sexually
oriented businesses, including, but not limited to, Austin, Texas - 1986;
Indianapolis, Indiana - 1984; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Houston, Texas -
1983, 1997; Phoenix, Arizona - 1979, 1995-98; Chattanooga, Tennessee - 1999-
2003; Minneapolis, Minnesota - 1980; Los Angeles, California - 1977; Whittier,
California - 1978; Spokane, Washington - 2001; St. Cloud, Minnesota - 1994;
Littleton, Colorado - 2004; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Dallas, Texas -
1997; Greensboro, North Carolina - 2003; Amarillo, Texas - 1977; New York, New
York Times Square - 1994; and the Report of the Attorney General's Working
Group On The Regulation Of Sexually Oriented Businesses, (June 6, 1989, State
of Minnesota), the city council of the city of Alton finds:
      1.   Sexually oriented businesses, as a category of commercial uses, are
associated with a wide variety of adverse secondary effects including, but not
limited to, personal and property crimes, prostitution, potential spread of
disease, lewdness, public indecency, obscenity, illicit drug use and drug
trafficking, negative impacts on property values, urban blight, litter, and
sexual assault and exploitation.
      2.   Sexually oriented businesses should be separated from sensitive land
uses to minimize the impact of their secondary effects upon such uses, and
should be separated from other sexually oriented businesses, to minimize the
secondary effects associated with such uses and to prevent an unnecessary
concentration of sexually oriented businesses in one area.
      3.   Each of the foregoing negative secondary effects constitutes a harm
which the city of Alton has a substantial government interest in preventing
and/or abating. This substantial government interest in preventing secondary
effects, which is the city of Alton's rationale for this chapter, exists
independent of any comparative analysis between sexually oriented and
nonsexually oriented businesses. Additionally, the city of Alton's interest in
regulating sexually oriented businesses extends to preventing future secondary
effects of either current or future sexually oriented businesses that may
locate in the city of Alton. The city of Alton finds that the cases and
documentation relied on in this chapter are reasonably believed to be relevant
to said secondary effects. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases defined hereunder shall
have the meanings therein respectively ascribed to them unless a different
meaning is clearly indicated by the context.
ADULT ARCADE: Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin operated or slug operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image
producing devices are regularly maintained to show images to five (5) or fewer
persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
characterized by their emphasis upon matter exhibiting "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
ADULT BOOKSTORE OR ADULT VIDEO STORE: A commercial establishment which, as one
of its principal purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of
consideration any one or more of the following: sexual devices, books,
magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, compact discs, digital video discs, slides, or other
visual representations which are characterized by their emphasis upon the
display of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
A "principal purpose" means that the commercial establishment:
   A.   Has a substantial portion of its displayed merchandise which consists
of said items, or
   B.   Maintains a substantial section of its interior business space for the
sale or rental of said items.
ADULT CABARET: A nightclub, bar, juice bar, restaurant, bottle club, or similar
commercial establishment, whether or not alcoholic beverages are served, which
regularly features persons who appear seminude.
ADULT MOTEL: A motel, hotel, or similar commercial establishment which:
   A.   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, other photographic reproductions, or live
performances which are characterized by the display of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas"; and which advertises the
availability of such material by means of a sign visible from the public right
of way, or by means of any on or off premises advertising, including, but not
limited to, newspapers, magazines, pamphlets or leaflets, radio or television;
or
   B.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten (10) hours; or
   C.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for
a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A commercial establishment where films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or similar photographic reproductions which
are characterized by their emphasis upon the display of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas" are regularly shown to more than
five (5) persons for any form of consideration.
CHARACTERIZED BY: Describing the essential character or quality of an item. As
applied in this chapter, no business shall be classified as a sexually oriented
business by virtue of showing, selling, or renting materials rated NC-17 or R
by the Motion Picture Association of America.
CITY: Alton, Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Alton, Illinois.
EMPLOY, EMPLOYEE, AND EMPLOYMENT: Describe and pertain to any person who
performs any service on the premises of a sexually oriented business, on a full
time, part time, or contract basis, whether or not the person is denominated an
employee, independent contractor, agent, or otherwise. Employee does not
include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance of the
premises or for the delivery of goods to the premises.
ENFORCEMENT OFFICER: The Alton city treasurer.
ESTABLISH OR ESTABLISHMENT: Shall mean and include any of the following:
   A.   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
   B.   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business; or
   C.   The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business.
HEARING BODY: The city council of the city of Alton, Illinois.
INFLUENTIAL INTEREST: Any of the following: a) the actual power to operate the
sexually oriented business or control the operation, management or policies of
the sexually oriented business or legal entity which operates the sexually
oriented business, b) holding an office (e.g., president, vice president,
secretary, treasurer, managing member, managing director, etc.) in a legal
entity which operates the sexually oriented business.
LICENSED DAYCARE CENTER: A facility which regularly provides daycare for less
than twenty four (24) hours per day for four (4) or more children not related
to the operator. A childcare center shall include the terms daycare center,
part day childcare facility, and daycare home as defined by 225 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 10/2.
LICENSEE: A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual or individuals listed as an
applicant on the application for a sexually oriented business license. In case
of an "employee", it shall mean the person in whose name the sexually oriented
business employee license has been issued.
NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY: The showing of the human male or female genitals,
pubic area, vulva, anus, anal cleft or cleavage with less than a fully opaque
covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple and areola.
OPERATE OR CAUSE TO OPERATE: To cause to function or to put or keep in a state
of doing business. "Operator" means any person on the premises of a sexually
oriented business who causes the business to function or who puts or keeps in
operation the business or who is authorized to manage the business or exercise
overall operational control of the business premises. A person may be found to
be operating or causing to be operated a sexually oriented business whether or
not that person is an owner, part owner, or licensee of the business.
PERSON: Individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, or
other legal entity.
PREMISES: The real property upon which the sexually oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to section
4-16-4 of this chapter.
REGULARLY: Means and refers to the consistent and repeated doing of the act so
described.
SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO: A place where persons regularly appear in a state of
seminudity for money or any form of consideration in order to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons.
This definition does not apply to any place where persons appearing in a state
of seminudity did so in a modeling class operated:
   A.   By a college, junior college, or university supported entirely or
partly by taxation;
   B.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation; or
   C.   In a structure:
      1.   Which has no sign visible from the exterior of the structure and no
other advertising that indicates a seminude person is available for viewing;
and
      2.   Where, in order to participate in a class a student must enroll at
least three (3) days in advance of the class.
SEMINUDE OR STATE OF SEMINUDITY: The showing of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola and extending across the width of
the breast at that point, or the showing of the male or female buttocks. This
definition shall include the lower portion of the human female breast, but
shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breasts
exhibited by a dress, blouse, shirt, leotard, or similar wearing apparel
provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
SEXUAL DEVICE: Any three-dimensional object designed and marketed for
stimulation of the male or female human genital organ or anus or for
sadomasochistic use or abuse of oneself or others and shall include devices
such as dildos, vibrators, penis pumps, and physical representations of the
human genital organs. Nothing in this definition shall be construed to include
devices primarily intended for protection against sexually transmitted diseases
or for preventing pregnancy.
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER: A business or commercial enterprise that, as one of
its principal business purposes, purports to offer for any form of
consideration, physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex when one or more of the persons is seminude.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: An "adult arcade", an "adult bookstore or adult
video store", an "adult cabaret", an "adult motel", an "adult motion picture
theater", a "seminude model studio", or a "sexual encounter center".
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Means and includes:
   A.   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic
region; buttock; and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
   B.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
and opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY: Any of the following:
   A.   Intercourse, oral copulation, masturbation or sodomy; or
   B.   Excretory functions as a part of or in connection with any of the
activities described in subsection A of this definition.
SUBSTANTIAL: At least thirty five percent (35%) of the item(s) so modified.
TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF A SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: Any of the
following:
   A.   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
   B.   The transfer of securities which constitute an influential interest in
the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means; or
   C.   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal devise which
transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer by
bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing the
ownership or control.
VIEWING ROOM: The room, booth, or area where a patron of a sexually oriented
business would ordinarily be positioned while watching a film, videocassette,
or other video reproduction. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005; amd. Ord. 6916, 10-26-2005)
4-16-3: CLASSIFICATION:
The classifications for sexually oriented businesses shall be as follows:
   A.   Adult arcades;
   B.   Adult bookstores or adult video stores;
   C.   Adult cabarets;
   D.   Adult motels;
   E.   Adult motion picture theaters;
   F.   Seminude model studios;
   G.   Sexual encounter centers. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented
business in the city of Alton without a valid sexually oriented business
license.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to be an "employee", as defined in
this chapter, of a sexually oriented business in the city of Alton without a
valid sexually oriented business employee license.
   C.   An applicant for a sexually oriented business license or a sexually
oriented business employee license shall file in person at the office of the
city treasurer of the city of Alton a completed application made on a form
provided by the city treasurer of the city of Alton. The application shall be
signed as required by subsection E of this section and shall be notarized. An
application shall be considered complete when it contains, for each person
required to sign the application, the information and/or items required in
subsections C1 through C5 of this section, accompanied by the appropriate fee
identified in section
4-16-6 of this chapter:
      1.   The applicant's full true name and any other names used by the
applicants in the preceding five (5) years.
      2.   Current business address or another mailing address of the
applicant.
      3.   Written proof of age, in the form of a driver's license or a copy of
a birth certificate accompanied by a picture identification document issued by
a governmental agency.
      4.   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
business name, location, legal description, mailing address and phone number of
the sexually oriented business.
      5.   If the application is for a sexually oriented business license, the
name and business address of the statutory agent or other agent authorized to
receive service of process.
The information provided pursuant to subsections C1 through C5 of this section
shall be supplemented in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the city treasurer of the city of Alton within ten (10) working days of a
change of circumstances which would render the information originally submitted
false or incomplete.
   D.   An application for a sexually oriented business license shall be
accompanied by a legal description of the property where the business is
located and a sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business. The sketch
or diagram need not be professionally prepared but shall be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches (±6"). Applicants who are
required to comply with sections
4-16-14 and
4-16-18 of this chapter shall submit a diagram indicating that the interior
configuration meets the requirements of those sections.
   E.   If a person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is an
individual, he shall sign the application for a license as applicant. If a
person who wishes to operate a sexually oriented business is other than an
individual, each person with an influential interest in the business shall sign
the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified
under section
4-16-5 of this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a
license is granted.
   F.   The information provided by an applicant in connection with an
application for a license under this chapter shall be maintained by the city
treasurer of the city of Alton on a confidential basis, and such information
may be disclosed only as may be required, and only to the extent required, by
court order. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   Upon the filing of a completed application under subsection
4-16-4C of this chapter for a sexually oriented business license, the city
treasurer of the city of Alton shall immediately issue a temporary license to
the applicant, which temporary license shall expire upon the final decision of
the city of Alton to deny or grant an annual license. Within twenty (20) days
of the filing date of a completed sexually oriented business license
application, the city treasurer shall issue a license to the applicant or issue
to the applicant a letter of intent to deny the application. The city treasurer
shall issue a license unless:
      1.   An applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   An applicant has failed to provide information as required by
section
4-16-4 of this chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information on the application form.
      3.   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
      4.   The "sexually oriented business", as defined herein, is not in
compliance with the interior configuration requirements of this chapter or is
not in compliance with locational requirements of this chapter or the
locational requirements of any other part of this code.
   B.   Upon the filing of a completed application under subsection
 4-16-4C of this chapter for a sexually oriented business employee license, the
city treasurer of the city of Alton shall immediately issue a temporary license
to the applicant, which temporary license shall expire upon the final decision
of the city of Alton to deny or grant an annual license. Within twenty (20)
days of the filing date of a completed sexually oriented business employee
license application, the city treasurer shall either issue a license or issue a
written notice of intent to deny a license to the applicant. The city treasurer
shall approve the issuance of a license unless:
      1.   The applicant is less than eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   The applicant has failed to provide information as required by
section
4-16-4 of this chapter for issuance of a license or has falsely answered a
question or request for information on the application form.
      3.   The license application fee required by this chapter has not been
paid.
   C.   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person
or persons to whom it is granted, the number of the license issued to the
licensee(s), the expiration date, and, if the license is for a sexually
oriented business, the address of the sexually oriented business. The sexually
oriented business license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near the
entrance to the sexually oriented business so that it may be read at any time.
A sexually oriented business employee shall keep the employee's license on his
or her person or on the premises where the licensee is then working or
performing. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-6: FEES:
   A.   The initial license and annual renewal fees for sexually oriented
business licenses and sexually oriented business employee licenses shall be as
follows: one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the initial fee for a sexually
oriented business license and fifty dollars ($50.00) for annual renewal; fifty
dollars ($50.00) for the initial sexually oriented business employee license
and twenty five dollars ($25.00) for annual renewal. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-7: INSPECTION:
   A.   Sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business employees
shall permit the city treasurer of the city of Alton and his or her agents to
inspect, from time to time on an occasional basis, the portions of the sexually
oriented business premises where patrons are permitted, for the purpose of
ensuring compliance with the specific regulations of this chapter, during those
times when the sexually oriented business is occupied by patrons or is open to
the public. This section shall be narrowly construed by the city of Alton to
authorize reasonable inspections of the licensed premises pursuant to this
chapter, but not to authorize a harassing or excessive pattern of inspections.
   B.   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-8: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
   A.   Each license shall remain valid for a period of one calendar year from
the date of issuance unless otherwise suspended or revoked. Such license may be
renewed only by making application and payment of a fee as provided in sections
4-16-4 and
4-16-6 of this chapter.
   B.   Application for renewal should be made pursuant to the procedures set
forth in section
4-16-4 of this chapter at least ninety (90) days before the expiration date,
and when made less than ninety (90) days before the expiration date, the
expiration of the license will not be affected. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-9: SUSPENSION:
   A.   The city of Alton shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a
sexually oriented business license for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days
if the sexually oriented business licensee has knowingly violated this chapter
or has knowingly allowed an employee to violate this chapter.
   B.   The city of Alton shall issue a written letter of intent to suspend a
sexually oriented business employee license if the employee has knowingly
violated this chapter. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-10: REVOCATION:
   A.   The city of Alton shall issue a letter of intent to revoke a sexually
oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee license, as
applicable, if the licensee knowingly violates this chapter or has knowingly
allowed an employee to violate this chapter and the licensee's license has been
suspended within the previous twelve (12) month period.
   B.   The city of Alton shall issue written intent to revoke a sexually
oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee license, as
applicable, if:
      1.   The licensee has knowingly given false information in the
application for the sexually oriented business license.
      2.   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
possession, use, or sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      3.   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed
prostitution on the premises;
      4.   The licensee knowingly or recklessly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the license was finally suspended or
revoked; or
      5.   The licensee has knowingly or recklessly engaged in or allowed any
specified sexual activity to occur in or on the licensed premises.
   C.   The fact that any relevant conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license, provided that, if any conviction which
serves as a basis of a license revocation is overturned or reversed on appeal,
that conviction shall be treated as null and of no effect for revocation
purposes.
   D.   When, after the notice and hearing procedure described in section
4-16-11 of this chapter, the city council of the city of Alton revokes a
license, the revocation shall continue for one year and the licensee shall not
be issued a sexually oriented business license or sexually oriented business
employee license for one year from the date revocation becomes effective. (Ord.
6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-11: HEARING; DENIAL, REVOCATION, AND SUSPENSION; APPEAL:
   A.   When the city treasurer issues a written notice of intent to deny,
suspend, or revoke a license, the city treasurer shall immediately send such
notice, which shall include the specific grounds under this chapter for such
action, to the applicant or license (respondent) by personal delivery or
certified mail. The notice shall be directed to the most current business
address or other mailing address on file with the city treasurer for the
respondent. The notice shall specify a date, not less than ten (10) days nor
more than twenty (20) days after the date the notice is issued, on which the
city council of the city of Alton shall conduct a hearing on the city
treasurer's intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the license.
At the hearing, the respondent shall have the opportunity to present all of
respondent's arguments and to be represented by counsel, present evidence and
witnesses on his or her behalf, and cross examine any of the city treasurer's
witnesses. The city treasurer shall also be represented by counsel, and shall
bear the burden of proving the grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking the
license. The hearing shall take no longer than two (2) days, unless extended at
the request of the respondent to meet the requirements of due process and
proper administration of justice. The city council of the city of Alton shall
issue a written decision, including specific reasons for the decision pursuant
to this chapter, to the respondent within five (5) days after the hearing.
If the decision is to deny, suspend, or revoke the license, the decision shall
not become effective until the thirtieth day after it is rendered, and the
decision shall include a statement advising the respondent of the right to
appeal such decision to a court of competent jurisdiction. If the city council
of the city of Alton's decision finds that no grounds exist for denial,
suspension, or revocation of the license, the city council of the city of Alton
shall, contemporaneously with the issuance of the decision, order the city
treasurer to immediately withdraw the intent to deny, suspend, or revoke the
license and to notify the respondent in writing by certified mail of such
action. If the respondent is not yet licensed, the city treasurer shall
contemporaneously therewith issue the license to the applicant.
   B.   If any court action challenging the city council of the city of Alton's
decision is initiated, the city council of the city of Alton shall prepare and
transmit to the court a transcript of the hearing within ten (10) days after
receiving written notice of the filing of the court action. The city council of
the city of Alton shall consent to expedited briefing and/or disposition of the
action, shall comply with any expedited schedule set by the court, and shall
facilitate prompt judicial review of the proceedings. The following shall apply
to any sexually oriented business that is in operation as of the effective date
hereof: Upon the filing of any court action to appeal, challenge, restrain, or
otherwise enjoin the city of Alton's enforcement of the denial, suspension, or
revocation, the city of Alton shall immediately issue the respondent a
provisional license. The provisional license shall allow the respondent to
continue operation of the sexually oriented business or to continue employment
as a sexually oriented business employee and will expire upon the court's entry
of a judgment on the respondent's appeal or other action to restrain or
otherwise enjoin the city of Alton's enforcement. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-12: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the sexually oriented
business license application. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-13: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No sexually oriented business shall be or remain open for business between
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day. (Ord.
6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-14: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS OR
VIDEOS:
   A.   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented
business, other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a
viewing room of less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space, a
film, videocassette, or other video reproduction characterized by an emphasis
on the display of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas
shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Each application for a sexually oriented business license shall
contain a diagram of the premises showing the location of all operator's
stations, viewing rooms, overhead lighting fixtures, video cameras and monitors
installed for monitoring purposes and restrooms, and shall designate all
portions of the premises in which patrons will not be permitted. Restrooms
shall not contain video reproduction equipment. The diagram shall also
designate the place at which the permit will be conspicuously posted, if
granted. A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram shall be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and shall be drawn
to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus six inches (±6"). The city treasurer may waive the foregoing
diagram for renewal applications if the applicant adopts a diagram that was
previously submitted and certifies that the configuration of the premises has
not been altered since it was prepared.
      2.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of
the premises which has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted in the application filed pursuant to subsection A1 of this section.
      3.   The interior premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting
fixtures of sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are
permitted access at an illumination of not less than five (5.0) foot-candles as
measured at the floor level. It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any
employees present on the premises, to ensure that the illumination described
above is maintained at all times that the premises is occupied by patrons or
open for business.
      4.   It shall be the duty of the operator, and of any employees present
on the premises, to ensure that no sexual activity occurs in or on the licensed
premises.
      5.   It shall be the duty of the operator to post conspicuous signs in
well lighted entry areas of the business stating all of the following:
         a.   That the occupancy of viewing rooms is limited to one person.
         b.   That sexual activity on the premises is prohibited.
         c.   That the making of openings between viewing rooms is prohibited.
         d.   That violators will be required to leave the premises.
         e.   That violations of this subsection are unlawful.
      6.   It shall be the duty of the operator to enforce the regulations
articulated in subsections A5a through A5d of this section.
      7.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner
that there is an unobstructed view from an operator's station of every area of
the premises, including the interior of each viewing room but excluding
restrooms, to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose. An
operator's station shall not exceed thirty two (32) square feet of floor area.
If the premises has two (2) or more operator's stations designated, then the
interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an
unobstructed view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted
access for any purpose from at least one of the operator's stations. The view
required in this subsection must be by direct line of sight from the operator's
station. It is the duty of the operator to ensure that at least one employee is
on duty and situated in each operator's station at all times that any patron is
on the premises. It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the
duty of any employees present on the premises, to ensure that the view area
specified in this subsection remains unobstructed by any doors, curtains,
walls, merchandise, display racks or other materials or enclosures at all times
that any patron is present on the premises.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-15: LOITERING, EXTERIOR LIGHTING, VISIBILITY, AND MONITORING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the operator of a sexually oriented business
to: 1) post conspicuous signs stating that no loitering is permitted on such
property; 2) designate one or more employees to monitor the activities of
persons on such property by visually inspecting such property at least once
every ninety (90) minutes or inspecting such property by use of video cameras
and monitors; and 3) provide lighting of the exterior premises to provide for
visual inspection or video monitoring to prohibit loitering. If used, video
cameras and monitors shall operate continuously at all times that the premises
are open for business. The monitors shall be installed within an operator's
station.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for a person having a duty under this section to
knowingly fail to fulfill that duty.
   C.   No sexually oriented business shall erect a fence, wall, or other
barrier that prevents any portion of the parking lot(s) for the establishment
from being visible from a public right of way. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-16: PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   A person who knowingly violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses
to comply with or resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of an ordinance violation, and, upon conviction, shall
be punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each
day a violation is committed, or permitted to continue, shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be fined as such.
   B.   The city of Alton's legal counsel is hereby authorized to institute
civil proceedings necessary for the enforcement of this chapter to prosecute,
restrain, or correct violations hereof. Such proceedings, including injunction,
shall be brought in the name of the city of Alton, provided, however, that
nothing in this section and no action taken hereunder, shall be held to exclude
such criminal or administrative proceedings as may be authorized by other
provisions of this chapter, or any of the laws or ordinances in force in the
city of Alton or to exempt anyone violating this code or any part of the said
laws from any penalty which may be incurred. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-17: APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER TO EXISTING BUSINESSES:
All existing sexually oriented businesses and sexually oriented business
employees are hereby granted a de facto temporary license to continue operation
or employment for a period of ninety (90) days following the effective date
hereof. By the end of said ninety (90) days, all sexually oriented businesses
and sexually oriented business employees must conform to and abide by the
requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-18: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
It is unlawful for a sexually oriented business to knowingly violate the
following regulations or to knowingly allow an employee or any other person to
violate the following regulations:
   A.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a patron, employee, or any
other person to knowingly or intentionally, in a sexually oriented business,
appear in a state of nudity, regardless of whether such public nudity is
expressive in nature.
   B.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to knowingly or
intentionally, in a sexually oriented business, appear in a seminude condition
unless the person is an employee who, while seminude, remains at least six feet
(6') from any patron or customer and on a stage at least eighteen inches (18")
from the floor in a room of at least one thousand (1,000) square feet.
   C.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any employee who regularly
appears seminude in a sexually oriented business to knowingly or intentionally
touch a customer or the clothing of a customer on the premises of a sexually
oriented business.
   D.   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell, use, or
consume alcoholic beverages on the premises of a sexually oriented business.
A sign in a form to be prescribed by the city treasurer of the city of Alton
and summarizing the provisions of subsections A, B, C and D of this section,
shall be posted near the entrance of the sexually oriented business in such a
manner as to be clearly visible to patrons upon entry. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-19: SCIENTER REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION OR BUSINESS LICENSEE LIABILITY:
This chapter does not impose strict liability. Unless a culpable mental state
is otherwise specified herein, a showing of a knowing or reckless mental state
is necessary to establish a violation of a provision of this chapter.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, for the purposes of this chapter, an
act by an employee that constitutes grounds for suspension or revocation of
that employee's license shall be imputed to the sexually oriented business
licensee for purposes of finding a violation of this chapter, or for purposes
of license denial, suspension, or revocation, only if an officer, director, or
general partner, or a person who managed, supervised, or controlled the
operation of the business premises, knowingly or recklessly allowed such act to
occur on the premises. It shall be a defense to liability that the person to
whom liability is imputed was powerless to prevent the act. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-
2005)
4-16-20: FAILURE OF CITY OF ALTON TO MEET DEADLINE NOT TO RISK APPLICANT/
LICENSEE RIGHTS:
In the event that a city of Alton official is required to take an act or do a
thing pursuant to this chapter within a prescribed time, and fails to take such
act or do such thing within the time prescribed, said failure shall not prevent
the exercise of constitutional rights of an applicant or licensee. If the act
required of the city of Alton official under this chapter, and not completed in
the time prescribed, includes approval of condition(s) necessary for approval
by the city of Alton of an applicant or licensee's application for a sexually
oriented business license or a sexually oriented business employee's license
(including a renewal), the license shall be deemed granted and the business or
employee allowed to commence operations or employment the day after the
deadline for the city of Alton's action has passed. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-21: LOCATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   A.   Use Permits: Sexually oriented businesses may be allowed in an M-
2 zoning district with a special use permit as set forth in subsection
11-5-16D of this code. (Ord. 6916, 10-26-2005)
   B.   Location: It shall be unlawful to establish, operate, or cause to be
operated a sexually oriented business in the city of Alton, unless said
sexually oriented business is at least:
      1.   One thousand feet (1,000') from any parcel occupied by another
sexually oriented business or by a business licensed by the state of Illinois
to sell alcohol at the premises; and
      2.   Five hundred feet (500') from any parcel occupied by a house of
worship, licensed daycare center, public or private elementary or secondary
school, public park, or any residence.
   C.   Measurements: For the purpose of this section, measurements shall be
made in a straight line in all directions without regard to intervening
structures or objects, from the closest part of any structure, including signs
and roof overhangs, used in conjunction with the sexually oriented business to
the closest point on a property boundary or right of way associated with any of
the land use(s) identified in subsection B1 or B2 of this section.
   D.   Nonconforming Use: Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
code, a nonconforming sexually oriented business, lawfully existing in all
respects under law prior to the effective date hereof, may continue to operate
for two (2) years following that date in order to make a reasonable recoupment
of its investment in its current location. At the conclusion of said two (2)
years, the use will no longer be recognized as a lawful nonconforming use,
provided that a nonconforming sexually oriented business may apply for one or
more six (6) month extensions of the original two (2) year period upon a
showing of financial hardship. An application for an initial extension based
upon financial hardship ("hardship exception") shall be made at least sixty
(60) days before the conclusion of the aforementioned two (2) year period. If a
hardship extension is granted, subsequent applications for hardship extensions
shall be made at least sixty (60) days before the conclusion of the
nonconforming sexually oriented business's current extension period.
   E.   Procedure For Seeking Hardship Extension: An application for a hardship
extension shall be filed in writing with the city treasurer of the city of
Alton, and shall include evidence of purchase and improvement costs, income
earned and lost, depreciation, and costs of relocation. Within ten (10) days
after receiving the application, the city treasurer shall schedule a public
hearing on the application before the plan commission of the city of Alton,
which public hearing shall be conducted within thirty (30) days after the city
treasurer's receipt of the application. Notice of the time and place of such
public hearing shall be published at least ten (10) days before the hearing in
a newspaper of general circulation published within the city of Alton, and
shall contain the particular location for which the hardship extension is
requested.
The plan commission shall issue a written decision within ten (10) days after
the public hearing on the application for a hardship extension. The hardship
extension shall be granted upon a showing that the nonconforming sexually
oriented business is unable to recoup its investments, made prior to the
effective date hereof, in its current location unless the hardship extension is
granted. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-2005)
4-16-22: SEVERABILITY:
This chapter and each section and provision of said chapter hereunder, are
hereby declared to be independent divisions and subdivisions and,
notwithstanding any other evidence of legislative intent, it is hereby declared
to be the controlling legislative intent that if any provisions of said
chapter, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance is held to be
invalid, the remaining sections or provisions and the application of such
sections and provisions to any person or circumstances other than those to
which it is held invalid, shall not be affected thereby, and it is hereby
declared that such sections and provisions would have been passed independently
of such section or provision so known to be invalid. Should any procedural
aspect of this chapter be invalidated, such invalidation shall not affect the
enforceability of the substantive aspects of this chapter. (Ord. 6870, 4-13-
2005)
4-16-23: CONFLICTING CODE PROVISIONS REPEALED:
Additionally, any provision(s) in this code specifically in conflict with any
provision in this chapter is hereby deemed inoperative and repealed. (Ord.
6870, 4-13-2005)
CHAPTER 17
TATTOO OR BODY PIERCING PARLOR
SECTION:
4-17-1: Definitions
4-17-2: Separation Of Work Area
4-17-3: Regulations Pertaining To Work Area
4-17-4: Instruments
4-17-5: Tattooists And Piercers
4-17-6: Age Requirements
4-17-7: Penalty
4-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words or phrases as used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings:
BODY PIERCING: The piercing of any body part, with the exception of the ear,
including, but not limited to, naval, facial and genital piercing. Body
piercing shall not include the piercing of the ear and this chapter shall not
apply to ear piercing.
TATTOO OR BODY PIERCING PARLOR: Any establishment which participates in any
manner in the tattooing of the body or "body piercing" as defined herein. (Ord.
6537, 11-8-2000)
4-17-2: SEPARATION OF WORK AREA:
The work area in a tattoo or body piercing parlor shall be separated from the
show room and customer waiting area. There shall be no animals allowed in a
tattoo or body piercing parlor with the exception of a seeing eye dog which
shall be allowed in the show room/customer waiting area only. There shall be a
customer restroom separate from the work area. No contaminated objects shall be
cleaned or stored in said customer restroom. (Ord. 6537, 11-8-2000)
4-17-3: REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO WORK AREA:
The work area shall not be carpeted and shall have a stainless steel sink which
shall be used only for the rinsing or washing of contaminated materials and
equipment. Customers shall not be allowed to use said stainless steel sink and
said sink shall have a biohazard symbol posted directly above it. The
countertops located in the work area shall consist of a nonporous surface to
allow for proper cleaning. (Ord. 6537, 11-8-2000)
4-17-4: INSTRUMENTS:
Any and all instruments used in the procedures performed within a tattoo or
body piercing parlor shall be properly sterilized before each use. The method
of sterilization shall be that method traditionally used in the tattoo and body
piercing trade. Each tattoo and body piercing parlor shall have at least two
(2) working autoclaves. The primary autoclave shall be spore tested monthly and
the secondary autoclave shall be tested every three (3) months. (Ord. 6537, 11-
8-2000)
4-17-5: TATTOOISTS AND PIERCERS:
Any person applying a tattoo or body piercing to a customer shall first have
completed a seminar on cross-contamination (blood borne pathogens). Said
seminars are available locally through the American Red Cross and also through
the Alliance of Professional Tattooists. No person under the age of eighteen
(18) years shall apply a tattoo or body piercing to any customer. (Ord. 6537,
11-8-2000)
4-17-6: AGE REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall receive a tattoo or body piercing without first having obtained
the age required by the laws of the state of Illinois, as the same may be
amended from time to time. Any owner or operator of a parlor which applies a
tattoo or body piercing to a person under the ages required is deemed to have
violated this section and is subject to the penalty as set forth in this
chapter. The state of Illinois age requirements shall be posted in a public
area in any tattoo or body piercing parlor in a manner so that any customer who
enters the parlor shall be aware of said age requirements. (Ord. 6537, 11-8-
2000)
4-17-7: PENALTY:
Anyone who owns or operates a tattoo or body piercing parlor within the city of
Alton shall be bound by the guidelines adopted in this chapter. Should said
owner or operator, or anyone in his/her employ, violate any of these guidelines
at any time that owner or operator shall be subject to a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Each day an owner or operator is in violation of any of said
guidelines shall constitute a separate and punishable offense. (Ord. 6537, 11-
8-2000)
CHAPTER 18
TREE TRIMMERS
SECTION:
4-18-1: Definitions
4-18-2: License Required
4-18-3: Property Owners
4-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words or phrases as used in this chapter shall have the following
meanings:
PROOF OF INSURANCE: A certificate of insurance issued by a reputable insurance
company licensed to do business in the state of Illinois, establishing to a
reasonable degree of certainty that the applicant for a regulatory certificate
or permit as required by this chapter is an insured with insurance coverage of
not less than one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) per person, three
hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) aggregate, for liability duty to
personal injury claims and not less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
coverage for property damage claims.
TREE TRIMMER: Any person or entity performing for consideration the work of
trimming, cutting or removing any growing or standing tree or tree limbs,
including stump removal, within the city of Alton. (Ord. 7077, 5-28-2008)
4-18-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person or legal entity operating a commercial tree trimmer business or
performing the services of a tree trimmer within the city of Alton shall file
with the city treasurer an application for a class C regulatory certificate.
Applications for such document shall be made available by the city. The
certificate shall be applied for and issued in compliance with the provisions
of chapter 1 of this title and shall be subject to the further regulations as
established in this chapter. In addition to the requirements of chapter 1 of
this title, the applicant for a tree trimming regulatory certificate shall be
required to produce proof of insurance at the time of application and upon
demand by the city at any reasonable time during the period covered by the
regulatory certificate. The deputy comptroller of the city of Alton shall
review all evidence as to proof of insurance to determine if sufficient before
the issuance of a regulatory certificate by the city. (Ord. 7077, 5-28-2008)
4-18-3: PROPERTY OWNERS:
The provisions of this chapter requiring a regulatory certificate shall not be
applicable to the owner or occupant of a particular property or to their
employees, where the owner, occupant or their employees are performing tree
trimming work on the property they own or occupy. (Ord. 7077, 5-28-2008)
CHAPTER 19
AMUSEMENT TAX
SECTION:
4-19-1: Title
4-19-2: Definitions
4-19-3: Tax Imposed
4-19-4: Payment And Collection Of Tax
4-19-5: Administration And Enforcement
4-19-6: Suit For Collection; Revocation Of License
4-19-7: Interest And Penalties
4-19-8: Disposition Of Proceeds Of Tax
4-19-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited and referred to as the AMUSEMENT TAX. (Ord. 7126, 4-
8-2009)
4-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
AMUSEMENT: Any theatrical, dramatic, musical, or other types of concerts, or
spectacular performance or show, or motion picture show, or similar exhibition
for public entertainment, in the city.
PERSON: Any natural person, trustee, receiver, administrator, executor,
conservator, assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, partnership,
joint venture, club, company, business, trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, or otherwise. Whenever the term
"person" is used in any section prescribing and imposing a penalty, the term as
applied to associations shall mean the owners or part owners thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers thereof. (Ord. 7126, 4-8-2009)
4-19-3: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   A tax is hereby levied and imposed upon all amusements within the city
at the rate of five percent (5%) of the purchase price of a ticket of admission
for each person entering the premises of a place of amusement for the purpose
of witnessing, viewing or participating in the amusement. The tax herein levied
shall be in addition to any and all other taxes.
   B.   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax shall
be borne by the ticket user or purchaser. (Ord. 7126, 4-8-2009)
   C.   The tax hereby levied and imposed shall not apply to or be imposed upon
the purchase price of tickets for those persons witnessing, viewing or
participating in any amusement, the proceeds of which inure exclusively to the
benefit of religious, charitable or educational institutions or organizations,
or not for profit entities duly qualified under the laws of this state, unless
the amusement is presented in the Alton Amphitheater located in or near the
Alton Riverfront Park in which case the tax shall apply. (Ord. 7401, 5-14-2014)
   D.   The tax hereby levied and imposed shall not apply to or be imposed upon
the purchase price of tickets for those persons witnessing, viewing or
participating in any amusement conducted upon the boats, barges, or contiguous
facilities owned or operated by the holder of a riverboat gambling license
issued by the state of Illinois. (Ord. 7126, 4-8-2009)
4-19-4: PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF TAX:
The owner, manager, licensee or operator of each amusement shall bear, jointly
and severally, the duty to collect the tax from each ticket user or purchaser.
Every person required to collect the tax levied by this chapter shall secure
said tax from the ticket user or purchaser at the time that he collects the
price or charge for the ticket of admission. Whenever suitable, the amount of
the tax shall be shown separately on each ticket of admission or the ticket
shall indicate that the purchase price includes local taxes; provided, however,
in no event shall tickets of admission printed prior to the effective date of
this chapter be required to separately show the tax hereby imposed. The tax
shall be paid to the city treasurer under procedures prescribed by the City
Treasurer and as otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 7126, 4-8-2009)
4-19-5: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The City Treasurer or his/her designated agent is designated as the
administration and enforcement officer of the tax hereby imposed on behalf of
the City. It shall be the responsibility and duty of the City Treasurer or his/
her designated agent to collect all amounts due the City from the owners,
managers, licensees and operators of amusements in the City. A sworn monthly
Amusement Admission Tax return, on a calendar month basis, shall be filed by
each owner, manager, licensee or operator of each amusement in the City with
the City Treasurer or his/her designated agent, regardless of whether there is
any tax due for the month covered by the return, on forms prescribed by the
City Treasurer showing the gross receipts from the amusement and the number of
admission tickets sold and issued, the purchase price thereof and the tax
imposed, if any. Said returns are to be filed by the last day of the month
following the month covered by said return. The tax herein imposed due and
owing shall accompany the return and shall likewise be due as of the last day
of the month following the month covered by said return.
   B.   The City Treasurer or his/her designated agent may enter the premises
of any amusement for the purposes of inspection and examination of its books
and records for the proper administration of this chapter, and for the
enforcement of the collection of the tax hereby imposed. It is unlawful for any
person to prevent, hinder or interfere with the City Treasurer or his/her
designated agent in the discharge of his/her duties hereunder. It shall be the
duty of every owner, manager, licensee or operator of any amusement to keep an
accurate and complete set of books and records, containing all information
necessary for the collection of the tax herein imposed, to which the City
Treasurer or his/her designated agent shall at all times have full access,
which records shall include a daily sheet showing:
      1.   The number of tickets of admission issued during the twenty four
(24) hour period; and
      2.   The actual Amusement Tax receipts collected for the date in
question. (Ord. 7126, 4-8-2009)
4-19-6: SUIT FOR COLLECTION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay any taxes herein provided, or when any
owner, manager, licensee or operator of an amusement in the City shall fail to
collect the tax hereby imposed from any person who has the ultimate liability
for payment of the same, the City Attorney shall, upon request of the City,
bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said tax on
behalf of the City in any court of competent jurisdiction. If the Mayor, after
a hearing held by or for him, shall find that any amusement owner, manager,
licensee or operator has wilfully evaded his responsibility to collect the tax
imposed by this chapter, he may suspend or revoke all City licenses, including,
but not limited to, any liquor license issued to and held by such person. Said
person shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing, to be held not
less than five (5) days after notice is given of the time and place thereof,
addressed to him at his last known place of business. Pending notice, hearing
and finding, any license of which such person may be possessed may be
temporarily suspended by the Mayor. Any suspension or conviction resulting from
such hearing shall not relieve or discharge any civil liability for nonpayment
of the tax due. (Ord. 7126, 4-8-2009)
4-19-7: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
If for any reason tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate of ten
percent (10%) of the amount of tax owed shall be applied plus interest at the
rate of one and one-fourth percent (1.25%) per month from the date of
delinquency shall be added and collected. If for any reason the reports or
documents required by section
4-19-5 of this chapter are not received by the City when due, a penalty of
fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be added to the amount of the tax due, assessed
and due as of the day following the day the report or document was to be filed
with the City. An additional fifty dollar ($50.00) penalty shall be due on the
same day of each month thereafter until the proper reports and documents are
filed and applicable penalties are fully paid. (Ord. 7126, 4-8-2009)
4-19-8: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF TAX:
The proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this chapter for
amusements presented in the Alton Amphitheater located in or near the Alton
Riverfront Park, including interest and penalties, shall be paid into the
Treasury of the City's General Fund and immediately thereafter shall be
credited to and deposited in the Alton Amphitheater Fund or account maintained
by the Treasurer and Comptroller of the City. (Ord. 7657, 8-22-2018)
CHAPTER 20
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
4-20-1: Title
4-20-2: Definitions
4-20-3: Certificate; Fee
4-20-4: Application
4-20-5: Number Of Terminals; Nuisance
4-20-6: License Issuance; Display
4-20-7: Limitation On Number Of Video Gaming Licenses
4-20-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited and referred to as the VIDEO GAMING LICENSE. (Ord.
7470, 8-12-2015, eff. 1-1-2016)
4-20-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
LICENSED ESTABLISHMENT: Any licensed retail establishment where alcoholic
liquor is drawn, poured, mixed, or otherwise served for consumption on the
premises. The term licensed establishment includes any licensed fraternal
establishment and/or licensed veterans establishment as those terms are defined
in the Illinois video gaming act.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL: A video gaming terminal as allowed and defined in the
Illinois video gaming act. (Ord. 7470, 8-12-2015, eff. 1-1-2016)
4-20-3: CERTIFICATE; FEE:
Video gaming is allowed in licensed establishments within the city; however, no
establishment licensed by the Illinois gaming board shall be permitted to
operate any video gaming terminal pursuant to the Illinois video gaming act
unless the establishment has obtained a regulatory certificate as required by
chapter 1 of this title and shall have paid a separate yearly fee to the city
of Alton. The yearly fee shall equal two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
multiplied by the maximum number of video gaming terminals available on the
premises for play at any one time during the year. No license shall be issued
where the license applicant owes a debt, fine, fee, or penalty to the city of
Alton. (Ord. 7470, 8-12-2015, eff. 1-1-2016)
4-20-4: APPLICATION:
Application to the city of Alton for a video gaming license shall be made at
the office of the city treasurer. The application shall include a copy of the
applicant's state video gaming license, and in addition shall set forth:
   A.   The name and residential address of the applicant and the owner of the
premises.
   B.   The location of the premises where the video gaming terminal is to be
located, maintained and/or operated;
   C.   Such other information as the city may determine is necessary. (Ord.
7470, 8-12-2015, eff. 1-1-2016)
4-20-5: NUMBER OF TERMINALS; NUISANCE:
No more than six (6) video gaming terminals may be located, maintained, or
operated in any one establishment. No license issued hereunder shall permit the
operation of a video gaming terminal in a manner which will disturb the peace
of persons otherwise properly within or without the premises where the terminal
is located or otherwise constitute a nuisance. (Ord. 7470, 8-12-2015, eff. 1-1-
2016; amd. Ord. 7714, 8-28-2019)
4-20-6: LICENSE ISSUANCE; DISPLAY:
The city treasurer shall issue a license for each licensed establishment that
obtains a license to locate, maintain, and/or operate a video gaming terminal
on its premises. The license shall show on its face the maximum video gaming
terminals permitted on the premises. The license must be displayed by the
licensee in a conspicuous place upon the premises at all times. (Ord. 7470, 8-
12-2015, eff. 1-1-2016)
4-20-7: LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF VIDEO GAMING LICENSES:
There shall be no more than thirty-eight (38) establishments licensed to
operate video gaming terminals in the City at any given time. (Ord. 7835, 5-25-
2022; amd. Ord. 7846, 7-13-2022)
CHAPTER 21
REGULATION OF RENTAL DWELLING UNITS
SECTION:
4-21-1: Definitions
4-21-2: Purpose
4-21-3: Regulatory Certificate Required
4-21-4: Registration Of Individual Dwelling Unit
4-21-5: Failure To Comply
4-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
BENEFICIAL OWNER: A beneficial owner as used in this chapter shall refer to any
person holding any interest whether as an owner, beneficiary, partner or
stockholder in an entity which owns real estate where any portion of the real
estate is rented or leased for use as a residential dwelling unit. A person
holding less than a ten percent (10%) interest in any such entity shall not be
defined as a beneficial owner for the purposes of this chapter.
BOARDING HOUSE: A rooming house.
COMPLIANCE OFFICE OR COMPLIANCE OFFICER: The Department of Building and Zoning
or the Superintendent of Building and Zoning, respectively, or such office or
officer as may be designated by the Mayor hereafter.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof which is designed for and used for
residential purposes.
DWELLING UNIT: Shall mean a residential dwelling unit.
HOTEL: Any building containing guestrooms designed to be rented out to be
occupied for sleeping purposes by guests, but not including any hotel regulated
under chapter 6, article D of this title.
LANDLORD: A person who rents or leases or offers to rent or lease a dwelling
unit or multiple dwelling units within the City of Alton at any time.
LANDLORD MANAGER: A human being who is designated by the landlord as the
contact individual for all purposes of communication with the City of Alton.
The landlord must provide the name of the individual and all contact
information for the individual as the same may change from time to time so long
as landlord is authorized to do business in the City of Alton.
LESSEE: A person who rents or leases a dwelling unit for his/her personal use
or the personal use of his/her family. A Contract for Deed purchaser shall be
considered a lessee until and unless the Contract for Deed is recorded in its
entirety at the Madison County Recorder of Deeds Office, and the Contract for
Deed purchaser lives in the dwelling unit.
LODGING HOUSE: A rooming house.
MANAGING AGENT OR MANAGER: A person other than an owner designated by an owner
to be an operator as defined herein.
MOTEL: A hotel.
MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building designed to be occupied by three (3) or
more family units.
ONE-FAMILY DWELLING: A building designed for occupancy by one family unit and
occupied exclusively by one family unit.
OPERATOR: Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which one or more dwelling units are let, rented or leased.
OWNER: Any person who alone or jointly or severally with others has legal title
or any beneficial interest in any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or without
actual possession thereof.
PERSON: Person or persons as used in this chapter shall refer to any legal
entity whether a natural person, corporation, limited liability partnership,
partnership, trust, or other legal entity authorized to do business in the
State of Illinois and authorized to own an interest in real estate in the State
of Illinois.
REGULATORY CERTIFICATE: Shall be defined as in this title and shall for
purposes of this chapter be considered synonymous with the term "license".
RESIDENTIAL DWELLING UNIT: Shall be defined for purposes of this chapter as the
term "dwelling unit" is defined in section
9-2-1 of this Code, as amended from time to time.
ROOMING HOUSE: Means a building other than a hotel where lodging and prepared
meals are provided for income or profit for definite periods pursuant to
previous agreement.
ROOMING UNITS: A dwelling unit designed for sleeping or living purposes but not
for cooking purposes.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A one-family dwelling.
TWO-FAMILY DWELLING: A building designed for occupancy by two (2) family units
and occupied exclusively by two (2) family units. (Ord. 7674, 12-19-2018, eff.
1-1-2019)
4-21-2: PURPOSE:
The City Council hereby establishes the following license and regulation
program of residential rental properties so as to protect the public health,
safety and welfare of the people of the City, and
   A.   To protect the public health and safety by insuring rental units comply
with minimum housing standards of City ordinances; and, to correct and prevent
housing conditions that adversely affect or are likely to adversely affect the
life, safety, general welfare and health, including the physical, mental and
social well being of persons occupying the dwellings.
   B.   To protect the character and stability of residential areas; to
facilitate the enforcement of minimum standards for the maintenance of existing
residential buildings and thus to prevent slums and blight; and, to preserve
the value of land and buildings throughout the City. (Ord. 7674, 12-19-2018,
eff. 1-1-2019)
4-21-3: REGULATORY CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person or beneficial owner to engage in
the business of renting or leasing one or more residential dwelling units in
the City of Alton without a current Class B Regulatory Certificate (also
referred to herein as "license") as defined in chapter 1 of this title. The
requirements of this chapter shall not be applicable to any governmental
housing authorities or departments, boarding houses, hotels or nursing homes.
The provisions of subsection
4-1-3B of this title shall not apply to Regulatory Certificates or
registrations required by this chapter.
   B.   No license shall be issued/renewed if the applicant or any beneficial
owner of an entity which is the landlord:
      1.   Is delinquent in the payment of any fees, service charges, taxes, or
fines due the City of Alton;
      2.   Is found to have violated any requirements of the Building or
Housing Codes of the City of Alton;
      3.   Has failed to disclose a rental dwelling unit within the City of
Alton;
      4.   Has not attended and successfully completed a seminar conducted by
the Alton Department of Housing and Code Enforcement, regarding residential
property rental, no more than three (3) months after the issuance or renewal of
the business license;
   C.   Every agreement for lease of residential real estate located within the
City of Alton, executed or renewed after December 31, 2018, whether oral or
written, shall include, or be deemed to include, all terms listed of the Crime
Free Lease Addendum, which is on file in the City, as exhibit A. (Ord. 7674,
12-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4-21-4: REGISTRATION OF INDIVIDUAL DWELLING UNIT:
   A.   Each individual dwelling unit in the City owned by a landlord who is
required to be licensed under this chapter must be registered with the City as
belonging to or managed by the licensed landlord. The registration must include
the location of each dwelling unit, its address, legal owner, every beneficial
owner, and must include a copy of the latest occupancy permit for that dwelling
unit issued by the City of Alton. Reasonable evidence of ownership may be
required to be presented by landlord. A landlord shall not be required to
register his or her personal permanent residence unless rented to another party
for any period of time.
   B.   For each residential dwelling unit required to be registered by the
landlord pursuant to this section, an annual fee of twenty dollars ($20.00)
shall be due and payable to the City of Alton except as herein provided. If a
landlord and all beneficial owners of a dwelling unit hold no interest in any
other dwelling unit rented or offered for rent for occupancy in the City of
Alton, all fees as for that landlord license and registration shall be waived.
   C.   All residential dwelling unit registration fees shall be on a calendar
basis with no proration as to when a dwelling unit is registered or occupied
within a calendar year. The City may inspect any dwelling unit annually at a
reasonable time upon agreement with the occupants to assure compliance with all
applicable City codes and regulations. Should the applicants refuse access to
the City for an inspection, the City may apply to the Circuit Court for an
administrative search warrant upon a proper showing of cause to the court.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person required to be licensed as a
landlord to permit any residential dwelling unit to be occupied unless the
landlord is licensed and the individual dwelling unit is registered with the
appropriate registration fee paid. In addition the occupancy permit required by
title 9, chapter 2 of this Code shall be required.
   E.   No residential dwelling unit may hereinafter be rented or leased to a
new occupant unless it is registered to a properly licensed landlord as
required by this chapter. (Ord. 7674, 12-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
4-21-5: FAILURE TO COMPLY:
   A.   The landlord business license may be denied, revoked or suspended in
the event the landlord or any beneficial owner of an entity which is the
landlord:
      1.   Is delinquent in the payment of any fees, service charges, taxes, or
fines due the City of Alton;
      2.   Is found to have violated any requirements of the Building or
Housing Codes of the City of Alton;
      3.   Has failed to disclose a rental dwelling unit within the City of
Alton;
      4.   Has not attended and successfully completed a seminar conducted by
the Alton Housing Department, regarding residential property rental, no more
than three (3) months after the issuance or renewal of the business license;
      5.   The landlord of the residential rental unit allowed or permitted the
commission of any act or omission constituting a felony under Illinois law, on
the leased premises or on common areas related to the leased premises, or
      6.   The commission of four (4) or more violations of City ordinances
within any six-month period, within the residential unit, or on common areas
related to the rental unit, or
      7.   The failure of the licensed landlord to take prompt, diligent and
lawful steps to remove the lessees from possession of the rental unit;
         a.   Following notice of the commission of a felony in the rental unit
where allowed or permitted by lessee, or
         b.   Following notice of four (4) ordinance violations in the
residential rental unit, where allowed or permitted by lessee, or
         c.   Following notice of other violation of the crime-free housing
lease addendum, which is on file in the City as exhibit A, as now or as
hereafter amended, where violation of that lease addendum expressly constitutes
good cause for termination of the lease.
      8.   Any act of lessee, or guest of a lessee, constituting abuse or
harassment of a family or household member under the Illinois Domestic Violence
Act 1  as now or as hereafter amended, shall not, by itself, constitute solely
for the purposes of this section, a violation of any lease or lease addendum,
or cause to suspend or revoke a business license of a lessor of residential
real property. However, any simultaneous or concurrent behavior constituting an
ordinance violation, felony, or misdemeanor, occurring simultaneously or
concurrent with the violation of the Illinois Domestic Violence Act, may be
considered by the Administrative Hearing Officer in any hearing conducted to
determine the issuance of a fine or the suspension or revocation of the
business license of a lessor of residential real estate property, under this
section.
      9.   Failed to comply with subsection
4-21-3C of this chapter.
   B.   Before the privileges of the landlord to rent or lease any dwelling
unit is denied, revoked or suspended pursuant to this section, the landlord
shall be afforded a notice which shall describe the cause alleged to exist for
the denial, revocation or suspension of the landlord's right to rent or lease a
dwelling unit and upon the request of the landlord, a hearing shall be
scheduled before a Hearing Officer to be appointed by the Mayor. The Hearing
Officer may be an official of the City of Alton or an employee of the City of
Alton so long as such Hearing Officer is: 1) not the person bringing the
allegations against the landlord and 2) not a witness who testifies in the
hearing against the landlord. The Hearing Officer shall be required to
determine whether sufficient cause exists for the denial, suspension or
revocation of the privileges of the landlord to rent or lease any dwelling unit
and shall reduce the decision to writing to be served upon the landlord within
twenty one (21) days of the conclusion of the hearing. Should the landlord
desire to appeal the decision of the Hearing Officer, he shall file a "Petition
to Appeal" with the City Clerk along with a copy of the decision from the
Hearing Officer within thirty (30) days after the decision of the Hearing
Officer is mailed to or served upon the landlord. The appeal will be scheduled
for a public hearing with notice to the landlord before the City Council of the
City of Alton at which hearing the Hearing Officer (if a member of a council)
shall not participate as a member of the City Council; but, he may participate
as a witness or present questions or comments in the course of the hearing as
such rights shall also be allowed to any interested person.
   C.   The procedure to deny, revoke or suspend the privileges or the landlord
to rent or lease any dwelling unit as afforded by this section shall be in
addition to any other remedies provided by this Code or State Statutes with
regard to the actions or inactions of the landlord with regard to any debts
owing to the City of Alton, or the Circuit Court, as a result of any violations
of any Housing or Building Codes of the City of Alton.
   D.   Should the privileges of a landlord to rent or lease any dwelling unit
be denied, revoked or suspended, any tenants in possession of a dwelling unit
of the landlord shall not be affected but no new tenants shall receive a
certificate of occupancy for any dwelling unit owned by the landlord, in whole
or in part, during any period of suspension or revocation of the landlord
license. (Ord. 7674, 12-19-2018, eff. 1-1-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 750 ILCS 60 et seq.
CHAPTER 22
SHORT-TERM OCCUPANCY RENTAL UNITS
SECTION:
4-22-1: Definitions
4-22-2: Licensing requirement
4-22-3: Application
4-22-4: Issuance Of License
4-22-5: Unlawful Acts
4-22-6: Residential/Commercial Use Distinguished
4-22-7: Term License, Renewal, Transferal
4-22-8: Conditions, Appeal, And Denial
4-22-9: Disciplinary Actions; Sanctions; Penalties
4-22-10: Records
4-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
 
             Any person or entity who provides a means through which a person may book a Short-
FACILITATOR: Term Rental Unit to transient guests, regardless of whether payment is transferred
             through or processed by such Facilitator. Facilitators are considered Lessors, as
             used herein. Online Travel Companies are considered Facilitators, as used herein.
             Any person having a sufficient proprietary interest in conducting the operation of
LESSOR:      a Short-Term Rental Unit or receiving the consideration for the rental of all or
             part of such Short-Term Rental, so as to entitle such person to all or a portion
             of the net receipts thereof, including Facilitators, as defined herein.
             The premises specified in a zoning certificate of compliance or special use permit
LICENSED     which allows for operation of a one or more Short-Term Rental Unit(s) in
PREMISES:    accordance with the provisions of this article and Title 11 Zoning Regulations of
             the City Code of Ordinances.
LICENSEE:    Any person licensed to operate and maintain a Short-Term Rental Unit under the
             provision of this chapter.
ONLINE       An organization that books, reserves, or rents hotel or motel rooms and makes
TRAVEL       other travel arrangements for consumers via the World Wide Web, internet or other
COMPANY:     digital means. Online Travel Companies are considered Facilitators, as used
             herein.
             An accommodation for one group of transient guests where a residential dwelling is
             rented for licensed lodging for a period of time no less than 24 hours and not to
SHORT-TERM   exceed 30 days. For the purpose of this definition, a residential dwelling shall
RENTAL UNIT: include all housing types. This includes “Type A” and “Type B” Short-Term Rental
             Units as defined in Title 11 of this code. This definition does not apply to a
             lease-back provision as part of a sale in a real estate transaction. (Ord. 7818,
             11-10-2021; amd. Ord. 7878, 4-12-2023)
 
4-22-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENT:
It shall be unlawful to offer, provide, or operate a Short-Term Rental Unit in
the City of Alton without first obtaining a license as provided in this article
and in compliance with any and all applicable laws, regulations, and the city
code adopted pursuant thereto. (Ord. 7818, 11-10-2021)
4-22-3: APPLICATION:
   A.   Before any license under this article is issued, an application shall
be submitted to the City Treasurer. All applications shall be made upon forms
provided by the City Treasurer. The City may, at the Treasurer’s discretion,
require additional documentation associated with the application as may be
deemed necessary. In addition to any other requirements, applicants shall
provide the following documentation to the City verifying Short-Term Rental
Unit operator and premise information:
      1.   A valid Illinois driver’s license or a valid Illinois state
identification card; and
      2.   Proof of ownership of the Short-Term Rental Unit, either by valid
warranty deed, mortgage statement, or other verification of the applicant’s
ownership of the premises.
      3.   The address and legal description of the proposed Short-Term Rental
Unit.
      4.   A site plan showing:
         a.   The location of all existing structures in relation to the
property lines, and
         b.   The location of all existing and proposed parking areas and
driveways in relation to the property lines and structures.
         c.   An aerial map or hand sketch of the Short-Term Rental Unit
property may be deemed sufficient to satisfy the site plan requirement. Upon
review, the Treasurer and zoning administrator reserve the right to require
additional documentation, including but not limited to a professional land
survey, to satisfy the site plan requirement.
      5.   Existing floor plans of all structures on the property.
         a.   A detailed hand sketch of the floor plans indicating the
measurements of all rooms within all structures on the property may be deemed
sufficient to satisfy the floor plan requirement. Upon review, the Treasurer
and zoning administrator reserve the right to require additional documentation,
including but not limited to architectural drawings, to satisfy the floor plan
requirement.
Any other legal documentation deemed sufficient by the Treasurer which is
pertinent to establishing residency. (Ord. 7818, 11-10-2021; amd. Ord. 7878, 4-
12-2023)
4-22-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   A.   The City Treasurer shall issue a Short-Term Rental Unit license when it
is determined that all of the following requirements have been met:
      1.   A zoning certificate of compliance or special use permit for the
Short-Term Rental Unit has been approved by the Planning & Development
Department.
      2.   The zoning certificate of compliance or special use permit and
Short-Term Rental license shall state the maximum occupancy allowable for the
Short-Tenn Rental Unit based on the City’s adopted codes.
      3.   All applicable state and local fire standards have been complied
with including:
         a.   The state fire marshal’s requirements for one- and two-family
dwellings,
         b.   All other local fire prevention standards.
      4.   All other applicable standards, including, but not limited to,
building construction, plumbing, electrical, property maintenance, and ADA
accessibility standards.
      5.   The Licensee shall maintain minimum liability insurance coverage of
five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000) for each individual and one million
dollars ($1,000,000) for each occurrence. The Licensee shall submit a
certificate of liability insurance prior to the issuance of the license.
Failure to maintain minimum liability insurance shall result in automatic
revocation of the Short-Term Rental license.
      6.   The Licensee shall submit a certificate of registration from the
Illinois Department of Revenue for payment of any applicable state hotel or
sales taxes.
   B.   License Displayed: Once the license is issued, the Licensee shall
display the license at the licensed premises at all times in a location easily
viewed by guests of the Short-Term Rental Unit. The Online Travel Company
Facilitator shall display the license number, expiration date, and maximum
occupancy limit for all Short-Term Rental Unit advertisements or rental
listings located within the corporate limits of the City of Alton. (Ord. 7878,
4-12-2023)
4-22-5: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Safety requirements. It shall be unlawful to operate a Short-Term
Rental Unit without a functioning smoke detector, carbon monoxide detector, and
fire extinguisher on the licensed premises.
   B.   Compliance with city and state laws. It shall be unlawful to operate a
Short-Term Rental Unit that does not comply with all applicable city and state
laws.
   C.   Advertising. It shall be unlawful to advertise a Short-Term Rental Unit
without the license number, expiration date, and maximum occupancy limit
clearly displayed on the face of the advertisement. For the purpose of this
section, the terms “advertise,” “advertising” or “advertisement” mean the act
of drawing the public’s attention to a Short-Term Rental Unit.
   D.   Unlawful transactions. On and after January 1, 2022 it shall be
unlawful for any Online Travel Company Facilitator to receive payment, directly
or indirectly, for an unlicensed Short-Term Rental Unit located in the City.
The provisions of this subsection D. are entirely strict liability in nature.
   E.   Records. On and after January 1, 2022, it shall be unlawful for any
person or entity licensed under this section to fail to comply with section
4-3-10. (Ord. 7818, 11-10-2021; amd. Ord. 7878, 4-12-2023)
4-22-6: RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL USE DISTINGUISHED:
   A.   Zoning Regulations Applicable: For purposes of the zoning regulations
of the City, Short-Term Rental Units may be allowable in residential districts
as prescribed in and in compliance with all requirements set forth in Title 11
of this Code.
   B.   State Tax Requirements: For purposes of the Illinois Department of
Revenue, a Short-Term Rental Unit shall be considered a hotel and shall be
subject to all requirements of the Illinois Department of Revenue including
payment of all applicable Hotel Taxes.
   C.   City Hotel Use Tax: For purposes of the City’s Hotel Use Tax, it shall
be the duty of every Lessor at the time a transient guest pays for the
privilege of occupying all or part of a Short-Term Rental Unit to remit the
Hotel Use Tax in accordance with Title 4, Chapter 3, Section 7 of this Code.
(Ord. 7878, 4-12-2023)
4-22-7: TERM LICENSE, RENEWAL, TRANSFERAL:
   A.   The term of said license shall begin on January 1 of the year for which
such document is issued and shall terminate on December 31 of the same year.
   B.   If the licensee has received notice of violation of any law or
regulation, including disciplinary action against the license, the application
for renewal shall include a copy of the notice or disciplinary action.
   C.   In addition to the grounds set forth in Title 4, Chapter 1 of this
Code, a Short-Term Rental Unit license may not be renewed if there are causes
for denial, suspension, revocation or other licensing sanctions as provided in
Title 4, Chapter 1 or this article, or rules and regulations promulgated
thereto.
   D.   Except where the City Treasurer has received a complete renewal
application along with the requisite fees, it shall be unlawful for any person
to operate a Short-Term Rental Unit after the expiration date recorded upon the
face of the Short-Term Rental Unit license.
   E.   No license granted pursuant to this article shall be transferable from
one (1) person to another or from one (1) location to another. (Ord. 7818, 11-
10-2021; amd. Ord. 7878, 4-12-2023)
4-22-8: CONDITIONS, APPEAL, AND DENIAL:
   A.    Conditions: No business license for the operation of a Short-Term
Rental Unit in the city shall be issued if one or more of the following
conditions are determined by the City Treasurer to exist:
      1.   The building or premises utilized by the establishment does not
comply with the provisions and terms of the building code, zoning ordinance,
fire regulations, health regulations or any other ordinances and regulations of
the city.
      2.   The building or premises proposed to be licensed are in a condition
of being unsanitary or unsafe so as to endanger the public safety, health or
welfare.
      3.   The property owner is delinquent in indebtedness to the city.
      4.   The owner of a licensed premises has a Short-Term Rental Unit
license revoked within the past 12 months for the same or other Short-Term
Rental Unit, If a Short-Term Rental Unit license is revoked twice, no Short-
Term Rental license shall subsequently be issued for such owner for any
premises.
   B.   Appeal: In the event a person is denied the issuance of a business
regulatory certificate by the City Treasurer for any of the reasons as set
forth in this section, the City Treasurer shall provide a written notice of the
denial to the applicant. The denial shall specify the conditions determined by
the City Treasurer to exist upon which the denial is based by referencing the
paragraph or paragraphs of this section relied upon by the City Treasurer in
determining to deny the business regulatory certificate. If the applicant
desires to appeal the determination of the City Treasurer to deny the business
regulatory certificate, the applicant may do so by compliance with the
following administrative procedures:
      1.   The applicant shall file a written notice of appeal with the Office
of the Mayor of the City of Alton within fourteen (14) days following the
written denial of the City Treasurer. The notice of appeal must be accompanied
by a copy of the written denial of the City Treasurer along with a statement
from the applicant of his intent to appeal said denial. The applicant must
provide at a minimum the applicant’s current name, address and contact
information, including if available, a phone number and e-mail address. If the
applicant desires to be represented by an attorney licensed to practice law in
the State of Illinois, the applicant shall further set forth the name, current
address and if available the phone number and the e-mail address for said
attorney.
      2.   Upon receipt of a notice of appeal as aforesaid, the mayor shall
schedule an administrative hearing to be held before the mayor, or a hearing
officer to be designated by the mayor, in City Hall at a time and on a date to
be determined by the mayor, not less than fourteen (14) days and not more than
thirty (30) days following the receipt of the notice of appeal in the office of
the mayor.
      3.   At the administrative hearing before the mayor, or his designated
hearing officer, the appellant will first present his application for a
business regulatory certificate, together with any supporting documents,
testimony or other evidence he may so choose to present to describe the
particular commercial establishment desired to be operated by the applicant,
along with evidence as to the suitability of the location for the proposed
commercial establishment. Following the presentation of the merits of the
application by the applicant as aforesaid, the City Treasurer, or his
designated representative, shall present any and all documents, materials,
testimony or other evidence he may so choose to present in support of the
determination to deny the issuance of the business regulatory certificate.
      4.   All persons who testify in the course of the administrative hearing
shall be sworn by the mayor or the hearing officer. All persons who testify
shall be subject to cross examination by the party not calling the person to
testify. The formal rules of evidence applicable in a court of law shall not be
applied but may be used as a guide in the conduct of the hearing. Hearsay and
other forms of evidence may be admitted in the discretion of the mayor or the
hearing officer.
      5.   The hearing may be continued from time to time by the mayor or the
hearing officer with notice to the applicant and City Treasurer or his
designated representative delivered in the course of the hearing or later by
mail. A complete record of the hearing shall be caused to be made by the mayor
or the hearing officer by way of audiotape, stenographer or court reporter.
      6.   Upon the conclusion of the evidence and any arguments that may be
permitted on the record in the discretion of the mayor or the hearing officer,
the hearing shall be adjourned. Within fourteen (14) days following the
adjournment of the hearing, the mayor or the hearing officer shall issue a
written decision to either affirm the decision of the City Treasurer to deny
the issuance of a business regulatory certificate or, in the alternative, order
the City Treasurer to issue a business regulatory certificate. Notice of the
written decision, including findings of fact to support the decision, shall be
mailed to the applicant by regular U.S. Postal Service and shall be filed with
the City Treasurer with the mailing thereof and shall thereafter be considered
public records.
      7.   The decision of the mayor or hearing officer shall be considered a
final administrative order and shall be subject to judicial review pursuant to
the Illinois administrative review act. (Ord. 7818, 11-10-2021; amd. Ord. 7878,
4-12-2023)
4-22-9: DISCIPLINARY ACTIONS; SANCTIONS; PENALTIES:
   A.   In addition to the grounds provided in Section 8 of this chapter, a
Short-Term Rental Unit license may be suspended or revoked for any of the
grounds for denial set forth in Title 4; Chapter 1 of this Code.
   B.   Procedures for investigation of license violations and for suspension,
revocation or other licensing sanctions as a result of any such violation shall
be as provided in Title 4, Chapter 1, Section 9 of this Code.
   C.   Failure of a Short-Term Rental Unit Licensee, Online Travel Company
Facilitator, Lessor, or Facilitator, as defined in Section
4-22-1, to adhere to the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a civil
penalty of up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per violation per day. (Ord.
7818, 11-10-2021; amd. Ord. 7878, 4-12-2023)
4-22-10: RECORDS:
   A.   Each Short-Term Rental Unit licensee shall maintain the following
records for the past year:
      1.   Total number of nights the Short-Term Rental Unit was rented to a
guest; and
      2.   The dates in which the Short-Term Rental Unit was rented by a guest.
   B.   Each Online Travel Company Facilitator shall maintain the following
information for Short-Term Rental Unit transactions facilitated in the City
within the past five years:
      1.   The name of the person who offered the Short-Term Rental Unit;
      2.   The address of the Short-Term Rental Unit;
      3.   The dates for which the Short-Term Rental Unit was booked by a
guest;
      4.   The price paid by the guest for each Short-Term Rental Unit
transaction; and
      5.   The Short-Term Rental Unit license number.
   C.   The department shall maintain and make publicly available a list of all
licensed Short-Term Rental Units within the city. (Ord. 7818, 11-10-2021; amd.
Ord. 7878, 4-12-2023)
CHAPTER 23
FOOD TRUCKS AND FOOD TRUCK PARKS
SECTION:
4-23-1: Definitions
4-23-2: License Required
4-23-3: Manner Of Operation
4-23-4: Tax Imposed
4-23-5: Sales Tax Returns
4-23-6: Public Health Standards
4-23-7: Food Truck Park
4-23-8: Penalties And Revocation
4-23-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
 
                   A local health department permitted food establishment that
                   acts as a base of operations for a food truck. The
                   commissary provides facilities for adequate storage of food,
                   food containers, or food supplies; equipment for adequate
COMMISSARY:        washing and sanitizing of food equipment and utensils; a
                   servicing area for the sanitary disposal of liquid waste;
                   for handling and disposal of garbage, grease, and rubbish
                   originating from the food truck; facilities for filling a
                   potable water holding tank in a sanitary manner.
                   Any self-contained motorized vehicle, or self-contained
FOOD TRUCK:        enclosed trailer with a valid license plate and
                   registration, from which prepare food for immediate
                   consumption is served.
                   An outdoor lot with the capacity for two (2) or more food
FOOD TRUCK PARK:   truck vendors to congregate to offer food or beverages for
                   sale to the public as the principal use of the land.
                   A person engaged in the business of selling food or non-
                   alcoholic beverages from a self-contained motorized vehicle
FOOD TRUCK VENDOR: or a self-contained enclosed trailer with valid license
                   plates and registration. A food truck vendor does not
                   include an ice cream truck operator.
                   A self-contained motorized vehicle or self-contained
ICE CREAM TRUCK:   enclosed trailer designed to be operated on the roadway,
                   from which ice cream is sold.
RESTAURANT:        Any place where food or drink is prepared and served to the
                   public for immediate consumption on the premises.
                   Includes, for the purposes of this chapter, any outdoor or
                   seasonal event including, but not limited to a picnic,
                   parade, carnival, craft fair, art fair, bicycle/motorcycle/
                   vehicle ride, walk/run, car show, wedding or other
                   reception, or any other event held on public property which
SPECIAL EVENT:     is open to attendance by the general public and/or may
                   require special consideration from any or all of the
                   following city departments: Alton Police Department, Alton
                   Fire Department, Department of Public Works and Alton Parks
                   Department. Special events, for the purposes of this
                   chapter, shall also include any city-run events, events held
                   on city property, or in public parks. (Ord. 7830, 3-23-2022)
 
4-23-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   No food truck vendor shall engage in the operation of a food truck
within the City of Alton without first having obtained a license from the City
Treasurer's office authorizing the same. The City Treasurer shall prescribe the
form of such license. All licenses shall be prominently displayed on the food
truck. No vending through a food truck of food and/or other human consumables
shall be permitted unless it meets the definition of food truck as defined by
this chapter.
   B.   Licenses shall be valid for each calendar year, beginning January 1 and
ending December 31.
   C.   Licenses shall be renewed on an annual basis.
   D.   The license fee for a food truck shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   E.   In the event that one person or company operates more than on food
truck in the City of Alton, each such food truck shall require a separate
license.
   F.   Any license issued for the operation of a food truck shall not be
transferable. (Ord. 7830, 3-23-2022)
4-23-3: MANNER OF OPERATION:
   A.   Prohibited Locations: Food trucks may not locate or operate with five
hundred feet (500') of an existing restaurant unless they are part of a Special
Event. Food trucks may not operate in an "R" zoned districts or on public
right-of-way except as part of a special event, as defined herein. Food trucks
may only locate within the five hundred feet (500') restricted area around a
restaurant if (i) the record owner of the established restaurant provides
written consent, and (ii) is no closer than five hundred feet (500') of another
restaurant. Ice cream trucks, as defined herein, shall be exempt from the
location requirements set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Special Events: Food trucks may only operate in an "R" zoned area or on
a public right-of-way if they are part of a special event, as defined herein.
Any special event that will include food trucks must list the approximate
number of food trucks and approximate location of said food truck(s) as an
appendix to their special event application. A food truck that participates in
one (1) special event within the City of Alton during a calendar year, may
obtain a limited use license from the office of the City Treasurer's office.
There shall be no fee for a limited use license. Any food truck participating
in more than one (1) special event within the City of Alton is required to have
a license as established in this chapter.
   C.   Hours Of Operation: Food trucks shall only be operated between the
hours of seven o’clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o’clock (10:00) P.M.
   D.   Sale Of Alcoholic Beverages: The sale of alcoholic beverages shall be
governed by the terms of chapter 4-4 of this code.
   E.   Vehicle Appearance And Maintenance: Food trucks shall be kept in good
mechanical and structural condition. Food trucks shall have a clean exterior
and interior and shall be equipped with signs to alert traffic to proceed with
caution past the truck or cart while it is serving customers. Each vehicle
shall have the company name affixed to it in a professional, workmanlike manner
and in letters that are a minimum of six inches (6") in height. The company
name shall be affixed to each side and rear of the vehicle. Generators and fuel
tanks shall be affixed to the vehicle and shall not be placed on the ground.
   F.   Service Area: No service area for the operation of the food truck shall
block, obstruct, or interfere with vehicular, bicycle, or pedestrian flow.
   G.   Any food truck vendor shall comply with the following requirements:
      1.   Provide appropriate waste receptacles at the site of the unit and
remove all litter, debris and other waste attributable to the vendor on a daily
basis.
      2.   If parked on public streets, vendors shall conform to all applicable
parking regulations.
      3.   Not operate on public property within one block of a special event,
as defined herein, or street fair, public festival, farmers market or event
being conducted without authorization from the event sponsor.
      4.   Not use any flashing or blinking lights or strobe lights; all
exterior lights over sixty (60) watts shall contain opaque, hood shields to
direct the illumination downward.
      5.   Not use loud music, amplification devices or "crying out" or any
other audible methods to gain attention which causes a disruption or safety
hazard as determined by the City.
      6.   Comply with the city's Noise Ordinance, Sign Ordinance and all other
City ordinances.
      7.   Comply with all applicable federal, state and county regulations.
      8.   May have one portable sign that is six (6) square feet, with no
dimension greater than three feet (3') and no height (with legs) greater than
four feet (4'), located within five feet (5') of the unit; and under no
circumstances shall such sign be placed upon the sidewalk or impede pedestrian
and/or vehicle safety.
      9.   Not represent the granting of a license under this chapter as an
endorsement by the City.
      10.   Shall not utilize any electricity or power without the prior
written authorization of the power customer; no power cable or similar device
shall be extended at or across any city street, alley, or sidewalk except in a
safe manner. (Ord. 7830, 3-23-2022)
4-23-4: TAX IMPOSED:
   A.   A tax is hereby imposed upon all sales of food and beverages from food
trucks that have been prepared for immediate consumption within the City of
Alton at the rate of one-half percent (0.5%) of the selling price of such food
and/or beverages. This tax is imposed in addition to any other tax imposed by
the City of Alton or any other governmental entity with respect to such food
and beverages. The purchaser of such food and beverages from food trucks shall
be liable for the payment of the tax imposed, but the food truck vendor assumes
the responsibility of collecting and paying said tax to the City.
   B.   Food trucks holding a limited use license, as defined herein, shall be
subject to this section, and shall assume responsibility of collecting and
paying said tax to the City in the same manner as prescribed herein. (Ord.
7830, 3-23-2022)
4-23-5: SALES TAX RETURNS:
   A.   To Alton: Every person engaged in the business of selling food and
beverages from a food truck for immediate consumption, within the City, shall
file with the City Treasurer, on or before the last day of each calendar month,
a report in the form required by the City Treasurer, and the report shall be
accompanied by a check or other form of payment, in the amount of the tax due
and payable upon such taxable sales made during the preceding month.
   B.   To Illinois: Every report filed above shall be accompanied by a
photocopy or other copy of the sales tax return filed by the person engaged in
the business of selling such food and beverages with the Illinois Department of
Revenue pursuant to 35 ILCS 120/3, as amended, (commonly known as "the Sales
Tax return") showing the total sales made by such person for the preceding
calendar month. (Ord. 7830, 3-23-2022)
4-23-6: PUBLIC HEALTH STANDARDS:
No food, food products, or beverages for public consumption shall be kept,
offered for sale, transported, or handled except in accordance with the rule
and regulations of the State of Illinois and the Madison County Heath
Department. In the event a food truck vendor's permit(s) and/or license(s) is
suspended or revoked by either the State of Illinois and/or the Madison County
Health Department, the license issued pursuant to this chapter shall likewise
be suspended or revoked until such time as the State of Illinois or Madison
County Health Department reinstates said permit(s) and/or license(s). (Ord.
7830, 3-23-2022)
4-23-7: FOOD TRUCK PARK:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to operate a food truck park in the City of Alton
without having first obtained a class C regulatory certificate as defined in
chapter 4-1 of this title, and without full compliance with the provisions of
this code. Each food truck park shall comply with all city, county, and state
codes and regulations regarding health and safety.
   B.   A food truck park is required to be on a parcel of at least four
thousand (4,000) square feet in size.
   C.   No participating food truck shall operate within a food truck park
without having first obtained a license as set forth in this chapter.
   D.   A food truck park shall be able to accommodate no less than two (2) and
no more than ten (10) individual food trucks within the food truck park.
   E.   Operating hours for any food truck park possessing a liquor license
pursuant to this code shall be governed by section
4-4-10 of this code. Operating hours for any food truck park not possessing a
liquor license pursuant to this code shall be in accordance with the hours set
forth in this chapter. Operating hours for food trucks operating within the
boundaries of a food truck park shall be in accord with the operating hours of
the food truck park.
   F.   There must be a designated manager of the site that is responsible for
the orderly organization of the food truck park, the cleanliness of the site
and the site's compliance with all rules and regulations during working hours.
   G.   Permanent restrooms must be provided within the boundaries of the food
truck park. The number of restrooms required shall be based on the occupant
load for fixed seating of the food truck park and in compliance with this code.
At a minimum two (2) restrooms shall be available for use.
   H.   Each food truck park is required to provide water and electricity
access for each individual food truck that operates at the site. Each food
truck is not allowed to operate a generator at the food truck park unless
emergency circumstances necessitate the need for use of a generator.
   I.   The owner or operator of any food truck park within the City of Alton
shall cause to be kept a record relating to the dates of operation for all food
trucks that operate within the food truck park. Such record shall be kept on an
annual basis and a copy of the same shall be remitted to the City of Alton
Treasurer's office by December 31 of the year in which such record was kept.
   J.   No food truck operating within a food truck park shall be allowed to
operate within the food truck park while in violation of any other provision of
this chapter.
   K.   A site plan shall be provided for review showing:
      1.   The land area included within the site, the zoning classification of
adjacent sites, and all public and private rights-of-way and easements bounding
and intersecting the site;
      2.   A legal description of the platted lot of the proposed site and the
boundaries thereof;
      3.   The location of each proposed permanent structure on the site and
proposed locations of food trucks, and identification of any proposed outdoor
entertainment locations;
      4.   The location of fire hydrants;
      5.   The dimensions and capacities of parking areas and loading areas;
      6.   Landscaping of all street frontages;
      7.   All pedestrian walks, patios and open areas for use by tenants or
the public;
      8.   The location and height of all walls, fences and screen planting and
landscaping;
      9.   The location, size, height, foot candle level and orientation of all
lighting and signs;
      10.   Location and screening of refuse containers, air conditioners and
outside storage or display;
      11.   Location and number of provided seating and eating areas, including
number of fixed seats and tables;
      12.   A schedule of the phasing of all improvements shown in the plan;
      13.   Location, height, separation of buildings, including location of
restrooms, and open space; and
   L.   Food trucks shall be parked on gravel, compacted gravel, concrete or
other improved surface within a food truck park. Food trucks shall not be
parked on unimproved surfaces.
   M.   One on-premises sign is permitted at the entrance identifying the food
truck park. Each food truck may have attached signage. One portable sign in
accordance with the chapter may be used by each food truck.
   N.   The food truck park must be located at least five hundred feet (500')
from any "R" zoning district. Food truck parks within five hundred feet (500')
from any "R" zoning district, as measured at the property line of the food
truck park boundary, are permitted only by special use permit, with such
application made in accordance with this code.
   O.   Food truck parks that have obtained the required Class C regulatory
certificate are not subject to proximity restrictions relating to restaurants.
All food trucks operating within the boundaries of an authorized food truck
park shall be exempt from the prohibition from operating within five hundred
feet (500') of a restaurant. (Ord. 7830, 3-23-2022)
4-23-8: PENALTIES AND REVOCATION:
   A.   Any food truck or food truck vendor who violates any provision of this
chapter shall subject them to a civil infraction, punishable by a fine as set
forth in this code.
   B.   The license for any food truck or food truck vendor who fails to meet
any requirement of this chapter, violates the provisions of this chapter, or
any other federal, state, or local regulation, makes a false statement on their
application, or conducts activity in a manner adverse to the protection of
public health, safety and welfare shall be subject to immediate revocation,
suspension or fine.
   C.   Any food truck or food truck vendor who violates the provisions of this
chapter shall not be eligible for renewal of a license, or of issuance of a
limited use license, or for participation in any special event, until such time
that such violation is remedied. (Ord. 7830, 3-23-2022)
CHAPTER 24
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-24-1: Purpose And Intent
4-24-2: Definitions
4-24-3: License Required
4-24-4: Zoning Districts
4-24-5: Maximum Number Of Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments
4-24-6: Distances
4-24-7: Principal Use
4-24-8: Application
4-24-9: Special Requirements For Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization
4-24-10: Adult-Use Cannabis Lounge
4-24-11: Special Requirements For Certain Adult-Use Cannabis Business
Establishments
4-24-12: Additional Requirements
4-24-13: Operating Requirements
4-24-14: Odor Emissions
4-24-15: Severability
4-24-16: Effective Date
4-24-17: Penalties
4-24-18: Dissolution Of Use And Revocation Of Zoning
4-24-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide regulations regarding the
cultivation, processing and dispensing of adult-use cannabis occurring within
the corporate limits of the City. Such facilities shall comply with all
regulations provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027
(Act), as it may be amended from time to time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder, and the regulations provided below. In the event that the Act is
amended, the more restrictive of the state or local regulations shall apply.
The Department of Planning and Development shall govern the application process
of a cannabis business establishment license.
   B.   It is further the purpose of this chapter is to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare of the residents, businesses, and property in the
City by prescribing the manner in which adult-use cannabis establishments,
including matters in relation to:
      1.   Providing for a means of cultivation, production, and distribution
of cannabis to persons permitted to obtain, possess, and use cannabis for
recreational purposes under the Act.
      2.   Protecting public health and safety through reasonable limitations
on business operations as they relate to noise, air, and water quality, food
safety, neighborhood and public safety, security for the business and its
personnel, and other health and safety concerns.
      3.   Promoting lively street life and high-quality neighborhoods by
limiting the concentration of any one type of adult-use cannabis establishments
in specific areas.
      4.   Creating regulations that address the particular needs of the
residents and businesses of the City and coordinate with laws that may be
enacted by the State of Illinois regarding adult-use cannabis establishments
and recreational cannabis use.
      5.   Facilitating the implementation of the Act without going beyond the
authority granted by it.
      6.   Protecting public safety and residential areas by limiting the areas
of the City where adult-use cannabis establishments may be located.
      7.   Permitting recreational cannabis use, distribution, cultivation, and
production where it will have a minimal impact and potential negative impacts
are minimized, since these can have an impact on health, safety, and community
resources.
      8.   Use, distribution, cultivation, production, possession, and
transportation of cannabis is currently illegal under federal law, and cannabis
remains classified as a ''Level 1 Controlled Substance" by federal law.
      9.   The General Assembly has adopted enabling legislation that provides
for adult-use cannabis establishments; however, the Act does not completely
address the local impacts of adult-use cannabis establishments on
municipalities, making it appropriate for local regulation of adult-use
cannabis establishments.
      10.   Nothing in this chapter is intended to promote or condone the
production, distribution, or possession of cannabis in violation of any
applicable laws.
      11.   This chapter is to be construed to protect the public over the
interests of adult-use cannabis establishments.
      12.   Adult-use cannabis establishments are a heavily regulated industry
in the State and all licensees are assumed to be fully aware of the law, hence
the City shall not therefore be required to issue warnings before issuing
citations for violations of this chapter.
      13.   This chapter is intended to specify the time, place, and manner
restrictions for operating an adult-use cannabis establishments in the City as
specified under the Act and in this chapter.
      14.   The City Council has determined to allow adult-use cannabis
establishments in the City on the condition that the establishments are
operated in compliance with this chapter rather than banning them in the City
as permitted by the Act. (Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022)
4-24-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACT:                                    The Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
                                        410 ILCS 705/1 et seq. ("Act").
                                        Any one or more of adult-use cannabis
                                        cultivation center, adult-use cannabis
                                        craft grower, adult-use cannabis
                                        processing organization or processor,
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS             adult-use cannabis infuser organization
ESTABLISHMENT:                          or infuser, adult-use cannabis
                                        dispensing organization, adult-use
                                        cannabis transporting organization or
                                        transporter, or an adult-use cannabis
                                        lounge.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        cultivate, dry, cure and package
                                        cannabis and perform other necessary
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER:        activities to make cannabis available
                                        for sale at a dispensing organization
                                        or use at a processing organization,
                                        per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax
                                        Act, P.A. 101-0027, as it may be
                                        amended from time to time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        cultivate, process, transport and
                                        perform necessary activities to provide
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER:  cannabis and cannabis-infused products
                                        to licensed cannabis business
                                        establishments, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027,
                                        as it may be amended from time to time,
                                        and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Financial and
                                        Professional Regulation to acquire
                                        cannabis from licensed cannabis
                                        business establishments for the purpose
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING           of selling or dispensing cannabis,
ORGANIZATION (RECREATIONAL OR MEDICAL): cannabis-infused products, cannabis
                                        seeds, paraphernalia or related
                                        supplies to purchasers or to qualified
                                        registered medical cannabis patients
                                        and care givers, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101- 0027,
                                        as it may be amended from time to time,
                                        and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        directly incorporate cannabis or
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION cannabis concentrate into a product
or INFUSER:                             formulation to produce a cannabis-
                                        infused product, per the Cannabis
                                        Regulation and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027,
                                        as it may be amended from time to time,
                                        and regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        A non-residential facility open to the
                                        general public in accordance with
ADULT-USE CANNABIS LOUNGE:              applicable laws, where cannabis may be
                                        used within the indoor confines of the
                                        facility.
                                        A facility operated by an organization
                                        or business that is licensed by the
                                        Illinois Department of Agriculture to
                                        either extract constituent chemicals or
                                        compounds to produce cannabis
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING           concentrate or incorporate cannabis or
ORGANIZATION or PROCESSOR:              cannabis concentrate into a product
                                        formulation to produce a cannabis
                                        product, per the Cannabis Regulation
                                        and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027, as it may
                                        be amended from time to time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        An organization or business that is
                                        licensed by the Illinois Department of
                                        Agriculture to transport cannabis on
                                        behalf of a cannabis business
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING         establishment or a community college
ORGANIZATION or TRANSPORTER:            licensed under the Community College
                                        Cannabis Vocational Training Pilot
                                        Program, per the Cannabis Regulation
                                        and Tax Act, P.A. 101-0027, as it may
                                        be amended from time to time, and
                                        regulations promulgated thereunder.
                                        Any form or variety of cannabis as
                                        defined by the Act and for purposes of
CANNABIS:                               this chapter shall include all forms of
                                        cannabis, including contained within
                                        edible products.
                                        Within a fully enclosed and secure
                                        structure that complies with the
                                        Building Codes adopted by the City and
                                        that has a complete roof enclosure
                                        supported by connecting walls extending
                                        from the ground to the roof, and a
                                        foundation slab or equivalent base to
INDOOR:                                 which the floor is secured and
                                        attached; further, the structure must
                                        be secure against unauthorized entry,
                                        accessible only through two (2) or more
                                        lockable doors, and constructed of
                                        solid materials that cannot be easily
                                        broken through, and plastic sheeting
                                        regardless of opacity or thickness does
                                        not satisfy this requirement.
                                        Any location that is not "indoor"
OUTDOOR:                                within a fully enclosed and secure
                                        structure as defined herein. (Ord.
                                        7851, 9-28-2022)
 
4-24-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   A valid license from the Illinois Department of Agriculture, Illinois
Department of Financial and Professional Regulations, or other authorized State
licensing agency;
   B.   An adult-use cannabis business license from the City. (Ord. 7851, 9-28-
2022)
4-24-4: ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.   Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments shall be restricted as
follows in the following districts:
      1.   Adult-use cannabis craft growers are permitted by right in the M-
1 Light Industrial District and C-5 Heavy Commercial District;
      2.   Adult-use cannabis cultivation centers, under cover and open field,
are permitted by right M-1 Light Industrial District;
      3.   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations shall be limited to one
per each of the two (2) cannabis dispensary zones as provided for in subsection
C of this section and allowed by right within C-2 General Commercial District
and C-5 Heavy Commercial District;
      4.   Adult-use cannabis infuser organizations are permitted by right in
M-1 Light Industrial District and C-5 Heavy Commercial District;
      5.   Adult-use cannabis processing organizations are permitted by right
in M-1 Light Industrial District and C-5 Heavy Commercial District;
      6.   Adult-use cannabis transporting organizations are permitted by right
within the M-1 Light Industrial District; and
      7.   Adult-use cannabis lounges shall be limited to one per each of the
two (2) cannabis dispensary zones as provided for in subsection C of this
section and allowed by right within C-2 General Commercial District and C-
5 Heavy Commercial District.
   B.   Adult-use cannabis business establishments shall conform to and meet
all regulations established by the City and the State of Illinois.
Nonconformance may be considered dissolution of the business license.
   C.   The cannabis dispensary zone map for the City is as follows:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/29214e9ac251c479cbdc7233b02ac6caf425d7cd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3446.png]
 
(Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022; amd. Ord. 7928, 2- -2024)
4-24-5: MAXIMUM NUMBER OF ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   The number of certain adult-use cannabis business establishments in the
City at any one time shall be limited as follows:
      1.   One (1) adult-use cannabis craft grower.
      2.   One (1) adult-use cannabis cultivation center.
      3.   Two (2) adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations.
      4.   One (1) adult-use cannabis processing organization.
      5.   One (1) adult-use cannabis infuser organization.
      6.   One (1) adult-use cannabis transporting organization.
      7.   Two (2) adult-use cannabis lounges.
   B.   The priority of adult-use cannabis business establishments that qualify
to operate in the City pursuant to this section shall be determined by those
adult-use cannabis business establishments that first hold a valid cannabis
license from the State of Illinois and that also comply with all applicable
provisions of the Alton Municipal Code to the satisfaction of the City.
   C.   The number of licenses issued within the City for the retail sale of
cannabis shall be reviewed periodically by the City Council. (Ord. 7851, 9-28-
2022)
4-24-6: DISTANCES:
   A.   Subject to more restrictive otherwise provided for in this Chapter, no
adult-use cannabis business establishments shall be located within two thousand
feet (2,000') of any other adult-use cannabis business establishment.
   B.   Subject to more restrictive otherwise provided for in this chapter, no
adult-use cannabis business establishments shall be located within one thousand
feet (1,000') of any one of the following:
      1.   Public or private elementary or secondary school, or any facility
owned or operated by such school;
      2.   Public or privately owned preschool or childcare center;
      3.   Playground, public park, recreation center or facility, or private
park;
      4.   Hospitals, or health care facilities;
      5.   Any arcade that admits persons under the age of twenty one (21);
      6.   Church, temple, synagogue, mosque, or chapel; or
      7.   Public building or public library.
   C.   The distances provided for in this chapter shall be measured linearly
and shall be the shortest distance between the closest points of the
established building line of the primary structure of each property. This
requirement shall not be subject to variance. If a boundary line measured
touches upon any portion of a parcel or lot, the parcel or lot shall be within
the area being identified by the City. (Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022)
4-24-7: PRINCIPAL USE:
   A.   Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments Shall:
      1.   Be considered a principal use and cannot have an accessory use not
directly related to the that principal cannabis use;
      2.   Not be located in the same offices of a physician or other medical
provider, nor shall they share a facility that includes the offices of a
physician or other medical provider;
      3.   Not operate as a home occupation. (Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022)
4-24-8: APPLICATION:
   A.   No person shall sell or offer for sale or possess with the intent to
sell at retail any cannabis without a license issued by the City pursuant to
this chapter, in addition to a license issued by the State of Illinois. All
policies, procedures and standards of acquiring an adult-use cannabis license
from the City shall apply, unless as otherwise noted in this chapter. In
addition to other information that may be required for an adult-use business
license from the City, the license shall include:
      1.   Contacts: The names, address, office phone numbers(s), cell phone
numbers, fax numbers, and email addresses of the owners, operators and agents
of the adult-use cannabis business establishment.
      2.   Site Plan: A site plan of the adult-use cannabis business
establishment showing:
         a.   Nature of the structure to be used for the purpose of adult-use
cannabis business establishment;
         b.   Demonstration that the facility meets the conditions for an
enclosed, locked facility;
         c.   Distance from all other facilities and uses requiring setbacks as
provided for in this chapter;
         d.   Location of video surveillance equipment;
         e.   Location, height and nature of any fences or any other barriers
meant to provide security for the site;
         f.   Nature and adequacy of supervision and security at the site.
      3.   Setbacks: Evidence demonstrating that tire adult-use cannabis
business establishment would meet all requirements of state law regarding
setbacks required in the Act and any implementing regulations of same.
      4.   State Fees: Evidence demonstrating that all State of Illinois
required fees have been paid.
      5.   Limitation Of Liability: At the time of submission of an
application, the petitioner shall submit a written acknowledgment that the
petitioner agrees to and accepts the limitations of liability and the
requirement to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the City and the City's
employees and agents, including that: the City shall not be liable to the
adult-use cannabis business establishment's employees, customers, qualifying
patients or care givers, qualifying patient's or caregiver's employer or
employees, family members or guests, for any damage, injury, accident, loss,
compensation or claim, based on, arising out of, or resulting from the property
for which the zoning is requested being used, including, but not limited to,
the following: arrest, seizure of persons or property, prosecution pursuant to
federal or state laws, any fire, robbery, theft, mysterious disappearance or
any other casualty; or the actions of any other registrants or persons. This
limitation of liability provision shall survive expiration or the early
termination of the registration if the registration is granted, or dissolution
of use or any subsequent change in zoning.
      6.   Provision Of Notice: At the time of submission of an application
under this section, the petitioner shall submit a signed statement certifying
that the petitioner has actual notice that, notwithstanding state law and any
action by the City, that:
         a.   Cannabis is currently a prohibited Schedule I controlled
substance under federal law;
         b.   Participation in either the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program or the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Taxation Act is
permitted only to the extent provided by the strict requirements of the Acts
and subsequent implementing regulations;
         c.   Any activity not sanctioned by the Medical Cannabis Program Act
and its subsequent implementing regulations may be a violation of state law and
may result in the revocation of zoning;
         d.   Growing, distribution or possessing cannabis in any capacity,
except through a federally approved research program, is a violation of federal
law;
         e.   Use of cannabis may affect an individual's ability to receive
federal or state licensure in other areas;
         f.   Use of cannabis, in tandem with other conduct, may be a violation
of state or federal law;
         g.   Participation in the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program, Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, or approval of
zoning by the City does not authorize any person to violate federal or state
law and, other than as set out in the Illinois Compassionate Use of Medical
Cannabis Program Act and the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, and does
not provide any immunity from or affirmative defense to arrest or prosecution
under federal or state law; and
         h.   Petitioners for the adult-use cannabis business establishments
from the City shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the City for any and
all civil or criminal penalties resulting from participation in the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program and the Illinois Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act.
         7.   Application: Applications for a license shall be made to the
Mayor’s Office.
         8.   Cannabis License: Each cannabis business establishment license
shall be an annual registration and shall expire on December 31 following its
issuance and every year thereafter requiring an application for renewal and
approval. A cannabis license issued under this shall have an annual license fee
in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). (Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022; amd.
Ord. 7928, 2- -2024)
4-24-9: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION
   A.   Parking: Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, the parking area
shall meet all requirements for off-street parking and loading. Parking shall
be located in an area which is visible from a public road that is accessible to
the public. It may not be screened from the roadway with vegetation, fencing or
other obstructions, but such may be allowed with the presentation of evidence
of a safety or security need. Parking areas shall be well lit and monitored by
video surveillance equipment whose live images can be viewed by adult-use
cannabis dispensing organization staff and continually recorded in a tamper
proof format.
   B.   Exterior Display: No adult-use cannabis dispensing organization shall
be maintained or operated in a manner that causes, creates or allows the public
viewing of medical cannabis, cannabis infused products, cannabis paraphernalia
or similar products from any sidewalk, public or private right-of-way, or any
property other than the lot on which the dispensary is located. No portion of
the exterior of the dispensary shall utilize or contain any flashing lights,
search lights, spotlights, or any similar lighting system.
   C.   Exterior Signage:
      1.   All exterior signs shall conform to the provisions set forth in Sign
Code of the Alton Municipal Code. Exterior signs of the dispensary building
shall not obstruct the entrance or windows of the dispensary.
      2.   Temporary signs are not permitted.
      3.   Signs shall not include any realistic or stylized graphical
representation of the cannabis plant or its parts, smoke, any realistic or
stylized graphical representation of drug paraphernalia, or cartoonish imagery
oriented toward youth.
      4.   A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or near all
dispensary entrances and shall include the following language: "Persons under
the age of 21 are prohibited from entering." The required text shall be no
larger than one inch (1") in height.
   D.   Drug Paraphernalia Sales: Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations
that display or sell drug paraphernalia shall do so in compliance with the
Illinois Drug Paraphernalia Control Act (720 ILCS 600/1 et seq.), the Illinois
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS 130/1 et seq.), and
the Illinois Cannabis Regulation and Taxation Act (410 ILCS 705).
   E.   Hours Of Operation:
      1.   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organization shall operate only
between the hours of six o’clock (6:00) A.M. and eleven o’clock (11:00) P.M.
      2.   Adult-use cannabis lounges shall operate only between the hours of
twelve o’clock (12:00) P.M. and twelve o’clock (12:00) A.M.
   F.   Age And Access Limitations: It shall be unlawful for any adult-use
cannabis dispensing organization to allow any person who is not at least twenty
one (21) years of age on the premises. Adult-use cannabis dispensing
organizations shall not employ anyone under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   G.   Security And Video Surveillance:
      1.   The adult-use cannabis dispensing organization shall be an enclosed,
locked facility and shall provide and maintain adequate security on the
premises, including lighting, video surveillance and alarms reasonably designed
to ensure the safety of persons and to protect the premises from theft.
      2.   The dispensary parking area, client entrance, sales area, back room,
storage areas, and delivery bay and entrance shall be monitored by video
surveillance equipment whose live images can be viewed by dispensary staff and
continually recorded in a tamper proof format.
      3.   A sign shall be posted in a prominent location which includes the
following language: "These premises are under constant video surveillance."
      4.   The Planning and Zoning Department shall review the adequacy of
lighting, security and video surveillance installations with assistance from
the City's Police Department.
      5.   Adult-use cannabis dispensing organizations shall report all
criminal activities to all appropriate law enforcement agencies immediately
upon discovery.
      6.   Deliveries shall occur during normal business hours within a secure
enclosed delivery bay. No delivery shall be visible from the exterior of the
building.
   H.   Conduct On Site:
      1.   Residential Co-Location: No person shall reside in or permit any
person to reside in a dispensary or on the property of same.
      2.   Drive-Through Services: Drive-thru services shall be permitted in
the context of site plan approval by the City.
      3.   Outdoor Seating: Outdoor seating shall be prohibited.
      4.   Loitering: Loitering is prohibited on dispensary property.
      5.   Smoking And Use Of Cannabis Products: It shall be prohibited to
smoke, inhale, or consume cannabis products at an adult-use or medical adult-
use cannabis dispensing organization. A sign, at least eight and a half inches
by eleven inches (8.5“ x 11"), shall be posted inside the public waiting room,
limited access area, and the restricted access area of the dispensary in a
conspicuous place and visible to a client and shall include the following
language: "Smoking, eating, drinking or other forms of consumption of cannabis
products is prohibited within this dispensary area." An adult-use cannabis
dispensing organization may have an adult-use cannabis lounge located adjacent
to the licensed adult-use cannabis dispensing organization, with the
limitations provided for in this chapter. (Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022; amd. Ord.
7928, 2- -2024)
4-24-10: ADULT-USE CANNABIS LOUNGE:
   A.   On-premise consumption of cannabis products may be smoked, inhaled or
consumed at a licensed adult-use cannabis lounge pursuant to the Act and this
chapter.
   B.   Adult-Use Cannabis Lounges Shall Be:
      1.   Limited to C-2 General Commercial in the City;
      2.   Limited to two (2) single licenses;
      3.   Adjacent to the facility of an adult-use cannabis dispensing
organization;
      4.   Subject to an initial and annual license renewal fee. (Ord. 7851, 9-
28-2022)
4-24-11: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS
ESTABLISHMENTS:
   A.   Generally: This section shall apply to adult-use cannabis
establishments other than adult-use cannabis dispensaries and adult-use
cannabis lounges.
   B.   Distances shall be measured linearly and shall be the shortest distance
between the closest points of the property lines of the places. This
requirement shall not be subject to variance. If a boundary line measured
touches upon any portion of a parcel or lot, the parcel or lot shall be within
the area being identified by the City.
   C.   Setbacks: No adult-use cannabis establishment may be located within one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of another adult-use cannabis
establishment. Such setback shall be measured from property line to property
line. Such distances shall be measured linearly and shall be the shortest
distance between the closest points of the property lines of the places. This
requirement shall not be subject to variance. If a boundary line measured
touches upon any portion of a parcel or lot, the parcel or lot shall be within
the area being identified by the city zoning administrator.
   D.   Perimeter Setbacks: Unless otherwise limited under this chapter, the
perimeter setback for an adult-use cannabis establishment shall be the same as
that of the zoning district in which it is located.
   E.   Minimum Yard Requirements: Unless otherwise limited under this chapter,
an adult-use cannabis establishment must meet the requirements for the zoning
district in which it is located.
   F.   Exterior Signage:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, all signage shall
be limited to one flat wall sign not to exceed ten (10) square feet in area,
and one identification sign not to exceed two square feet. This identification
sign may only include the adult-use cannabis cultivation center address.
      2.   Electronic message boards and temporary signs are not permitted.
      3.   Signs shall not include any realistic or stylized graphical
representation of the cannabis plant or its parts, or any realistic or stylized
graphical representation of drug paraphernalia, or cartoonish imagery oriented
toward youth.
   G.   Age And Access Limitations: It shall be unlawful for any adult-use
cannabis business establishment to allow any person who is not at least twenty
one (21) years of age on the premises. Adult-use cannabis business
establishment shall not employ anyone under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   H.   Security And Video Surveillance:
      1.   The adult-use cannabis business establishment shall be an enclosed,
locked facility and shall provide and maintain adequate security on the
premises, including lighting, video surveillance and alarms reasonably designed
to ensure the safety of persons and to protect the premises from theft. The
fence must be adequately secure to prevent unauthorized entry and include gates
tied to an access control system.
      2.   The adult-use cannabis business establishment parking area,
cultivation, production, warehousing areas and shipping bays and entrance shall
be monitored by video surveillance equipment whose live images can be viewed by
adult-use cannabis business establishment staff and continually recorded in a
tamper proof format.
      3.   A sign shall be posted in a prominent location at each entrance to
the facility which reads: "These premises are under constant video
surveillance."
      4.   A sign shall be posted in a conspicuous location at each entrance to
the facility that reads: "Persons under 21 years of age not permitted on these
premises."
      5.   The City shall review the adequacy of lighting, security and video
surveillance installations with assistance from the City's Police Chief.
      6.   The loading of product shall occur within secure enclosed shipping
bays and shall not be visible from the exterior of the building.
      7.   An adult-use cannabis business establishment shall report all
criminal activities to all appropriate law enforcement agencies immediately
upon discovery.
   I.   Conduct On Site: Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, it
shall be unlawful to engage in the retail sale of medical cannabis or medical
cannabis infused products at or on the site of an adult-use cannabis business
establishment. (Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022)
4-24-12: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Petitioner shall install building enhancements, such as security cameras,
lighting or other improvements, as set forth in the application, to ensure the
safety of employees and customers of the adult-use cannabis business
establishments, as well as its environs. Said improvements shall be determined
based on the specific characteristics of the floor plan for an adult-use
cannabis business establishment and the site on which it is located, consistent
with the requirements of the Act. (Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022)
4-24-13: OPERATING REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements shall apply to all adult-use cannabis business
establishments within the City:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   Every adult-use cannabis business establishment shall comply with
all applicable statutes, codes, ordinances, laws and regulations including, but
not limited to, fire, building, health, and zoning codes of the City and State.
      2.   No adult-use cannabis business establishment shall be conducted in
such a manner that permits the observation from public view of the activities
and operations within the indoors of the business establishment.
      3.   No adult-use cannabis business establishment shall advertise the
availability at such business of any activity that would be in violation of
this chapter, or any State or Federal law.
      4.   No alcoholic beverage or other intoxicant shall be displayed,
served, ingested or sold on the premises of any adult-use cannabis business
establishment.
      5.   No licensee, operator or employee shall be under the influence of
any alcoholic beverage or other intoxicant while working at an adult-use
cannabis business establishment.
      6.   No patron who is under the influence of any alcoholic beverage or
other intoxicant shall be allowed to enter any adult-use cannabis business
establishment.
      7.   No gambling shall be permitted by any person in any adult-use
cannabis business establishment.
   B.   Employees:
      1.   The operator shall be responsible for the conduct of all employees
while on the premises. Any act or omission of any employee constituting a
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission
of the licensee and operator, when such operator knew, should have known, or
could have known, of such act or omission, for purposes of determining whether
the operating license shall be renewed, suspended or revoked and whether the
licensee and operator shall be subject to the penalties imposed by this
chapter.
      2.   No operator shall knowingly employ in any adult-use cannabis
business establishment any person who, within three (3) years of the
commencement of such employment, has been convicted in this or any other state
of any of the crimes specified in Illinois Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/
3, et seq.), the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act (410 ILCS
130/1, et seq.), or the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (410 ILCS 705/1, et
seq.),regardless of the pendency of any appeal.
   C.   Minors:
      1.   No licensee, operator or employee of an adult-use cannabis business
establishment shall allow or permit any minor to enter into or in any way
loiter in or on any part of the licensed premises, purchase goods or services
at the licensed premises, or work at the licensed premises as an employee.
      2.   Every adult-use cannabis business establishment shall display a sign
outside each entrance of such business bearing the words "Adult-Use Cannabis
Business Establishment. Persons Under 21 Years Old Not Admitted" in legible
letters between two (2) and six (6) inches tall.
   D.   Security: In addition to any other requirements provided for in this
chapter, during business hours, all adult-use cannabis business establishments
shall store all useable cannabis, cannabis-infused product, and cash in a safe
or in a substantially constructed and locked cabinet. The safe or cabinet shall
be incorporated into the building structure or securely attached thereto. For
useable cannabis products that must be kept refrigerated or frozen, these
products must be stored in a locked refrigerator or freezer container in a
manner approved City, provided the container is affixed to the building
structure. (Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022)
4-24-14: ODOR EMISSIONS:
   A.   Odors: Any cannabis odor shall be contained within the adult-use
cannabis business establishment so that the odor of cannabis cannot be detected
from any abutting use or property by a person with a normal functioning sense
of smell. If any cannabis odor can be smelled from any abutting use or
property, the adult-use cannabis business establishment shall be required to
implement measures necessary to contain the odor, including, but not limited
to, installation of ventilation equipment.
   B.   No person, tenant, occupant, or property owner shall permit the
emission of cannabis odor from any source to result in detectable odors that
leave the premises upon which they originated and interfere with the reasonable
and comfortable use and enjoyment of another's property.
   C.   Whether or not a cannabis odor emission interferes with the reasonable
and comfortable use and enjoyment of a property shall be measured against the
objective standards of a reasonable person of normal sensitivity.
   D.   A cannabis odor emission shall be deemed to interfere with the
reasonable and comfortable use and enjoyment of property if cannabis odor is
detectable outside the premises.
   E.   No person shall be convicted of a violation of this section unless the
City has delivered or posted a written warning, in the previous twelve (12)
months, that conduct violating this chapter is occurring or has occurred.
      1.   The person, tenant, occupant, or property owner must abate the
cannabis odor emission within seven (7) days after the warning is delivered or
posted.
      2.   Seven (7) or more days after a warning is posted or delivered, a
separate violation of this chapter occurs on each day that the cannabis odor
emission repeats or continues.
      3.   The warning shall cite this section.
      4.   The warning may be delivered personally or posted on the property.
      5.   It shall be presumed that a person charged under this chapter
received the warning if the warning was either: (i) delivered to the property
owner, a tenant, or an occupant; or (ii) posted on the property. (Ord. 7851, 9-
28-2022)
4-24-15: SEVERABILITY:
In the event that any provision of this chapter, or any part thereof, or any
application thereof to any person or circumstance, is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid or ineffective by a court of competent
jurisdiction on its face or as applied, such holding shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of any of the remaining provisions of this chapter,
or any part thereof, or any application thereof to any person or circumstance
or of said provision as applied to any other person or circumstance. (Ord.
7851, 9-28-2022)
4-24-16: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as provided by law. (Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022)
4-24-17: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any licensee, operator, employee or other person who violates any of
the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine as provided in
section
1-4-1 of the Alton Municipal Code for each such violation.
   B.   Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense,
and any violation continuing more than one (1) hour of time, after having
initially been made aware of the violation, shall be considered a separate
offense for each hour of violation.
   C.   In addition to any fines or penalties imposed in this chapter, this
chapter may be enforced by injunctive procedure in a court of competent
jurisdiction. The City may further recover from any violator any and all costs
and fees, including reasonable attorney's fees, expended by the City in
enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   D.   This chapter shall not preclude any additional enforcement action taken
by any appropriate City, State or Federal official conducted pursuant to any
applicable ordinance, regulation or law of the City or State or the United
States of America.
   E.   All remedies and penalties provided for in this chapter shall be
cumulative and independently available to the City, and the City shall be
authorized to pursue any and all remedies set forth in this chapter to the
fullest extent allowed by law. (Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022)
4-24-18: DISSOLUTION OF USE AND REVOCATION OF ZONING:
   A.   Failure To Comply With State And City Regulations: Should an adult-use
cannabis business establishment fail to conform to and meet all laws, rules and
regulations established by the State of Illinois and the City pursuant to the
production and distribution of cannabis and other associated products as
allowed under the Act and its subsequent implementing regulations, this may be
considered a dissolution of use, allowing for the revocation of the license
issued by the City.
   B.   Termination Of Use: Should an adult-use cannabis business establishment
fail to use the property for the purpose under which the business license was
provided for a period of one hundred eighty (180) days, this may be considered
dissolution of use, allowing for the revocation of the license by the City.
(Ord. 7851, 9-28-2022)
TITLE 5
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Storage Of Junk Or Waste Matter
5-1-2: Abandoned Refrigerators
5-1-3: Weeds
5-1-4: Littering
5-1-5: Abatement Of Nuisances
5-1-6: Repeat Incidents Of Nuisance
5-1-1: STORAGE OF JUNK OR WASTE MATTER:
   A.   The storing of junk, trash and refuse on private property within the
city, where such storage is not authorized under the terms of the zoning title
of this code, and in any manner not permitted by said zoning title, is hereby
declared a nuisance. (Ord. 3335, 2-11-1966)
   B.   Junk, trash and refuse are defined herein to include any and all waste
matter, whether reusable or not, which is offensive to the public health,
safety or to the aesthetics of the neighborhood, and is specifically intended
to include, but not be limited to, worn out, wrecked and/or abandoned
automobiles, trucks, tractors, machinery of any kind, and parts thereof, old
iceboxes, refrigerators, stoves, and the outside storage of tires. Businesses
engaged in the sale, service, or recycling of tires may store up to fifty (50)
tires outside. Additionally, and not by way of limitation, junk, trash, and
refuse is further defined to include any materials which may be used or
intended to be used in building improvements, landscaping or construction
projects of any kind if those materials are stored in an area open to public
view. (Ord. 6148, 4-9-1997)
5-1-2: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon or discard in any place
accessible to children any refrigerator, icebox or ice chest, of a capacity of
one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more, which has an attached lid or door
which may be opened or fastened shut by means of an attached latch; or to,
being the owner, lessee or manager of such place, knowingly permit such
abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox or ice chest to remain there in
such condition. (Ord. 4884, 10-10-1984)
5-1-3: WEEDS:
   A.   Definitions:
    OWNER OR OCCUPANT: As used in this section "owner or occupant" shall
include the record owners, individually or collectively, the occupants, the
residents, the lessees, or any other individuals with an interest or control of
any parcel of real estate within the city of Alton. It shall also include any
and all employees, servants, or agents having control or responsibility of any
parcel of real estate on behalf of the owner or occupant as defined herein,
including, but not limited to, those or representatives attempting to sell or
lease any parcel of real estate pursuant to a contract with the respective
owner or occupant.
   WEEDS: All grasses, annual plants and vegetation other than trees or shrubs;
provided, however, this term shall not include cultivated flowers and gardens.
(Ord. 6076, 6-26-1996; amd. Ord. 7272, 8-24-2011)
   B.   Growth Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee,
occupant, agent, servant, representative or employee of such owner, lessee or
occupant, having control of any lot of ground, or any part thereof, together
with and including the area between the lot and the curb or pavement line of
any adjacent street or alley, including any drainage ditch located therein, to
permit or maintain on any such property any weeds in excess of seven inches
(7") high. (Ord. 7363, 8-14-2013, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2013)
   C.   Nuisance Declared: All "weeds", as herein defined, are hereby declared
to be a public nuisance, and all dry grass, weeds or other similar dangerous
combustible materials remaining deposited or lying on any property or premises
within the city limits are hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall be
disposed of as hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 3232, 5-14-1964)
   D.   Liability: Weeds and all dry grass or other similar combustible
material shall be cut and removed, or just removed if already cut, by the
"owner or occupant" as herein defined, within five (5) days after notice in
writing by the City to cut and remove the same shall have been duly given.
Service of such notice may be had either by personal service upon said "owner
or occupant" as herein defined, or by sending said notice by United States mail
postage prepaid to the last known post office address of such person. (Ord.
7363, 8-14-2013, eff. retroactive to 8-1-2013)
5-1-4: LITTERING:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning given herein.
    GARBAGE: Food waste including putrescible animals and vegetable wastes
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER: Garbage, refuse and rubbish, as defined herein, and all other waste
type materials.
   PARK: A park, commons, playground, recreation center or any other public
area in the City, owned or used by the City and devoted to active or passive
recreation or garden area.
   PRIVATE PREMISES: Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds and
buildings.
   REFUSE: All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH: Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
   VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
   WASTE: Material of so little value as to be of no practicable use such that
a reasonable person would seek to disregard the material.
   B.   Deposits Upon Streets:
      1.   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street,
sidewalk or other public place within the City except in receptacles from which
the litter may not be wind blown.
      2.   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter or other public
place within the City the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway.
      3.   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or
deposit litter upon any street or other public place within the City, or upon
private property.
   C.   Litter Falling From Vehicles: No person shall drive or move any truck
or other vehicle within the City unless such vehicle is so constructed or
loaded so as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being blown or
deposited upon any street, alley or other public place. Nor shall any person
drive or move any vehicle or truck within the City, the wheels or tires of
which carry onto or deposit in any street, alley or other public place, mud,
dirt, sticky substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
   D.   Parks: No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the
City except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the
park or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere as provided
herein.
   E.   Aircraft: No person in an aircraft shall throw out, drop or deposit
within the City any litter, handbill or any other object.
   F.   Private Property: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any
occupied private property within the City, whether owned or occupied by such
person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private property
may maintain authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner
that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property.
   G.   Open, Vacant Property: No person shall throw or deposit litter on any
open or vacant private property within the City whether owned by such person or
not.
   H.   Drive-In Theaters: No person shall own or operate a drive-in theater
within the City limits without providing and maintaining adequate fencing
around the outside perimeter of said drive-in motion picture theater of
sufficient design to prevent "litter", as defined in this section, from being
blown from the confines of said drive-in motion picture theater under ordinary
weather conditions.
   I.   Permitting Litter: No owner, occupant or person in control of any lot
or parcel of land in the City of Alton shall allow, suffer or permit any lot or
parcel of land, or that public property adjacent thereto and abutting upon a
public street or public sidewalk, to contain litter. Failure to remove such
litter after appropriate notice pursuant to section
5-1-5 of this chapter shall constitute a violation of this subsection.
   J.   Food Establishments:
      1.   Disposal Of Refuse, Litter And Debris: Each "carryout restaurant" or
"convenience store", as defined in title 4, chapter 7, article A of this Code
shall dispose of all paper, cups, plates, napkins, garbage and all other waste
material accumulated upon the premises of the carryout restaurant or
convenience store including all parking lots, adjacent sidewalks, curbs and
gutters. Disposal shall be to a lawful location. It shall also be the duty of
the owner, manager or person in charge of said establishment to, at all times,
keep the premises indoors, the premises outdoors, and within a three hundred
foot (300') radius of all property lines on which said establishment is
located, free from rubbish, litter, and other waste materials and debris
including food, beverages, napkins, straws, containers, bags, utensils, cups,
plates, cans and other waste materials emanating from the establishment,
emanating from the patrons or from the outside waste receptacles used by such
food establishments. To accomplish the foregoing, each carryout restaurant or
convenience store shall cause the three hundred foot (300') area to be
patrolled for litter at least once every twenty four (24) hours within any time
the carryout restaurant or convenience store is open for business. Where the
above three hundred foot (300') radius encompasses private property, permission
to encroach upon said private property shall be requested from the private
property owner to fulfill the purpose of this requirement. Reasonable proof of
such efforts shall be provided to City officials upon request.
      2.   Waste Receptacles: A waste receptacle shall be placed at each
pedestrian exit from the carryout restaurant building or convenience store
building. In addition, a waste receptacle shall be placed on or adjacent to the
parking areas serving the carryout restaurant or convenience store with not
less than one waste receptacle for every six (6) parking spaces or any
additional fraction of six (6) parking spaces which may be available to the
patrons of the carryout restaurant or convenience store.
      3.   Definition: "Waste receptacle", as used herein, shall be defined as
an anchored device with solid sides and bottom and covered in some manner so as
to prevent waste or litter which has been deposited in the waste receptacle
from being blown out by winds or from being improperly removed.
   K.   Licensed Liquor Establishments:
      1.   Disposal Of Refuse, Litter And Debris: Each establishment licensed
to sell alcoholic liquor in the City of Alton which holds a Class A, C-2, D, E,
F, or I license of the City of Alton shall at least once in each twenty four
(24) hour period, dispose of all paper, cups, plates, napkins, garbage, cigar
and cigarette butts and all other waste material accumulated upon the premises
of such licensed establishment, including all parking lots, adjacent sidewalks,
curbs and gutters. Disposal shall be to a lawful location. It shall also be the
duty of the owner, manager or person in charge of said licensed establishment
to, at all times, keep the premises indoors, the premises outdoors, and within
a three hundred foot (300') radius of all property lines on which said
establishment is located, free from rubbish, litter, and other waste materials
and debris, including food, beverages, napkins, straws, containers, bags,
utensils, cups, plates, cans, cigar and cigarette butts and other waste
materials whether emanating from the licensed establishment, emanating from the
patrons of the licensed establishment or from the outside waste receptacles
used by such licensed establishments. Where the above three hundred foot (300')
radius encompasses private property, permission to encroach upon said private
property shall be requested from the private property owner to fulfill the
purpose of this requirement.
      2.   Cigarette Diffuser: A cigarette diffuser, specifically designed to
accept and extinguish cigars or cigarette butts and anchored with solid sides
and bottom and designed in some manner so as to prevent cigar and cigarette
butts which have been deposited in the cigarette diffuser from being blown out
by winds or from being improperly removed, shall be placed at each pedestrian
exit from the licensed establishment building, beer garden, or sidewalk cafe.
(Ord. 7583, 9-27-2017)
5-1-5: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES:
   A.   Abatement Required, Penalty: Any property owner or any occupant of
property who allows a nuisance to exist shall be fined as in this Code
provided; and any person who shall neglect to abate and remove such nuisance
after notice thereof, shall for each twenty four (24) hours thereafter during
which said nuisance continues, be subject to a like penalty as that originally
incurred. (Ord. 3335, 2-11-1966; amd. Ord. 4255, 11-23-1977)
   B.   Notice:
      1.   Any police officer or inspector of the City of Alton, upon observing
any violation of this chapter upon any property in the City of Alton, may issue
a notice directed to the owner of record of said property as disclosed in the
Assessor's Office of the City of Alton, or to the occupant of said property as
disclosed on the records of the City of Alton, or to both, which notice shall
describe the violation and establish a reasonable time limit for the abatement
thereof by such owner or occupant, which time limit shall not be less than two
(2) days, nor more than ten (10) days after service of such notice.
      2.   A notice required above may be served by regular U.S. mail, postage
prepaid, by service upon the person, or by posting the notice at a prominent
location on the subject property. The City of Alton employee effectuating the
service of notice shall note the date and time, if applicable, of said service.
If the notice is mailed by regular U.S. mail, postage prepaid, the notice shall
be presumed to be served three (3) days from and after the deposit of the
notice in the U.S. postal service system. (Ord. 6928, 12-14-2005)
   C.   Citizen Complaint: Any citizen who observes a violation of this section
may file his affidavit setting forth in detail the violation, its location and
the name of the owner and occupant of the property of which such nuisance is
alleged, and may file said affidavit with the Police Department of the City who
shall assign an officer to investigate such charge; and if such nuisance
exists, to issue a notice to the owner or occupant of the property as provided
in subsection B of this section.
   D.   Failure To Abate: Immediately upon the termination of the time allowed
in any such notice for the abatement of such nuisance, the police officer or
building inspector who served such notice, or any other police officer who
shall be assigned by the Police Department, shall investigate to determine
whether or not such nuisance has been abated. In the event the owner or
occupant of the property where such nuisance exists has failed within the
prescribed time to abate such nuisance, then the police officer or building
inspector who served such notice shall file a complaint charging violation of
this section with the Circuit Court for the Third Judicial Circuit, or a
Magistrate thereof, charging violation of this section and demanding that the
owner of the property or the occupant thereof, or both, be punished as herein
provided. (Ord. 3335, 2-11-1966; amd. Ord. 4380, 11-8-1978; Ord. 5503, 12-19-
1990)
   E.   Lien For Removal Costs:
      1.   If the City incurs a removal cost under section
5-1-3 of this chapter, with respect to any underlying parcel, then that cost is
a lien upon that underlying parcel. This lien is superior to all other liens
and encumbrances, except tax liens and as otherwise provided in subsection E3
of this section.
      2.   To perfect a lien under this subsection, the City must, within one
year after the removal cost is incurred, file notice of lien in the Office of
the Recorder in Madison County, Illinois. The notice must consist of a sworn
statement setting out:
         a.   A description of the underlying parcel that sufficiently
identifies the parcel;
         b.   The amount of the removal cost; and
         c.   The date or dates when the removal cost was incurred by the City.
If, for any one parcel, the City engaged in any removal activity on more than
one occasion during the course of one year, then the City may combine any or
all of the costs of each of those activities into a single notice of lien.
      3.   A lien under this subsection is not valid as to: a) any purchaser
whose rights in and to the underlying parcel arose after the removal activity
but before the filing of the notice of lien; or b) any mortgagee, judgment
creditor, or other lienor whose rights in and to the underlying parcel arose
before the filing of the notice of lien.
      4.   The removal cost is not a lien on the underlying parcel unless a
notice is personally served on, or sent by certified mail to, the person to
whom was sent the tax bill for the general taxes on the property for the
taxable year immediately preceding the removal activities. The notice must be
delivered or sent after the removal activities have been performed, and must:
a) state the substance of this subsection and the substance of any ordinance of
the City implementing this subsection; b) identify the underlying parcel, by
common description; and c) describe the removal activity.
      5.   A lien under this subsection may be enforced by proceedings to
foreclose as in case of mortgages or mechanics' liens. An action to foreclose a
lien under this subsection must be commenced within two (2) years after the
date of filing notice of lien.
      6.   A failure to file a foreclosure action does not, in any way, affect
the validity of the lien against the underlying parcel.
      7.   Upon payment of the lien cost by the owner of the underlying parcel
after notice of lien has been filed, the City (or its agent) shall release the
lien, and the release may be filed of record by the owner at his or her sole
expense as in the case of filing notice of lien.
      8.   For the purpose of this section:
    LIEN COST: The removal cost and the filing costs for any notice of lien
under subsection E2 of this section.
   REMOVAL ACTIVITY: Any activity for which a removal cost was incurred.
   REMOVAL COST: The total cost of the removal activity and shall also include
a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) due the City of Alton to recover a
portion of the administrative costs associated with the requisite inspection
and notice.
   UNDERLYING PARCEL: A parcel of private property upon which a removal
activity was performed.
   YEAR: A three hundred sixty five (365) day period.
      9.   This subsection shall not apply to a lien filed prior to the
effective date of this amendment. (Ord. 7363, 8-14-2013, eff. retroactive to 8-
1-2013)
   F.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code, and, in addition, shall be required to pay the costs
incurred by the City in so cutting, destroying, or removing any such nuisance.
Every day that such violation is maintained or permitted to exist upon said
premises shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 6076, 6-26-1996)
   G.   Inspection And Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the City to inspect
for and enforce violations of this section as to all property, and to prosecute
all complaints of violation of this chapter. (Ord. 3335, 2-11-1966; amd. Ord.
4380, 11-8-1978; Ord. 5503, 12-19-1990)
5-1-6: REPEAT INCIDENTS OF NUISANCE:
For the same property under the same ownership, any repeat occurrence of any
"nuisance", as defined in this Code 1 , when cited previously within the past
six (6) months, shall not require a notice or correction period, but may be
referred directly to the courts. (Ord. 6317, 8-26-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  1-3-2 of this Code.
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Accumulation And Storage
5-2-3: Receptacles Required
5-2-4: Preparation Of Garbage
5-2-5: Garbage Collection By Contract, Regulations
5-2-6: Garbage Trucks
5-2-7: Commercial Haulers, Hours Restricted
5-2-8: Refuse Charge
5-2-9: Method Of Disposition
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
GARBAGE: All animal, fruit and other vegetable matter, all organic refuse
resulting from the preparation of food; and also to include ashes, tin cans,
glassware and crockery. (Ord. 2062, 7-9-1941)
5-2-2: ACCUMULATION AND STORAGE:
   A.   Accumulation: No garbage that has become decayed or that shall
otherwise be a menace to health or cleanliness, shall be permitted to remain in
any dwelling house, hotel, boarding house, cafe, restaurant, lunch stand, meat
market or in any store or building or on any premises for a longer period of
time than shall be reasonably necessary considering the frequency of garbage
collections as may be provided in the contract with a garbage collector as
hereinafter provided.
   B.   Residential Storage: No resident shall place or permit any garbage or
refuse to be placed in the front yard of a residence more than twenty four (24)
hours prior to the regular scheduled trash pick up by the city. Further, no
resident shall place or permit any garbage or refuse to be placed in the rear
yard or side yard between a residential structure and an adjacent street more
than twenty four (24) hours prior to the regular scheduled trash pick up by the
city. Front yard, rear yard and side yard as used herein shall have the
meanings ascribed to said terms by the zoning title of the city. (Ord. 5385,
10-11-1989)
5-2-3: RECEPTACLES REQUIRED:
The occupant of every building, premises or place where garbage may exist or
accumulate, shall provide a garbage can or cans made of substantial galvanized
iron or other nonrusting metal, in which he shall deposit all table waste and
other organic matter, which may accumulate at the place occupied by him. Such
can or cans shall be provided with handles or a bail and with a tight fitting
cover. All such cans shall be watertight. They shall be of a size that can be
conveniently handled by the garbage collector. All such cans shall be kept
reasonably clean by the use of lye or other effective cleaner. In the case of
flats or apartment houses occupied by several families a can shall be provided
by each family. (Ord. 2062, 7-9-1941)
5-2-4: PREPARATION OF GARBAGE:
Garbage cans and other containers shall be placed at the curb of the abutting
street of the dwellings, or at the alley alongside or at the rear of the
dwellings, in such a position as to be readily accessible to the garbage
collector. Garbage must be in these provided locations to be collected by city
garbage collection employees or agents. Said garbage cans and other containers
shall not be put into place more than twenty four (24) hours prior to the
regularly scheduled trash pick up by the city and shall be removed therefrom
within twenty four (24) hours after the regularly scheduled trash pick up by
the city. (Ord. 6286, 6-10-1998)
5-2-5: GARBAGE COLLECTION BY CONTRACT, REGULATIONS:
   A.   Any contract for the disposal of garbage shall make provision for the
frequency of collection, the kind of trucks, tanks or wagons to be used in and
about said collection, the place of disposition for garbage, ashes, tin cans,
bottles and broken crockery and shall contain all other necessary and
appropriate provisions for the protection of the health of the city and for the
protection of the city against all claims for damages.
   B.   Any contract which may be entered into under the provisions of this
chapter shall not in any manner prohibit other collectors of garbage or
scavengers from the hauling of garbage, ashes, tin cans, bottles and broken
crockery.
   C.   Any person with whom the city may contract as the garbage collector for
the city shall be required at the time of entering into such contract to have a
scavenger's license as is now provided, or may hereafter be provided, by any
ordinance or ordinances of the city.
   D.   The garbage collector shall not be required under the contract provided
for in subsection A of this section to collect garbage from hotels, boarding
houses, restaurants, cafes, lunch stands, fruit stands, meat markets, stores or
other places of business. The owner or occupants of all such places shall
provide at their own expense for the removal of garbage from said places.
   E.   The health official and sanitary inspector shall be the principal
enforcement officers of this chapter. Any contract entered into with a garbage
collector shall contain a provision to the effect that garbage collections
shall be made under such rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the city
officials. (Ord. 2062, 7-9-1941; amd. 1999 Code)
5-2-6: GARBAGE TRUCKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to operate or cause to be
operated any garbage truck along or upon the streets of the city unless the
truck is equipped with a sanitary type body designed especially for the
collection and transportation of such waste commonly referred to as garbage.
Said sanitary body shall be of a type sold commercially or shall be a converted
body which is so constructed that the cargo can be entirely covered, and that
all sections of the body; namely, the bottoms and sides, shall be watertight
and be maintained in a sanitary condition. All closures shall be in a closed
position when the vehicle is moving, excepting, however, during actual house to
house operations.
Notwithstanding the provisions contained in the above paragraph, this section
shall apply only to vehicles owned and operated by a municipal corporation and
to private refuse haulers engaged in the business of collecting and
transporting garbage for a profit. (Ord. 3462, 12-28-1967)
5-2-7: COMMERCIAL HAULERS, HOURS RESTRICTED:
Commercial haulers shall be prohibited from the collection and transportation
of waste, commonly referred to as garbage, in residential areas or in
commercial areas within three hundred feet (300') of a residential area between
the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. (Ord.
6714, 2-26-2003)
5-2-8: REFUSE CHARGE:
There shall be a charge for collection of refuse and garbage to the owner and/
or occupant of every dwelling unit for which refuse service is provided by the
city through contracts with private haulers. Such charges are intended to cover
the cost to the City to provide such services, including the cost of billing
and collections. Such charges shall be per dwelling unit for single-family
detached residences, single-family attached residences, and two- to four-family
residences. The refuse charges shall be payable every two months to be billed
in arrears. Failure to pay the charge upon billing by the city or its billing
agent may result, at the city's option, in the placement of a lien against the
real estate and/or the filing of a complaint in circuit court seeking a
personal judgment against the owner or persons interested in the property
subject to the refuse charge, or the occupant of such property. The city shall
be free to pursue any other remedies as may be available to the city for
collection of this refuse charge. The election of a particular remedy shall not
constitute a waiver of any other remedy available to the city for collection of
the refuse charge.
The charge imposed by this section shall be as follows:
   A.   Monthly Charge: For the period commencing October 1, 2019, and
thereafter, except as hereinafter provided, the charge shall be twenty-two
dollars and ninety-two cents ($22.92) per month, per dwelling unit. On October
1, 2020, and on each October 1 thereafter so long as the city provides
collection of refuse and garbage for dwelling units in the city, the charge
shall be increased by four percent (4%) above the previous charge. In addition
to the refuse charge as aforesaid, an administrative charge of one dollar
($1.00) per month per dwelling unit shall be due to the city of Alton to
recover the administrative cost incurred by the city of Alton in connection
with the preparation of monthly billing, mailing, receipt, and processing of
refuse fees or charges for each dwelling unit.
   B.   Abatement: The residential monthly refuse charge as aforesaid including
the administrative charge, shall be abated as to any residential unit in the
city of Alton commencing on the thirty first day after a residential dwelling
unit has continuously been without actual water service available and provided
to that residential dwelling unit and continue to be abated for so long as
there remains no water available and provided to that residential dwelling
unit. No abatement shall be effective prior to the date the office of the city
comptroller receives a request for abatement as to any residential dwelling
unit. The written request for abatement shall be in a format to be developed by
the city comptroller and shall include the necessary information to allow the
office of the city comptroller to verify that no actual water service has, is,
or will be available to the residential dwelling unit for the requisite period
of time.
   C.   Delinquencies: All refuse charges or fees established by this code, not
paid in full within twenty one (21) days after the issuance of any bill
rendered therefor, shall be considered delinquent. If the monthly refuse
charges or fees as established by this code shall not be paid in full within
twenty one (21) days after the date of issuance of any bill rendered therefor,
a delayed payment charge in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the monthly
refuse fee or charge then in effect shall be imposed and due to the city of
Alton with regard to such account.
   D.   Monthly Bill To Record Owner: The city shall direct the billing for the
total monthly residential trash or refuse charges or fees to the record owner
of each improved lot, parcel of land or premises which is entitled to trash or
refuse service by the city. It shall be the responsibility of the record owner
to timely remit payments to the city of Alton. In the event the owner fails to
timely remit payments to the city, the city may direct billings and notice of
delinquency to the occupant or user of the premises entitled to trash or refuse
service provided by the city. The city may pursue collection efforts against
all persons responsible for payment as established by this code.
   The owner of the dwelling unit, the occupant thereof and the user of the
services shall be jointly and severally liable to pay such refuse charge and
the services are furnished to the dwelling unit by the city only on the
condition that the owner of the dwelling unit, occupant thereof and user of the
refuse service are jointly and severally liable. The city of Alton, through its
contractors, shall provide refuse collection service to the dwelling unit at
least once each week.
   E.   Should the city elect to pursue collection of the refuse charge by an
action filed with a court of competent jurisdiction, the city shall be entitled
to recover all reasonable attorney fees, court costs and other expenses related
to said court action in addition to the original refuse charge and any penalty
imposed for late payment. (Ord. 7323, 9-12-2012, eff. 10-1-2012; amd. Ord.
7381, 11-13-2013; Ord. 7492, 12-16-2015, eff. 3-1-2016; Ord. 7717, 9-25-2019)
5-2-9: METHOD OF DISPOSITION:
The exclusive method for disposition of garbage, refuse and ashes for single-
family detached residences, single-family attached residences and two- to four-
family residences shall be curbside waste and recycling pick up by the garbage
and refuse collector under contract with the city of Alton, currently Allied
Waste Transportation, Inc. (Ord. 6988, 12-20-2006)
TITLE 6
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
6-1-1: City Bench Mark, Datum
6-1-2: Construction Standards
6-1-3: Alleys
6-1-4: Encroachments
6-1-5: Brick Streets And Alleys
6-1-6: Signs And Canopies Over Public Ways
6-1-7: Naming Of Streets, Parks And Public Properties
6-1-8: Street And Alley Vacation Fees
6-1-9: Street, Alley And Sidewalk Obstructions
6-1-10: Parking Of Trailers Prohibited
6-1-11: Speed Bumps Prohibited
6-1-1: CITY BENCH MARK, DATUM:
   A.   Established: There is hereby established the Alton city datum as one
hundred sixteen and fourteen one-hundredths (116.14) as shown on the bronze
marker near the northeast corner of the city hall building, placed at the south
line of East Third Street, and twenty five feet (25') east of the west line of
Court Square, immediately east of Alby Street. The city engineer shall start
his levels for establishing bench monuments and city bench marks from said
marker with an elevation thereof of one hundred sixteen and fourteen one-
hundredths feet (116.14'), Alton city datum, are five hundred twenty and twenty
seven one-hundredths feet (520.27') mean sea level. (1917 Code § 1560; amd.
Ord. 2599, 12-17-1955)
   B.   Records: It shall be the duty of the city engineer to have accurate
standard elevations and city bench marks established from and referring to the
Court Square bench, and after they have been ratified and confirmed by the city
council to make and keep a careful and complete record of such standard and
elevation marks. He shall also make and keep a record of all the street grades
heretofore and hereafter established by the city council. From elevations given
in said records all public and private improvements shall be constructed. The
elevation, bench marks and street grades contained in said records shall be the
legal and only standard representing city datum. (1917 Code § 1561)
6-1-2: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Definitions: The several words and terms hereinafter mentioned whenever
used in this section shall be construed as follows:
    LOCAL STREET: A street which provides direct access to abutting property
and also provides for local traffic movement.
   MAJOR STREET: A street which provides for through traffic movement between
different areas of this city and also provides for direct access to abutting
property.
   B.   Standard Specifications: Unless otherwise provided, the standard
specifications entitled "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", as published by the Illinois department of transportation, as
amended from time to time, of which a copy is kept on file in the office of the
city clerk, is hereby declared to be the official standard specifications of
the city for purposes of this section.
   C.   Design Standards: Streets laid out and constructed within the city
shall meet the following minimum design standards:
      1.   Major Streets: Major streets shall be improved with integrally cast
concrete curb and gutter. Curb shall be not less than six inches (6") thick,
twelve inches (12") high at the back, six inches (6") high at the front, and
having a gutter not less than eighteen inches (18") wide and six inches (6")
deep. A major street shall be graded across the full width of its dedicated
right of way, including side slopes. The minimum grade of a major street shall
be 0.35 percent, and the maximum grade of a major street shall be 10.0 percent.
The minimum right of way width for a major street shall be sixty feet (60').
The minimum pavement width for a major street shall be thirty six feet (36'),
measured from back to back of curbs. The pavement of a major street shall
consist of one of the following:
         a.   Portland cement concrete pavement not less than eight inches (8")
in thickness constructed on top of subbase granular material not less than four
inches (4") in thickness. The concrete pavement shall be reinforced with wire
mesh pavement fabric, and have tie bars at all longitudinal joints, transverse
contraction and construction joints, and between the pavement and the concrete
gutter.
         b.   Aggregate base course not less than eight inches (8") thick with
two inches (2") of bituminous concrete binder course and two inches (2") of
bituminous concrete surface course.
         c.   Bituminous aggregate material base course not less than six
inches (6") thick with one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete
binder course and one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete
surface course.
On major streets where heavy traffic or poor soil conditions are anticipated, a
complete engineering design of the pavement for the proposed streets shall be
submitted to the Director of Public Works for review and approval prior to
construction. (Ord. 6082, 7-10-1996)
      2.   Local Streets: Local streets shall be improved with integrally cast
concrete curb and gutter as specified for major streets or with integral
rolled-type curb and gutter not less than twenty four inches (24") in overall
width and six inches (6") in depth. A local street shall be graded across the
full width of its dedicated right of way, including side slopes. The minimum
grade of a local street shall be thirty five-hundredths percent (0.35%), and
the maximum grade of a local street shall be ten percent (10.00%). The minimum
right- of-way width for a local street shall be fifty feet (50'). The minimum
pavement width for a local street shall be thirty two feet (32'), measured from
back-to-back of curbs. The pavement of a local street shall consist of one of
the following:
         a.   Portland cement concrete pavement not less than six inches (6")
in thickness constructed on top of sub-base granular material not less than
four inches (4") in thickness. The concrete pavement shall be reinforced with
wire mesh pavement fabric, and have tie bars at all longitudinal joints,
transverse contraction and construction joints, and between the pavement and
the concrete gutter.
         b.   Aggregate base course not less than seven inches (7") thick with
one and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete binder course and one
and one-half inches (11/2") of bituminous concrete surface course.
On local streets where heavy traffic or poor soil conditions are anticipated, a
complete engineering design of the pavement for the proposed streets shall be
submitted to the Director of Public Works for review and approval prior to
construction. (Ord. 6281, 5-27-1998)
         c.   Bituminous aggregate material base course not less than five
inches (5") thick with two inches (2") of bituminous concrete surface course.
      3.   Materials And Methods: Materials and methods of street construction
shall be in accordance with the Standard Specifications and shall be subject to
the approval of the Director of Public Works.
   D.   Permit Required: The Director of Public Works is authorized to issue
special permits, upon request, to owners of private property to grade,
construct, repair, or reconstruct pavements, curbs, gutters, sidewalks and
driveways at their own expense in the public streets adjacent to or running
through their property when the same are, in his judgment, reasonably
necessary. The plans therefor shall first be approved by the Director of Public
Works, and the work shall be done in accordance with the standard
specifications of the City for public work of like character, and to the
satisfaction of the Director of Public Works.
   E.   Bond Required: In cases where the estimated cost of the public
improvements shall exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), the Director of
Public Works shall require the permittee to file a performance bond in an
amount equal to the estimated cost of the public improvements, conditioned that
such work will be done in accordance with the City's standard specifications.
In addition, the Director of Public Works shall require the permittee to file a
maintenance bond in an amount equal to the estimated cost of the public
improvements guaranteeing the satisfactory condition of the public improvements
for a period of two (2) years following the completion and dedication of the
public improvements to the City.
The Director of Public Works may also require the permittee to file a bond
conditioned to protect and save the City harmless for all claims for damage or
injury to other persons by reason of such construction work, or in lieu of such
bond, the permittee may file with the City a certificate of public liability
insurance in favor of the City indemnifying the City for such claims for damage
or injury, the amount of such bond or insurance to be not less than one million
dollars ($1,000,000.00) for each occurrence for bodily injury and five hundred
thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for each occurrence for property damage. (Ord.
6082, 7-10-1996)
6-1-3: ALLEYS:
   A.   Standard Specifications: The standard specifications entitled Standard
Specifications for Alley Construction, referred to herein, of which a copy is
kept on file in the office of the City Clerk, is hereby declared to be the
official standard specifications of the City for purposes of this Section.
   B.   Permit Required: The City Engineer is authorized to issue special
permits, upon request, to owners of private property to grade, construct,
repair or reconstruct pavements at their own expense on the public alleys
adjacent to or running through their property when the same are, in his
judgment, reasonably necessary. The plans therefor shall first be approved by
the City Engineer, and the work shall be done in accordance with the standard
specifications of the City for public work of like character and to the
satisfaction of the City Engineer.
   C.   Bond Requirement: In cases where the estimated cost of the project
shall exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00), the City Engineer shall require
the permittee to file a construction and maintenance bond in an amount equal to
one-half (1/2) of the estimated cost of the project, conditioned that such work
will be done in accordance with the City's standard specifications and
guaranteeing the various types of work for the following periods:
      1.   Grading, one year.
      2.   Portland cement concrete pavement, five (5) years.
The City Engineer may also require the permittee to file a bond conditioned to
protect and save the City harmless for all claims for damage or injury to other
persons by reason of such construction work, or in lieu of such bond the
permittee may file with the City a certificate of public liability insurance in
favor of the City, indemnifying the City for such claims of damage or injury,
the amount of such bond or insurance to be not less than five hundred thousand
dollars ($500,000.00) for each person, one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for
each occurrence, and five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00) for property
damage. (Ord. 2848, 9-9-1959; amd. 1999 Code)
6-1-4: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Definitions:
    CONSTRUCTION EASEMENT AREA: That area lying between the project right-of-
way limits and the platted street limits within which the City, by concurrence
in the establishment of the project right-of-way lines, will permit the State
to enter to perform all necessary construction operations.
   ENCROACHMENT: Any building, fence, sign or any other structure or object of
any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, under or over any portion of the project
right of way or the roadway right of way where no project right-of-way line has
been established.
   PERMISSIBLE ENCROACHMENT: Any existing awning, marquee, advertising sign or
similar overhanging structure supported from a building immediately adjacent to
the limits of the platted street where there is a sidewalk extending to the
building line and which does not impair the free and safe flow of traffic on
the highway; the permissive retention of overhanging signs is not to be
construed as being applicable to those signs supported from poles constructed
outside the project right-of-way line and not confirmed by adjacent buildings.
   PROJECT RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas within the City, State and the Federal
Highway Administration which will be free of encroachments except as
hereinafter defined.
   ROADWAY RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
   B.   Encroachments Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect
or cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained any "encroachment",
as hereinabove defined, within the limits of the project right of way or
roadway right of way or areas designated specifically in appendix T,
"Miscellaneous Special Ordinances" of this code. (Ord. 4071, 2-11-1976)
6-1-5: BRICK STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Brick Streets And Alleys Enumerated: The following brick streets and
alleys shall be maintained and preserved in as nearly their originally
constructed state as is reasonable and possible:
Street Name Between
Street Name                       Between
Alby                              Front and Broadway
Allen                             Broadway and Agnes
Alton                             Broadway and 4th
Alton                             8th and 12th
Angle                             Belleview and Foulds
Annex                             College and Edwards
Armstrong                         Lawton and Grand
Belleview                         State and Summit
Bloomfield                        Washington and Main
Bluff                             State and dead end
Bond                              State and Prospect
Bostwick                          Main and Washington
Carroll                           Beacon and Mill
Cherry                            Broadway and 7th
Clawson                           Brown and Benbow
Cliff                             State and Godfrey
Condit                            Sanford and Glass
Court                             4th and 6th
Dorris                            Sarah and Agnes
Easton                            Front and 12th
Forest                            Blair and dead end
Foulds                            Mamie and dead end
Franklin                          Liberty and Central
George                            Front and 8th
George                            10th and 12th
Glass                             Lampert and Condit
Grove                             Liberty and Central
Humboldt Court                    Cherry and dead end
Hunter’s Court                  Spring and dead end
Hunter’s Court                  Central and Vine
Judson                            Seminary and Washington
Lampert                           Broadway and end of 200 block of Lampert
Langdon                           Broadway and 9th
Langdon                           12th and 13th
Langdon                           15th and Blair
Lawton                            Norton and Armstrong
Leverett                          Annex and Worden
Linden                            Liberty and Diamond
Mamie                             Foulds and Bluff
Maple                             Franklin and Grove
Market                            Broadway and 3rd
Maxey                             Clawson and Main
McClure                           Broadway and Agnes
Mechanic                          5th and 8th
Mill                              Carroll and Summit
Mills                             Brown and Jasper
Monument                          Broadway and 5th
Norton                            Lawton and Jefferson
Oak                               Broadway and 7th
Prospect                          Summit and State
Quincy Court                      Cherry and Spring
Rodemeyer                         Cliff and Grand
Royal                             Liberty and Central
Salu                              Washington and Seminary
Seminary Square                   5th and 6th
Spaulding                         Edwards and Brown
Spring                            Broadway and 5th
Spruce                            Liberty and Diamond
State                             3rd and 4th
Summit                            Belleview and Mills
Vine                              4th and 7th
Warren                            Union and 12th
Wescott                           Central and Garden
West Fourth                       Belle and Mill
West Fourth                       Piasa and 3rd
West Fifth                        Piasa and Belle
West Seventh                      Belle and State
West Twelfth                      West 13th and dead end
West Thirteen                     222 West 13th and West 12th
Wilkinson                         Washington and Mills
William                           Broadway and State
4th                               Market and Alby
5th                               Monument and Central
5th                               Henry and George
5th                               Court and Easton
5th                               Alby and Market
6th                               Central and Vine
7th                               Alby and Liberty
8th                               Alby and Liberty
10th                              Alby and Alton
10th                              Langdon and Henry
11th                              Henry and Alton
12th                              Henry and Liberty
13th                              Henry and Langdon
15th                              Liberty and Langdon
16th                              Henry and Liberty
Unnamed Alley                     Foulds and Bluff by Irving School
Unnamed Alley                     Beacon and Prospect by Loretto Tower
Unnamed Alley                     500 block between 4th and 5th
Unnamed Alley                     500 block between 5th and unnamed alley
Unnamed Road in Rock Springs Park Rock Springs Drive and Rock Springs Drive
 
   B.   Permit Required: Prior to any proposed and necessary excavation,
disturbance or disruption of the present brick streets and alleys set forth in
this section by any person or corporation, a permit for such must be obtained
from the appropriate department of the City, which permit shall detail the work
to be allowed and shall contain an agreement and acceptance plan by the
permittee to restore and replace the brick in the exact condition, pattern, and
manner as existed at the time permit was issued; that the requirements of this
section shall also apply to any utility operating in the city under franchise
agreement.
   C.   Restoration:
      1.   Upon completion of any excavation, disturbance, or disrnption
previously authorized by permit as provide herein, permittee shall restore the
brick street or alley to their originally constructed state as existed at the
time of and prior to the time pennit was given.
      2.   Any vitrified bricks displaced by public utilities and contractors
through their repair efforts on brick streets which are not included on the
brick street preservation list, heretofore itemized or on paved streets with an
underlying brick street base, shall be delivered by the public utility to the
City Street Maintenance Department upon completion of each repair and that
security for the bricks shall be responsibility of the public utility and/or
contractor, until such time as they are delivered to the City Street
Maintenance Department. Failure to comply with this section shall result in a
penalty payable to the City which is the forfeiture of the bond for the job or
the cost of replacing the bricks, whichever is greater.
   D.   Repairs: Brick streets and alleys may only be repaired with vitrified
street brick. If the bricks in Adams Court, West 15th, or that portion of West
13th south of 222 West 13th are removed by the City or its contractors, they
may not be discarded but may only be used to repair the brick streets set forth
in this section. The City may only pave the brick portion of Adams Court, W
15th or West 13th south of 222 West 13th if it removes the bricks first. E.
Variance from Regulations: Any variance from regulations and provisions of this
section shall be allowed only by action of City Council.
   E.   If previously unidentified, covered brick streets are identified, the
City of Alton City Council shall be notified and approve whether the
unidentified, covered brick street be preserved to its original state and added
to Section
6-1-5(A). (Ord. 3940, 8-28-1974; amd. Ord. 4482, 11-28-1980; Ord. 4752, 4-13-
1983; Ord. 4980, 12-11-1985; Ord. 5033, 5-28-1986; Ord. 5181, 10-28-1987; Ord.
6188, 8-27-1997; Ord. 6231, 1-14-1998; Ord. 6470, 4-12-2000; Ord. 6500, 6-28-
2000; Ord. 6501, 6-28-2000; Ord. 6517, 8-9-2000; Ord. 6965, 8-9-2006; Ord.
7027, 9-12-2007; Ord. 7033, 10-24-2007; Ord. 7038, 12-12-2007; Ord. 7073, 4-23-
2008; Ord. 7218, 10-13-2010; Ord. 7890, 6-28-2023; Ord. 7949, 7-13-2024)
6-1-6: SIGNS AND CANOPIES OVER PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.   Indemnification: In consideration of the City permitting the
maintenance of any sign, signboard or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk,
alley or other public way in the City, each person maintaining each overhanging
sign, signboard or canopy shall indemnify the City for any loss or damage or
liability that may result from the construction or maintenance of such sign,
signboard or canopy. (Ord. 7158, 10-28-2009; amd. Ord. 7327, 10-24-2012, eff.
1-1-2013)
   B.   Construction Standards: All signs and canopies extending over any
street, sidewalk, alley or other public place must be constructed in accordance
with the Building Code and be securely fastened and constructed so that there
will be no danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or falling from
other cause. (1961 Code § 3-29; amd. Ord. 7327, 10-24-2012, eff. 1-1-2013)
   C.   Height Above Walks: The lowest part of any sign, canopy or nonrigid
awning, or any support thereof which extends over any public way shall be at
least eight feet (8') above the level of the walk or public way over which it
extends; but no such sign shall be maintained over any public way used by
vehicles if any part of its support or of the sign is less than fifteen feet
(15') above the level of such public way. (1961 Code § 3-30; amd. Ord. 7327,
10-24-2012, eff. 1-1-2013)
   D.   Inspection: It shall be the duty of the Director of Code Enforcement to
inspect or cause to be inspected, every sign, canopy or awning which extends
over any sidewalk, street, alley or other public way. If any such sign, canopy
or awning is found to be insecurely fastened, or if such sign, canopy or awning
is found to obstruct the view of any motorists or pedestrians of any traffic
sign or signal, he shall report this fact to the owner or occupant of the
premises on which it is fastened. If the condition of the sign is not corrected
to comply with the provisions of this section within ten (10) days after such
notice, it may be removed or torn down by the City on order of the City
Council. (1961 Code § 3-31; amd. Ord. 4089, 4-14-1976; Ord. 7158, 10-28-2009;
Ord. 7327, 10-24-2012, eff. 1-1-2013; Ord. 7664, 8-22-2018)
6-1-7: NAMING OF STREETS, PARKS AND PUBLIC PROPERTIES:
After any street, park or other City owned property is initially named by
appropriate actions of the Corporate Authorities of the City, any subsequent
change of the name of any street, park or other City owned properties shall not
be considered by the Corporate Authorities until and unless a public hearing is
held before the Corporate Authorities of the City at which all interested
persons shall be granted reasonable opportunity to present their views to the
Corporate Authorities of the City. Notice of such a public hearing shall be
provided to the general public in compliance with procedures utilized from time
to time to give notice of a public meeting of the City Council. In addition,
notice of such a public hearing on the question of the change of the name of a
street, park or other City owned properties shall be given to the owners of
record or all real estate which adjoins the street, park or other City owned
property the name of which is proposed to be changed, or is within two hundred
fifty feet (250') of said property. Said notice shall, at a minimum, give the
date, time and place of the public hearing to be held before the Corporate
Authorities, the subject matter of the question to be considered at said public
hearing and the current name of the property affected and the proposals, if
any, for a new name of said property. (Ord. 5358, 7-12-1989; amd. 1999 Code)
6-1-8: STREET AND ALLEY VACATION FEES:
Whenever the city council, pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-91-1,
vacates a street or alley, the final passage of the ordinance shall not be
effective until there is paid to the city an amount equal to the following:
   A.   The fair market value of the property to be vacated; or
   B.   The benefits which will accrue to the property owners to which the
vacated properties will pass; or
   C.   The actual cost incurred by the city in processing the vacation
including, but not limited to, engineering fees, survey fees, cost of producing
the required plat and recording fees.
The city council, in its resolution approving the vacation of a street or
alley, shall determine the costs which are to be paid to the city in each
particular instance. (Ord. 6254, 3-25-1998)
6-1-9: STREET, ALLEY AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS:
No contractor, builder or other person shall encumber or obstruct any street,
alley or sidewalk in the city with building or other like materials, including,
but not limited to, dumpsters, without a written permit from the public works
director therefor; nor shall any contractor, builder or other person, except in
cases of necessity, and for a short time only, encumber or obstruct more than
one-third (1/3) of any street or alley, or one-half (1/2) of any sidewalk at
any time; nor shall any such obstruction in any case continue longer than may
be necessary in the diligent erection of such building, or the prompt execution
of the work. The aforementioned written permit shall be issued by the public
works director at his discretion as it is the intent of the city council that
no permits shall be issued under this section if the placing of any obstruction
as mentioned above may cause damage to any public street, alley and/or sidewalk
or if an unreasonable obstruction of same will be created.
The fee for the aforementioned permit shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) and
shall be good for a period of thirty (30) days from the date of its issue. Said
permit may be renewed for good cause shown by the party holding said permit one
time for an additional thirty (30) day period after the original thirty (30)
day period has expired. Should additional time beyond the permit period and
renewal period be needed, a contractor, builder or other person must seek a new
permit and pay the permit fee.
Any obstruction of a street, alley or sidewalk existing without permit may be
removed by the city upon twenty four (24) hours' posted notice. Any contractor,
builder, or other person who creates an obstruction of a street, alley and/or
sidewalk without a permit, with said obstruction having been removed by the
city, shall not be entitled to possession of the property removed by the city
without first having paid to the city all fees for removal and storage of said
property. Anyone who violates any provision of this section shall be subject to
the general penalty found in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 6474, 4-26-2000)
6-1-10: PARKING OF TRAILERS PROHIBITED:
Parking of a trailer of any kind on any city street or public way for a period
in excess of forty eight (48) hours is prohibited. The owner of any trailer in
violation of this section shall be subject to the general penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 6497, 6-28-2000)
6-1-11: SPEED BUMPS PROHIBITED:
It is the policy of the city of Alton that the public streets and alleys of the
city of Alton shall not be intentionally encumbered by the public works
department or any other person or entity with speed bumps, speed humps or any
other similar obstacle intended to impede the normal flow of traffic upon the
streets and alleys of the city of Alton as a means to reduce excessive speed of
vehicles. (Ord. 7286, 10-26-2011)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Construction Standards
6-2-2: Sidewalks Program
6-2-3: Sidewalk Permits
6-2-4: Handicap Accessibility Ramps
6-2-5: Use Of Sidewalks
6-2-6: Prohibited Conditions
6-2-7: Enforcement
6-2-1: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with details and specifications as
established in the most current edition of "Standard Specifications for Road
and Bridge Construction" adopted by the Illinois Department of Transportation.
(Ord. 6172, 7-9-1997)
6-2-2: SIDEWALKS PROGRAM:
   A.   Program Established: A sidewalks program is hereby established. The
cost of constructing the sidewalk shall be shared equally, twenty five/seventy
five (25/75) up to three thousand dollars ($3,000.00) per sidewalk ($750.00
applicant's share/$2,250.00 City's share) between the City and the adjoining
property owner. (Ord. 6172, 7-9-1997)
   B.   Application Process: Notice of the sidewalks program shall be released
to the media. Funds from the gaming account will be utilized to pay for three
(3) (3 column by 5 inch) ads in the Telegraph, plus an ad package to be
arranged with WBGZ Radio Station. Persons who wish to sign up for the sidewalks
program shall apply by postcard within thirty (30) days of the media release.
On the postcard the applicant shall state his or her name, address and phone
number. The applicant shall indicate on the card whether they are requesting a
new or replacement sidewalk and the approximate length of the sidewalk.
Postcards shall be sent to the Department of Public Works and shall be date and
time stamped upon receipt. Applications shall be limited to one per person or
business. The Department of Public Works shall get details from each applicant,
and carefully advise each applicant that one-quarter (1/4) of the total cost of
the sidewalk will be due and payable when final specifications are drawn and
the best bid award has been made. The City's total share of the 2000-2001
sidewalks program shall not exceed one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
In the event that applications exceed the funds available, sidewalk
construction shall be funded on a first-come, first-served basis. (Ord. 6463,
3-8-2000)
   C.   Guidelines: The sidewalks program shall be implemented in accordance
with the "Guidelines for Implementation" attached to Ordinance 6005 on file in
the office of the City Clerk and incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 6172,
7-9-1997)
   D.   Repealer: The Sidewalks Program Ordinance is repealed on March 31,
2001, unless prior to that date the City Council enacts legislation providing
for the continuation of the sidewalks program. (Ord. 6463, 3-8-2000)
6-2-3: SIDEWALK PERMITS:
   A.   Permit To Repair: No person shall remove, repair or in any manner
disturb any sidewalk without first having obtained a permit form the Department
of Public Works specifying the work to be done (and any violation of the terms
of such permit shall render same null and void). (1917 Code, § 1238)
   B.   No Repair Without Permit: It shall also be the duty of the police
officers to see to it that no person shall remove, repair or in any manner
disturb any sidewalk without first having obtained a proper permit from the
Department of Public Works. (1917 Code, § 1241)
6-2-4: HANDICAP ACCESSIBILITY RAMPS:
   A.   Handicap ramps shall only be constructed upon public rights of way in
cases where the structure is preexisting and there is an insufficient setback
to construct the ramp upon private property. New construction or major
rehabilitations shall not be allowed to use public right of way for ramp
construction.
   B.   Handicap ramps and all appurtenances shall be designed and constructed
in accordance with the specifications outlined in the Illinois Environmental
Barriers Act and the Americans With Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines.
   C.   All applicants must show that alteration of the structure for handicap
accessibility would be cost prohibitive and there are no economically viable
alternatives.
   D.   The handicap ramp must leave adequate room for pedestrian movement.
   E.   A to-scale site plan and drawing of the ramp must be submitted to
Building and Housing for review. Furthermore, Building and Housing may request
additional information, as it deems necessary, to properly review the
application. In addition, the applicant shall be subject to all necessary
permits and fees required by Public Works. The applicant shall bear the cost of
all associated expenses for the design and construction of the ramp.
   F.   The City shall retain the right to remove a ramp in the event that the
City requires the use of the public right-of- way for another public purpose.
(Ord. 5700, 9-23-1992)
6-2-5: USE OF SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Private Use: No part of any sidewalk shall be taken for private use by
lowering or cutting down the same next to the building fronting thereon; or by
railing off the same by any iron or other railing, or otherwise shutting off
the public from using the same; but said sidewalk shall be built clear up to
the building on a uniform grade, as hereinbefore provided, unless the City
Council shall otherwise direct. Entrance to cellars and basements, and flights
of stairs or steps may be made, which shall not extend into or on the sidewalks
more than four feet (4') next to the building, and the width of the steps,
stairs or entrances in sidewalks to cellars or basements shall not be more than
five feet (5'); and the same shall be at all times securely protected by the
owner or occupant of the building. Notwithstanding the foregoing, issuance of a
lease for a sidewalk cafe as permitted by title 4, chapter 7, article B of this
Code, which includes any such sidewalk cafe upon a public sidewalk shall be
deemed to be specific authority of the City Council for such operation, within
the meaning of this section. (Ord. 7601, 11-21-2017)
   B.   Goods Displayed On Walk: It shall be unlawful for any person in the
City to place, set or hang out, over or upon any sidewalk, any goods, wares or
merchandise, except within three feet (3') of the building or premises owned or
occupied by him; or to place, erect or suspend any sign, flag, banner, show
case or other fixture projecting into or hanging over any sidewalk exceeding
three feet (3') from the building or premises owned or occupied by him; or to
cause or knowingly permit the same to be done in front of or adjoining any
house or premises owned or occupied by him, under his control. (1917 Code §
1231)
   C.   Draining Water On Walks: It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer
or permit the water falling or draining from the roof of any building owned,
occupied or controlled by him, to spread over the sidewalk in front of the
same. (1917 Code § 1234)
   D.   Crowds Obstructing Walks: When two (2) or more persons shall stand or
crowd together so as to obstruct any sidewalk or thereby prevent the free and
unobstructed passage of other persons over such sidewalk, such persons so
obstructing such walk shall be subject to a penalty as in this Code provided.
(1917 Code § 1236)
6-2-6: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Nuisance Conditions: Every sidewalk in the City which is so much worn
or out of repair as to endanger the safety of persons passing over the same, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance; and any person who shall hereafter suffer or
permit such nuisance to exist in front of or adjoining premises owned or
occupied by such person shall be subject to a penalty as in this Code provided.
(1917 Code § 1228)
   B.   Injury To Sidewalk: If any person shall break or otherwise injure any
sidewalk, he shall be fined as in this Code provided. (1917 Code § 1239)
   C.   Horse Or Wagon On Walk: No person shall ride, drive, push or draw any
horse, mule, hog, cow or other like animal or any wagon, sled or sleigh on any
sidewalk within the City, unless it be in crossing the same to go into a yard
or lot where no other suitable crossing or means of access is provided. (1917
Code § 1233)
6-2-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Duty To Enforce: It shall be the duty of the Department of Public
Works, the Police Department and of any City officers and employees having
police power to enforce the provisions of this Chapter by stopping any work
being done in violation of the terms of this Chapter. (1917 Code, § 1219)
   B.   Report Defects: It shall be the duty of all police officers to report
to the Department of Public Works all defects in sidewalks, and in case of
accident, they shall report the same to the Law Department, together with the
names of any witnesses to such accident, if known to them. (1917 Code, § 1240)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Permit Required
6-3-2: Application For Permit
6-3-3: Permit Fee
6-3-4: Bond
6-3-5: Insurance
6-3-6: Time Limit
6-3-7: Cutting Pavement And Excavating
6-3-8: Refilling Of Excavations
6-3-9: Paving, Resurfacing And Restoration
6-3-10: Protective Measures
6-3-11: Sidewalk Excavations By Property Owners
6-3-12: Rules And Regulations
6-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall make or cause to be made any cuts or excavations in, through,
or under any street, sidewalk, alley or public place in the City for any
purpose whatsoever without a permit therefor being obtained from the Director
of Public Works, which permit shall not be issued until the applicant has
complied with the provisions of this Chapter including those provisions
requiring bond and deposit. A separate permit shall be required for each cut or
excavation. This Section shall not be construed to prohibit bona fide emergency
cuts or excavations when essential to the preservation of public health,
safety, or welfare. In such cases, application for permit to cover emergency
cuts or excavations shall be made the first regular work day following the
making of the cut or excavation.
   A.   Required Marking For Cuts Or Excavations By Utility Companies: Utility
companies making cuts or excavations in City streets shall first mark such cut
or excavation at the adjacent curb line with the color code hereinafter set
forth, provided that if the cut or excavation is made on an unimproved street,
then the marking shall be on the extreme edge of the street. The mark shall be
made with a colored paint of such a quality and shall be applied in sufficient
quantity to be visible for a period of at least one year. The following code
colors are hereby designated:
 
Utility Service                    Color
Gas, oil, petroleum                High visibility safety - yellow
Electric                           Safety - red
Communication, telephone telegraph Safety alert - orange
Potable water                      Safety precaution - blue
Sewer                              Safety - green
   B.   Manner Of Marking: Utility companies making cuts or excavations in City
streets during winter months when ice or snow may cover the adjacent curb line,
shall drive a stake, marked with the appropriate colored paint, into the dirt
area behind the adjacent curb line, far enough down as to prevent vandalism,
and avoid accidental injuries. In areas where neither method of marking
provided in
6-3-1A of this Section is available, the utility shall notify the office of
Public Works.
   C.   Penalty: Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this Section
shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars ($ 1,000.00)
per excavation. (Ord. 5941, 12-21-1994)
6-3-2: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
All applications for permit under the provisions of this Chapter shall be
signed by the person who or duly authorized agent of an entity which desires to
do the work designated in the application. Such application shall not be
assignable and no person or entity shall allow his or its name to be used to
obtain a permit for any other person or entity. Applications for this purpose
shall be made on forms approved by the Director of Public Works. (Ord. 5941,
12-21-1994)
6-3-3: PERMIT FEE:
   A.   Permit Fee Enumerated: Unless otherwise contractually provided for in a
then-valid franchise between the permit applicant and the City, the following
fees shall be charged for permits issued hereunder for excavation openings for
placement or renewal of facilities and said fees shall be paid to the City
Treasurer:
Open cut street, cross traffic                $20.00 per 15 lineal feet
(up to 3 feet width)
Open cut street, cross traffic                $40.00 per 15 lineal feet
(3 feet to 6 feet width)
Open cut street with traffic                  $20.00 per 20 lineal feet
(up to 3 feet width)
Open cut street with traffic                  $40.00 per 20 lineal feet
(3 feet to 6 feet width)
Open cut alley, cross traffic                 $20.00 per 15 lineal feet
(up to 3 feet width)
Open cut alley, cross traffic                 $40.00 per 15 lineal feet
(3 feet to 6 feet width)
Open cut alley with traffic                   $20.00 per 20 lineal feet
(up to 3 feet width)
Open cut alley with traffic                   $40.00 per 10 lineal feet
(3 feet to 6 feet)
Curb removal                                  $25.00 up to and including
(property line sidewalk)                      70 lineal feet and $0.35 for each
                                              additional lineal foot
Sidewalk excavation                           $25.00 up to and including
(property line sidewalk)                      70 lineal feet and $0.35 for each
                                              additional lineal foot
Removal and replacement of                    $10.00 fee to accompany
sidewalk by property owner                    permit
Open cut in City right of way                 $10.00
(approximately 3 feet by 4 feet)
Directional boring of a utility in the public
right-of-way (said permit fee to include all  $0.75 per foot
boring puts and handholes relating directly
to said directional boring)
 
   B.   Franchise Exceptions: Public utilities having franchises which permit
the deduction from franchise taxes of permit fees and charges shall be issued
permits without charge. Public utilities determined not to have obtained a
permit for excavation in a City street or right of way and paid the required
fee, if any, shall be fined one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) per
each unreported excavation. (Ord. 5941, 12-21-1994; amd. Ord. 7759, 6-11-2020)
6-3-4: BOND:
   A.   Unless otherwise contractually provided for in a valid franchise
between the permit applicant and the City, before any permit referred to in
this Chapter shall be issued, the applicant for such permit shall deposit with
the Director of Public Works a performance and maintenance bond, or, in the
alternative, a license and permit bond in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) which bond shall provide that the permittee shall well and
satisfactorily restore the street opening and guaranteeing said satisfactory
restoration for a period of one year after same is made; provided however, that
any permit issued hereunder exclusively for the installation, improvement, or
replacement of sidewalks shall require the applicant therefor to post the above
described bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in the manner
described above. If such permittee anticipates requesting more than one permit
per year as required by this Section, he may furnish on continuing bond as
aforesaid in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00); provided
however, that if the permittee anticipates requesting more than one permit
exclusively for sidewalk work per year as required in this Section, he may
furnish one continuing bond as aforesaid in the penal sum of five thousand
dollars ($5,000.00). If the said ten thousand dollar ($10,000.00) bond is
deemed inadequate by the Director of Public Works, based upon the estimated
cost of restoring the opening or openings, then the Director may require any
reasonable increase in the amount thereof to conform to the said estimated
costs.
   B.   In lieu of the bond required above, an applicant for sidewalk
installation, replacement, or improvements who owns the property on which the
sidewalk is located may deposit the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) with
the City Treasurer as prescribed above, or the bond requirement as outlined in
this Section as amended, subject to the approval of the Director of Public
Works, who will determine the estimated cost of restoration hereunder. The City
may apply such funds so deposited to pay for any costs, fees, or expenses
incurred by the City arising out of the activities of the permittee. One year
after the expiration of any permit for any sidewalk work under this subsection
or if no such work has taken place the permittee under this subsection on
surrender of the permit so issued, the unused portion of such funds deposited
under this subsection shall, on order of the Director of Public Works, be
refunded to the permittee. (Ord. 5941, 12-21-1994)
6-3-5: INSURANCE:
   A.   In addition to the above bond requirement, every permittee shall,
before a permit is issued, furnish the Director of Public Works with a
certificate of insurance showing liability coverage of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal injury including one hundred
thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for property damage. Said certificate of
insurance shall be in substance and form as approved by the Corporation Counsel
and shall indicate that the permittee has contractual liability insurance from
an insurance company satisfactory to the City, naming the City as an additional
insured and indemnifying and holding the City, its agents, employees, and
servants harmless from, on account of, and against all claims, demands, or
suits which may be brought by any person or persons arising out of any acts or
work done pursuant to the award of such permit to the permittee notwithstanding
that said claim, demand, or suit may be the result of negligence of someone
other than the permittee or his subcontractor.
   B.   Lawfully self-insured corporations may deposit a hold harmless
agreement and corporate undertaking in a form approved by the Corporation
Counsel. (Ord. 5941, 12-21-1994)
6-3-6: TIME LIMIT:
Each cut or excavation for which a permit is granted under this Chapter shall
be completed within fourteen (14) days from the date of issuance of the permit.
An extension of time may be granted by the Director of Public Works in
situations where the delay is attributable to causes beyond the control of the
permittee. In the event of lapse of such time limits, a new permit shall be
required before the cut or excavation is made. (Ord. 6067, 4-24-1996)
6-3-7: CUTTING PAVEMENT AND EXCAVATING:
The person making a cut or excavation shall cause the same to be done with the
least possible injury to the street, sidewalk, alley, or public place and shall
place the removed paving material and excavated earth therefrom in such a
manner as to cause the least possible inconvenience to the public and to permit
uninterrupted passage of water along the gutters. The width of the cut or
excavation shall be according to drawing 2426-3, or its successors, as printed
by IDOT for Class B patches, a copy of which standard shall be available for
copying at the Department of Public Works. (Ord. 5941, 12-21-1994)
6-3-8: REFILLING OF EXCAVATIONS:
Every person making a cut or excavation in, through, or under any street,
sidewalk, alley, or public place in the City shall notify the Director of
Public Works of his intention to commence the refill of such cut or excavation
at least four (4) hours prior to the actual commencing thereof. Utility
companies shall notify the Director of Public Works of their schedule for
backfilling and roadway repairs. Roadway repairs made without notification
shall require re-excavation and replacement with flowable backfill. Refilling
of all cuts or excavations made in any street, sidewalk, alley, or public place
in the City shall be made by one of the following methods:
   A.   Excavations in streets, alleys, and roadways including oil and chip
surfaces shall be clean saw cut the depth of the existing surface.
   B.   Street and roadway cuts shall be widened a minimum of twelve inches
(12") on each side of the excavation before replacing subbase or surface.
   C.   Refill shall be done with clean, unfrozen Grade 8 aggregate, free of
foreign substances such as wood, weeds, clay balls or lumps of dirt. The Grade
8 aggregate is to be no greater than eight inches (8") when compacted over the
repair.
   D.   Flowable fill shall be used from the eight inches (8") of Grade 8
aggregate to fill to the bottom of the concrete subbase. Where concrete subbase
does not exist, flowable fill shall be used to the base of the existing
surface.
   E.   Alternate fill for major excavations, such as Grade 8 aggregate, will
be at the discretion of the Director of Public Works and shall be replaced with
lifts that will not be greater than eight inches (8") when compacted.
   F.   Concrete subbase is to be replaced with the same thickness as existing
subbase with a mixture of 7 bag concrete and shall be pinned or doweled on
twelve inch (12") centers, a minimum of six inches (6") from top of existing
subbase with one inch by eighteen inch (1" x 18") dowels set at a depth of
eight inches (8") to nine inches (9") in existing subbase.
   G.   Excavations made in oil and chip streets and asphalt streets shall be
repaired with hot mix asphalt. During the period of the year when hot mix
asphalt is not available, cold patch asphalt may be used as a temporary repair
until hot mix asphalt is available. Before hot mix can be put down, a tack coat
must be applied to the vertical sides. Excavations made in concrete streets and
roadways shall be replaced with concrete. Excavations made in brick streets and
roadways shall be made with bricks removed from the excavation.
   H.   The finished surface of excavation repairs made with hot mix asphalt
shall be compacted with a roller.
   I.   Public Works shall be notified one hour before the permanent surface is
to be completed. Public Works shall use a straight edge to ensure that the
permanent surface is flush and compacted to match the existing surface around
the completed excavation. (Ord. 6067, 4-24-1996)
6-3-9: PAVING, RESURFACING AND RESTORATION:
The area affected by cut or excavation of the street surface and subsurface
shall be repaired to the condition equal to or better than the surrounding
street surface by the person or utility company causing said excavation for
perpetuity. The area affected shall be rebuilt or overlaid. If failure occurs
on existing patch and the person or utility company initiates the permit
process, the permit fee shall be waived. To encourage prompt response to street
repair problems, Public Works shall notify persons when they are in a
progressive penalty situation. (Ord. 6067, 4-24-1996)
6-3-10: PROTECTIVE MEASURES:
   A.   Every person who shall for any purpose make or cause to be made any
excavation in, upon, under, or adjoining any street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public place, and shall leave any part or portion thereof open, or shall leave
any part or portion thereof obstructed with rubbish, building, or other
material shall cause the same to be enclosed with good, substantial, and
sufficient barriers not less than three feet (3') high and shall cause one or
more warning lights of a type approved by the Director of Public Works to be
securely and conspicuously posted on or near such excavation, building
material, or other obstruction, provided that if such excavation or obstruction
extends more than ten feet (10') but less than fifty feet (50') in length, two
(2) warning lights shall be used with one placed at each end, and provided
further, that one additional light shall be placed for each additional fifty
feet (50') or part thereof. Such light shall be kept burning from sunset to
sunrise.
   B.   No person shall excavate the full width of any street, alley, sidewalk,
or other public place, except when in the opinion of the Director of Public
Works public convenience and necessity will be better served thereby; in such
cases it shall be the duty of the permittee to maintain a substantial walkway
or driveway across such excavation until it is refilled. (Ord. 5941, 12-21-
1994)
6-3-11: SIDEWALK EXCAVATIONS BY PROPERTY OWNERS:
Whenever any property owner, or any person representing him shall have stated
in his application for a permit to excavate through or under any sidewalk that
he desires to repair such sidewalk himself or by his representative, and that
he will guard such excavation or defective sidewalk until such repairs are
made, by barricades and lights as provided in this Chapter, and that such
sidewalk shall be repaired forty eight (48) hours after the excavation through
or under the sidewalk has been completed, then such property owner or his
representative shall have the right to repair such sidewalk provided such
repair is made in accordance with all applicable requirements of the City.
(Ord. 5941, 12-21-1994)
6-3-12: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The Director of Public Works, with the approval of the Mayor and Council, may
prescribe such rules and regulations to be followed and performed by any person
engaged in excavating public streets, sidewalks, alleys, and public places as
may be necessary for the safety and convenience of the public and the proper
handling and dispatch of the work; provided, however, that no rules or
regulations shall be contrary to the provisions of this or any other City Code
provisions. (Ord. 5941, 12-21-1994)
CHAPTER 4
NUMBERING OF BUILDINGS
SECTION:
6-4-1: Numbering Required
6-4-2: Assignment Of Numbers
6-4-3: Manner Of Numbering
6-4-4: Failure To Number
6-4-5: Mistake Or Conflict
6-4-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED:
It is hereby made the duty of the owner, agent or person in possession of every
building in the City to number it in the manner hereinafter provided. (1917
Code, § 848)
6-4-2: ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS:
   A.   Authority To Change: The numbers heretofore assigned to lots or houses,
except as hereinafter provided, shall remain the numbers of such lots or
houses, respectively, until otherwise changed by the Council. (1917 Code, §
849)
   B.   Assignment: The Supervisor of Housing and Building Inspectors shall
assign, or cause to be assigned, to each lot or house its proper number, and
shall inform the owner, agent or person in possession of such premises as to
the number thereof at any time upon demand.
In assigning such numbers the Supervisor shall assign a number to each lot or
part of lot fronting on any street, avenue or public place of the City as soon
as may be in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, and shall allow
one number for each twenty five feet (25') of vacant ground, and the record of
such numbering in the books of the Supervisor shall be evidence of the
respective numbers or designations aforesaid. (1917 Code, § 851; amd. Ord.
4439, 6-27-1979; Ord. 5503, 12-19-1990)
6-4-3: MANNER OF NUMBERING:
   A.   How Numbered: The decimal system of numbering houses and premises is
hereby adopted as the system of numbering housing and premises on the streets
in the City. Market Street shall be the dividing or base line for numbering on
all streets running east and west, and the levee, or Front Street, on all
streets running north, or in a northerly direction. The odd numbers shall apply
to the south sides of the streets, and the even numbers to the north sides of
the streets, on all streets running east and west, and the odd numbers shall
apply to the east sides of the streets and the even numbers shall apply to the
west sides of the streets running north from the levee or Front Street, or in a
northerly direction, and the numbering shall be done in accordance with the
following rules:
      1.   On all streets running north from the levee or Front Street, or in a
northerly direction, the numbering shall commence with number one at the levee
or Front Street, and shall increase north at the rate of one hundred (100) for
each block or square, to the City limits.
      2.   On all streets running east and west from Market Street, the
numbering shall commence with number one and shall increase at the rate of one
hundred (100) for each block or square to the eastern limits of the City.
      3.   On all streets running west from Market Street, the numbering shall
commence with number one and shall increase west at the rate of one hundred
(100) for each block or square to the western limits of the City. (1917 Code, §
850)
   B.   Size Of Numbers: Each of the figures of every such number on any
building shall be not less than three inches (3") in length, being so marked as
to be distinctly and easily read; such numbers shall be placed in a conspicuous
place on the side of or above the front door of the building to which the same
are attached. (1917 Code, § 853)
6-4-4: FAILURE TO NUMBER:
Any person being the owner or occupant of any building now erected in the City
who shall neglect or refuse to number any building owned or occupied by him, in
conformity with the provisions of this Chapter, or who shall number such
building without first having obtained from the Supervisor of Housing and
Building Inspectors a number and certificate designating the proper number of
such building, shall be subject to penalty as in this Code provided.
Any owner or occupant of any building erected in the City who shall for thirty
(30) days after the same shall be erected, neglect or refuse to number said
building according to the provisions of this Chapter, or who shall number said
building without first having obtained from the Supervisor a number and a
certificate designating the proper number shall be subject to penalty as in
this Code provided. (1917 Code, § 854; amd. Ord. 4439, 6-27-1979; Ord. 5503,
12-19-1990)
6-4-5: MISTAKE OR CONFLICT:
In all cases where house numbers have been assigned on any street in pursuance
of this Chapter, it shall be the duty of the Supervisor of Housing and Building
Inspectors thereafter to adjust and reassign such numbers as the same may be
required from time to time, and in all cases where there is a mistake or
conflict in numbers, said Supervisor shall direct and make the proper
adjustment of the same. (1917 Code, § 855; amd. Ord. 4439, 6-27-1979; Ord.
5503, 12-19-1990)
CHAPTER 5
PUBLIC PROPERTY USE; PROFESSIONAL FEES
SECTION:
6-5-1: Findings
6-5-2: Definitions
6-5-3: Use Of Public Property
6-5-4: Fee Reimbursement Agreement
6-5-5: Reports To City Council
6-5-1: FINDINGS:
It is hereby found and declared that the preambles to this Ordinance 5804, on
file in the office of the City Clerk, are true and correct and are incorporated
herein as if fully set forth at this point. (Ord. 5804, 8-11-1993)
6-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the terms set forth in this Section shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this Section:
FEES, COSTS AND EXPENSES: Any and all professional fees including fees for
accountants, attorneys, engineers and any practitioner of a professional
discipline customarily employed for the activities contemplated by this
Chapter; any and all costs of publication, duplication, documentary
preparation, postage, express charges, transportation or other out-of-pocket
charge incurred and all salaries of employees, officers and agents for services
provided outside of the ordinary course of employment or holding of office
including, but not limited to, attendance at special meetings of the City
Council.
RIGHTS IN PUBLIC PROPERTY: Any right to enter upon, occupy, place personal
property upon or utilize in any manner other than complete possession any real
property or portion thereof owned by the City.
USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY: The granting of possession of any real or personal
property owned by the City to any nongovernmental entity or for-profit
enterprise when such possession shall exceed a period of six (6) months. (Ord.
5804, 8-11-1993)
6-5-3: USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY:
It is the policy of the City Council of the City that the granting of use of
public property and rights in public property is to be encouraged through a
reasonable procedure for the consideration of proposals for such use and
rights. (Ord. 5804, 8-11-1993)
6-5-4: FEE REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT:
In order to encourage prompt consideration by the City Council and to minimize
the fiscal impact on other financial resources of the City, it is the policy of
the City to require reimbursement of expenses, costs and fees in connection
with the consideration of proposals for the use of public property and the
granting of rights in public property. In connection with the implementation of
this policy, there is hereby authorized and approved a fee reimbursement
agreement in substantially the form attached as Exhibit A to Ordinance 5804, on
file in the office of the City Clerk, and in connection therewith, the Mayor
and City Clerk are hereby directed, authorized and empowered to:
   A.   Execute and attest said agreement without further action of the City
Council with any individual, partnership, venture, business, corporation or
other entity that seeks to obtain the use of public property or obtain rights
in public property;
   B.   The Mayor shall enter into such agreement with any party who, in
response to a solicitation of the City for proposals for the use of public
property or the granting of rights in public property or any party who submits
a proposal unsolicited to the City for the granting of rights in public
property or use of public property;
   C.   The Mayor is hereby authorized and empowered to, in his sole
discretion, waive a deposit of fees as required by said agreement upon a
demonstration by the entity of financial responsibility and upon receipt of
adequate documentation evidencing the financial resources sufficient to pay to
the City such fees, costs and expenses as may be incurred by the City in the
analysis and consideration for any proposal for the use of public property of
granting of rights in public property. (Ord. 5804, 8-11-1993)
6-5-5: REPORTS TO CITY COUNCIL:
Upon the execution of any fee reimbursement agreement by the Mayor, the Mayor
shall promptly report the identity of any party entering into such an agreement
to the City Council. An executed original counterpart of said agreement shall
be placed on file with the City Clerk. (Ord. 5804, 8-11-1993)
CHAPTER 6
TREES AND SHRUBBERY
SECTION:
6-6-1: Short Title
6-6-2: Definitions
6-6-3: Authority Of Parks And Recreation Department
6-6-4: Permits Required
6-6-5: Obstruction; Trees Trimmed
6-6-6: Abuse Or Mutilation Of Public Trees
6-6-7: Climbing Spurs
6-6-8: Interference
6-6-9: Protection Of Trees And Shrubs
6-6-10: Placing Materials On Public Property
6-6-11: Stump Removal
6-6-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the TREE ORDINANCE of the city.
(Ord. 6759, 9-10-2003)
6-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein. When not inconsistent with
the context, words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
plural include the singular and words in the singular number include the plural
number. The word "shall" is mandatory and not merely directory:
PARK DEPARTMENT: The parks and recreation department as established in title 3,
chapter 6 of this code or its authorized representative.
PRINCIPAL THOROUGHFARE: Any street upon which trucks are not prohibited.
PROPERTY OWNER: The person owning such property as shown by the latest tax
collector's books of Madison County, Illinois.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between property lines of every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter of right, for purposes of vehicular traffic.
TREE LAWN: That part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk or other
paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street or
highway usually used for traffic.
TREES AND SHRUBS: Includes all woody vegetation, now or hereafter growing on
any public area, except where otherwise indicated. (Ord. 6759, 9-10-2003)
6-6-3: AUTHORITY OF PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT:
   A.   Authority: The parks and recreation department shall have the authority
and jurisdiction of regulating the planting, maintenance, trimming and removal
of trees and shrubs on streets and other publicly owned property to ensure
safety or preserve the symmetry of such public places.
   B.   Supervision: The parks and recreation department shall have the
authority and it shall be its duty to supervise or inspect all work done under
a permit issued in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   C.   Condition Of Permit: The parks and recreation department shall have the
authority to affix reasonable conditions to the granting of a permit in
accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   D.   Master Street Tree Plan: The parks and recreation department shall have
the authority to formulate a master street tree plan. The master street tree
plan shall specify the species of tree to be planted on each of the streets or
other public places of the city. From and after the effective date of the
master street tree plan, or any amendment thereof, all planting shall conform
thereto.
      1.   The said parks and recreation department shall consider all existing
and future environmental factors when recommending a specific species for each
of the streets or other public places of the city.
      2.   The said parks and recreation department shall have the authority to
amend or add to the master street tree plan at any time that circumstances make
it advisable.
   E.   Arboricultural Specifications And Standards Of Practice: The parks and
recreation department shall have the authority to promulgate arboricultural
specifications and standards of practice governing the planting, preservation,
trimming, removal, fertilization and bracing of trees and shrubs on the streets
or other public places in the city.
      1.   The parks and recreation department shall promulgate such
aboricultural specifications and standards of practice following approved
principals supported by good judgment and on the basis of existing local
conditions.
      2.   The parks and recreation department shall have the authority to
modify, amend or extend the aboricultural specifications and standards of
practice at any time that experience indicates improved methods or whenever
circumstances make it advisable. (Ord. 6759, 9-10-2003)
6-6-4: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Preserve Or Remove: No person shall treat, spray, fertilize, preserve,
trim, remove, cut above or below ground, or otherwise disturb any tree or shrub
in any street or city owned property without first filing an application and
procuring a permit from the parks and recreation department. The person
receiving the permit shall abide by the arboricultural specifications and
standards of practice adopted by the parks and recreation department.
      1.   Application Data: The application required herein shall state the
number and species of trees to be treated, sprayed, fertilized, preserved,
trimmed, removed, cut or otherwise disturbed; the kind of treatment to be
administered; the composition of the spray material to be applied; and such
other information as the parks and recreation department shall find reasonably
necessary to a fair determination of whether a permit should be issued.
      2.   Standards Of Issuance: The parks and recreation department shall
issue the permit provided for herein if in their judgment the proposed work is
desirable and the proposed method and workmanship thereof are of a satisfactory
nature. Any permit granted shall contain a definite date of expiration. Any
permit shall be void if its terms are violated.
   B.   Planting: No person shall plant or set out any tree or shrub in any
street or public place of the city without first filing an application and
procuring a permit from the parks and recreation department. The person
receiving the permit shall abide by the arboricultural specifications and
standards of practice and the master street tree plan as adopted by the parks
and recreation department.
      1.   Application Data: The application required herein shall state the
number of trees or shrubs to be set out; the location, grade and species of
each tree or shrub; the method of planting; and such other information as the
parks and recreation department shall find reasonably necessary to a fair
determination of whether a permit should be issued.
      2.   Standards For Issuance: The parks and recreation department shall
issue the permit provided for herein if in their judgment the proposed planting
is desirable and the proposed method thereof is of a satisfactory nature. Any
permit granted shall contain a definite expiration date and any permit shall be
void if its terms are violated. (Ord. 6759, 9-10-2003)
6-6-5: OBSTRUCTION; TREES TRIMMED:
It shall be the duty of any person owning or occupying real property bordering
on any street upon which property there may be trees or shrubs, to trim such
trees or shrubs in such manner that they will not obstruct or shade the
streetlights, or obstruct the passage of pedestrians on such sidewalks, or
obstruct vision of traffic signs, or obstruct view of any street or alley
intersection, and that the minimum clearance of any overhanging portion thereof
shall be nine feet (9') over sidewalks, twelve feet (12') over all streets
except principal thoroughfares which shall have a clearance of sixteen feet
(16'). (Ord. 6759, 9-10-2003)
6-6-6: ABUSE OR MUTILATION OF PUBLIC TREES:
Unless specifically authorized by the parks and recreation department, no
person shall intentionally damage, cut, carve, transplant or remove any tree or
shrub; attach any rope, wire, nails or other contrivance to any tree or shrub;
allow any gaseous, liquid or solid substance which is harmful to such trees or
shrubs to come in contact with them; or set fire or permit any fire to burn
when such fire or the heat thereof will injure any portion of any tree or
shrub. (Ord. 6759, 9-10-2003)
6-6-7: CLIMBING SPURS:
No spurs or climbers which injure the bark of a tree shall be used as an aid to
climbing such tree except when such tree is to be removed. (Ord. 6759, 9-10-
2003)
6-6-8: INTERFERENCE:
No person shall hinder, prevent, delay or interfere with the parks and
recreation department, or any of their authorized representatives, while
engaged in carrying out the execution or enforcement of this chapter; provided
however, that nothing herein shall be construed as an attempt to prohibit the
pursuit of any remedy, legal or equitable, in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the protection of property rights by the owner of any property
within the city. (Ord. 6759, 9-10-2003)
6-6-9: PROTECTION OF TREES AND SHRUBS:
All trees, shrubs or plants on any street or other publicly owned property near
any excavation or construction of any building or structure shall be guarded
with a good substantial frame or box not less than four feet (4') square and
six feet (6') high, and all building materials, dirt or other debris shall be
kept at least three feet (3') from such trees or shrubs.
No person shall excavate any ditches, tunnels or trenches, or lay and drive
within a radius of ten feet (10') from any public tree or shrub without first
obtaining a written permit from the parks and recreation department. (Ord.
6759, 9-10-2003)
6-6-10: PLACING MATERIALS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall deposit, place, store or maintain upon any public area of the
city any stone, brick, sand, concrete or other materials which may impede the
free passage of water, air and fertilizer to the roots of any tree or shrub
growing therein, except by written permit of the parks and recreation
department. (Ord. 6759, 9-10-2003)
6-6-11: STUMP REMOVAL:
All trees and shrubs removed from any street or public place of the city shall
be cut at least three inches (3") below the ground level, and the soil shall be
replaced and the area leveled. (Ord. 6759, 9-10-2003)
CHAPTER 7
PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Rules And Regulations
6-7-2: James H. Killion Park At Salu Amusements
6-7-1: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations shall be adhered to in all park and
playground areas within the corporate limits of the city. No person shall:
   A.   Write upon or mark or deface in any manner or use in any improper way
any water closet, seat, fence or any property or thing pertaining to or in any
park or recreation area in the city.
   B.   Bring or use any vehicle upon any portion of the park and recreation
areas where such vehicles are prohibited from use.
   C.   Drive faster than the rate of twenty (20) miles per hour on the
roadways in any of said parks and recreation areas. All state laws and city
code provisions applying to vehicles shall apply to vehicles within the said
park and recreation areas.
   D.   Break, cut, mutilate or injure, remove or carry away any tree, plant,
shrub, fence or any property in or upon any park, recreation area, square or
place in the city.
   E.   Use any abusive, threatening, insulting, indecent, profane or obscene
language, calculated to occasion a breach of the peace, nor be guilty of any
indecent act or behavior in the park and recreation areas.
   F.   Deposit, dump, throw or place any coal ashes, dust or rubbish in or
upon any part of the park and recreation areas. Paper, garbage or refuse matter
shall not be so deposited except in receptacles provided for that purpose.
(Ord. 3340, 3-24-1966)
   G.   Bathe in any lake or pond in any of the park and recreation areas
without the permission of the parks and recreation department. (Ord. 3340, 3-
24-1966; amd. Ord. 6756, 8-27-2003)
   H.   Chase, kill, set snare for, catch or attempt to catch any rabbits,
squirrels, birds, or any animal belonging to said park and recreation areas or
kept therein. (Ord. 5530, 3-27-1991)
   I.   Apply any placard or advertisement of any kind in the park and
recreation areas, nor shall any person distribute, cast, throw or place any
handbill, pamphlet, circular, advertisement or notice of any kind, nor post,
stencil or otherwise affix any notice, or bills, advertisement or other papers
upon any structure or thing in or about the park and recreation premises except
upon the express permission of the parks and recreation department. (Ord. 3340,
3-24-1966; amd. Ord. 4333, 7-26-1978; Ord. 6756, 8-27-2003)
   J.   Set up any booth or table for the sale of any article whatever or vend
from a vehicle in any of said park and recreation areas, except when authorized
by the parks and recreation department. (Ord. 3340, 3-24-1966; amd. Ord. 6756,
8-27-2003)
   K.   Foul in any manner in any spring, stream, lake, pond or fountain in any
of the park and recreation areas.
   L.   Play at games of chance or use any gambling device in said park and
recreation areas. (Ord. 3340, 3-24-1966)
   M.   Unless by authority of the parks and recreation department, light,
kindle or use any fire on any of said park and recreation areas except in those
places provided for that purpose. (Ord. 3340, 3-24-1966; amd. Ord. 6756, 8-27-
2003)
   N.   Bring any dog into any of said park and recreation areas, except when
fastened or lead by a cord, string or chain sufficient to properly restrain the
same.
   O.   Enter upon any portion of the park and recreation areas where persons
are prohibited from going as indicated by sign, notice or fence.
   P.   Engage in any sport, game or amusement in said park and recreation
areas except in such portions thereof as may be designated for this purpose.
(Ord. 3340, 3-24-1966)
   Q.   Bring within, sell, give away, or drink any intoxicating liquors in the
park and recreation areas except as a licensee or customer of a Class M or a
Class P-1 license or pursuant to a special event permit all as authorized by
title 4, chapter 4 of this Code. (Ord. 7423, 9-24-2014; amd. Ord. 7611, 12-20-
2017)
   R.   Make, countenance or assist in making any improper noise, riot,
disturbance, breach of the peace or diversion tending to the breach of the
peace in the park and recreation areas, or be guilty of any disorderly conduct
therein, or collect with other persons, in bodies or crowds, for unlawful
purposes, or for any purpose to the annoyance or obstruction or disturbance of
other persons. (Ord. 3340, 3-24-1966)
   S.   Resist any employee or police officer of the Parks and Recreation
Department in the discharge of his duty, or fail or refuse to obey any lawful
command of any such employee or police officer or in any way interfere with or
hinder or prevent any such employee or police officer from discharging his
duty. (Ord. 3340, 3-24-1966; amd. Ord. 6756, 8-27-2003)
   T.   The use and visitation of parks and recreation areas shall be between
sunrise and sunset or upon completion of activities scheduled by the City of
Alton Department of Parks and Recreation, whichever is later.
The use of the parks and recreation areas at hours other than those provided
herein shall be with a special permit issued only by the City of Alton Parks
and Recreation Department.
Parking of any vehicle is prohibited in all parks and recreation areas from the
time of closing as set forth herein until sunrise. (Ord. 6983, 12-20-2006)
   U.   Operate any motor powered vehicle of any type in any portion of the
park, recreation or playground areas of the City except upon those streets,
paths or other specifically designated areas upon which the rules and
regulations of the Parks and Recreation Department expressly authorize the
operation of said motor driven vehicles. (Ord. 4522, 6-11-1980; amd. Ord. 6756,
8-27-2003)
   V.   Bring or use a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle upon any portion of
park and recreation areas. (Ord. 4641, 9-23-1981)
   W.   Fish in any City park at any time except as permitted in Moore Park
Lake and only in accordance with fishing regulations established herein.
      1.   Fishing shall be by pole and line only and only from the bank of the
lake. (Ord. 5530, 3-27-1991)
      2.   Fishing shall be allowed only in areas specifically designated and
marked by the Parks and Recreation Department employees.
      3.   No person shall fish before sunrise or after sunset, exact times to
be determined by Parks and Recreation Department employees each day. (Ord.
5530, 3-27-1991; amd. Ord. 6756, 8-27-2003)
      4.   Fishing shall be permitted only for those persons who have a valid
fishing license issued by the State of Illinois, except fishing licenses shall
not be required of persons under sixteen (16) years of age or over sixty four
(64) years of age.
      5.   No person shall fish through ice on the lake or when any ice is
present on any portion of the lake.
      6.   No person shall clean any fish in any part of the Gordon F. Moore
Park.
      7.   No person shall take more than a total of twenty five (25) bluegill
or redear fish from the lake per day.
      8.   No person shall take more than six (6) channel cat from the lake per
day. (Ord. 5530, 3-27-1991)
      9.   No person shall take more than one bass fish of length in excess of
fifteen inches (15") per day and no person shall take more than three (3) bass
per day of any size in accordance with IDNR-2006. (Ord. 6983, 12-20-2006)
   X.   Swim, dive or wade in the lake at Gordon Moore Park.
   Y.   Operate or use a boat, with or without a motor, at Gordon Moore Park.
(Ord. 7028, 10-10-2007)
   Z.   Use bicycles, skateboards, rollerblades, roller skates or similar
devices in or upon the amphitheater area and its related improvements in Alton
Riverfront Park or in or upon any City owned fountain or improvements related
thereto. (Ord. 7191, 4-28-2010)
   AA.   It shall be unlawful for any person not specifically authorized by the
Alton Marina to be present on the riprap stone area from the east end of the
riprap stone wall of the Alton Marina running parallel with the launch ramp
connecting to the south end of riprap stone to the wall that runs parallel with
the river connecting to the west end riprap stone wall that runs parallel with
the city park/amphitheater connecting to the north end of the riprap stone wall
running parallel with the Alton Marina parking lot which connects to the east
riprap stone wall. The areas of limited access shall be clearly marked by the
management of the Alton Marina. (Ord. 7292, 12-21-2011)
   BB.   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any dog to allow the dog to
enter or remain in Hellrung Park or James H. Killion Park At Salu, whether
restrained or unrestrained. Any dog found in Hellrung Park or James H. Killion
Park At Salu may be taken by police or the animal control officer and impounded
in accordance with section
7-12-6 of this code. This section shall not apply to any specially trained
service dog while in the service of a handicapped person. (Ord. 7403, 5-14-
2014)
6-7-2: JAMES H. KILLION PARK AT SALU AMUSEMENTS:
Any person desiring to produce, present, conduct or offer for gain or profit
any of the entertainments, exhibitions or performances as set forth in title 4,
chapter 2 of this code shall make application to the mayor in writing setting
out the full name of the applicant, description of the kind and class of
entertainment he intends to offer, and the place at which it is desired to
present such entertainment. Upon the payment by such applicant to the city
treasurer of the license fee hereinafter specified for the production or
presentation of, the city clerk shall issue to such applicant a license
authorizing him to conduct, produce, present or offer the class of
entertainment specified in such license at the place described in such
application and for the period of time specified in such license; providing
however, that if the place at which it is desired to offer such entertainment
be not fit or proper place and not conducted or maintained in accordance with
the provisions of this code governing or controlling such places, or if the
entertainment desired to be produced be of an immoral or dangerous character,
the mayor may refuse to approve such application and no license shall be issued
by the city clerk, except upon the approval of the application therefor by the
mayor; provided however, that no such license shall be issued for the
presentation, production or conducting of a carnival at or on the site commonly
known and referred to as James H. Killion Park At Salu, which park is bounded
by the following streets:
   Humbert Street
   Locust Street
   Salu Street
   Washington Avenue
With regard to the above James H. Killion Park At Salu exclusion, the mayor is
hereby empowered to determine what activities shall constitute a carnival,
however, it is the express intention of said exclusion that the following types
of amusements are not to be considered carnivals: (Ord. 2733, 6-13-1958; amd.
Ord. 6983, 12-20-2006)
   A.   Those put on for the raising of funds for a charitable institution.
   B.   Those put on by an employer for the benefit of employees of any company
or business.
   C.   Those put on for the raising of funds for the furtherance of city
playground or park activities. (Ord. 2733, 6-13-1958)
CHAPTER 8
CEMETERY
SECTION:
6-8-1: Deed Accepted
6-8-2: Maintenance Of Cemetery
6-8-1: DEED ACCEPTED:
The City accepts a certain deed dated February 27, 1950, by the Board of
Trustees of the Alton Cemetery, a corporation, to the City of Alton conveying
the legal title to the City Cemetery or burying grounds of the City as the same
are more specifically set out and described and subject to the provisions
therein contained. A copy of said deed shall be and remain on file in the
office of the City Clerk, and shall be incorporated herein by reference. (Ord.
2347, 4-12-1950)
6-8-2: MAINTENANCE OF CEMETERY:
The Alton Cemetery, a corporation, shall assume the care, upkeep and
maintenance of said Cemetery in accordance with the provisions of said deed
until changed by general ordinance with the concurrence of the Park and
Recreation Commission. (Ord. 2347, 4-12-1950; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 9
CULVERTS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Definitions
6-9-2: Maintenance
6-9-3: Personal Liability
6-9-4: Liens
6-9-5: Duties
6-9-6: Size Of Culverts
6-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this Chapter, have the
meaning ascribed to them in this Section, except where the content clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BENEFITED PROPERTY: That parcel of real property originally benefited or
improved by the installation of a culvert.
CULVERT: A storm sewer or storm drain crossing under a roadway, walkway or
embankment.
OWNER OF THE BENEFITED PROPERTY: Whoever from time to time shall be the record
owner or owners of the benefited property. In the event of multiple owners,
notice to one shall be sufficient notice for purposes of Section
6-9-4 of this Chapter; and as to Section
6-9-3 of this Chapter, if the owners hold their interests as joint tenants,
each owner shall be deemed jointly and severally liable and if the owners hold
their interests as tenants in common each owner may be liable for his or her
respective fractional share of the costs and resulting judgment.
REASONABLE TIME: A period of time not less than ten (10) days nor more than
forty five (45) days unless emergency conditions or other good cause can be
shown. (Ord. 4355, 10-11-1978)
6-9-2: MAINTENANCE:
In the event a culvert is constructed by or on behalf of a private property
owner and is designed to benefit a particular parcel of private property the
owner of the benefited property shall be responsible for the maintenance and
repair of the respective culvert serving the benefited property. (Ord. 4355,
10-11-1978)
6-9-3: PERSONAL LIABILITY:
If the Director of Public Works determines that, in his opinion, maintenance or
repair is necessary with regard to a particular culvert, he may demand by
written notice that the owner of the benefited property accomplish such
maintenance or repair within a reasonable time after such written notice. If
the owner of the benefited property fails to accomplish such maintenance or
repair within a reasonable time after such written notice, the Director of
Public Works may apply to the Circuit Court of the State of Illinois for
judgment authorizing the City to accomplish the necessary maintenance and
repair of the particular culvert and the Court may so order; and further, the
Court shall enter judgment against the owner of the benefited property in favor
of the City for the costs of accomplishing the necessary maintenance or repair
of the particular culvert, together with the costs of suit. (Ord. 4355, 10-11-
1978)
6-9-4: LIENS:
If the Director of Public Works determines that, in his opinion, maintenance or
repair is necessary with regard to a particular culvert, he may demand by
written notice that the owner of the benefited property accomplish such
maintenance or repair within a reasonable time. If the owner of the benefited
property fails to accomplish such maintenance or repair within a reasonable
time after such written notice, the Director of Public Works may accomplish
such necessary maintenance or repair of the particular culvert and the City may
thereafter file a lien in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Madison
County, Illinois, setting forth therein a description of the benefited property
served by the particular culvert, the amount of money the City expended in
accomplishing said maintenance or repair, and the date or dates when such cost
and expense was incurred by the City. This lien shall be superior to all other
liens and encumbrances excepting tax liens as provided for by statute. (Ord.
4355, 10-11-1978)
6-9-5: DUTIES:
No owner of the benefited property shall refuse or neglect to accomplish the
necessary maintenance or repair of the particular culvert serving said
benefited property when demanded so to do by the Director of Public Works, as
provided for in Sections
6-9-3 and
6-9-4 of this Chapter. The person or persons responsible for the maintenance
and repair of a culvert may, with the prior written permission of the Director
of Public Works, eliminate said culvert, returning the land to a natural
drainage condition by establishing a drainage ditch, rather than maintain or
repair the respective culvert. In the event the Director of Public Works
refuses to grant such permission after requested to do so, in writing, the City
will assume responsibility for the maintenance and repair of the respective
culvert. (Ord. 4355, 10-11-1978)
6-9-6: SIZE OF CULVERTS:
Sizes of culverts shall be determined by the Director of Public Works, but in
normal installations shall have a minimum of twelve inches (12") in diameter.
(Ord. 6057, 3-27-1996)
CHAPTER 10
SEWERS AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL
SECTION:
6-10-1: Definitions
6-10-2: Connection To Public Sewer Required
6-10-3: Permit Requirements
6-10-4: Rates And Charges
6-10-4-1: Delinquent Payments; Penalty
6-10-4-2: Notice Of Liability
6-10-5: Connections
6-10-5-1: Owner To Repair Lateral
6-10-5-2: Separate Connections Required
6-10-5-3: Specifications For Connections, Laterals
6-10-5-4: Connection To Public Sewer
6-10-5-5: Connections From Existing Establishments
6-10-5-6: Installation Or Repair Prior To Street Improvement
6-10-5-7: Time For Compliance
6-10-5-8: Neglect Or Failure To Install Or Extend Services
6-10-5-9: Discharge Into; Connection To Storm Drains
6-10-5-10: Connection Of Surface Drains
6-10-5-11: Grease, Oil And Sand Interceptors
6-10-5-12: New Connections To Combined Sewer System
6-10-5-13: Disconnection Of Inflow Sources On Combined Sewer System
6-10-5-14: Prohibited Materials
6-10-6: Discharges To System
6-10-6-1: Unsanitary Discharge
6-10-6-2: Discharge Into Watercourses
6-10-7: Industrial Wastes
6-10-8: Privies And Private Systems
6-10-8-1: Privies Prohibited
6-10-8-2: Private Sewage Disposal
6-10-9: Entry Onto Serviced Properties
6-10-10: Wastewater Haulers
6-10-11: Penalties
6-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the content clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BOD (Denoting The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
Biochemical   under standard or laboratory procedures within five (5) days at twenty degrees
Oxygen        Celsius (20°C) as outlined in Standard Methods, expressed in parts per million
Demand):      by weight (a weight to weight ratio). The parts per million value multiplied by
              the factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to pounds per million gallons of water.
              That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system which receives
BUILDING      the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage points inside the walls of a
DRAIN:        building and contiguous to the building sewer, which begins five feet (5')
              outside the inner facings of the building wall.
BUILDING OR
PROPERTY      The sewer extension from the building drain or property drain to the public
SEWER, OR     sewer or other places of disposal.
HOUSE
CONNECTION:
CITY:         The City of Alton, Illinois.
CITY          The regularly appointed City Engineer of the City, his authorized deputy,
ENGINEER:     agent, or representative.
COMBINED      A sewer receiving both surface water runoff and sewage, and so designated by
SEWER:        the Director of Public Works.
              The biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform
              bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES permit if the
              treatment works was designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact does remove
COMPATIBLE    such pollutants to a substantial degree. Examples of such additional pollutants
POLLUTANT:    may include: chemical oxygen demand, total organic carbon, phosphorus and
              phosphorus compounds, nitrogen and nitrogen compounds and fats, oils and
              greases of animal or vegetable origin except as prohibited under Prohibited
              Materials (Section
              6-10-5-17).
              Any drainage facility usually, but not necessarily, consisting of pervious, un-
FIELD TILE:   flanged jointed tile or other media laid for the prime purpose of draining away
              surface or subsurface waters and not designed for the carrying of sewage.
FORCE MAIN:   A conduit or pipe for carrying pumped sewage under pressure to a point where
              gravity will carry the sewage to the place of treatment or disposal.
              All animal, fruit and other vegetable matter, all organic refuse resulting from
GARBAGE:      the preparation of food; and also to include ashes, tin cans, glassware and
              crockery.
INCOMPATIBLE  Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant as described in compatible
POLLUTANT:    pollutant above.
INDUSTRIAL    That user which has been determined as introducing wastewater from industrial
USER:         processes, trade or business, into the system as distinct from domestic or
              sanitary wastes.
INDUSTRIAL    The liquid wastes from industrial and manufacturing processes.
WASTES:
              National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit issued in compliance
NPDES PERMIT: with the provisions of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended (33
              USC paragraph 1251 et seq.).
NATURAL       Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
OUTLET:       ground water.
NONINDUSTRIAL That user which has been determined as introducing primarily segregated
USER:         domestic wastewater into the system.
              The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
pH:           liter of solution. It shall be determined by one of the procedures outlined in
              Standard Methods.
PERSON:       Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or group.
PROPERLY      The wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food and produce
SHREDDED      which has been ground or shredded to such degree that all particles will be
GARBAGE:      carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers,
              with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC WORKS  The regularly appointed Public Works Director of the City, his authorized
DIRECTOR:     deputy, agent, or representative.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal rights or which
              is controlled by public authorities.
SANITARY      A sewer which carries sewage, to which storm, surface and ground waters are not
SEWER:        intentionally admitted.
              A combination of water-carried human, animal and household wastes or industrial
              wastes in public or private drains together with such ground, surface or storm
SEWAGE:       waters as may be present, whether from residences, hospitals, schools,
              churches, institutions, business, manufacturing or industrial establishments or
              other sources.
SEWAGE        A subsidiary local structure and equipment for forcing or lifting sewage to
PUMPING       points where gravity flow can carry it to the treatment plant.
STATION:
SEWAGE
TREATMENT     Any arrangement of devices and structures used for treating sewage.
PLANT:
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of sewage.
SEWER:        A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SEWER         The sewer extension from the building drain or property drain of any person or
LATERAL:      entity to the public sewer or other places of disposal.
SEWER SERVICE The charge per quarter or month levied on all users of the wastewater
CHARGE:       facilities.
SHALL:        Shall is mandatory; May is permissive.
SINGLE-FAMILY A residence dwelling in which one family, related by blood or consanguinity,
RESIDENTIAL   with singular kitchen and cooking facilities, including as a minimum a sink and
UNIT:         means of cooking food, reside.
              The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the most recent edition
STANDARD      of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water, Sewage And Industrial
METHODS:      Wastes", published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
              American Waterworks Association, and the Federation Of Sewage And Industrial
              Wastes Association.
STORM SEWER   A sewer which carries storm and surface water and drainage, but excludes
OR STORM      sewage.
DRAIN:
              Any digging in, excavation of, or disturbance of the surface or subsurface of
STREET        any public street, avenue, alley or other public way between the platted or
EXCAVATION:   dedicated lines thereof, for making any installation, or renewals, or repairs,
              or removals or relocations of private service connections, whether for gas,
              water, sewer, or other utility accommodations.
              Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in suspension in water,
SUSPENDED     sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by a laboratory filtering
SOLIDS:       device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids shall be made in
              accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
TAP-ON:       The opening of a public sewer so as to permit the connection or reconnection of
              a sewer lateral to the public sewer.
              A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
WATERCOURSE:  intermittently. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961; amd. Ord. 3130, 6-27-1962; Ord. 4326, 7-
              12-1978; Ord. 4544, 8-27-1980; Ord. 4592, 2-11-1981; Ord. 7211, 8-11-2010; Ord.
              7769, 8-13-2020)
 
6-10-2: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED:
   A.   Connection to Sewer: Except as provided in Subsection
6-10-8-2A of this chapter, the owner of any house, building, structure or
property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose,
within the City which abuts on any street, alley, right of way or public
easement in which there is located or may in the future be located, an
available public or sanitary or combined sewer in the City, is required hereby
at his expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect
such facilities directly with such public sewer, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, within ninety (90) days after date of official
notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is within two hundred feet
(200') of such owner's property line.
   B.   Subsequent Use of an Existing Sewer Lateral: Where the owner of any
house, building, structure or property has connected toilet facilities directly
with the public sewer, in accordance with subsection A of this section, if the
owner or any subsequent owner of such property thereafter constructs or causes
to be constructed any new or additional house, building, structure or property
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purpose, a new
connection of the new facilities directly with and to such public sewer shall
be required to be built in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. A
previously used sewer lateral may not be again used to serve a new or
additional house, building, structure or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes within the City unless a special
variance is granted by the City of Alton Plumbing Inspector allowing the use of
a previously used sewer lateral. The City of Alton Plumbing Inspector shall not
grant any such variance unless the applicant for such a variance records with
the recorder of deeds office of Madison County, Illinois, a disclosure stating
that the owner and all subsequent owners of the property to be served by a
sewer lateral constructed sometime prior to the new construction of any house,
building or structure (identified by common street address as well as by legal
description), shall be fully responsible, at their own expense, for the
maintenance and repair of the sewer lateral. (Ord. 6846, 11-10-2004; amd. Ord.
7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required:
      1.   No unauthorized person shall uncover, or make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Illinois-American Water
Company.
      2.   No unauthorized person shall make repairs to an existing sanitary
sewer lateral or construct a new sanitary sewer lateral without first obtaining
a written permit from the City of Alton.
      3.   Any excavation in the public right-of-way that is required while
performing activities described in subsection A1 and A2 above shall be made in
accordance with Section 6-3 of the Alton City Code, including first obtaining a
written permit from the Alton Public Works Department.
   B.   Application For Permit: The City of Alton Building and Zoning
Department shall provide appropriate forms to apply for the written permit
required by subsection A2 of this section. An application fee of fifty dollars
($50.00) shall be payable to the City of Alton prior to the issuance of this
permit.
   C.   Sewer Lateral Inspections: Representatives from the City of Alton and
the Illinois-American Water Company will inspect the repairs or construction of
the sanitary sewer lateral concurrently before it is covered by the home owner
or its contractor. If the sewer lateral is covered prior to inspection, the
inspection of the sewer lateral will not be approved, and the City of Alton
will require the home owner or its contractor to uncover the sewer lateral for
re-inspection. An additional inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) will be
required by the City of Alton for each re-inspection of the sewer lateral.
   D.   Waiver Of Fees: Recognizing that Piasa Area Habitat for Humanity is a
not for profit corporation whose main purpose is to upgrade and improve current
housing stock and to provide better housing for lower income people within the
City of Alton and elsewhere, the sewer inspection fees required by subsection
A. 2. of this section shall be waived by the City of Alton with regard to any
properties owned by or contracted to be improved by Piasa Area Habitat for
Humanity. With the exception of the waiver of the fee, Piasa Area Habitat for
Humanity shall in all other respects be required to comply with the provisions
of this chapter and to obtain all appropriate permits. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961;
amd. Ord. 4089, 4-14-1976; Ord. 6787, 12-17-2003; Ord. 6924, 11-22-2005; Ord.
7211, 8-11-2010)
6-10-4: RATES AND CHARGES:
6-10-4-1: DELINQUENT PAYMENTS; PENALTY:
   A.   Delinquencies: All charges or rates for the use of the sewage system
prior to its sale by the City of Alton to Illinois-American Water Company
effective June 27, 2019, that are not paid in full within twenty- one (21) days
after the issuance of any bill rendered therefor, shall be considered to be
delinquent. If the monthly charges or rates for the use of the sewage system
prior to June 27, 2019 shall not be paid in full within twenty-one (21) days
after the date of issuance of any bill rendered therefor, a delayed payment
charge in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the monthly sewer service charge
shall be imposed and due to the City of Alton with regard to such account.
   B.   Liability of Owner or Occupant: The owner of any lot, parcel of land or
premises and the occupant thereof and the user of the sewerage service prior to
June 27, 2109 shall be jointly and severally liable to pay the City of Alton
for such service on said premises, and the services are to be furnished to the
said premises by the City only upon the condition that the owner of the
premises, occupant and user of the service are jointly and severally liable
therefor to the City. In the event such charges and rates for sewerage service
are not paid within twenty-one (21) days after rendition of the bill for such
service, such charges shall be deemed and are hereby declared to be delinquent.
Such delinquencies shall constitute liens upon the real estate for which such
services were supplied, and the City Treasurer shall promptly file a notice of
such lien in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Madison County, Illinois.
This notice shall consist of a sworn statement of the City Treasurer setting
forth:
      1.   A declaration of such real estate sufficient for the identification
thereof;
      2.   The amount of money due for the use of the sewerage system,
including delayed payment and delinquency charges; and
      3.   The date when such amount became delinquent.
   C.   Civil Action: The City shall also have the right and power, from time
to time, to sue the owner, occupant or user of that real estate in a civil
action to recover money due for delinquent sewerage services, plus a reasonable
attorney fee to be fixed by the court.
   D.   Ownership and Occupancy: Change of ownership or occupancy of premises
found delinquent shall not be cause for reducing or eliminating these
penalties.
   E.   Discontinue Service:
      1.   In the event of failure to pay sewer service charges after they
become delinquent, the City or its authorized agent shall have the right to
remove or close sewer connections and enter upon the property for accomplishing
such purposes. The expense of such discontinuance, removal or closing, as well
as the expense of restoring service, shall likewise be a debt due to the City
and a lien upon the property, and it may be recovered by a civil action in the
name of the City against the property owner, the occupant or user, or both.
      2.   Sewer service shall not be restored until all charges, including the
expense of removal, closing and restoration shall have been paid.
   F.   Discontinuance Agreement: The Mayor and appropriate officials of the
City of Alton are hereby authorized to enter into discontinuance agreements
with any and all public utility corporations serving the residents or
properties located in the City with water service pursuant to the provisions of
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-141-7 to contract to shut off the water
supply from the system of any such Illinois public utility corporations to any
premises at which the user charges for sewer service supplied by the City are
delinquent for more than thirty (30) days. Any such discontinuance agreements
entered into by the Mayor or appropriate officials of the City prior to June
27, 2019 are hereby ratified and confirmed. Any new discontinuance agreement to
be entered into on behalf of the City after June 27, 2019 shall be contingent
upon approval of the City Council by resolution.
   G.   Billing Directed to Record Owner: The City shall direct the billing for
the total monthly residential sewer service charges incurred prior to June 27,
2019 to the record owner of each improved lot, parcel of land or premises which
is connected with or served by the sewage system, or which may be connected
with said sewage system, or which have such sewers available for connection, or
which otherwise discharge sewage, water or other liquids into the sewage
system. It shall be the responsibility of the record owner to timely remit
payments to the City of Alton. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961; amd. Ord. 4506, 4-23-
1980; Ord. 7005, 5-9-2007; Ord. 7087, 7-23-2008, eff. 8-1-2008; Ord. 7323, 9-
12-2012, eff. 10-1-2012; Ord. 7493, 12-16-2015, eff. 3-1-2016; Ord. 7769, 8-13-
2020)
6-10-4-2: NOTICE OF LIABILITY:
A copy of this chapter, properly certified by the City Clerk of the City of
Alton, shall be filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Madison County,
Illinois, and shall be deemed notice to the owners of real estate of their
liability for sewerage service supplied any occupant or use of such service on
their premises prior to June 27, 2019. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961; amd. Ord. 7769,
8-13-2020)
6-10-5: CONNECTIONS:
6-10-5-1: OWNER TO REPAIR LATERAL:
The owner shall repair the lateral if it is found to be damaged, broken,
stopped or has otherwise failed. Any owner who fails to repair a damaged,
broken, stopped or otherwise failed lateral after seven (7) days' notice from
the City shall be subject to the general penalties as set forth in this code
with each day in violation of this section being a separate and punishable
offense. All costs and expenses incident to the installation, connection and
subsequent repairs and maintenance of the sewer lateral shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of such sewer lateral.
(Ord. 6451, 12-8-1999; amd. Ord. 7769, 8- 13-2020)
6-10-5-2: SEPARATE CONNECTIONS REQUIRED:
A separate and independent sanitary sewer connection shall be provided for
every building, except that where one building stands at the rear of another on
an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through the property, or through an adjoining alley, court yard,
or driveway, the sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear
building and the whole considered as one sewer (except for sewer service
charges accruing from such buildings or properties). (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961;
amd. Ord. 7769, 8- 13-2020)
6-10-5-3: SPECIFICATIONS FOR CONNECTIONS, LATERALS:
   A.   Comply with Codes:
      1.   All new private sewers within a building or within five feet (5') of
any part of a building or within ten feet (10') of a water service pipe, shall
be constructed of materials and in a manner approved for such location by the
building code of the City. New private sanitary sewers beyond the limits
described above for connection with the public sewers shall be one of the
following: a) cast iron soil pipe - ASTM specification A74; b) vitrified clay
sewer pipe - ASTM specification C13, or C200; c) concrete sewer pipe - ASTM
specification C14, C75 or C76; or d) polyvinyl chloride sewer pipe - SDR 26,
ASTM specification D3034.
      2.   Any pipe material not conforming to the requirements of the above
ASTM specifications will not be permitted unless specific approval is obtained
in advance from the Illinois-American Water Company and the City of Alton
Plumbing Inspector.
   B.   Size and Slope:
      1.   The size and slope of the building or property sewer shall be
subject to the approval of the City of Alton Plumbing Inspector, but in no
event shall the size be less than four inch (4") cast iron soil pipe or six
inch (6") vitrified clay pipe, concrete pipe or polyvinyl chloride pipe. The
slope of such pipe shall not be less than one foot (1') per one hundred feet
(100'), or one percent (1%).
      2.    Any pipe laid longitudinally in public streets, alleys or easements
which could connect more than one service sewer or could be extended to connect
more than one service sewer shall be not less than eight inches (8") in
diameter, shall be laid on a grade of not less than four feet (4') per one
thousand feet (1,000'), or 0.4%, and shall be constructed to a maximum depth to
permit further extension thereto. Sewers installed longitudinally in a public
street, alley or easement shall be constructed in accordance with plans and
specifications prepared by a registered professional engineer and approved by
the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
      3.   All building laterals must have a vented trap installed outside the
foundation of the building. All sewer lines from the building must run through
a vented trap. More than one trap may be installed where necessary to meet this
requirement. Any new construction after February 1, 2014, will not need a
vented trap but must meet all other plumbing codes.
   C.   Depth and Location: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be
brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building
sewer shall be laid parallel to or within three feet (3') of any bearing wall
which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to provide
protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid in uniform grade and
straight alignment, insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made
only with properly curved pipe and fittings unless the break in line is made at
a manhole or cleanout. In all buildings in which the building drain is too low
to provide gravity flow to the public sewer system, all sewage carried by such
drain shall be lifted by approved mechanical means and discharged into the
building sewer.
   D.   Joints: Joints on all house sewers shall be made permanently gastight
and waterproof.
      1.   Cast iron soil pipe shall be jointed with lead and jute by a
competent plumber or shall be of a patent joint material conforming to ASTM
specification.
      2.   Vitrified clay pipe shall be fitted with a factory made plastic
joint conforming to ASTM specification C425.
      3.   Concrete pipe shall be fitted with factory furnished rubber gaskets
which shall conform to ASTM specification C361, section 13. Rubber gasket
joints shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions
and shall provide a water and gas tight joint.
      4.   Polyvinyl chloride pipe shall be fitted with a factory-made joint
conforming to ASTM specification D3212.
      5.   Joints between vitrified and concrete pipes, between vitrified and
metal pipe, or between metal and concrete pipe shall be made with jute and
bituminous jointing material. Bituminous material for such joints shall not
soften sufficiently to destroy the effectiveness of the joints when subjected
to a temperature of one hundred sixty degrees Fahrenheit (160°F), nor be
soluble in any of the wastes carried by this drainage system. The City of Alton
Plumbing Inspector may, at his discretion, require the additional protection of
a concrete envelope on such joints.
      6.   Joints in any pipe may be made of a material other than those shown
above if prior approval is obtained from the City of Alton Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961; amd. Ord. 4447, 7-25-1979; Ord. 5986, 6-28-1995; Ord.
7188, 4-14-2010; Ord. 7395, 3-26-2014; Ord. 7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-5-4: CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER:
The connection of the building or property sewer to the public sewer shall be
made in accordance with the requirements of the Illinois-American Water
Company. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961; amd. Ord. 4089, 4-14-1976; Ord. 7769, 8-13-
2020)
6-10-5-5: CONNECTIONS FROM EXISTING ESTABLISHMENTS:
The sewer systems from any residences or commercial establishments which have
existing sewer systems on the effective date of this Chapter shall be made as
nearly as possible to fully comply with this Chapter. Where existing house
sewer systems combine sanitary sewage with roof drains or foundation drains or
drain tile capable of collecting surface or subsurface water, a complete
separation shall be made so that sanitary sewage is carried directly in
watertight joints to the public sewer. Passage through a septic tank will not
be permitted. Existing watertight house services which carry sanitary wastes
only and are well constructed may be used even though full compliance with the
material and jointing as described in this Chapter is not met. Where any doubt
exists of the type or quality of construction, the owner of the establishment
may be required to uncover the existing services for inspection. Where any
doubt exists on the complete separation of roof drains, surface drains or
subsurface drain tile, the owner of the establishment may be required to prove
by excavation and exposure that a complete separation exists. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-
1961; amd. Ord. 4089, 4-14-1976; Ord. 7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-5-6: INSTALLATION OR REPAIR PRIOR TO STREET IMPROVEMENT:
The Director of Public Works shall notify public utilities and others having
underground facilities or services in any street, avenue, alley, roadway or
other public places in the City, which are to be improved by paving or
repaving, or by surfacing or resurfacing, by widening, by construction of curbs
or gutters, or by other lateral construction of the City's proposed
improvement, whereupon said utilities and others shall repair or replace such
underground facilities as may be necessary prior to such improvement or
construction by the City so as to minimize the need for cutting into or under
the street surface for installation, repair or renewal of various types of
services after the improvement is made. The City reserves the right to inspect
the underground facilities or services of said public utilities and others at
the City's expense prior to the start of the City's improvements. (Ord. 3085,
9-13-1961; amd. Ord. 4089, 4-14-1976; Ord. 7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-5-7: TIME FOR COMPLIANCE:
All persons as well as public utilities affected by the aforesaid Section
6-10-5-7 of this Chapter shall lay and construct, or cause to be laid and
constructed, such necessary service pipes, conduits, laterals or connections
within sixty (60) days from the publication of notices that such street,
avenue, alley, roadway or other public place is to be improved by paving or
repaving, surfacing or resurfacing, by sealing, widening or by any other type
of roadway improvement; provided, however, that said period of sixty (60) days
may be extended by the Director of Public Works, at his discretion, upon
application and good cause shown by the owner or owners of abutting or adjacent
lots, land or parcels of land; but no extension shall be granted for more than
fifteen (15) days at any one time. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961; amd. Ord. 4089, 4-14-
1976; Ord. 7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-5-8: NEGLECT OR FAILURE TO INSTALL OR EXTEND SERVICES:
Upon the neglect or failure of public utilities and others to lay, extend,
repair or rehabilitate service pipe, conduits, laterals or other underground
facilities as herein required, said public utilities or other owners of such
facilities shall be prohibited from cutting through the surface or from
tunneling under such cement or other improved surface and roadbed, or in any
way disturbing the same for a period of five (5) years from the date of
completion of such improvement, except to eliminate a hazardous condition
threatening public health, safety or welfare, or to extend a new service to a
property not previously served, except upon written application to the Director
of Public Works, who may grant, at his discretion, permission subject to
compliance by the property owner with such conditions as he shall deem
desirable and necessary under the circumstances for the protection of the
public improvement and for its restoration to good condition after the
petitioner has completed the work provided for under the permit granted by the
Director. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961; amd. Ord. 4089, 4-14-1976; Ord. 7769, 8-13-
2020)
6-10-5-9: DISCHARGE INTO; CONNECTION TO STORM DRAINS:
   A.   No person, for himself or for any occupant, owner or agent of such
property, shall connect or discharge into any storm sewer, storm sewer manhole
or other appurtenance, street gutter or surface drain, or upon any street,
alley, avenue or public place any sewage, or suffer or cause any sanitary
sewage to discharge or drain therein or thereon.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or cause to be
connected, any drain carrying, or to carry any toilet, sink, basement, septic
tank, cesspool, industrial waste, or any fixture or device discharging
polluting substances, to any storm sewer or drain in the City. (Ord. 3085, 9-
13-1961; amd. Ord. 4070, 2-11-1976; Ord. 7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-5-10: CONNECTION OF SURFACE DRAINS:
Hereafter, it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant or agent of any
building or structure or real property, either by himself or with others, to
connect or cause to be connected to the building or property sanitary sewer the
drainage of any stormwater from any roof, yard, lot surface or drain tile. Such
drainage shall be permitted to follow the natural watershed; or in case a storm
sewer system is available, such storm drainage shall be connected directly with
such storm sewer system; in any case avoiding the dilution of the sanitary
sewage load or establishing back pressure tending to discharge sewage into
basements, cellars or house fixtures. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961; amd. Ord. 7769, 8-
13-2020)
6-10-5-11: GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when required by
the plumbing code of the City, and in addition shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the City of Alton Plumbing Inspector or his designee, they are
necessary to the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand or any harmful ingredients;
except that such interceptors shall not be required for non-multiple type
private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity as outlined in subsection B of this section and shall be so
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious materials (cast
iron, steel, fiberglass or other approved material) capable of withstanding
abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be substantial in
construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable covers, which when
bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight. Where installed all grease,
oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained by the owner, at his expense, in
continuously efficient operation at all times.
   B.   All businesses capable of producing grease or other prohibited wastes
will install an approved grease trap of at least seven hundred fifty (750)
gallon capacity. The trap will have two (2) access openings for cleaning. The
baffles must be mechanically connected to the structure. In the event of space
limitations in the installation of this seven hundred fifty (750) gallon trap,
a waiver must be obtained from the Illinois-American Water Company and the City
of Alton Plumbing Inspector before an inside trap can be considered. The inside
trap will be sized by making the volume equal to or greater than double the
total volume of the sinks wasting into the trap.
   C.   No garbage disposals or food grinders are to be installed or used.
   D.   Oil interceptors shall be sized according to the State of Illinois
plumbing code. The plumbing inspector for the City shall verify sizing and
requirements. (Ord. 6384, 5-12-1999; amd. Ord. 6574, 4-25-2001; Ord. 7769, 8-
13-2020)
6-10-5-12: NEW CONNECTIONS TO COMBINED SEWER SYSTEM:
All new connections tributary to the combined sewer system shall comply with
the following provisions:
   A.   New construction tributary to the combined sewer system shall be
designed to minimize and/or delay inflow contributions to the combined sewer
system.
   B.   New building domestic waste connections to the combined sewer system
shall be distinct from building inflow connections to facilitate disconnection
if a storm sewer becomes available within two hundred feet (200') of the
building. (Ord. 6112, 11-27-1996; amd. Ord. 7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-5-13: DISCONNECTION OF INFLOW SOURCES ON COMBINED SEWER SYSTEM:
Inflow sources on the combined sewer system shall be removed from the combined
sewer system and connected to a storm sewer within ninety (90) days if a storm
sewer becomes available within two hundred feet (200') of the inflow source.
(Ord. 6112, 11-27-1996; amd. Ord. 7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-5-14: PROHIBITED MATERIALS:
It shall be unlawful and it is prohibited for any person to place or throw or
cause or permit to be placed or thrown into the sewage system, or into any
sewer, sewer lateral, manhole, catch basin or inlet or other appurtenances to
the sewerage system within the City, any wood or metal or anything made of wood
or metal or constructed partly of wood or partly of metal; or glass, glass
bottles, or glass in any form; or crockery or broken crockery; dishes, china,
broken chinaware; or gasoline, grease or tar or lubricants in any form; or
bones, furs, offal from slaughterhouses or from slaughtering, from meat
markets, groceries or from poultry houses or poultry packing, or poultry
dressing plants, and all such waste matter from whatever source or wherever
created or produced; or brick, brick bats, clay or concrete tile, or pieces of
clay or concrete tile or clay tile materials or concrete in any form; or stone,
sand, gravel or cinders; leather in any form; or cloth, clothing, burlap,
gunnysacks or pieces or parts thereof in any form, or plastic bags; or plastic
sheeting in any form; or weeds, vegetable tops, vegetable and fruit peelings,
and other vegetable and fruit wastes; and all matter not susceptible of being
carried in solution in water, and not proper sewage, requiring sewage
treatment, nor susceptible of sewage treatment. No person shall place or throw
or cause to be placed or thrown any of the designated substances or things upon
floors or surfaces or into open ditches or drains adjacent to any manhole,
catch basin or inlet, or such designated substances or things, by reason of
rain or other natural causes, such named substances or things would be carried
or conducted into the sewage system or into any sewer in the City. All floor
drains, catch basins and inlets, up to and including a six inch (6") opening,
shall be fitted and covered and kept covered with approved cast iron grates, or
other type covering approved by the City of Alton Plumbing Inspector, to retain
all foreign matter and substances likely to clog and obstruct sewers. (Ord.
6667, 7-10-2002; amd. Ord. 7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-6: DISCHARGES TO SYSTEM:
6-10-6-1: UNSANITARY DISCHARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person, by himself or by permission of others, to
place, deposit, emit or discharge, in an unsanitary manner or with unsanitary
or offensive results, on public or private property within the City, or in any
area or into facilities under the jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal
excrement, garbage, industrial or other objectionable waste. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-
1961; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-6-2: DISCHARGE INTO WATERCOURSES:
It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet or into any open ditch
or spillway, within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
City, any sanitary sewage, industrial or manufacturing wastes or polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter and the discharge does not enter the sanitary or
combined sewer system. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 7769, 8-13-
2020)
6-10-7: INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
Industrial wastes discharged into the public sewer must comply with the
requirements of the Illinois-American Water Company and the Illinois EPA. (Ord.
7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-8: PRIVIES AND PRIVATE SYSTEMS:
6-10-8-1: PRIVIES PROHIBITED:
Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or to
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961; amd. Ord.
7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-8-2: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL:
   A.   Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer or combined sewer is not
available for sewage service under the provisions of Section
6-10-2 of this Chapter, the building or property sewer shall be connected to a
private sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of the Private
Sewage Disposal Ordinance of Madison County, Illinois.
   B.   Permit Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit, issued
by Madison County. Application for such permit shall be made on a form
furnished by Madison County, which the applicant shall supplement by such
plans, specifications or other information as are deemed necessary by Madison
County. Private sewage disposal permit fees shall be paid to Madison County.
The fee shall be in addition to any fee or deposit required by the City of
Alton for excavating in a street or other public way.
   C.   Design Requirements: The type, capacities, location and layout of a
private sewage disposal system shall comply with all of the requirements of the
Private Sewage Disposal Ordinance of Madison County, Illinois. No septic tank
or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge into any public sewer or natural
outlet.
   D.   Inspection: Private sewage disposal systems shall not be used or put
into operation until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of
Madison County. The authorized agent of Madison County shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction.
   E.   Abandonment: At such time as a public sewer becomes available to the
property served by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection as
provided in Section
6-10-2 of this Chapter shall be made to the public sewer system in compliance
with this Chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities of such property shall be evacuated and filled in a manner
acceptable to Madison County, and their use shall thereafter be abandoned.
   F.   Owner's Responsibility: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no
expense or hazard to the City of Alton or Madison County. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-
1961; amd. Ord. 4089, 4-14-1976; Ord. 7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-9: ENTRY ONTO SERVICED PROPERTIES:
The City of Alton Plumbing Inspector, his duly authorized representative, or
other duly authorized employees of the City bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all serviced properties at any
reasonable hour for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord.
3085, 9-13-1961; amd. Ord. 4089, 4-14-1976; Ord. 7769, 8-13-2020)
6-10-10: WASTEWATER HAULERS:
Wastewater haulers must comply with the requirements of the Illinois-American
Water Company. (Ord. 5649, 3-25-1992; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 7769, 8-13- 2020)
6-10-11: PENALTIES:
   A.   Violations:
      1.   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover or deface or tamper with any structures, appurtenances or
equipment which are a part of the sewerage system or sewage treatment plant.
Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under
a charge of disorderly conduct or malicious mischief.
      2.   No person shall clean or otherwise deposit the contents of a ready-
mix concrete truck into sewer inlets or catch basins.
   B.   Notice of Violation: Any person found to be violating any foregoing
provision of this Chapter except subsection A of this Section, shall be served
with written notice stating the nature of violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all such
violations.
   C.   Penalty: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time
limit provided for in subsection B of this Section shall be fined as provided
in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day on which any such violation shall continue shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   D.   Liability for Damages: Furthermore, any person violating any of the
provisions of this Chapter shall become liable to the City for any expense,
loss or damages occasioned to the City by reason of such violation. Such
expense, loss or damages occasioned to the City by such violation shall be paid
within thirty (30) days after the rendition of a bill therefor. If not paid
within thirty (30) days, such charges shall be deemed, and are hereby declared
to be delinquent, and there shall be added a delinquency charge of one percent
(1%) for every thirty (30) days that said bill is delinquent. This charge, if
not paid within one year, shall become a lien against the real estate and the
City Treasurer shall promptly file a notice of such lien in the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of Madison County, Illinois. This notice shall consist of a
sworn statement of the City Treasurer setting forth:
      1.   A declaration of such real estate sufficient for the identification
thereof.
      2.   The amount of money due for reason of the expense, loss or damages
occasioned to the City by the violation mentioned above, including delinquency
charges.
      3.   The date when such amount became delinquent. (Ord. 3085, 9-13-1961;
amd. Ord. 4255, 11-23-1977; Ord. 4592, 2-11-1981; 1999 Code; Ord. 7769, 8-13-
2020)
CHAPTER 11
STORM SEWERS
SECTION:
6-11-1: Downspouts; Connection Prohibited
6-11-2: Reserved
6-11-3: Discharge Into Storm Sewers
6-11-4: Violation
6-11-5: Storm Drains; Design Requirements
6-11-1: DOWNSPOUTS; CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
No person shall connect any downspout or other similar device designed to carry
away stormwaters into any sanitary sewers. (Ord. 2096, 7-22-1942; amd. Ord.
7768, 8-13-2020)
6-11-2: RESERVED:
(Reserved by Ord. 7768, 8-13-2020)
6-11-3: DISCHARGE INTO STORM SEWERS:
   A.   No person, public or private, shall discharge or empty any type sewage
including the effluent of septic tanks or other sewage treatment devices, or
any domestic, commercial or industrial waste or any putrescible liquids, or
cause the same to be discharged or emptied in any manner into open ditches
along or into any drain or drainage structure installed solely for street or
highway drainage purposes as a part of the highway improvement.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or cause to be connected
any drain carrying or to carry any toilet, sink, basement, septic tank,
cesspool, industrial waste or any fixture or device discharging polluting
substances into any storm sewers. (Ord. 7951, 6-14-2024):
6-11-4: VIOLATION:
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall be fined as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and each day that a connection shall exist after notice to
sever same shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provisions of this
section are cumulative and do not bar the proper officials of the city from
taking any other action that shall be necessary to enforce the compliance with
the terms of this chapter as may exist under the law. (Ord. 2096, 7-22-1942;
amd. Ord. 4255, 11-23-1977; Ord. 4785, 8-10-1983; Ord. 5432, 2-28-1990; 1999
Code)
6-11-5: STORM DRAINS; DESIGN REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Stone Or Top: Catch basins shall have a precast concrete top including
a cast-in frame and cover. The top shall be of standard size, forty eight
inches by fifty four inches (48" x 54") and five inches (5") in thickness.
(Ord. 5997, 8-9-1995)
   B.   Storm Sewers: All storm sewers and outfall pipes shall be constructed
of materials listed in subsection
6-10-5-4A of this title. Joints shall conform to subsection
6-10-5-4D of this title. No corrugated metal pipes shall be used. All storm
sewers and outfall pipes shall be designed in accordance with the drainage
policies of the Illinois department of transportation, and shall be designed to
handle a minimum of a 10-year storm frequency. All storm sewers and outfall
pipes must be a minimum diameter of twelve inches (12"). (Ord. 7221, 11-10-
2010)
   C.   Construction Of Basin: Catch basin walls shall be constructed of
precast concrete or poured concrete. Concrete block may not be used. All
finished construction (including stone) must be at grade to surrounding curb
and earth.
   D.   Sump And Bottom: Catch basin sumps must be poured concrete and tied
into the front wall and sides of the throat. Catch basin bottoms must be
constructed of poured concrete and finished to allow all water to drain towards
outfall pipe.
   E.   Grated Inlets: Construction of grated inlets to be allowed only on
approval of the director of public works.
   F.   Permits: Permit for construction of catch basins shall be made prior to
construction for each structure. Excavation permits must be obtained before
excavating in city property. Inspection shall be made by a designated employee
of the city. (Ord. 5997, 8-9-1995)
CHAPTER 12
ADOPT-A-HIGHWAY PROGRAM
SECTION:
6-12-1: Program Established
6-12-2: Statutory Provisions
6-12-3: City's Director
6-12-4: Application
6-12-5: Requirements
6-12-6: Safety
6-12-7: Designation Of Streets
6-12-8: Indemnification
6-12-9: Noncompliance
6-12-1: PROGRAM ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established within the city of Alton, Illinois, an Adopt-A-
Highway program. (Ord. 6199, 9-24-1997)
6-12-2: STATUTORY PROVISIONS:
The Adopt-A-Highway program established shall be in accordance with the
provisions and requirements of the Illinois Adopt-A- Highway action 1 , which
is expressly incorporated herein by reference. Except as otherwise expressly
provided herein, all terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings stated
under section 10 of the Illinois Adopt-A-Highway action 2 . (Ord. 6199, 9-24-
1997)
 
Notes
1 1. 605 ILCS 120.
2 2. 605 ILCS 120/10.
6-12-3: CITY'S DIRECTOR:
The Adopt-A-Highway program shall be under the direction and supervision of the
public works director who shall be responsible for the implementation and
administration of the program and coordination of the program with the Illinois
department of transportation as to state highways located within the city which
are considered appropriate for inclusion in the program. (Ord. 6199, 9-24-1997)
6-12-4: APPLICATION:
All groups desiring to participate in the program shall make application to the
public works director in the manner prescribed by the public works director
and, if approved for participation in the program, shall enter into an
agreement with the department of public works in conformance with the
provisions of 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/20. (Ord. 6199, 9-24-1997)
6-12-5: REQUIREMENTS:
All groups participating in the program shall conform to the requirements of
605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/25, groups shall:
   A.   Be required to obey and abide by all laws and regulations relating to
safety and any other terms and conditions as required by the city.
   B.   Provide one adult supervisor for every five (5) youths when persons
under age eighteen (18) are present on an adopted section.
   C.   Not allow a person under the age of ten (10) to be a member of the
group who would be volunteering for the purpose of litter collection.
   D.   Require all group members to attend a safety meeting conducted by the
group before participation in any litter collection along an adopted section.
   E.   Require the group coordinator, or designee, to conduct group safety
meetings and to receive safety training as required by the city.
   F.   Adopt a section for a minimum of two (2) years.
   G.   Collect litter along an adopted section four (4) times a year, or as
required by the public works director.
   H.   Require the group coordinator to provide prior notice, as required by
the public works director, whenever the group intends to collect litter along
its adopted section.
   I.   Require group members to properly wear any safety apparel provided by
the city while collecting litter on an adopted section.
   J.   Be responsible for prohibiting members from possessing, consuming, or
being under the influence of alcohol or drugs while on an adopted section.
   K.   Maintain a first aid kit and an adequate supply of drinking water while
members are collecting litter along an adopted section.
   L.   Place litter in trash bags provided by the city and place filled trash
bags at a location on the adopted section as designated by the public works
director.
   M.   Not subcontract or assign its duties or responsibilities to any other
group or organization. (Ord. 6199, 9-24-1997)
6-12-6: SAFETY:
The public works director shall establish a safety training program and procure
necessary safety apparel for use in conjunction with the Adopt-A-Highway
program within the city. (Ord. 6199, 9-24-1997)
6-12-7: DESIGNATION OF STREETS:
The public works director, in conjunction with the Illinois department of
transportation as to state highways within the city, shall establish designated
sections of streets, roads, and highways for the Adopt-A-Highway program within
the city and shall erect appropriate approved signage to designate the
designated sections in accordance with approved Illinois department of
transportation standards. (Ord. 6199, 9-24-1997)
6-12-8: INDEMNIFICATION:
Every group participating in the program must accept responsibility for the
actions of its volunteers and hold harmless the city of Alton and the state of
Illinois. The city of Alton may require the execution of a hold harmless
agreement, but failure to execute same shall not negate the foregoing
requirement imposed upon the adopting group. (Ord. 6760, 9-24-2003)
6-12-9: NONCOMPLIANCE:
The public works director may terminate the participation of any group or
organization participating in the program for failure to comply with the terms
of this chapter and/or any agreement entered into in connection with the Adopt-
A-Highway program of the city. (Ord. 6199, 9-24-1997)
CHAPTER 13
WATER SUPPLY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-13-1: Potable Water Supply
6-13-1: POTABLE WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Definitions:
    PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing foods.
   B.   Groundwater As Potable Water Supply Prohibited: Except for such uses or
methods in existence before the effective date hereof, the use of or attempt to
use as a potable water supply groundwater from within the corporate limits of
the City by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is
hereby prohibited.
   C.   Memorandum Of Understanding: The Mayor is hereby authorized and
directed to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency (Illinois EPA) in which the City assumes
responsibility for tracking remediated sites, notifying the Illinois EPA of
changes to this Section, and taking certain precautions when siting public
potable water supply wells.
   D.   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be
fined as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation. (Ord. 6376, 3-24-1999; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 14
STORM WATER CONTROL
SECTION:
Article I. Generally
6-14-1: Authority And Purpose
6-14-2: Other Relevant Permitting
6-14-3: Applicability
6-14-4: Exemptions
6-14-5: Contour Permit
6-14-6: Exceptions
6-14-7: Responsibility
6-14-8: NPDES Compliance
6-14-9: Information Accessibility To The Public
Article II. Definitions
6-14-10: Terms Defined
Article III. Storm Water Drainage And Detention
6-14-11: Drainage Plan Submittal Requirements
6-14-12: Minimization Of Increases In Runoff Volumes And Rates
6-14-13: Water Quality And Multiple Uses
6-14-14: Design Criteria, Standards, And Methods
6-14-15: Accommodating Flows From Upstream Tributary Areas
6-14-16: Early Completion Of Detention Facilities
Article IV. Soil Erosion And Sediment Control
6-14-17: Findings
6-14-18: General Principles
6-14-19: Erosion And Sediment Control Plan Submittal Requirements
6-14-20: Design And Operation Standards And Requirements
6-14-21: Maintenance Of Control Measures
6-14-22: Control Of Construction Site Wastes
6-14-23: Construction Site Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan
Article V. Long Term Maintenance
6-14-24: Responsibility
Article VI. Inspections
6-14-25: Generally
6-14-26: Biweekly Inspections
6-14-27: Special Precautions
6-14-28: Amendment Of Plans
Article VII. Permitting
6-14-29: Application For Permit
6-14-30: Bond Required
6-14-31: Review And Approval
6-14-32: Final Certification
6-14-33: Expiration Of Permit
Article VIII. Enforcement
6-14-34: Stop Work Order; Revocation Of Permit
6-14-35: Violations And Penalties
ARTICLE I. GENERALLY
6-14-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city by 55
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1041, 5/5-1113, 5/5-15001, and 5/5-12001.
The purpose of this chapter is to diminish threats to public health and safety,
protect property, prevent damage to the environment and promote public welfare
by guiding, regulating and controlling the design, construction, use and
maintenance of any new development or redevelopment or other activity which
disturbs or breaks the topsoil or otherwise results in the movement of earth,
and/or changes the storm water drainage pattern and/or storm water flows from
that which would have occurred if the land had been left in its natural state.
This storm water runoff and resulting soil erosion could result in the
inundation of damageable properties, the erosion and destabilization of
downstream channels, and the pollution of valuable stream and lake resources.
This chapter regulates these activities to minimize adverse impacts.
The purpose of this chapter is also to comply with the general national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit ILR40 regulations, the
notice of intent (NOI) submitted to the IEPA in 2003. This chapter is adopted
to accomplish the following objectives:
   A.   To assure that new development or redevelopment does not increase the
drainage or flood hazards, or create unstable conditions susceptible to soil
erosion;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage due to increased storm water runoff and soil erosion;
   C.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of increased flooding
and soil erosion on a watershed basis;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, correction of channel
erosion problems, and flood rescue and relief operations caused by storm water
runoff and soil erosion quantities from new development or redevelopment;
   E.   To protect, conserve, and promote the orderly development of land and
soil, water, air, animal, and plant resources;
   F.   To preserve the natural hydrologic and hydraulic functions of
watercourses and floodplains and to protect water quality and aquatic habitats;
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics of stream corridors in order to
manage flood and storm water impacts, improve water and ground water quality,
reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, maintain quality
forest resources, provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic
benefits, and enhance community and economic development. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-2: OTHER RELEVANT PERMITTING:
Before a contour permit under this chapter becomes effective, all required
federal, state and local permits will have been officially approved. The
acquisition of these permits shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant.
These may include, but are not limited to, section 404 of the clean waters act,
section 106 of the national historic preservation act, section 10 of the rivers
and harbors act, or permitting required by the Illinois department of natural
resources, office of water resources in accordance with the rivers, lakes and
streams act, 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes, the soil and water conservation
districts act, 70 Illinois Compiled Statutes, the farmland preservation act,
505 Illinois Compiled Statutes, the Illinois groundwater protection act, 415
Illinois Compiled Statutes, and the national pollutant discharge elimination
system permit (NPDES) through the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control. Compliance is also required with, but not
limited to, the subdivision control code, title 12 of this code; excavation
code, chapter 3 of this title; and zoning code, title 11 of this code. (Ord.
7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-3: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter applies to all new development or redevelopment in the city.
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no person, firm or corporation,
public or private, the state of Illinois and its agencies or political
subdivisions, the United States of America, and its agencies or political
subdivisions, any agent, servant, officer or employee of any of the foregoing
which meets the following provisions or is otherwise exempted in this chapter,
shall commence any development activities without first having obtained a
contour permit from the department of public works.
   A.   Any new development or redevelopment contains an area ten thousand
(10,000) or more square feet of total impervious surface (i.e., streets, roof,
patio, parking area or any combination thereof); or
   B.   Any land disturbing activity (i.e., clearing, logging, grading,
stripping, excavation, fill or any combination thereof) that affects an area of
ten thousand (10,000) or more square feet, or that will exceed one hundred
(100) cubic yards; or
   C.   Any land disturbing activity if the activity is within twenty five feet
(25') of a river, lake, pond, stream, sinkhole, or wetland; and is done in
conjunction with subsections A and B of this section; or
   D.   Any land disturbing activity on the sloping side of the slope
disturbance line and is in conjunction with this section. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-4: EXEMPTIONS:
A contour permit shall not be required for the following:
   A.   Any new development, redevelopment or other activity falling below the
minimum standards as set forth in section
6-14-3 of this chapter.
   B.   The agricultural use of land, including the implementation of
conservation measures included in a farm conservation plan approved by the soil
and water conservation district, and including the construction of agricultural
structures.
   C.   The maintenance of any existing storm water drainage/detention
component or structure or any existing soil erosion/sediment control component
or structure; including dredging, levee restoration, tree removal or other
function which maintains the original design capacities of the above.
   D.   The construction of, improvements to, or the maintenance of any street,
road, highway or interstate highway performed by any unit of government whose
powers grant such authority. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-5: CONTOUR PERMIT:
A contour permit is required for these uses but shall not be subject to the
provisions of article III, "Storm Water Drainage And Detention", of this
chapter.
   A.   Any land disturbing activity that is less than one acre (43,560 square
feet); or development of a tract of land where not more than one single-family
dwelling is being erected and is not part of an approved or possible future
subdivision.
   B.   Application fee is fifty dollars ($50.00) per disturbed acre, with a
minimum fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00), and a maximum fee of two
thousand dollars ($2,000.00). Fractional acres shall be rounded up to the next
whole acre. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-6: EXCEPTIONS:
The zoning board of appeals may, in accordance with the following procedures,
authorize exceptions to any of the requirements and regulations set forth in
this chapter:
   A.   Application for exception shall be made by a verified petition of the
applicant for a contour permit, stating fully the grounds of the petition and
the facts relied upon by the applicant. Such petition shall be filed with the
contour permit application. In order for the petition to be granted, it shall
be necessary that the board of appeals find all of the following facts with
respect to the land referred to in the application:
      1.   That the land is of such shape or size or is affected by such
physical conditions or is subject to such title limitations of record, that it
is impossible or impractical for the applicant to comply with all the
requirements of this chapter;
      2.   That the exception is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right of the applicant; and
      3.   That the granting of the exception will not be detrimental to the
public welfare, environment or injurious to other property in the vicinity of
the subject's property.
   B.   Each application for an exception shall be made to the public works
department. The department will review and transmit recommendations to the
board of appeals, which shall review such recommendations prior to granting or
denying the exception.
   C.   The board of appeals shall hold a public hearing on each application
for exception, within thirty (30) days after receiving the application, in the
manner by ordinance. Within thirty (30) days after public hearing, the board of
appeals shall either approve the site contour permit application with the
exceptions and conditions it deems necessary or it shall disapprove such
contour permit application and exception application, or it shall take other
such action as appropriate. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-7: RESPONSIBILITY:
The applicant shall not be relieved of responsibility for damage to persons or
property otherwise imposed by law, and the city or its officers or agents will
not be made liable for such damage, by: a) the issuance of a contour permit
under this chapter, b) compliance with the provisions of that development
permit or conditions attached to it by the public works department, c) failure
of city officials to observe or recognize hazardous or unsightly conditions, d)
failure of city officials to recommend denial or to deny a contour permit, or
e) exemptions from contour permit requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 7050, 1-
9-2008)
6-14-8: NPDES COMPLIANCE:
New development and redevelopment that is applicable to this chapter (per
section
6-14-3 of this chapter) must comply with the NPDES regulations (the general
NPDES permit ILR40 and the NOI). NPDES compliance is obtained by adhering to
this chapter, ILR10 permits, the general NPDES for Madison County and the NOI
submitted for each individual community, including the city of Alton and all
future steps taken by the individual communities to implement the NOI.
   A.   Public Education And Outreach On Storm Water Impacts: In accordance
with the general NPDES permit ILR40 and the NOI, the city of Alton will comply
and implement activities as outlined in the "Public Education And Outreach On
Storm Water Impacts".
   B.   Public Involvement/Participation: In accordance with the general NPDES
permit ILR40 and the NOI, the city of Alton will comply and implement
activities as outlined in the "Public Involvement/Participation".
   C.   Illicit Discharge Detection And Elimination: In accordance with the
general NPDES permit ILR40 and the NOI, the city of Alton will comply and
implement activities as outlined in the "Illicit Discharge Detection And
Elimination".
   D.   Construction Site Storm Water Runoff Control: In accordance with the
general NPDES permit ILR40 and the NOI, the city of Alton will comply and
implement activities as outlined in the "Construction Site Storm Water Runoff
Control".
   E.   Postconstruction Storm Water Management In New Development And
Redevelopment: In accordance with the general NPDES permit ILR40 and the NOI,
the city of Alton will comply and implement activities as outlined in the
"Post-Construction Storm Water Management In New Development And
Redevelopment".
   F.   Pollution Prevention/Good Housekeeping: In accordance with the general
NPDES permit ILR40 and the NOI, the city of Alton will comply and implement
activities as outlined in the "Pollution Prevention/Good Housekeeping". (Ord.
7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-9: INFORMATION ACCESSIBILITY TO THE PUBLIC:
Documents relating to the adherence of this chapter are available for review by
request at the public works department, 2 Emma Kaus Lane, Alton, Illinois.
(Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS
6-14-10: TERMS DEFINED:
For the purposes of this chapter certain terms are defined as set forth below:
ADVERSE IMPACTS: Any negative impact on plant, soil, air or water resources
affecting their beneficial uses including recreation, aesthetics, aquatic
habitat, quality, and quantity.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, or government agency that executes the necessary
forms to procure official approval of a development or permit to carry out
construction of a new development or redevelopment from the city.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION: The elevation at all locations delineating the level of
flooding resulting from the 100-year frequency flood event, which has a one
percent (1%) chance of occurring in any given year.
BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES OR BMPs: Practices, procedures or a schedule of
activities to reduce the amount of sediment and other pollutants in storm water
discharges associated with construction and land disturbance activities.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the city of Alton, Illinois, for the
construction, erection or alteration of a structure or building and the related
ground and surface preparation prior to and after completion of construction,
erection or alteration of a structure or building.
BYPASS FLOWS: Storm water runoff from upstream properties tributary to a
property's drainage system but not under its control.
CERTIFY OR CERTIFICATION: Formally attesting that the specific inspections and
tests were performed, and that such inspections and tests comply with the
applicable requirements of this chapter.
CHANNEL: Any defined river, stream, creek, brook, branch, natural or artificial
depression, ponded area, on stream lake or impoundment, karst area (sinkhole),
flowage, slough, ditch, conduit, culvert, gully, ravine, wash, or natural or
manmade drainageway, which has a definite bed and bank or shoreline, in or into
which surface or ground water flows, either perennially or intermittently.
CHANNEL MODIFICATION: Alteration of a channel by changing the physical
dimensions or materials of its bed or banks. Channel modification includes
damming, riprapping (or other armoring), filling, widening, deepening,
straightening, relocating, lining, and significant removal of bottom or woody
rooted vegetation. Channel modification does not include the manmade clearing
of debris or removal of trash.
CLEARING: Any activity which removes the natural vegetative ground cover,
including trees, and additionally any logging activity in which the stump
remains intact.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the floodplain used to balance the loss of natural
flood storage capacity when fill or structure are placed within the floodplain.
CONDUIT: Any channel, pipe, sewer or culvert used for the conveyance or
movement of water, whether open or closed.
CONTOUR PERMIT: The permit available at the public works department that is
required prior to commencing any development in the city of Alton, Illinois.
CUBIC YARD: A one yard by one yard by one yard amount of material in excavation
and/or fill.
DETENTION BASIN: A facility constructed or modified to provide for the
temporary storage of storm water runoff and the controlled release by gravity
of this runoff at a prescribed rate during and after a flood or storm.
DETENTION TIME: The amount of time storm water is held within a detention
basin.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate or property, including:
   A.   The division or subdivision of any duly recorded parcel of property;
   B.   Construction, reconstruction or placement of a building or any addition
to a building;
   C.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Construction of roads, bridges, or similar projects;
   E.   Redevelopment of a site;
   F.   Filling, dredging, grading, clearing, logging, excavating, paving or
other nonagricultural alterations of a ground surface;
   G.   Storage of materials or deposit of solid or liquid waste;
   H.   Any other activity that might alter the magnitude, frequency,
direction, or velocity of storm water flows from a property.
DRAINAGE PLAN: A plan, including engineering drawings and supporting
calculations, which describes the existing storm water drainage system and
environmental features, including grading, as well as proposed alterations or
changes to the drainage system and environment of a property.
DRY BASIN: A detention basin designed to drain after temporary storage of storm
water flows and to normally be dry over much of its bottom area.
EROSION: The general process whereby soil or earth is moved by rainfall,
flowing water, wind or wave action.
EXCAVATION: Any act by which organic matter, earth, sand, gravel, rock or any
other similar material is cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed,
displaced, relocated or bulldozed and shall include the conditions resulting
from such actions.
EXCESS STORM WATER RUNOFF: The volume and rate of flow of storm water
discharged from a new development or redevelopment which is or will be in
excess of that volume and rate which existed before development or
redevelopment.
EXISTING GRADE: The vertical location of the existing ground surface prior to
excavation or filling.
FILL: Any act by which earth, sand, gravel, rock, or any other material, is
deposited, placed, replaced, pushed, dumped, pulled, transported or moved by
man to a new location and shall include the conditions resulting therefrom.
FINAL GRADE: The vertical location of the ground surface after grading work is
completed in accordance with the engineering plans.
FLOOD FRINGE: That area as designated by the federal emergency management
agency (FEMA) on either side of the floodway. This area is subject to
inundation from the base flood but conveys little or no flow.
FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP (FHBM): A very generalized map prepared by the
federal emergency management agency (FEMA) which shows only where floodplains
are located based on very basic data. FHBMs do not include base flood
elevations.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM): A map prepared by the federal emergency
management agency (FEMA) that depicts the special flood hazard area (SFHA)
within a community. This map includes insurance rate zones and regulatory
floodplains and may or may not depict regulatory floodways. (See title 9,
chapter 3 of this code.)
FLOODPLAIN: That land adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood elevation
which is subject to inundation. The floodplain as designated by the federal
emergency management agency (FEMA) is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA). These areas can be found on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM),
flood boundary and floodway map, or the flood hazard boundary map (FHBM) of the
community. This area is the collective combination of the regulatory floodway
and the flood fringe.
FLOODWAY: The channel and that portion of the floodplain, including on stream
lakes, adjacent to a stream or watercourse which is needed to store and convey
the anticipated existing and future 100-year frequency flood discharge with no
more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to any loss of flood conveyance or
storage and no more than a ten percent (10%) increase in velocities. Floodways
are designated by FEMA on some flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary and
floodway maps. However, there are floodways on all streams whether mapped by
FEMA or not.
GRADING: The excavation or fill or any combination thereof and shall include
the conditions resulting from any excavation or fill.
HYDROGRAPH: A graph showing, for a given location on a stream or conduit, the
flow rate with respect to time.
HYDROGRAPH METHOD: This method estimates runoff volume and runoff hydrographs
for the point of interest by generating hydrographs for individual subareas,
combining them, and routing them through stream lengths and reservoir
structures. Factors such as rainfall amount and distribution, runoff curve
number, time of concentration, and travel time are included. The preferred
hydrograph is TR-55 as developed by the USDA.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: That area of property that is covered by materials other
than soil and vegetation and that has no intended capacity to absorb water,
such as parking lots, driveways, sidewalks, patios, tennis courts, roofs and
other structures.
INFILTRATION: The passage or movement of water into the soil surfaces.
LOESSAL SOIL: A sediment, commonly nonstratified and unconsolidated, composed
predominantly of silt sized particles with accessory clay and sand.
LOGGING: The cutting or removal of one or more trees on a tract of land for
either private or commercial use, whether the stump remains or not.
LOT: An individual platted parcel in an approved subdivision.
MAJOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: That portion of a drainage system needed to store and
convey flows beyond the capacity of the minor drainage system.
MINOR DRAINAGE SYSTEM: That portion of a drainage system designed for the
convenience of the public. It consists of street gutters, storm sewers, small
open channels, and swales and, where manmade, is to be designed to handle the
2-year runoff event.
MITIGATION: Is when the prescribed controls are not sufficient and additional
measures are required to offset the development, including those measures
necessary to minimize the negative effects which storm water drainage and
development activities might have on the public health, safety and welfare.
Examples of mitigation include, but are not limited to, compensatory storage,
soil erosion and sedimentation control, and channel restoration.
MODIFIED RATIONAL METHOD: As described in the Illinois department of
transportation "Drainage Manual", is based on the principle that the maximum
rate of runoff from a given drainage area occurs at that point in time when all
parts of the watershed are contributing to the flow. The rainfall generating
the peak flow is assumed to be of uniform intensity for the entire watershed
with a rainfall duration equal to the time of concentration.
NATURAL: Conditions resulting from physical, chemical, and biological processes
without intervention by man.
NATURAL DRAINAGE: Channels formed in the existing surface topography of the
earth prior to changes made by unnatural causes.
100-YEAR EVENT: A rainfall, runoff, or flood event having a one percent (1%)
chance of occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed
unless otherwise noted.
PARCEL: All contiguous land in one ownership.
PEAK FLOW: The maximum rate of flow of water at a given point in a channel or
conduit.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a building permit is issued.
PERSON: Any individual, firm or corporation, public or private, the state of
Illinois and its agencies or political subdivisions, the United States of
America, and its agencies or political subdivisions, and any agent, servant,
officer or employee of any of the foregoing.
POSITIVE DRAINAGE: Provision for overland paths for all areas of a property
including depressional areas that may also be drained by storm sewer.
PRIME FARMLAND: Land that is best suited to food, feed, forage, fiber and
oilseed crops. It may be cropland, pasture, woodland, or other land, but it is
not urban and built up land or water areas. It is either used for food or fiber
or is available for those uses. The soil qualities, growing season and moisture
supply are those needed for a well managed soil to economically produce a
sustained high yield of crops. Prime farmland produces the highest yields with
minimum inputs of energy and economic resources, and farming it results in the
least damage to the environment.
PROPERTY: A parcel of real estate.
RETENTION BASIN: A facility designed to completely retain a specified amount of
storm water runoff without release except by means of evaporation,
infiltration, emergency bypass or pumping.
SEDIMENTATION: The process that deposits soil, debris, and other materials
either on other ground surfaces or in bodies of water or storm water drainage
systems.
SINKHOLE (KARST AREAS): A sinkhole or karst topography is a land surface
depression or blind valley which may or may not have surface openings to
cavernous underground areas and are the result of water movement through silt
and jointed limestone. These conditions make such areas unstable and
susceptible to subsidence and surface collapse. Fractures in the limestone may
channel runoff water to public or private water supplies, making those sources
especially susceptible to ground water contamination.
SITE: A parcel of land, or a contiguous combination thereof, where grading work
is performed as a single unified operation.
SLOPE DISTURBANCE LINE: The line that delineates relatively level building
areas from areas where slopes exceed eight percent (8%) and where special
precautions must be taken.
STORM SEWER: A closed conduit for conveying collected storm water.
STORM WATER DRAINAGE SYSTEM: All means, natural and manmade, used for
conducting storm water to, through or from a drainage area to the point of
final outlet from a property. The storm water drainage system includes, but is
not limited to, any of the following: conduits and appurtenance features,
canals, channels, ditches, streams, culverts, streets, storm sewers, detention
basins, swales and pumping stations.
STORM WATER RUNOFF: The waters derived from melting snow or rain falling within
a tributary drainage basin which are in excess of the infiltration capacity of
the soils of that basin, which flow over the surface of the ground or are
collected in channels or conduits.
STREAM: Any river, creek, brook, branch, flowage, ravine, or natural or manmade
drainageway which has a definite bed and banks or shoreline, in or into which
surface or ground water flows, either perennially or intermittently.
STRIPPING: Any activity which removes the vegetative surface cover, including
tree removal, by spraying or clearing, and storage or removal of topsoil.
10-YEAR EVENT: A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having a ten percent (10%)
chance of occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed
unless otherwise noted.
TIME OF CONCENTRATION: The elapsed time for storm water to flow from the most
hydraulically remote point in a drainage basin to a particular point of
interest in that watershed.
TRIBUTARY WATERSHED: All of the land surface area that contributes runoff to a
given point.
2-YEAR EVENT: A runoff, rainfall, or flood event having a fifty percent (50%)
chance of occurring in any given year. A 24-hour storm duration is assumed
unless otherwise noted.
VACANT: Land on which there are no structures or only structures which are
secondary to the use or maintenance of the land itself.
WATERSHED: All land area drained by, or contributing water to, the same stream,
creek, ditch, lake, marsh, storm water facility, ground water or depressional
area.
WET BASIN: A detention basin designed to maintain a permanent pool of water
after the temporary storage of storm water runoff.
WETLANDS: Defined by regulation as "those areas that are inundated or saturated
by surface or groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support,
and under normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically
adapted for life in saturated soil conditions". For general, but not inclusive,
locations of designated wetlands refer to mapping prepared jointly by the U.S.
department of interior, fish and wildlife service and the Illinois department
of natural resources, office of resource conservation; national wetlands
inventory mapping, 1987. The applicant may be required to provide a field
investigation by a qualified wetland delineator. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
ARTICLE III. STORM WATER DRAINAGE AND DETENTION
6-14-11: DRAINAGE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
Each applicant shall submit the following information, to ensure that the
provisions of this chapter are met. The submittal shall include sufficient
information to evaluate the environmental characteristics of the property, the
potential adverse impacts and benefits of the development on water resources
both on site and off site, and the effectiveness of the proposed drainage plan
in managing storm water runoff, and meet the provisions of section
6-14-2 of this chapter. The applicant shall certify on the drawings that all
clearing, grading, drainage, and construction shall be accomplished in strict
conformance with the drainage plan. The following information shall be
submitted for both existing and proposed property conditions for all new
development or redevelopment:
   A.   Drainage Plan Requirements: A topographic survey of the property at two
foot (2') contours unless otherwise specified or approved by the city. If the
mapping is compiled using a digital format and the global positioning system
(GPS), the applicant will provide both paper and digital copies including GPS
points.
   B.   Mapping And Descriptions: An existing drainage and proposed drainage
plan for the property and one hundred feet (100') surrounding the property at a
scale of not more than one hundred feet to one inch (100' = 1") and including
the following:
      1.   Property boundary, dimensions, and approximate acreage;
      2.   Building setback lines;
      3.   All existing and proposed structures and sizes;
      4.   Area in square feet of existing and proposed impervious surface;
      5.   All existing or proposed easements;
      6.   All existing, abandoned, or proposed water or monitoring wellhead
locations;
      7.   All sanitary or combined sewer lines and septic systems;
      8.   The banks and centerline of streams and channels;
      9.   Shoreline of lakes, ponds, and detention basins with normal water
level elevation;
      10.   Known farm drains and tiles;
      11.   Soils classifications;
      12.   Location, size and slope of storm water conduits and drainage
swales;
      13.   Depressional storage areas;
      14.   Detention facilities;
      15.   Roads, streets and associated storm water inlets including finished
grades;
      16.   Base flood elevation, flood fringe, and regulatory floodway;
      17.   Basis of design for the final drainage network components;
      18.   A statement giving any applicable engineering assumptions and
calculations;
      19.   A vicinity map showing the relationship of the site to its general
surroundings at a scale of not less than two thousand feet to one inch (2,000'
= 1") (1:24,000);
      20.   Title, scale, north arrow, legend, seal of a licensed professional
engineer, date, and name of person preparing plans;
      21.   Cross section data for open channel flow paths and designated
overland flow paths;
      22.   Direction of storm flows;
      23.   Flow rates and velocities at critical points in the drainage system
(may be included in the supporting documentation);
      24.   A statement by the design engineer of the drainage system's
provision for handling events greater than the 100-year, 24-hour runoff (may be
included in the supporting documentation); and
      25.   A statement of certification of all drainage plans, calculations,
and supporting data by an Illinois licensed professional engineer.
   C.   Environmental Features: A depiction of environmental features of the
property and immediate vicinity including the following:
      1.   The limits of designated regulatory and nonregulatory wetland areas;
      2.   The location and limits of known sinkholes (karst areas);
      3.   Any known designated natural areas, prime farmland; and
      4.   Any known proposed environmental mitigation features. (Ord. 7050, 1-
9-2008)
6-14-12: MINIMIZATION OF INCREASES IN RUNOFF VOLUMES AND RATES:
In the selection of a drainage plan for a new development or redevelopment, the
applicant shall evaluate and implement site design features, which minimize the
increase in runoff volumes. Runoff rates shall remain at or below the
predevelopment level. The applicant's drainage plan submittal shall include
evaluations of site design features that are consistent with the following
hierarchy:
   A.   Preserve regulatory floodplains, flood prone and wetland areas;
   B.   Minimize impervious surfaces on the property, consistent with the needs
of the project;
   C.   Attenuate flows by use of open vegetated swales and natural depressions
and preserve the existing natural stream channel;
   D.   Infiltration of runoff on site;
   E.   Provide storm water retention structures;
   F.   Provide wet or wetland detention structures;
   G.   Provide dry detention structures; and
   H.   Construct storm sewers. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-13: WATER QUALITY AND MULTIPLE USES:
The drainage system should be designed to minimize adverse surface and ground
water quality impacts off site and on the property itself.
Water quality shall adhere to:
   A.   Illinois environmental protection act – 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11 and 5/12;
   B.   Illinois pollution control board rules and regulations – title 35,
"Environmental Protection"; subtitle C, "Water Pollution"; chapter I,
"Pollution Control Board"; part 302, "Water Quality Standards"; and
   C.   Illinois pollution control board rules and regulations – title 35,
"Environmental Protection"; subtitle C, "Water Pollution"; chapter I,
"Pollution Control Board"; part 304, "Effluent Standards".
Detention basins shall incorporate design features to capture stormwater runoff
pollutants. When designers propose wet bottom and wetland type designs, all
flows from the development shall be routed through the basin (i.e., low flows
shall not be bypassed). When it is not practical or feasible to route all of
the project's flow to the detention basin, the design of the basin shall
compensate for the bypass flow. In cases where detention facilities are
practical and the long term maintenance of such facilities are provided for,
detention of stormwater shall be promoted throughout the property's drainage
system to reduce the volume of stormwater runoff and to reduce the quantity of
runoff pollutants.
The drainage system should incorporate multiple uses where practicable. Uses
considered compatible with stormwater management include open space,
aesthetics, aquatic habitat, recreation (boating, fishing, trails, playing
fields), wetlands and water quality mitigation. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-14: DESIGN CRITERIA, STANDARDS, AND METHODS:
   A.   Release Rates: The drainage system for new developments or
redevelopments shall be designed to control the peak rate of discharge from the
property for the 2-year, 24-hour and 100-year, 24-hour events to discharge
rates at or below those which existed prior to development. Additionally, the
discharge from a stormwater detention facility shall not cause an increase in
flooding or channel instability downstream when considered in aggregate with
other developed properties and downstream drainage capacities. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-
2008; amd. Ord. 7221, 11-10-2010)
      1.   Detention Basin Outlet Design: The detention basin outlet control
structure shall be designed to account for observed or anticipated downstream
tail water elevations. The tail water elevations used in the detention model
shall be for the particular storm frequency being routed through the detention
basin. An emergency spillway or overflow device shall be provided and set at an
elevation equivalent to the 100-year design high water.
      2.   Calculations: A calculation shall be made to determine the water
elevation in the detention basin that would result from a 100-year storm with
the outflow control structure openings blocked. The discharge rate flowing
through the emergency spillway shall not exceed the 100-year predevelopment
flow rate. The top of bank for the detention basin shall be set at least one
foot (1') above this elevation. The lowest finished floor elevation of adjacent
structures shall also be at least one foot (1') above the detention basin top
of bank.
   B.   Detention Storage Requirements: See subsection A of this section.
   C.   Drainage System Design And Evaluation: The following criteria should be
used in evaluating and designing the drainage system. The design will provide
capacity to pass the 10-year peak flow rate in the minor drainage system and an
overload flow path for flows in excess of the design capacity. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-
2008)
      1.   Design Methodologies: Detention basin design shall be calculated
using SCS TR-55 methods. Basins with drainage areas of ten (10) acres or less
may be calculated using the rational method as approved by the Illinois
department of transportation or USDA WIN TR-55 program. Other applicable
methods, such as HEC-1, USDA TR-20, and SWMM, shall be used for large
watersheds. (Ord. 7221, 11-10-2010)
      2.   Positive Drainage: Whenever practicable, all developments must be
provided an overland flow path that will pass the 100-year, 24-hour event flow
at a stage at least one foot (1') below the lowest grade, adjacent to a
structure, in the vicinity of the flow path. Street ponding and flow depths
shall not exceed curb heights.
   D.   Rainfall: Unless a continuous simulation approach to drainage system
hydrology is used, all design rainfall events shall be based on the Illinois
state water survey's bulletin 70. The first quartile point rainfall
distribution shall be used for the design and analysis of conveyance systems
with critical durations less than or equal to six (6) hours. The second
quartile distribution shall be used for storms with durations greater than six
(6) hours and less than or equal to twelve (12) hours. The third quartile point
rainfall distribution shall be used for the design and analysis of detention
basins and conveyance system with critical durations greater than twelve (12)
and less than or equal to twenty four (24) hours. The fourth quartile
distribution shall be used in the design and analysis of systems with durations
greater than twenty four (24) hours. The first, third, and fourth quartile
distributions described by Huff are presented in table 37 of bulletin 70. Refer
to table 4 or 13 of bulletin 70 for rainfall depth, duration, and frequency.
The NRCS type II distribution may be used as an alternate to the Huff
distributions. The total rainfall value for the design storm shall be adjusted
for the "St. Louis urban effect" as given in table 4, Illinois state water
survey circular 172.
   E.   Antecedent Moisture: Average antecedent moisture conditions shall be
assumed when calculating runoff curve numbers for use in the SCS TR-55 method.
   F.   Wet Detention Basin Design: Wet detention basins shall be designed to
remove storm water pollutants, to be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing, and as
much as feasible to be available for recreational use.
      1.   Wet Basin Depths: Wet basins shall be at least three feet (3') deep,
excluding near shore banks and safety ledges. If fish habitat is to be
provided, wet basins shall be at least eight feet (8') deep over twenty five
percent (25%) of the bottom area to prevent winter kill.
      2.   Wet Basin Shoreline Slopes: The side slopes of wet basins at the
normal pool elevation shall not be steeper than three to one (3:1 horizontal to
vertical). It is recommended that aquatic vegetation be established around the
perimeter to provide protection from shoreline erosion. For basins in excess of
five (5) acres, riprap shoreline protection shall be provided.
      3.   Permanent Pool Volume: The permanent pool volume in a wet basin at
normal depth shall, at a minimum, be equal to the runoff volume from its
watershed for the 2-year, 24-hour event (calculated during dry weather
conditions).
      4.   Wet Basin Inlet And Outlet Orientation: The distance between
detention inlets and outlets shall be maximized. Inlets and outlets shall be at
opposite ends of the basin providing that the orientation does not create undue
hardship based on topography or other natural constraints.
   G.   Dry Detention Basin Design: In addition to the other requirements of
this chapter, dry basins shall be designed to remove storm water pollutants to
be safe, to be aesthetically pleasing and as much as feasible to be available
for multiple users. Paved low flow channels may be used in a dry basin provided
provisions are made to prevent ponding.
      1.   Dry Basin Drainage: Dry basins shall be designed so that eighty
percent (80%) of their bottom area shall have standing water no longer than
seventy two (72) hours for any runoff event less than the 100-year, 24-hour
event. Grading plans shall clearly distinguish the wet portion of the basin
bottom. Underdrains directed to the outlet may be used to accomplish this
requirement.
      2.   Velocity Dissipation: Velocity dissipation measures shall be
incorporated into dry basin designs to minimize erosion at inlets and outlets
and to minimize resuspension of pollutants.
      3.   Dry Basin Inlet And Outlet Orientation: Shall be the same as
subsection F4 of this section.
   H.   Existing Depressional Areas: Existing depressional storage volume will
be maintained, and the volume of detention storage provided to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall be in addition to existing storage.
   I.   Minimum Detention Outlet Size: Where a single pipe outlet or orifice
plate is to be used to control discharge, it shall have a minimum diameter of
twelve inches (12") for larger basins. Smaller basins may install a smaller
rectangular or v-notch weir to control discharge. If this minimum orifice size
permits release rates greater than those specified in this section, and
regional detention is not a practical alternative, outlets, structures such as
perforated risers, or flow control orifices shall be used.
   J.   Detention In Floodplains: The placement of detention basins within the
floodplain is strongly discouraged because of questions about their reliable
operation during flood events. However, the storm water detention requirements
of this chapter may be fulfilled by providing detention storage within flood
fringe areas on the project site provided the following provisions are met as
well as compliance with title 9, chapter 3 of this code:
      1.   Detention In Flood Fringe Areas: The placement of a detention basin
in a flood fringe area shall require compensatory storage for one and one-half
(1.5) times the volume below the base flood elevation occupied by the detention
basin including any berms. The release from the detention storage provided
shall still be controlled consistent with the requirements of this section. The
applicant shall demonstrate its operation for all stream flow and floodplain
backwater conditions. Excavations for compensatory storage along watercourses
shall be opposite or adjacent to the area occupied by detention. All floodplain
storage lost below the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced below
the existing 10-year flood elevation. All floodplain storage lost above the
existing 10-year flood elevation shall be replaced above the existing 10-year
flood elevation. All compensatory storage excavations shall be constructed to
drain freely and openly to the watercourse and comply with section
6-14-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Detention On Prime Farmland: The placement of detention basins shall
avoid the utilization of prime farmland. All detention basin construction shall
examine potential impacts to adjacent agricultural land and shall address
measures that will be implemented to eliminate such impacts and comply with
section 6-14-2 of this chapter.
      3.   Detention In Floodways: Detention basins shall be placed in the
floodway only in accordance with this subsection J.
      4.   On Stream Detention: On stream detention basins are discouraged but
allowable if they provide regional public benefits and if they meet the other
provisions of this chapter with respect to water quality and control of the
100-year, 24-hour events from the property. Further criteria are presented in
section
6-14-15 of this chapter. If on stream detention is used in watersheds larger
than one square mile, the applicant will use hydrographic modeling to
demonstrate that the design will not increase the water level for any
properties upstream or downstream of the property. Also, impoundment of the
stream as part of on stream detention:
         a.   Shall not prevent the migration of indigenous fish species, which
require access to upstream areas as part of their cycle, such as for spawning,
         b.   Shall not cause or contribute to the degradation of water quality
or stream aquatic habitat,
         c.   Shall include a design calling for gradual bank slopes,
appropriate bank stabilization measures, and a presedimentation basin,
         d.   Shall not involve any stream channelization or the filling of
wetlands,
         e.   Shall require the implementation of an effective nonpoint source
management program throughout the upstream watershed which shall include, as a
minimum, runoff reduction "best management practices" (BMPs) consistent with
section
6-14-12 of this chapter; 2-year, 24-hour detention/sedimentation basins for all
development consistent with this section,
         f.   Shall not occur downstream of a wastewater discharge,
         g.   Shall not contribute to the duration or flood frequency of any
adjacent land, and
         h.   Shall comply with section
6-14-2 of this chapter.
   K.   Drainage Into Wetlands, Rivers, Streams, Lakes, Ponds, And Depressional
Storage Areas: Wetlands, lakes, ponds and depressional storage areas shall be
protected from damaging modifications and adverse changes in runoff quality and
quantity associated with land developments. In addition to the other
requirements of this chapter, the following requirements shall be met for all
developments whose drainage flows into wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or
depressional storage areas:
      1.   Detention In Wetlands, Rivers, Streams, Lakes, Ponds Or Depressional
Storage Areas: Existing wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or depressional storage
areas shall not be modified for the purposes of storm water detention unless it
is demonstrated that the proposed modifications will maintain or improve its
habitat and ability to perform beneficial functions and shall comply with
section
6-14-2 of this chapter. Existing storage and release rate characteristics of
wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or depressional storage areas shall be
maintained, and the volume of detention storage provided to meet the
requirements of this section shall be in addition to this existing storage.
      2.   Sediment Control: The existing wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds, or
depressional storage areas shall be protected during construction and as
further regulated in article IV of this chapter.
      3.   Alteration Of Drainage Patterns: Site drainage patterns shall not be
altered to substantially decrease or increase the existing area tributary to
the wetlands, rivers, lakes, ponds or depressional storage areas.
      4.   Detention/Sedimentation: All runoff from the development shall be
routed through a preliminary detention/sedimentation basin designed to capture
the 2-year, 24-hour event and hold it for at least twenty four (24) hours,
before being discharged to the wetland, river, lake, pond or depressional
storage area. This basin shall be constructed before property grading begins
and shall be maintained throughout the construction process. In addition, the
drainage hierarchy defined in section
6-14-12 of this chapter should be followed to minimize runoff volumes and rates
being discharged to the wetland, river, stream, lake, pond, or depressional
storage area and as further regulated in article III of this chapter.
      5.   Loessal Soils: Care must be taken to avoid open flow discharges of
storm water over silt (loessal) soils due to high potential for erosion.
      6.   Sinkholes, Karst Areas: The following requirements apply for new
developments or redevelopments where sinkholes are determined to be present:
         a.   A storm water detention basin shall not be placed in or over a
sinkhole.
         b.   Storm water detention basins shall not be located closer than one
hundred feet (100') from the rim of a sinkhole.
         c.   The outflow from a storm water detention basin, channel, ditch or
any storm water runoff generated as a result of a new development or
redevelopment shall not empty into or be directed, redirected by any means into
or through any sinkhole.
         d.   If, after the review of the storm water drainage plan, the public
works director may determine that more detailed information is required, a
sinkhole evaluation may be required. A sinkhole evaluation which addresses the
geologic, engineering and environmental factors resulting from a new
development or redevelopment be performed by a professional engineer with
experience and expertise in karst topography, who shall certify the results of
the evaluation. This evaluation shall be the responsibility of the applicant
and performed at no cost to the city. After a review of this evaluation and
with the consultation of the Madison County soil and water conservation
district, the public works director may either approve or disapprove the
drainage plan as submitted.
         e.   Whenever a new sinkhole appears or it becomes apparent that the
sinkhole has not yet been identified, it shall be reported to the county soil
and water conservation district.
         f.   Shall comply with section
6-14-2 of this chapter.
   L.   Street Detention, Parking Lot Detention, And Culvert Drainage:
      1.   Street Detention: If streets are to be used as part of the minor or
major drainage system, ponding depths shall not exceed curb heights and shall
not remain flooded for more than eight (8) hours for any event less than or
equal to the 100-year, 24-hour event.
      2.   Parking Lot Detention: The maximum storm water ponding depth in any
parking area shall not exceed six inches (6") for more than four (4) hours.
      3.   Culvert, Road And Driveway Crossings: Sizing of culvert crossings
shall consider entrance and exit losses as well as tail water conditions on the
culvert.
   M.   Infiltration Practices: To effectively reduce runoff volumes,
infiltration practices including basins, trenches, and porous pavement should
be located in hydrologic soil groups "A" and "B" as designated by the USDA
natural resources conservation service. Infiltration basins and trenches
designed to recharge ground water shall not be located within seventy five feet
(75') of a water supply well or building foundation and shall comply with
section
6-14-2 of this chapter. A sediment settling basin shall be provided to remove
coarse sediment from storm water flows before they reach infiltration basins or
trenches. Storm water shall not be allowed to stand more than seventy two (72)
hours over eighty percent (80%) of the dry basin's bottom area for the maximum
design event to be infiltrated. The bottom of infiltration basins or trenches
shall be a minimum of four feet (4') above the seasonally high ground water and
bedrock level. Engineering calculations demonstrating infiltration rates shall
be included with the application.
      1.   Vegetated Filter Strips And Swales: To effectively filter storm
water pollutants and promote infiltration of runoff, sites should be designed
to maximize the use of vegetated filter strips and swales. Whenever
practicable, runoff from impervious surfaces should be directed onto filter
strips and swales comprised of native grasses and forbs before being routed to
a storm sewer or detention basin.
   N.   Safety Considerations: The drainage system components, especially all
detention basins, shall be designed to protect the safety of any children or
adults coming in contact with the system during runoff events and shall comply
with section
6-14-2 of this chapter.
      1.   Side Slopes: The side slopes of all detention basins at 100-year,
24-hour capacity shall be as level as practicable to prevent accidental falls
into the basin and for stability and ease of maintenance. Side slopes of
detention basins and open channels shall not be steeper than three to one (3:
1 horizontal to vertical).
      2.   Safety Ledge: All wet detention basins shall have a level safety
ledge at least four feet (4') in width, two and one-half (2.5) to three feet
(3') below the normal water depth.
      3.   Velocity: Velocities throughout the surface drainage system shall be
controlled to safe levels taking into consideration rates and depths of flow.
      4.   Overflow Structures: See subsection A1 of this section.
      5.   Fencing: All detention/retention basins that achieve a maximum water
depth of eighteen inches (18") or greater shall be protected by an enclosed
fence of at least forty eight inches (48") in height.
   O.   Maintenance Considerations: The storm water drainage system shall be
designed to minimize and facilitate maintenance. Turfed side slopes shall be
designed to allow lawn mowing equipment to easily negotiate them. Wet basins
shall be provided with alternate outflows, which can be used to completely
drain the pool for sediment removal. Pumping may be considered if drainage by
gravity is not feasible. Presedimentation basins shall be included, where
feasible, for localizing sediment deposition and removal. Site access for heavy
equipment shall be provided. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-15: ACCOMMODATING FLOWS FROM UPSTREAM TRIBUTARY AREAS:
Storm water runoff from areas tributary to the property shall be considered in
the design of the property's drainage system. Whenever practicable, flows from
upstream areas that are not to be detained should be routed around the basin
being provided for the site being developed.
   A.   Upstream Areas Not Meeting Chapter Requirements: When there are areas
not meeting the storage and release rates of this chapter, tributary to the
applicant's property, regionalized detention on the applicant's property shall
be explored by the applicant or the city. When it is deemed beneficial by the
city or the applicant to explore such a design, the following steps shall be
followed:
      1.   The applicant shall compute the storage volume needed for his
property using the release rates of section
6-14-14 of this chapter, the applicant's property area, and the procedures
described in section
6-14-13 of this chapter.
      2.   Areas tributary to the applicant's property, not meeting the storage
and release rate requirements of this chapter, shall be identified.
      3.   Using the areas determined above plus the applicant's property area,
total storage needed for the combined properties shall be computed.
Allowable release rates shall be computed using the combined property areas.
Storage shall be computed as described in section
6-14-14 of this chapter. If tributary areas are not developed, a reasonable
fully developed land cover, based on local zoning, shall be used for the
purposes of computing storage.
Once the necessary combined storage is computed, the city may choose to pay for
oversizing the applicant's detention basin to accommodate the regional flows.
The applicant's responsibility will be limited to the storage for his property
as computed above. If regional storage is selected by the city, then the design
produced in section
6-14-13 of this chapter shall be implemented. If regional storage is rejected
by the city, the applicant shall bypass all tributary area flows around the
applicant's basin whenever practicable. If the applicant must route upstream
flows through his basin and the upstream areas exceed one square mile in size,
the applicant must meet the provision of subsection B of this section for on
stream basins.
   B.   Upstream Areas Meeting Chapter Requirements: When there are areas,
which meet the storage and release rate requirements of this chapter, tributary
to the applicant's property, the upstream flows shall be bypassed around the
applicant's detention basin if this is the only practicable alternative.
Storage needed for the applicant's property shall be computed as described in
subsection A of this section. However, if the city decides to route tributary
area flows through an applicant's basin, the final design storm water releases
shall be based on the combined total of the applicant's property plus tributary
areas. It must be shown that at no time will the release rate from the combined
property exceed the allowable release rate for applicant's property alone.
(Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-16: EARLY COMPLETION OF DETENTION FACILITIES:
Where detention, retention, or depressed area storage areas are to be used as
part of the drainage system for a property, they shall be constructed as the
first element of the initial earthwork program. Any eroded sediment captured in
these facilities shall be removed by the applicant on a regular basis and
before project completion in order to maintain the design volume of the
facilities. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
ARTICLE IV. SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL
6-14-17: FINDINGS:
The city hereby finds that:
   A.   The soil types found in the city are susceptible to erosion and if left
unprotected could cause severe loss of soil with resultant damage to property;
   B.   The topography of the city contains areas with steep slopes upon which,
if clearing of trees and/or inappropriate construction takes place, could
result in severe erosion and slope stability problems which could result in
damage to property;
   C.   Excessive quantities of soil may erode from areas undergoing
development for certain nonagricultural uses including, but not limited to, the
construction of dwelling units, commercial buildings and industrial plants, the
building of roads and highways, the modification of stream channels and
drainageways, and the creation of recreational facilities;
   D.   The washing, blowing, and falling of eroded soil across and upon
roadways endangers the health and safety of users thereof, by decreasing vision
and reducing traction of road vehicles;
   E.   Soil erosion necessitates the costly repairing of gullies, washed out
fills, and embankments;
   F.   Sediment from soil erosion tends to clog sewers and ditches and to
pollute and silt rivers, streams, lakes, sinkholes, wetlands, and reserves;
   G.   Sediment limits the use of water and waterways for most beneficial
purposes, promotes the growth of undesirable aquatic weeds, destroys fish and
other desirable aquatic life, and is costly and difficult to remove; and
   H.   Sediment reduces the channel capacity of waterways and the storage
capacity of floodplains and natural depressions, resulting in increased chances
of flooding at risk to public health and safety. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-18: GENERAL PRINCIPLES:
It is the objective of this chapter to control soil erosion and sedimentation
caused by development activities, including clearing, grading, stripping,
excavating, and filling of land, in the city.
Water quality shall adhere to:
   A.   Illinois environmental protection act - 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11 and 5/12;
   B.   Illinois pollution control board rules and regulations - title 35,
"Environmental Protection"; subtitle C, "Water Pollution"; chapter I,
"Pollution Control Board"; part 302, "Water Quality Standards"; and
   C.   Illinois pollution control board rules and regulations - title 35,
"Environmental Protection"; subtitle C, "Water Pollution"; chapter I,
"Pollution Control Board"; part 304, "Effluent Standards".
Measures taken to control soil erosion and off site sediment runoff shall be
adequate to assure that sediment is not transported from the site by a storm
event of 10-year, 24-hour frequency or less. The following principles shall
apply to all new development or redevelopment activities within the city and to
the preparation of the submissions required under section
6-14-19 of this chapter:
   A.   New development or redevelopment shall be related to the topography and
soils of the site so as to create the least potential for erosion. Areas of
steep slopes greater than thirty three percent (33%) where high cuts and fills
may be required are to be avoided wherever possible, and natural contours
should be followed as closely as possible.
   B.   Natural vegetation shall be retained and protected wherever possible.
Areas immediately adjacent to natural watercourses, lakes, ponds, sinkholes,
and wetlands are to be left undisturbed wherever possible. Temporary crossings
of watercourses, when permitted, must include appropriate stabilization
measures.
   C.   Special precautions shall be taken to prevent damages resultant from
any necessary development activity within or adjacent to any stream, lake,
pond, sinkhole or wetland. Preventive measures shall reflect the sensitivity of
these areas to erosion and sedimentation.
   D.   The smallest practical area of land should be exposed for the shortest
practical time during development.
   E.   Sediment basins or traps, filter barriers, diversions, and any other
appropriate sediment or runoff control measures shall be installed prior to
site clearing and grading and maintained to remove sediment from runoff waters
from land undergoing development.
   F.   The selection of erosion and sediment control measures shall be based
on assessment of the probable frequency of climatic and other events likely to
contribute to erosion, and on evaluation of the risks, costs, and benefits
involved.
   G.   In the design of erosion control facilities and practices, aesthetics
and the requirements of continuing maintenance must be considered.
   H.   Provision shall be made to accommodate the increased runoff caused by
changed soil and surface conditions during and after development. Drainageways
should be designed so that their final gradients and the resultant velocities
and rates of discharge will not create additional erosion on site or
downstream.
   I.   Permanent vegetation and structures shall be installed and functional
as soon as practical during development.
   J.   Those areas being converted from agricultural purposes to other land
uses shall be vegetated with an appropriate protective cover prior to
development.
   K.   All waste generated as a result of site development activity shall be
properly disposed of and shall be prevented from being carried off the site by
either wind or water.
   L.   All construction sites shall provide measures to prevent sediment from
being tracked onto public or private roadways.
   M.   All temporary soil erosion and sediment control practices shall be
maintained to function as intended until the contributing drainage area has
been permanently stabilized at which time they shall be removed. (Ord. 7050, 1-
9-2008)
6-14-19: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS:
Each applicant shall submit the information depending on development size, as
regulated to ensure that the provisions of this chapter are met. The submittal
shall include sufficient information to evaluate the environmental
characteristics of the property, the potential adverse impacts of the
development related to erosion both on site and off site, and the effectiveness
of the proposed erosion and sediment control plan in reducing sediment loss and
meet the provisions of section
6-14-2 of this chapter. The applicant shall certify on the drawing that all
clearing, grading, drainage, and construction shall be accomplished in strict
conformance with the erosion and sediment control plan. The following
information shall be submitted for both existing and proposed property
conditions, new developments or redevelopments meeting the requirements of
section
6-14-3 of this chapter:
   A.   Erosion And Sediment Control Plan Requirements: Shall meet the
requirements of subsections
6-14-11A and B and section
6-14-1 of this chapter.
   B.   Mapping And Descriptions: The existing and proposed erosion and
sediment control features of the property and immediate vicinity including:
      1.   As required in subsections
 6-14-11A and B and
6-14-1C of this chapter;
      2.   Location of the slope disturbance line;
      3.   Location and description of the erosion and sediment control
measures to be employed during construction;
      4.   For any structures proposed to be located on the slope side of the
slope disturbance line the map shall include the limits of disturbance
including tree removal, erosion and sediment control measures during
construction, cross section view of any proposed cut or fill, erosion and
sediment control measures during construction, details of method(s) proposed
for providing slope stability, permanent storm water control measures, and
permanent erosion and sediment control measures all being certified by a
registered professional engineer or a "certified professional erosion control
specialist".
      5.   The predominant soil types on the site, their location, and their
limitations for the proposed use as defined by the USDA natural resources
conservation service.
      6.   The proposed use of the site, including present and planned
development, areas of clearing, stripping, grading, excavation and filling;
proposed contours, finished grades, and street profiles; the storm water plan
as required in article III of this chapter; kinds and locations of utilities,
areas and acreages proposed to be paved, sodded or seeded, vegetatively
stabilized, or left undisturbed; and the location of specimen trees over
eighteen inches (18") in diameter and their type.
      7.   The erosion and sediment control plan showing all measures necessary
to meet the requirements of this chapter throughout all phases of construction
and those remaining permanently after completion of the development of the
site, including:
         a.   Location and description, including standard details, of all
sediment control measures, runoff control measures, including diversion,
waterways and outlets, and design specifics of sediment basins and traps
including outlet details.
         b.   Location and description of all soil stabilization and erosion
control measures, including seeding mixtures and rates, types of sod, method of
seedbed preparation, expected seeding dates, type and rate of lime and
fertilizer application, kind and quantity of mulching for both temporary and
permanent vegetative control measures, and types of nonvegetative stabilization
measures.
         c.   Location and description of methods to prevent tracking of
sediment off site including construction entrance details, as appropriate.
         d.   Description of dust and traffic control measures.
         e.   Locations of stockpiles and description of stabilization methods.
         f.   Location of off site fill or borrow volumes, locations and
methods of stabilization.
         g.   Provisions for maintenance of control measures, including type
and frequency of maintenance, easements, and estimates of the cost of
maintenance.
         h.   The proposed phasing of development of the site, including
stripping and clearing, rough grading and construction, and final grading and
landscaping. Phasing should identify the expected date on which clearing will
begin, the estimated duration of exposure of cleared area, and the sequence of
installation of temporary sediment control measures (including perimeter
controls), installation of storm water drainage, paving streets and parking
areas, final grading and the establishment of permanent vegetative cover, and
the removal of temporary measures. It shall be the responsibility of the
applicant to notify the building and zoning administrator of any significant
changes that occur in the site development schedule after the initial erosion
and sediment control plan has been approved. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-20: DESIGN AND OPERATION STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS:
The preparation of soil erosion and sediment control plans shall follow the
principles outlined in the "Illinois Procedures And Standards For Urban Soil
Erosion And Sedimentation Control", excepting chapter 6 published by the urban
committee of the Association of Illinois Soil and Water Conservation Districts.
The design criteria, standards, and methods shall be prepared in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter and the standards and specifications
contained in "Illinois Urban Manual" prepared for the Illinois environmental
protection agency by the USDA natural resources conservation service, which
standards and methods are hereby incorporated into this chapter by reference.
In the event of conflict between the provisions of said manuals and this
chapter, this chapter shall govern.
   A.   Erosion And Sediment Control Design Requirements: New developments or
redevelopments shall comply with section
6-14-19 of this chapter and meet the following:
      1.   Control Measures: Control measures shall be constructed to control
runoff from the property to such an extent possible that sediment is retained
on site.
      2.   Temporary Control Measures: Temporary on site control measures
required shall be constructed and functional prior to initiating clearing,
grading, stripping, excavating or fill activities on the site.
      3.   Stabilization With Permanent Measures: Disturbed areas shall be
stabilized with permanent measures within seven (7) calendar days following the
end of active disturbance, or redisturbance consistent with the following
criteria:
         a.   Appropriate permanent stabilization measures shall include
seeding, mulching, sodding, with nonvegetative measures as a last resort.
         b.   Areas having slopes greater than thirty three percent (33%) shall
be stabilized with sod, mat, or blanket in combination with seeding or
equivalent.
      4.   Maintenance And Repair: All temporary and permanent erosion and
sediment control practices must be maintained and repaired as needed to assure
effective performance of their intended function.
      5.   Disposal: All temporary erosion and sediment control measures shall
be disposed of in a proper manner within thirty (30) days after final site
stabilization is achieved with permanent soil stabilization measures. Trapped
sediment and other disturbed soils resulting from the disposition of temporary
measures shall be permanently stabilized to prevent further erosion and
sedimentation.
      6.   Site Development Requirements: On site sediment control measures, as
specified by the following criteria, shall be constructed as specified in the
referenced handbooks, and functional prior to initiating clearing, grading,
stripping, excavating or fill activities on the site:
         a.   For new developments or redevelopments less than one acre, or for
a tract of land where a single-family dwelling is being erected and less than
ten thousand (10,000) square feet of impervious surface is being developed,
filter barriers (including filter fences, straw bales, or equivalent control
measures) shall be constructed to control all on site runoff. Vegetated filter
strips, with a minimum width of twenty five feet (25'), may be used as an
alternative only where runoff in sheet flow is expected.
         b.   For new developments or redevelopments more than one acre but
less than five (5) acres, a sediment trap designed in accordance with the IEPA
standards and specifications for soil erosion or equivalent control measure
shall be constructed at the down slope point of the disturbed area.
         c.   For new developments or redevelopments greater than five (5)
acres, a sediment basin or equivalent control measure shall be constructed at
the down slope point of the disturbed area.
         d.   Sediment basin and sediment trap designs shall provide for both
"dry" detention and "wet" detention sediment storage. The detention storage
shall be composed of equal volumes of "wet" detention storage and "dry"
detention storage and each shall be sized as regulated in article III of this
chapter. The release rate of the basin shall be that rate as regulated in
article III of this chapter. The elevation of the outlet structure shall be
placed such that it only drains the dry detention storage.
         e.   The sediment storage shall be sized to store the estimated
sediment load generated from the site over the duration of the construction
period with a minimum storage equivalent to the volume or sediment generated in
one year. For construction periods exceeding one year, the one year sediment
load and a sediment removal schedule may be substituted.
         f.   The alteration of sinkholes by filling, grading or excavation is
prohibited, including an area within twenty five feet (25') from the rim.
         g.   To the extent possible or as otherwise regulated in this chapter
all desirable trees eight inches (8") in diameter and larger shall be protected
for their present and future value for erosion protection and other
environmental benefits. Trees that have been selected for preservation shall be
marked prior to the beginning of any clearing, grading, stripping, excavation,
or filling of the site. A "no" construction zone shall be established and
marked at the perimeter of the drip line of each tree which is to be preserved.
      7.   Conveyance Channels: Storm water conveyance channels, including
ditches, swales, and diversions, and the outlets of all channels and pipes
shall be designed and constructed as regulated in article III of this chapter.
All constructed or modified channels shall be stabilized within forty eight
(48) hours, consistent with the standards as required in the IEPA erosion
control manual, "Standards And Specifications For Soil Erosion And Sediment
Control".
      8.   Land Disturbance Activities In Stream Channels: Land disturbance
activities in stream channels shall be avoided, where possible, or as regulated
in article III of this chapter. If disturbance activities are unavoidable, the
following requirements shall be met:
         a.   Construction vehicles shall be kept out of the stream channel to
the maximum extent practicable. Where construction crossings are necessary,
temporary crossings shall be constructed of nonerosive material, such as riprap
or gravel.
         b.   The time and area of disturbance of stream channels shall be kept
to a minimum. The stream channel, including bed and banks, shall be stabilized
within forty eight (48) hours after channel disturbance is completed,
interrupted, or stopped.
      9.   Storm Sewer Inlets And Culverts: Storm sewer inlets and culverts
shall be protected by sediment traps of filter barriers meeting accepted design
standards and specifications.
      10.   Soil Storage Piles: Soil storage piles containing more than ten
(10) cubic yards of material shall not be located with a down slope drainage
length of less than twenty five feet (25') to a roadway drainage channel, or
sinkhole. Filter barriers, including straw bales, filter fence, or equivalent,
shall be installed immediately on the down slope side of the piles.
      11.   Dewatering Devices: If dewatering devices are used, discharge
locations shall be protected from erosion. All pumped discharges shall be
routed through appropriately designed sediment traps or basins, or equivalent
and shall not be deposited into a sinkhole.
      12.   Graveled Entrance Roads, Access Drives, And Parking Areas: Each
site shall have graveled (or equivalent) entrance roads, access drives, and
parking areas of sufficient length and width to prevent sediment from being
tracked onto public or private roadways. Any sediment reaching a public or
private road shall be removed by shoveling or street cleaning (not flushing)
before the end of each workday and transported to a controlled sediment
disposal area. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-21: MAINTENANCE OF CONTROL MEASURES:
All soil erosion and sediment control measures necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall be maintained periodically by the applicant
or subsequent landowner during the period of land disturbance and development
of the site in a satisfactory manner to ensure adequate performance. (Ord.
7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-22: CONTROL OF CONSTRUCTION SITE WASTES:
All waste materials generated during construction activities must be properly
disposed of. Examples of construction site waste may consist of, but not be
limited to, all building materials, raised structure debris, concrete
(including concrete truck wash), asphalt, bricks, excess soil, rebar, erosion
and sediment control materials, cleared vegetation, chemicals, temporary
bathroom facilities and all other construction site wastes. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-
2008)
6-14-23: CONSTRUCTION SITE STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN:
Activities that are applicable to this chapter, per section
6-14-3 of this chapter, must provide a construction site storm water pollution
prevention plan (CSSPPP).
The construction site storm water pollution prevention plan may be a full sized
plan sheet with necessary notes for requirements or may be a narrative
explaining construction site operating procedures to minimize or eliminate
storm water pollution as a result of construction activities.
The items covered in an approvable CSSPPP are dependent on the activities and
the materials required on site to complete the project. Therefore, the detail
of the plan may be more or less depending on site activities planned. Standard
items included in a CSSPPP are, but are not limited to:
   A.   Purpose,
   B.   Construction site description,
   C.   Activities/materials to be addressed in the CSSPPP,
   D.   Construction site operating procedures,
   E.   Activities/materials monitoring and maintenance,
   F.   Emergency and spill procedures.
Should construction site activities/materials change during construction, the
CSSPPP must reflect the changes. Therefore, the plan must be kept on site at
all times and be altered as necessary with the approval of the inspector.
Should major changes be warranted, a revised plan must be submitted for review
and approval. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
ARTICLE V. LONG TERM MAINTENANCE
6-14-24: RESPONSIBILITY:
Maintenance of storm water drainage and erosion and sediment control facilities
located on private property shall be the responsibility of the owner of that
property. Before an appropriate permit is obtained from the city the applicant
shall execute a maintenance agreement with the city guaranteeing that the
applicant and all future owners of the property will maintain its storm water
drainage and erosion and sediment control system. Such agreement shall be
recorded with the recorder of deeds of the county. The maintenance agreement
shall include a schedule for regular maintenance of each aspect of the
property's storm water drainage and erosion and sediment control system and
shall provide for access to the system for inspection by authorized personnel
of the city. The maintenance agreement shall also stipulate that if the
appropriate personnel of the city notify the property owner in writing of
maintenance problems, which require correction, the property owner shall begin
such corrections within twenty four (24) hours and shall not extend beyond
seven (7) calendar days of such notification. If the corrections are not made
within this time period the city may have the necessary work completed and
assess the cost to the property owner. The city has the option of requiring a
bond to be filed by the property owner for maintenance of the storm water
drainage and erosion and sediment control system. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
ARTICLE VI. INSPECTIONS
6-14-25: GENERALLY:
The public works director shall make inspections as hereinafter required and
shall either approve that portion of the work completed or shall notify the
permittee wherein the work fails to comply with the storm water drainage or
erosion and sedimentation control plan as approved. Plans for grading,
stripping, excavating, and filling work bearing the stamp of approval of the
public works director shall be maintained at the site during progress of the
work. In order to obtain inspections and to ensure compliance with this
chapter, the permittee shall notify the public works director within two (2)
working days of the completion of the construction stages specified below:
   A.   Upon completion of installation of the storm water drainage and erosion
and sediment control measures (including perimeter controls and diversions),
prior to proceeding with any other earth disturbance or grading,
   B.   After stripping and clearing,
   C.   After rough grading,
   D.   After final grading,
   E.   After seeding and landscaping deadlines, and
   F.   After final stabilization and landscaping, prior to removal of sediment
controls.
If stripping, clearing, grading and/or landscaping are to be done in phases or
areas, the permittee shall give notice and request inspection at the completion
of each of the above work stages in each phase or area. If an inspection is not
made and notification of the results given within five (5) working days after
notice is received by the city from the permittee, the permittee may continue
work at his/her own risk, without presuming acceptance by the city.
Notification of the results of the inspection shall be given in writing at the
site. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-26: BIWEEKLY INSPECTIONS:
Biweekly inspection reports shall be submitted to the city for all development
permits. Except for permits involving the development of one single-family
dwelling, the biweekly reports must be certified by a registered professional
engineer, describing the current status of construction for proposed drainage
and detention system, including whether drainage construction and erosion
control has been installed in accordance with construction plans. The reports
shall define whether maintenance has been provided as needed for the erosion
control. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-27: SPECIAL PRECAUTIONS:
If at any stage of the grading of any development site the public works
director determines by inspection that the nature of the site is such that
further work authorized by an existing permit is likely to imperil any
property, public way, stream, lake, wetland, or drainage structure, the public
works director may require, as a condition of allowing the work to be done,
that such reasonable special precautions to be taken as is considered advisable
to avoid the likelihood of such peril. "Special precautions" may include, but
shall not be limited to, a more level exposed slope, construction of additional
drainage facilities, berms, terracing, compaction, or cribbing, installation of
plant materials for erosion control, and recommendations of a registered soils
engineer and/or engineering geologist which may be made requirements for
further work.
   A.   Possibility Of Storm Damage: Where it appears that storm damage may
result because the grading on any development site is not complete, work may be
stopped and the permittee required to install temporary structures or take such
other measures as may be required to protect adjoining property or the public
safety. On large developments or where unusual site conditions prevail, the
public works director may specify the time of starting grading and time of
completion or may require that the operations be conducted in specific stages
so as to ensure completion of protective measures or devices prior to the
advent of seasonal rains. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-28: AMENDMENT OF PLANS:
Major amendments to storm water drainage and detention or erosion and sediment
control plans shall be submitted to the public works director and shall be
processed and approved or disapproved in the same manner as the original plans.
Field modification of a minor nature may be authorized by the public works
director by written authorization to the permittee. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
ARTICLE VII. PERMITTING
6-14-29: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for a contour permit shall be made by the owner of the property or
his authorized agent to the public works director on a form furnished for that
purpose. Each application shall bear the name(s) and address(es) of the owner
or developer of the site, the contractor(s) and any consulting firm retained by
the applicant together with the name of the applicant's principal contact at
such firm, and shall be accompanied by a filing fee as outlined in subsection
 6-14-5B of this chapter for any permit subject to the requirements of article
III, "Storm Water Drainage And Detention", of this chapter. No permit fee is
assessed for those developments where only the requirements of article IV,
"Soil Erosion And Sediment Control", of this chapter, apply. Each application
shall include certification that any land clearing, construction, or
development involving the movement of earth shall be in accordance with the
plans approved upon issuance of the permit. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-30: BOND REQUIRED:
The applicant for a contour permit may be required to file with the city a
faithful performance bond or bonds, letter of credit, or other improvement
security satisfactory to the city in an amount deemed sufficient by the public
works director to cover all costs of improvements, landscaping, maintenance of
improvements and landscaping, and soil erosion and sediment control measures
for such period as specified by the city, and engineering and inspection costs
to cover the cost of failure or repair of improvements installed on the site.
(Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-31: REVIEW AND APPROVAL:
Each application for a contour permit shall be reviewed and acted upon
according to the following procedures:
   A.   The public works director will review each application for a contour
permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this chapter. The
director may also refer an application to the county soil and water
conservation district, a consulting engineer retained by the city, and/or any
other local government or public agency within whose jurisdiction the site is
located for review and comment. All costs or fees acquired from the review
shall be the responsibility of the applicant to reimburse the city in full
before the permit is processed further. Within sixty (60) days after receiving
an application and all costs or fees acquired, the public works director shall
in writing:
      1.   Approve the permit application if it is found to be in conformance
with the provisions of this chapter, and issue the permit;
      2.   Approve the permit application subject to such reasonable conditions
as may be necessary to secure substantially the objectives of this chapter, and
issue the permit subject to these conditions; or
      3.   Disapprove the permit application, indicating the deficiencies and
the procedure for submitting a revised application and/or submission.
   B.   No contour permit shall be issued for an intended development site
unless:
      1.   The development, including, but not limited to, subdivision or
planned unit development, has been approved by the city where applicable, or
      2.   Such permit is accompanied by or combined with a valid building
permit issued by the city, or
      3.   The proposed earthmoving is coordinated with any overall development
program previously approved by the city for the area in which the site is
situated; and
      4.   All relevant federal and state permits have been received for the
portion of the site subject to soil disturbance as noted in section
6-14-2 of this chapter.
   C.   Failure of the public works director to act on an original or revised
application within sixty (60) days of receipt shall authorize the applicant to
proceed in accordance with the plans as filed and in compliance with the
regulations contained herein, unless such time is extended by agreement between
the public works director and the applicant. Pending preparation and approval
of a revised plan, development activities shall be allowed to proceed in
accordance with conditions established by the public works director. (Ord.
7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-32: FINAL CERTIFICATION:
Prior to final approval by the city a registered professional engineer shall
certify that the detention basin has been constructed in accordance with
construction plans and proposed volume has been provided. This requirement may
be waived by the public works director upon request of the property owner/
builder, upon inspection of the final as built facility. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-33: EXPIRATION OF PERMIT:
Every contour permit shall expire and become null and void if the work
authorized by such permit has not been commenced within one hundred eighty
(180) days, or if not completed by a date which shall be specified in the
permit; except that the public works director may, if the permittee presents
satisfactory evidence that unusual difficulties have prevented work being
commenced or completed within the specified time limits, grant a reasonable
extension of time if written application is made before the expiration date of
the permit. The public works director may require modification of the erosion
control plan to prevent any increase in erosion or off site sediment runoff
resulting from any extension. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
ARTICLE VIII. ENFORCEMENT
6-14-34: STOP WORK ORDER; REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
In the event any person holding a contour permit pursuant to this chapter
violates the terms of the permit, or carries on site development in such a
manner as to materially adversely affect the health, welfare, environment, or
safety of persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the development
site or so as to be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious
to property or improvements in the neighborhood, the public works director may
suspend or revoke the contour permit.
   A.   Suspension of a permit shall be by a written stop work order issued by
the public works director and delivered to the permittee or his agent or the
person performing the work. The stop work order shall be effective immediately,
shall state the specific violations cited, and shall state the conditions under
which work may be resumed. A stop work order shall remain in effect until the
permittee proves compliance with this chapter.
   B.   No contour permit shall be revoked until the public works director has
issued a written notice of the revocation to the permittee, either personally
or by registered mail, and shall state:
      1.   The grounds for complaint or reasons for suspension or revocation,
in clear and concise language; and
      2.   The time and place where a meeting to discuss the noncompliance with
the permittee and the public works director will be held.
Such notice shall be served on the permittee at least five (5) days prior to
the date set for the meeting. At such meeting, the permittee shall be given an
opportunity to be heard and may call witnesses and present evidence on his
behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing the public works director shall
determine whether the permit shall be revoked. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
6-14-35: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
No person shall construct, enlarge, alter, repair or maintain any grading,
excavation or fill, or cause the same to be done, contrary to or in violation
of any terms of this chapter. Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and each day during which
any violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is committed, continued,
or permitted shall constitute a separate offense. Upon conviction of any such
violation, such person, partnership, or corporation shall be punished by a fine
of not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. In
addition to any other penalty authorized by this section, any person,
partnership, or corporation convicted of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be required to restore the site to the condition existing
prior to commission of the violation, or to bear the expense of such
restoration. (Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
CHAPTER 15
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES
SECTION:
6-15-1: Purpose And Scope
6-15-2: Definitions
6-15-3: Regulation Of Small Wireless Facilities
6-15-4: Dispute Resolution
6-15-5: Indemnification
6-15-6: Insurance
6-15-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish regulations,
standards and procedures for the siting and collocation of small wireless
facilities on rights-of-way within the City's jurisdiction, or outside the
rights-of-way on property zoned by the City exclusively for commercial or
industrial use, in a manner that is consistent with the Small Wireless
Facilities Deployment Act (the Act).
   B.   Conflicts With Other Ordinances: This chapter supersedes all ordinances
or parts of ordinances adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to
the extent of such conflict.
   C.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
Federal or State laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the wireless provider shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter to the maximum extent possible without violating Federal or State laws
or regulations. (Ord. 7653, 8-8-2018)
6-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings:
ANTENNA: Communications equipment that transmits or receives electromagnetic
radio frequency signals used in the provision of wireless services.
APPLICABLE CODES: Building, Fire, Electrical, Plumbing, or Mechanical Codes
adopted by a recognized national code organization or local amendments to those
codes, including the National Electric Safety Code.
APPLICANT: Any person who submits an application and is a wireless provider.
APPLICATION: A request submitted by an applicant to the City for a permit to
collocate small wireless facilities, and a request that includes the
installation of a new utility pole for such collocation, as well as any
applicable fee for the review of such application.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or
utility pole.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE: Cable service, as defined in 47 USC 522(6), as amended;
information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as amended;
telecommunications service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; mobile
service, as defined in 47 USC 153(53), as amended; or wireless service other
than mobile service.
COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDER: A cable operator, as defined in 47 USC 522(5),
as amended; a provider of information service, as defined in 47 USC 153(24), as
amended; a telecommunications carrier, as defined in 47 USC 153(51), as
amended; or a wireless provider.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission of the United States.
FEE: A one-time charge.
HISTORIC DISTRICT OR HISTORIC LANDMARK: A building, property, or site, or group
of buildings, properties, or sites that are either: a) listed in the National
Register of Historic Places or formally determined eligible for listing by the
Keeper of the National Register, the individual who has been delegated the
authority by the Federal agency to list properties and determine their
eligibility for the National Register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i
through section VI.D.1.a.v of the Nationwide Programmatic Agreement codified at
47 CFR part 1, appendix C; or b) designated as a locally landmarked building,
property, site, or historic district by an ordinance adopted by the City
pursuant to a preservation program that meets the requirements of the Certified
Local Government Program of the Illinois State Historic Preservation Office or
where such certification of the preservation program by the Illinois State
Historic Preservation Office is pending.
LAW: A Federal or State Statute, common law, code, rule, regulation, order, or
local ordinance or resolution.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is not larger in
dimension than twenty four inches (24") in length, fifteen inches (15") in
width, and twelve inches (12") in height and that has an exterior antenna, if
any, no longer than eleven inches (11").
MUNICIPAL UTILITY POLE: A utility pole owned or operated by the City in public
rights-of-way.
PERMIT: A written authorization required by the City to perform an action or
initiate, continue, or complete a project.
PERSON: An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, or other entity or organization.
PUBLIC SAFETY AGENCY: The functional division of the Federal government, the
State, a unit of local government, or a special purpose district located in
whole or in part within this State, that provides or has authority to provide
firefighting, police, ambulance, medical, or other emergency services to
respond to and manage emergency incidents.
RATE: A recurring charge.
RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway, street,
public sidewalk, alley, or utility easement dedicated for compatible use.
Right-of-way does not include City- owned aerial lines.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: A wireless facility that meets both of the following
qualifications: a) each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than
six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed
elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements could fit within an
imaginary enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic feet; and b) all other
wireless equipment attached directly to a utility pole associated with the
facility is cumulatively no more than twenty five (25) cubic feet in volume.
The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not included in the
calculation of equipment volume: electric meter, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation box, ground-based enclosures, grounding
equipment, power transfer switch, cut-off switch, and vertical cable runs for
the connection of power and other services.
UTILITY POLE: A pole or similar structure that is used in whole or in part by a
communications service provider or for electric distribution, lighting, traffic
control, or a similar function.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables wireless
communications between user equipment and a communications network, including:
a) equipment associated with wireless communications; and b) radio
transceivers, antennas, coaxial or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power
supplies, and comparable equipment, regardless of technological configuration.
Wireless facility includes small wireless facilities. Wireless facility does
not include: a) the structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is collocated; or b) wireline backhaul facilities, coaxial or fiber
optic cable that is between wireless support structures or utility poles or
coaxial, or fiber optic cable that is otherwise not immediately adjacent to or
directly associated with an antenna.
WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER: Any person authorized to provide
telecommunications service in the State that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, wireless support
structures, or utility poles and that is not a wireless services provider but
is acting as an agent or a contractor for a wireless services provider for the
application submitted to the City.
WIRELESS PROVIDER: A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless services
provider.
WIRELESS SERVICES: Any services provided to the general public, including a
particular class of customers, and made available on a nondiscriminatory basis
using licensed or unlicensed spectrum, whether at a fixed location or mobile,
provided using wireless facilities.
WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER: A person who provides wireless services.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A freestanding structure, such as a monopole;
tower, either guyed or self-supporting; billboard; or other existing or
proposed structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless
facilities. Wireless support structure does not include a utility pole. (Ord.
7653, 8-8-2018)
6-15-3: REGULATION OF SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES:
   A.   Permitted Use: Small wireless facilities shall be classified as
permitted uses and subject to administrative review, except as provided in
subsection C9 of this section regarding height exceptions or variances, but not
subject to zoning review or approval if they are collocated: 1) in rights-of-
way in any zoning district, or 2) outside rights-of-way in property zoned
exclusively for commercial or industrial use.
   B.   Permit Required: An applicant shall obtain one or more permits from the
City to collocate a small wireless facility. An application shall be received
and processed, and permits issued shall be subject to the following conditions
and requirements:
      1.   Application Requirements: A wireless provider shall provide the
following information to the City, together with the City's Small Cell
Facilities Permit Application, as a condition of any permit application to
collocate small wireless facilities on a utility pole or wireless support
structure:
         a.   Site specific structural integrity and, for a Municipal utility
pole, make-ready analysis prepared by a structural engineer, as that term is
defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of 1989;
         b.   The location where each proposed small wireless facility or
utility pole would be installed and photographs of the location and its
immediate surroundings depicting the utility poles or structures on which each
proposed small wireless facility would be mounted or location where utility
poles or structures would be installed. This should include a depiction of the
completed facility;
         c.   Specifications and drawings prepared by a structural engineer, as
that term is defined in section 4 of the Structural Engineering Practice Act of
1989, for each proposed small wireless facility covered by the application as
it is proposed to be installed;
         d.   The equipment type and model numbers for the antennas and all
other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility;
         e.   A proposed schedule for the installation and completion of each
small wireless facility covered by the application, if approved; and
         f.   Certification that the collocation complies with the collocation
requirements and conditions contained herein, to the best of the applicant's
knowledge.
         g.   In the event that the proposed small wireless facility is to be
attached to an existing pole owned by an entity other than the City, the
wireless provider shall provide legally competent evidence of the consent of
the owner of such pole to the proposed collocation.
      2.   Application Process: The City shall process applications as follows:
         a.   Prioritization: The first completed application shall have
priority over applications received by different applicants for collocation on
the same utility pole or wireless support structure.
         b.   Existing Poles Or Structures: An application to collocate a small
wireless facility on an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, or
replacement of an existing utility pole or wireless support structure shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and shall be deemed approved if the City
fails to approve or deny the application within ninety (90) days after the
submission of a completed application.
            However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
seventy five (75) days after the submission of a completed application.
            The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 90th day
after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt
of the deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this section.
         c.   New Utility Pole: An application to collocate a small wireless
facility that includes the installation of a new utility pole shall be
processed on a nondiscriminatory basis and deemed approved if the City fails to
approve or deny the application within one hundred twenty (120) days after the
submission of a completed application.
            However, if an applicant intends to proceed with the permitted
activity on a deemed approved basis, the applicant shall notify the City in
writing of its intention to invoke the deemed approved remedy no sooner than
one hundred five (105) days after the submission of a completed application.
            The permit shall be deemed approved on the latter of the 120th day
after submission of the complete application or the 10th day after the receipt
of the deemed approved notice by the City. The receipt of the deemed approved
notice shall not preclude the City's denial of the permit request within the
time limits as provided under this section.
         d.   Application Denied: The City shall deny an application which does
not meet the requirements of this chapter.
            If the City determines that applicable codes, ordinances or
regulations that concern public safety, or the collocation requirements and
conditions contained herein require that the utility pole or wireless support
structure be replaced before the requested collocation, approval shall be
conditioned on the replacement of the utility pole or wireless support
structure at the cost of the provider.
            The City shall document the basis for a denial, including the
specific code provisions or application conditions on which the denial is
based, and send the documentation to the applicant on or before the day the
City denies an application.
            The applicant may cure the deficiencies identified by the City and
resubmit the revised application once within thirty (30) days after notice of
denial is sent to the applicant without paying an additional application fee.
The City shall approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30) days
after the applicant resubmits the application or it is deemed approved. Failure
to resubmit the revised application within thirty (30) days of denial shall
require the applicant to submit a new application with applicable fees, and
recommencement of the City's review period.
            The applicant must notify the City in writing of its intention to
proceed with the permitted activity on a deemed approved basis, which may be
submitted with the revised application.
            Any review of a revised application shall be limited to the
deficiencies cited in the denial. However, this revised application does not
apply if the cure requires the review of a new location, new or different
structure to be collocated upon, new antennas, or other wireless equipment
associated with the small wireless facility.
         e.   Pole Attachment Agreement: Within thirty (30) days after an
approved permit to collocate a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility
pole, the City and the applicant shall enter into a Master Pole Attachment
Agreement, provided by the City for the initial collocation on a Municipal
utility pole by the application. For subsequent approved permits to collocate
on a small wireless facility on a Municipal utility pole, the City and the
applicant shall enter into a License Supplement of the Master Pole Attachment
Agreement.
      3.   Completeness Of Application: Within thirty (30) days after receiving
an application, the City shall determine whether the application is complete
and notify the applicant. If an application is incomplete, the City must
specifically identify the missing information. An application shall be deemed
complete if the City fails to provide notification to the applicant within
thirty (30) days after all documents, information and fees specifically
enumerated in the City's permit application form are submitted by the applicant
to the City.
Processing deadlines are tolled from the time the City sends the notice of
incompleteness to the time the applicant provides the missing information.
      4.   Tolling: The time period for applications may be further tolled by:
         a.   An express written agreement by both the applicant and the City;
or
         b.   A local, State or Federal disaster declaration or similar
emergency that causes the delay.
      5.   Consolidated Applications: An applicant seeking to collocate small
wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City shall be allowed, at
the applicant's discretion, to file a consolidated application and receive a
single permit for the collocation of up to twenty five (25) small wireless
facilities if the collocations each involve substantially the same type of
small wireless facility and substantially the same type of structure.
         If an application includes multiple small wireless facilities, the
City may remove small wireless facility collocations from the application and
treat separately small wireless facility collocations for which incomplete
information has been provided or that do not qualify for consolidated treatment
or that are denied. The City may issue separate permits for each collocation
that is approved in a consolidated application.
      6.   Duration Of Permits: The duration of a permit shall be for a period
of not less than five (5) years, and the permit shall be renewed for equivalent
durations unless the City makes a finding that the small wireless facilities or
the new or modified utility pole do not comply with the applicable City codes
or any provision, condition or requirement contained in this chapter.
         If the Act is repealed as provided in section 90 therein, renewals of
permits shall be subject to the applicable City Code provisions or regulations
in effect at the time of renewal.
      7.   Means Of Submitting Applications: Applicants shall submit
applications, supporting information and notices to the City by personal
delivery at the City's designated place of business, by regular mail postmarked
on the date due or by any other commonly used means, including electronic mail.
   C.   Collocation Requirements And Conditions:
      1.   Public Safety Space Reservation: The City may reserve space on
Municipal utility poles for future public safety uses, for the City's electric
utility uses, or both, but a reservation of space may not preclude the
collocation of a small wireless facility unless the City reasonably determines
that the Municipal utility pole cannot accommodate both uses.
      2.   Installation And Maintenance: The wireless provider shall install,
maintain, repair and modify its small wireless facilities in safe condition and
good repair and in compliance with the requirements and conditions of this
chapter. The wireless provider shall ensure that its employees, agents or
contractors that perform work in connection with its small wireless facilities
are adequately trained and skilled in accordance with all applicable industry
and governmental standards and regulations.
      3.   No Interference With Public Safety Communication Frequencies: The
wireless provider's operation of the small wireless facilities shall not
interfere with the frequencies used by a public safety agency for public safety
communications.
         A wireless provider shall install small wireless facilities of the
type and frequency that will not cause unacceptable interference with a public
safety agency's communications equipment.
         Unacceptable interference will be determined by and measured in
accordance with industry standards and the FCC's regulations addressing
unacceptable interference to public safety spectrum or any other spectrum
licensed by a public safety agency.
         If a small wireless facility causes such interference, and the
wireless provider has been given written notice of the interference by the
public safety agency, the wireless provider, at its own expense, shall remedy
the interference in a manner consistent with the abatement and resolution
procedures for interference with public safety spectrum established by the FCC
including 47 CFR 22.970 through 47 CFR 22.973 and 47 CFR 90.672 through 47 CFR
90.675.
         The City may terminate a permit for a small wireless facility based on
such interference if the wireless provider is not in compliance with the Code
of Federal Regulations cited in the previous paragraph. Failure to remedy the
interference as required herein shall constitute a public nuisance.
      4.   Collocation Restrictions: The wireless provider shall not collocate
small wireless facilities on City utility poles that are part of an electric
distribution or transmission system within the communication worker safety zone
of the pole or the electric supply zone of the pole.
         However, the antenna and support equipment of the small wireless
facility may be located in the communications space on the City utility pole
and on the top of the pole, if not otherwise unavailable, if the wireless
provider complies with applicable codes for work involving the top of the pole.
         For purposes of this subparagraph, the terms "communications space",
"communication worker safety zone", and "electric supply zone" have the
meanings given to those terms in the National Electric Safety Code as published
by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
      5.   Code Compliance: The wireless provider shall comply with all
applicable codes and local code provisions or regulations that concern public
safety.
      6.   Design Standards: The wireless provider shall comply with written
design standards that are generally applicable for decorative utility poles, or
reasonable stealth, concealment and aesthetic requirements that are set forth
in a City ordinance, written policy adopted by the City, a comprehensive plan
or other written design plan that applies to other occupiers of the rights-of-
way, including on a historic landmark or in a historic district.
      7.   Alternate Placements: Except as provided in this collocation
requirements and conditions section, a wireless provider shall not be required
to collocate small wireless facilities on any specific utility pole, or
category of utility poles, or be required to collocate multiple antenna systems
on a single utility pole. However, with respect to an application for the
collocation of a small wireless facility associated with a new utility pole,
the City may propose that the small wireless facility be collocated on an
existing utility pole or existing wireless support structure within one hundred
feet (100') of the proposed collocation, which the applicant shall accept if it
has the right to use the alternate structure on reasonable terms and
conditions, and the alternate location and structure does not impose technical
limits or additional material costs as determined by the applicant.
         If the applicant refuses a collocation proposed by the City, the
applicant shall provide written certification describing the property rights,
technical limits or material cost reasons the alternate location does not
satisfy the criteria in this paragraph.
      8.   Height Limitations: The maximum height of a small wireless facility
shall be no more than ten feet (10') above the utility pole or wireless support
structure on which the small wireless facility is collocated.
         New or replacement utility poles or wireless support structures on
which small wireless facilities are collocated may not exceed the higher of:
         a.   Ten feet (10') in height above the tallest existing utility pole,
other than a utility pole supporting only wireless facilities, that is in place
on the date the application is submitted to the City, that is located within
three hundred feet (300') of the new or replacement utility pole or wireless
support structure and that is in the same right-of-way within the
jurisdictional boundary of the City, provided the City may designate which
intersecting right-of-way within three hundred feet (300') of the proposed
utility pole or wireless support structures shall control the height limitation
for such facility; or
         b.   Forty five feet (45') above ground level.
      9.   Height Exceptions Or Variances: If an applicant proposes a height
for a new or replacement pole in excess of the above height limitations on
which the small wireless facility is proposed for collocation, the applicant
shall apply for an appropriate permit in conformance with procedures, terms and
conditions set forth in the zoning ordinance.
      10.   Contractual Design Requirements: The wireless provider shall comply
with requirements that are imposed by a contract between the City and a private
property owner that concern design or construction standards applicable to
utility poles and ground- mounted equipment located in the right-of-way.
      11.   Ground-Mounted Equipment Spacing: The wireless provider shall
comply with applicable spacing requirements in applicable codes and ordinances
concerning the location of ground-mounted equipment located in the right-of-way
if the requirements include a waiver, zoning or other process that addresses
wireless provider requests for exception or variance and do not prohibit
granting of such exceptions or variances.
      12.   Undergrounding Regulations: The wireless provider shall comply with
local code provisions or regulations concerning undergrounding requirements
that prohibit the installation of new or the modification of existing utility
poles in a right-of-way without prior approval if the requirements include a
waiver, zoning or other process that addresses requests to install such new
utility poles or modify such existing utility poles and do not prohibit the
replacement of utility poles.
      13.   Collocation Completion Deadline: Collocation for which a permit is
granted shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance
of the permit, unless the City and the wireless provider agree to extend this
period or a delay is caused by make-ready work for a Municipal utility pole or
by the lack of commercial power or backhaul availability at the site, provided
the wireless provider has made a timely request within sixty (60) days after
the issuance of the permit for commercial power or backhaul services, and the
additional time to complete installation does not exceed three hundred sixty
(360) days after issuance of the permit. Otherwise, the permit shall be void
unless the City grants an extension in writing to the applicant.
   D.   Application Fees: Application fees are imposed as follows:
      1.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of six hundred fifty dollars
($650.00) for an application to collocate a single small wireless facility on
an existing utility pole or wireless support structure, and three hundred fifty
dollars ($350.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in a consolidated
application to collocate more than one small wireless facility on existing
utility poles or wireless support structures.
      2.   Applicant shall pay an application fee of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each small wireless facility addressed in an application that
includes the installation of a new utility pole for such collocation.
      3.   Notwithstanding any contrary provision of State law or local
ordinance, applications pursuant to this section shall be accompanied by the
required application fee. Application fees shall be non-refundable.
      4.   The City shall not require an application, approval or permit, or
require any fees or other charges, from a communications service provider
authorized to occupy the rights-of-way, for:
         a.   Routine maintenance;
         b.   The replacement of wireless facilities with wireless facilities
that are substantially similar, the same size, or smaller if the wireless
provider notifies the City at least ten (10) days prior to the planned
replacement and includes equipment specifications for the replacement of
equipment consistent with subsection B1d of this section; or
         c.   The installation, placement, maintenance, operation or
replacement of micro wireless facilities suspended on cables that are strung
between existing utility poles in compliance with applicable Safety Codes.
      5.   Wireless providers shall secure a permit from the City to work
within rights-of-way for activities that affect traffic patterns or require
lane closures.
   E.   Exceptions To Applicability: Nothing in this chapter authorizes a
person to collocate small wireless facilities on:
      1.   Property owned by a private party or property owned or controlled by
the City or another unit of local government that is not located within rights-
of-way, or a privately owned utility pole or wireless support structure without
the consent of the property owner;
      2.   Property owned, leased, or controlled by a park district, forest
preserve district, or conservation district for public park, recreation or
conservation purposes without the consent of the affected district, excluding
the placement of facilities on rights-of-way located in an affected district
that are under the jurisdiction and control of a different unit of local
government as provided by the Illinois Highway Code; or
      3.   Property owned by a rail carrier registered under section 18c-7201
of the Illinois Vehicle Code, Metra Commuter Rail or any other public commuter
rail service, or an electric utility as defined in section 16-102 of the Public
Utilities Act, without the consent of the rail carrier, public commuter rail
service, or electric utility. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to an
electric or gas public utility or such utility's wireless facilities if the
facilities are being used, developed and maintained consistent with the
provisions of subsection (i) of section 16-108.5 of the Public Utilities Act.
         For the purposes of this subsection, "public utility" has the meaning
given to that term in section 3-105 of the Public Utilities Act. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed to relieve any person from any requirement: a)
to obtain a franchise or a State-issued authorization to offer cable service or
video service or b) to obtain any required permission to install, place,
maintain, or operate communications facilities, other than small wireless
facilities subject to this chapter.
   F.   Pre-Existing Agreements: Existing agreements between the City and
wireless providers that relate to the collocation of small wireless facilities
in the right-of-way, including the collocation of small wireless facilities on
City utility poles, that are in effect on June 1, 2018, remain in effect for
all small wireless facilities collocated on the City's utility poles pursuant
to applications submitted to the City before June 1, 2018, subject to
applicable termination provisions contained therein. Agreements entered into
after June 1, 2018, shall comply with this chapter.
      A wireless provider that has an existing agreement with the City on the
effective date of the Act may accept the rates, fees and terms that the City
makes available under this chapter for the collocation of small wireless
facilities or the installation of new utility poles for the collocation of
small wireless facilities that are the subject of an application submitted two
(2) or more years after the effective date of the Act by notifying the City
that it opts to accept such rates, fees and terms. The existing agreement
remains in effect, subject to applicable termination provisions, for the small
wireless facilities the wireless provider has collocated on the City's utility
poles pursuant to applications submitted to the City before the wireless
provider provides such notice and exercises its option under this paragraph.
   G.   Annual Recurring Rate: A wireless provider shall pay to the City an
annual recurring rate to collocate a small wireless facility on a City utility
pole located in a right-of-way that equals: 1) two hundred dollars ($200.00)
per year or 2) the actual, direct and reasonable costs related to the wireless
provider's use of space on the City utility pole.
      If the City has not billed the wireless provider actual and direct costs,
the fee shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00) payable on the first day after
the first annual anniversary of the issuance of the permit or notice of intent
to collocate, and on each annual anniversary date thereafter.
   H.   Abandonment: A small wireless facility that is not operated for a
continuous period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned. The
owner of the facility shall remove the small wireless facility within ninety
(90) days after receipt of written notice from the City notifying the wireless
provider of the abandonment.
      The notice shall be sent by certified or registered mail, return receipt
requested, by the City to the owner at the last known address of the wireless
provider. If the small wireless facility is not removed within ninety (90) days
of such notice, the City may remove or cause the removal of such facility
pursuant to the terms of its pole attachment agreement for Municipal utility
poles or through whatever actions are provided for abatement of nuisances or by
other law for removal and cost recovery.
A wireless provider shall provide written notice to the City if it sells or
transfers small wireless facilities within the jurisdiction of the City. Such
notice shall include the name and contact information of the new wireless
provider. (Ord. 7653, 8-8-2018)
6-15-4: DISPUTE RESOLUTION:
The Circuit Court of Madison County shall have exclusive jurisdiction to
resolve all disputes arising under the Small Wireless Facilities Deployment
Act. Pending resolution of a dispute concerning rates for collocation of small
wireless facilities on Municipal utility poles within the right-of-way, the
City shall allow the collocating person to collocate on its poles at annual
rates of no more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) per year per Municipal
utility pole, with rates to be determined upon final resolution of the dispute.
(Ord. 7653, 8-8-2018)
6-15-5: INDEMNIFICATION:
A wireless provider shall indemnify and hold the City harmless against any and
all liability or loss from personal injury or property damage resulting from or
arising out of, in whole or in part, the use or occupancy of the City
improvements or right-of- way associated with such improvements by the wireless
provider or its employees, agents, or contractors arising out of the rights and
privileges granted under this chapter and the Act. A wireless provider has no
obligation to indemnify or hold harmless against any liabilities and losses as
may be due to or caused by the sole negligence of the City or its employees or
agents. A wireless provider shall further waive any claims that they may have
against the City with respect to consequential, incidental, or special damages,
however caused, based on the theory of liability. (Ord. 7653, 8-8-2018)
6-15-6: INSURANCE:
The wireless provider shall carry, at the wireless provider's own cost and
expense, the following insurance:
   A.   Property insurance for its property's replacement cost against all
risks;
   B.   Workers' compensation insurance, as required by law; or
   C.   Commercial general liability insurance with respect to its activities
on the City improvements or rights-of-way to afford minimum protection limits
consistent with its requirements of other users of City improvements or rights-
of-way, including coverage for bodily injury and property damage.
The wireless provider shall include the City as an additional insured on the
commercial general liability policy and provide certification and documentation
of inclusion of the City in a commercial general liability policy prior to the
collocation of any wireless facility.
A wireless provider may self-insure all or a portion of the insurance coverage
and limit requirement required by the City. A wireless provider that self-
insures is not required, to the extent of the self-insurance, to comply with
the requirement for the name of additional insureds under this section. A
wireless provider that elects to self-insure shall provide to the City evidence
sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self- insure the insurance
coverage limits required by the City. (Ord. 7653, 8-8-2018)
TITLE 7
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ANIMAL CONTROL 1 , 2
SECTION:
7-1-1: Animals Prohibited
7-1-2: Racing
7-1-3: Cruelty To Animals
7-1-4: Animals In Pens
7-1-5: Dangerous Animals
7-1-6: Diseased, Injured Animals
7-1-7: Dead Animals
7-1-8: Dog Waste
7-1-9: Chickens
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-12-3 of this title for license fees.
2 2. For dogs and cats see chapter 12 of this title.
7-1-1: ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   General Prohibition: It shall be unlawful to keep or maintain within
the city any horses, mules, cattle, all bovine, goats, sheep, swine, geese,
ducks, turkeys, guinea fowl, peacocks, pigeons, roosters and other barn fowl,
not including chicken hens as permitted in section
7-1-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 7330, 10-24-2012)
   B.   Bees: No person shall keep or permit to be kept on his premises
(consisting of the tract or adjoining lots used for a single purpose) more than
four (4) colonies or hives of bees; said colonies or hives should be located at
least ten feet (10') from adjoining property. In the event any bees from hives
shall threaten the safety of adjoining residents or reasonable use of adjoining
premises, such shall constitute a nuisance and be cause for removal of all
hives from the offending premises. (Ord. 6805, 3-24-2004)
7-1-2: RACING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to run or race any horse or mule in any
public way in the city, or to consent to or suffer such racing. (Ord. 6805, 3-
24-2004)
7-1-3: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be cruel to any animal or bird. Any
person who inhumanely beats, overloads, underfeeds or abandons any animal shall
be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person who shall keep or cause to be
impounded in any animal shelter or other place any creature shall supply the
same during confinement with a sufficient quantity of good and wholesome food
and water. All animals shall be provided adequate shelter and protection from
the weather. A community cat released in accordance with chapter 12 of this
title shall not be considered to be abandoned under this section. (Ord. 7513,
4-27-2016)
7-1-4: ANIMALS IN PENS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any rabbit hutch or
other pen or enclosure for the housing of small animals, except dogs, closer
than thirty feet (30') to the nearest portion of any building occupied by or in
any way used by human beings, other than that dwelling occupied by the owner or
keeper of the animals or closer than six feet (6') to the property line of the
lot on which such animals are kept or permitted to be, except where such
animals are kept for purposes of research in a laboratory.
Every rabbit hutch or other pen or enclosure shall be kept so that no
offensive, disagreeable or noxious smell or odor shall arise therefrom to the
injury, annoyance or inconvenience of any inhabitant of the neighborhood.
Every rabbit hutch or other pen or enclosure shall be provided with a
watertight and flytight receptacle for manure of such dimension as to contain
all accumulations of manure, which receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently
often and in such manner as to prevent its becoming a nuisance. Such receptacle
shall be kept securely covered at all times, except when open during the
deposit or removal of manure or refuse. No manure shall be allowed to
accumulate except in such receptacle. All such manure, when removed from the
receptacle shall be buried with covering of not less than six inches (6") of
earth or, if used as fertilizer, thoroughly spaded into the ground, or shall be
removed from the property.
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain within seventy five
feet (75') of the nearest portion of any dwelling or other building occupied by
or in any way used by human beings, other than that dwelling occupied by such
person, more than ten (10) rabbits or other small animals over the age of four
(4) months, or more than twenty five (25) rabbits or other small animals under
the age of four (4) months, except where such animals are kept for purposes of
research in a laboratory.
All structures or yards wherein animals are kept or permitted to be shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times, devoid of all
rodents and vermin, and free from objectionable odors. The interior walls,
ceilings, floors, partitions and appurtenances of all such structures shall be
whitewashed or painted annually. The enclosed area of all such structures shall
be constructed in such a way as to be dry at all times on the inside. The
superintendent of housing and building inspectors may at any reasonable time
inspect any premises and issue such order as may be necessary to carry out the
provisions of this section. (Ord. 6805, 3-24-2004)
7-1-5: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
Members of the police department, and any other person in the city, are
authorized to kill any dangerous animal when necessary for the protection of
any person or property; subject, however, to provisions set forth in chapter 12
of this title.
In the protection of property, no person other than members of the police
department and animal control officers shall be authorized by this section to
use any firearm except a shotgun, pellet gun or a weapon commonly referred to
as an air gun, except as expressly allowed by the statutes of this state or of
the United States Of America. (Ord. 6805, 3-24-2004)
7-1-6: DISEASED, INJURED ANIMALS:
No diseased or sickly dog or cat or other animal, nor any that has been exposed
to any disease that is contagious among such animals, shall be brought into the
city. Any animal being in any street or public place within the city and
appearing in the estimation of any police officer, animal control officer or
the director of public works to be injured or diseased past recovery for any
useful purpose, and when the owner cannot be located after reasonable attempt
has been made to do so, or when such animal is not being attended and properly
cared for by the owner or some proper person to have charge thereof for the
owner, or not having been removed to some private premises, may humanely
euthanize the animal, and shall thereafter, unless at once removed by the
owner, be treated as any other dead animal found on a street or place.
No person other than police officers, animal control officer or the director of
public works, or person thereto authorized by contract or otherwise, shall in
any way interfere with such dead, sick or injured animal in any street or
place, and no person shall skin or wound such animal in such street or public
place, unless to terminate its life as herein authorized. (Ord. 7513, 4-27-
2016)
7-1-7: DEAD ANIMALS:
No person shall leave or throw into any place or street or public water, or
offensively expose or bury anywhere within the city the body, or any part
thereof, of any dead or fatally sick or injured animal; nor shall any person
keep any dead animal, or any offensive meat, bird, fowl or fish in a place
where the same may be dangerous to the life or detrimental to the health of any
person.
The director of public works shall be responsible for the prompt removal of
dead animals found on the streets or public places within the city. The removal
and disposal of dead animals shall be by a sanitary method, and shall be at the
expense of the owner of such animal. (Ord. 6805, 3-24-2004)
7-1-8: DOG WASTE:
Any person in control of any dog, or the owner of any dog which is allowed to
run at large, shall be required to remove any excrement deposited by the dog
upon any public walk, park, or other public property, or upon any private
property not owned or controlled by the person in control of or owner of the
dog. The excrement is to be removed by the responsible person immediately
following its deposit by the dog. (Ord. 6832, 9-8-2004)
7-1-9: CHICKENS:
The purpose of this section is to create appropriate regulations for the
keeping of chickens as pets. The purpose of this section is not to create
regulations for the commercial sale or distribution of chickens or eggs. For
the purposes of this section, the term "chicken" includes only hens.
   A.   Conditions Of Keeping Chickens: The keeping of chickens within the city
of Alton is prohibited without a permit and unless compliance with all of the
conditions required by this section are maintained. A permit shall allow a
maximum of five (5) chickens with no roosters.
      1.   A chicken coop and chicken run shall be required on all properties
where chickens are kept.
      2.   The chicken coop shall accommodate all chickens permitted on the
property, must be located in the rear yard, and must be a minimum distance of
ten feet (10') from the nearest property line.
      3.   All chicken runs shall be located in the rear yard, be appropriately
fenced to prevent the chickens from leaving the run, and be located at least
ten feet (10') from the nearest property line.
      4.   The property must possess single-family residential zoning
classification.
      5.   Free range chickens are not permitted. "Free range chickens", for
the purpose of this section, are defined as chickens that are not restrained by
a chicken coop or chicken run as permitted and approved pursuant to this
section.
      6.   A metal sealable food container is required. Chicken feed shall be
kept in a predatorproof/rodentproof container.
      7.   Waste material must be disposed of in a manner that will not cause
odor, or attract flies or vermin.
      8.   All areas where chickens are kept shall be maintained to be neat and
clean and free of undue accumulation of waste such as to prevent odors
detectable on adjacent property.
      9.   No person shall allow chickens to produce noise loud enough to
disturb the peace of persons in surrounding properties.
      10.   The owner of chickens shall ensure that their birds are cared for
properly when ill and disposed of in a manner that does not endanger the public
health and safety when their birds die.
      11.   The slaughtering of chickens kept in residential areas as
authorized by these regulations is hereby prohibited.
      12.   No chickens may be kept or maintained to be used for the purpose of
fighting.
      13.   City of Alton animal control officers and government health
officials, or their designees, may inspect the conditions where the chickens
are kept at any time.
      14.   The provisions of section
7-1-4 of this chapter shall not apply to chickens.
   B.   Procedures For Acquiring Chickens:
      1.   The person desiring chickens shall construct or have delivered a
chicken coop of appropriate size and strength for the number of chickens they
wish to own.
      2.   Agents of the city of Alton's animal control office, or their
designees, shall inspect the chicken coop and chicken run before an initial
permit may be issued. If they are found to be satisfactory, a document will be
given to the resident and to the treasurer's office stating that they are
entitled to maintain chickens. If the chicken coop and run are found to be
unsatisfactory, the resident will be informed of defects and given an
opportunity to rectify defects.
      3.   The resident will take the document issued by the animal control
officer and pay the appropriate chicken coop and run permit fee at the city
treasurer's office. The fee shall be an annual fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) and may be renewed unless it is determined that the conditions of
keeping chickens required by this section have not been maintained.
      4.   After the inspection approval and payment required herein, the
resident may maintain up to five (5) chickens at one time.
   C.   Fines And Penalties: If a person keeping chickens fails to maintain the
conditions of keeping chickens as required by this section, he or she shall be
subject to prosecution for a violation of this section, with each day that the
required conditions were not maintained being a separate offense. Upon
conviction in the circuit court of a violation of this section, in addition to
the fine or penalty that may be imposed by the court, the city treasurer shall
revoke the permit previously granted to the person convicted. In addition, the
provision of section
7-12-6 of this title shall also be applicable to permits issued in accordance
with this section.
   D.   Permit Term; Late Fee: A permit, if not revoked, shall be valid until
the next permitted period, June 1 of the next ensuing year. A new permit shall
be obtained by each June 1 by every owner and a new fee paid. Anyone who fails
to obtain the permit required by this chapter within the time as required by
this section, shall be required to pay a late fee of seven dollars ($7.00) per
permit for failure to timely obtain said permit in addition to the permit fee
set forth in this section. (Ord. 7330, 10-24-2012)
CHAPTER 2
MISDEMEANORS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Aiding Runaway Children
7-2-2: Advertising Devices; Posting, Distributing
7-2-3: Barbed Wire Or Inverted Chainlink Fences
7-2-4: Assault
7-2-5: Battery
7-2-6: Offenses Involving Weapons
7-2-7: Criminal Damage To Property
7-2-8: Criminal Trespass To Land
7-2-9: Disorderly Conduct
7-2-10: Gambling
7-2-11: Games On Public Streets
7-2-12: Halloween, Trick Or Treating
7-2-13: Offenses Relating To Officers
7-2-14: Killing Birds
7-2-15: Loitering On Highways
7-2-16: Open Drinking
7-2-17: Shoplifting
7-2-18: Theft
7-2-19: Bad Checks
7-2-20: Swimming In River
7-2-21: Selling Cigarettes Not In Original Package
7-2-1: AIDING RUNAWAY CHILDREN:
Every person not standing in the relation of parent, stepparent, brother or
sister of a runaway child, who, with intent to prevent the proper apprehension
and return of such runaway child, conceals, harbors or aids said runaway child,
shall be guilty of concealing, harboring or aiding a runaway child in violation
of this section. A runaway child shall be defined as a person not yet eighteen
(18) years of age who voluntarily absents himself from his legal guardian
knowing said absence to be without the permission of said guardian. (Ord. 4881,
10-10-1984)
7-2-2: ADVERTISING DEVICES; POSTING, DISTRIBUTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to expose, display, post up, exhibit, print
or mark, or cause to be placed any placard, poster, bill or picture of any
show, exhibition, theatrical or other performance or any advertisement on any
public building, billboard, wall or fence on any street in the city, unless
such placard, poster, bill or picture or advertisement shall have been approved
by the chief of police, or some person designated by him. (Ord. 4881, 10-10-
1984)
7-2-3: BARBED WIRE OR INVERTED CHAINLINK FENCES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to build, install, construct, use
or maintain any fence or barrier consisting or made of what is called barbed
wire, or of which barbed wire is a part, or to erect, install, build, use or
maintain or cause to be built, erected or installed for use or maintenance, any
chainlink fence in an inverted manner so as to cause the barbed portion of the
fence to be placed at the top, within the city, in any residentially zoned
district, except as provided herein.
   B.   Barbed wire or inverted chainlink fence is only permitted in areas with
a "C" or "M" zoning classification, when such barbed wire or inverted fence is
in excess of five feet (5') in height. Barbed wire or inverted chainlink fence
is also permitted for land uses defined by the zoning title as a "cemetery/
mausoleum" when such barbed wire or inverted fence is in excess of eight feet
(8') in height. (Ord. 5576, 7-24-1991)
7-2-4: ASSAULT:
A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he engages in
conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery.
An assault, as defined herein, shall be unlawful. (Ord. 4881, 10-10-1984)
7-2-5: BATTERY:
A person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly without legal
justification and by any means: a) causes bodily harm to an individual, or b)
makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
A battery, as defined herein, shall be unlawful. (Ord. 4881, 10-10-1984)
7-2-6: OFFENSES INVOLVING WEAPONS:
   A.   Carrying Weapons: It shall be unlawful, within the city, for any person
to carry or possess in any vehicle or concealed on or about his person, except
when on his land or in his own abode or fixed place of business any pistol,
revolver, firearm, metal knuckles or any knife commonly referred to as a
switchblade knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand pressure
applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the knife,
blackjack, dagger, knife or razor used as a weapon, or any other dangerous or
deadly weapon or instrument of like character unless the circumstances of the
situation are such as are defined as exemptions in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-1 et seq. (Ord. 4881, 10-10-1984)
   B.   Firearms Discharged: It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or
discharge any pistol, rifle or other firearm, or any air or gas propelled gun,
or any stone, slug or similar projectile discharged by way of a slingshot or
similar device, or any arrow discharged by a bow or similar device, except upon
premises used by duly licensed shooting gallery, gun club, or rifle club or
other establishments specifically licensed for such purposes by the city. (Ord.
4904, 2-27-1985)
7-2-7: CRIMINAL DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any of the following acts within
the city:
   A.   Knowingly damage any property of another without his consent; or
   B.   Recklessly by means of fire or explosives damage property of another;
or
   C.   Knowingly start a fire on the land of another without his consent; or
   D.   Knowingly injures a domestic animal of another without his consent; or
   E.   Knowingly deposit on the land or in the building of another, without
his consent, any stink bomb or any offensive smelling compound and thereby
intending to interfere with the use by another of the land or building; or
   F.   Knowingly and without authority enter any part of or operate any
vehicle, aircraft, watercraft or snowmobile of another. (Ord. 4881, 10-10-1984)
7-2-8: CRIMINAL TRESPASS TO LAND:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for a person to enter upon the land or any part
thereof of another, after receiving, immediately prior to such entry, notice
from the owner or occupant that such entry is forbidden, or remains upon the
land or premises of another after receiving notice from the owner or occupant
to depart. A person has received notice from the owner or occupant within the
meaning of this section if he has been notified personally, either orally or in
writing, or if a printed or written notice forbidding such entry has been
conspicuously posted or exhibited at the main entrance to such land or premises
or the forbidden part thereof. (Ord. 6580, 6-13-2001)
   B.   It shall be unlawful for a person to enter any part of a structure that
has been declared an unsafe and dangerous building by the city of Alton and it
shall be unlawful for a person to enter upon any part of the lot or lots upon
which such a structure is located within a certain distance from any part of
such structure, said distance being a distance equal to one-half (1/2) the
tallest height of the structure as measured outward from the structure.
Exceptions: The entry upon such land or structure to: repair or demolish,
pursuant to permit; maintain weeds, grass or other vegetation pursuant to this
code; or secure said structure pursuant to this code shall not be deemed a
trespass. (Ord. 6617, 10-24-2001)
7-2-9: DISORDERLY CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful for a person to commit disorderly conduct. A person
commits disorderly conduct when he/she knowingly:
   A.   Does any act in such an unreasonable manner as to alarm or disturb
another and to provoke a breach of peace; or
   B.   Transmits in any manner to the fire department of any city, town,
village or fire protection district a false alarm of fire, knowing at the time
of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that
such fire exists; or
   C.   Transmits in any manner to another a false alarm to the effect that a
bomb or other explosive of any nature is concealed in such place that its
explosion would endanger human life, knowing at the time of such transmission
that there is no reasonable grounds for believing that such bomb or explosive
is concealed in such place; or
   D.   Transmits in any manner to any peace officer, public officer or public
employee a report to the effect that an offense has been committed, knowing at
the time of such transmission that there is no reasonable grounds for believing
that such an offense has been committed; or
   E.   Enters upon the property of another and for a lewd or unlawful purpose
deliberately looks into a dwelling on the property through any window or other
opening in it; or
   F.   Transmits in any manner a radio wave, when such person transmitting the
radio wave intentionally or knowingly does so in such manner as to disturb or
interfere with the rights of another person, to the use of peaceful enjoyment
of their property, including, but not limited to, the rights of other persons
to receive and enjoy licensed radio or television waves upon recognized
commercial channels; or
   G.   Urinates or defecates in any area of the city while substantially
exposed to a public area.
   H.   No person shall recklessly cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
another, by doing any of the following:
      1.   Engaging in fighting, in threatening harm to persons or property, or
in violent or turbulent behavior in a public place;
      2.   Making unreasonable noise or communicating unwarranted and grossly
abusive language to any person;
      3.   Insulting, taunting or challenging another under circumstances in
which such conduct is likely to provoke a violent response;
      4.   Hindering or preventing the movement of persons on a public street,
road, highway or right-of-way, or to, from, within or upon public or private
property, so as to interfere with the rights of others by any act which serves
no lawful and reasonable purpose of the offender;
      5.   Creating a condition which presents a risk of physical harm to
persons or property by any act which serves no lawful and reasonable purpose of
the offender.
   I.   No person, while voluntarily intoxicated, shall do either of the
following:
      1.   In public or in the presence of two or more persons, engage in
conduct likely to be offensive or to cause inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to
persons of ordinary sensibilities, which conduct the offender, if he were not
intoxicated, should know is likely to have such effect on others;
      2.   Engage in conduct or create a condition which presents a risk of
physical harm to himself or another, or to the property of another.
   J.   Violation of any statute or ordinance of which an element is operating
a motor vehicle, locomotive, watercraft, aircraft or other vehicle while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug of abuse, is not a violation of division
(I) of this section.
   K.   When to an ordinary observer a person appears to be intoxicated, it is
probable cause to believe such person is voluntarily intoxicated for purposes
of division (I) of this section.
   L.   Activities prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk, parking
lot, or any other place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to
hinder or to impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or
pedestrians; or
      2.   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk, parking lot or any other place or building any act or thing which is
an obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use of property or
with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or facing or fronting
on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk, parking lot, or any
other place or building, all of which prevents the free and uninterrupted
ingress, egress, and regress therein, thereon, and thereto. (Ord. 6591, 6-27-
2001; amd. Ord. 7725, 10-9-2019)
7-2-10: GAMBLING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to gamble or to make any bet, or to buy or
sell any chances or tickets in any gambling game, arrangement or device except
as specifically authorized by the state. (Ord. 4881, 10-10-1984)
7-2-11: GAMES ON PUBLIC STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to play ball or engage in any game, sport
or amusement or to fly any kite upon any public streets or way in the city.
(Ord. 4881, 10-10-1984)
7-2-12: HALLOWEEN, TRICK-OR-TREATING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the act of solicitation
commonly known and referred to as "trick-or-treating" under the following
conditions:
   A.   More than one day prior to Halloween.
   B.   More than five (5) blocks from the home of the "trick or treater" and
then only if the "trick or treater" is under the age of thirteen (13) years and
is accompanied by an adult.
   C.   At any residence where an exterior light is not burning.
   D.   At any time other than between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and
eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. (Ord. 4881, 10-10-1984)
7-2-13: OFFENSES RELATING TO OFFICERS:
   A.   Impersonating An Officer: It shall be unlawful for any person to
falsely represent himself, by word or deed, to be an officer or employee of the
city, county, state or federal government.
   B.   Resisting An Officer: It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly
resist or obstruct the performance by one known to that person to be a peace
officer acting within his official capacity. (Ord. 4881, 10-10-1984)
7-2-14: KILLING BIRDS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, within the city, to kill or wound, or
attempt to kill or wound, by the use of firearms, bow and arrow, air rifle,
flipper, pelting with stones, or otherwise, any bird, or shoot any arrow or
throw any stone, club or other missile, at any such bird, within any private
grounds, public streets, parks, squares or grounds (such bird not being the
property of the person in question). (Ord. 4881, 10-10-1984)
7-2-15: LOITERING ON HIGHWAYS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to stand in a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting a ride from the driver of any vehicle or to loiter upon
any sidewalk or public grounds for the purpose of soliciting a ride from the
driver of any vehicle.
   B.   No person shall stand on any roadway for the purpose of soliciting
employment, business or contributions from the occupant of any vehicle. (Ord.
4881, 10-10-1984)
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person traveling upon any bicycle,
motorcycle, roller skates, in-line skates or rollerblades, toy vehicle or
coaster, to cling, or attach himself or his vehicle to any moving motor vehicle
upon any highway, street, avenue, alley or driveway within the city. (Ord.
4881, 10-10-1984; amd. 1999 Code)
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person upon skates, or riding in or by
means of a coaster, sled, wagon or toy vehicle of any kind whatsoever to go
upon any public highway, avenue, driveway or street within the city, other than
at a crosswalk for the purpose of crossing such highway. (Ord. 4881, 10-10-
1984)
7-2-16: OPEN DRINKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or carry in an open container
any alcoholic liquor or beverage upon any public property in the city except as
specifically authorized by this code or by action of the city council. (Ord.
7285, 10-26-2011)
7-2-17: SHOPLIFTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly take possession of, carry
away, transfer or cause to be carried away or transferred, any merchandise
displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment with the intention of retaining such merchandise or with the
intention of depriving the merchant permanently of possession, use or benefit
of such merchandise without paying full retail value of such merchandise. If
any person conceals upon his person or among his belongings, unpurchased
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail mercantile
establishment and removes that merchandise beyond the last known station for
receiving payment for that merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment,
such person shall be presumed to have possessed, carried away or transferred
such merchandise with the intention of retaining it, or with the intention of
depriving the merchant permanently of possession, use or benefit of such
merchandise without paying the full retail value of such merchandise. (Ord.
4881, 10-10-1984)
7-2-18: THEFT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit theft. A person commits theft
when he knowingly:
   A.   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner; or
   B.   Obtains by deception control over property of the owner; or
   C.   Obtains by threat control over property of the owner; or
   D.   Obtains control over stolen property knowing the property to have been
stolen by another or under such circumstances as would reasonably induce him to
believe that the property was stolen, and:
      1.   Intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of
the property; or
      2.   Knowingly uses, conceals or abandons the property in such manner as
to deprive the owner permanently of such use or benefit; or
      3.   Uses, conceals or abandons the property knowing such use,
concealment or abandonment probably will deprive the owner permanently of such
use or benefit. (Ord. 4881, 10-10-1984)
7-2-19: BAD CHECKS:
The city shall charge twenty five dollars ($25.00) to any person who presents
to the city a check in payment of obligations to the city which check is
returned not paid due to nonsufficient funds, closed accounts or insufficient
credit. Said twenty five dollar ($25.00) charge shall be in addition to the
amount of the original obligation due the city. Said twenty five dollars
($25.00) shall be in addition to any and all other damages to which the city
might otherwise be entitled in connection with such bad check by way of
Illinois statute or common law. (Ord. 5704, 9-23-1992)
7-2-20: SWIMMING IN RIVER:
It shall be unlawful for a person to enter or exit the Mississippi River in
connection with swimming or wading as a recreational activity upon any public
property within the city.
"Public property", as used in this section, shall include any and all property
owned by the city including, but not limited to, the Alton public boat launch
area and the Alton Marina area. (Ord. 6341, 11-25-1998)
7-2-21: SELLING CIGARETTES NOT IN ORIGINAL PACKAGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell in the city of
Alton any cigarettes not in the original package as that term is defined in 35
Illinois Compiled Statutes 130/1 and unless said original package complies with
all requirements imposed by or pursuant to federal law regarding warnings and
other information on packages of cigarettes manufactured, packaged or imported
for sale, distribution or use in the United States, including, but not limited
to, the precise warning labels specified in the federal cigarette labeling and
advertising act, 15 USC 1333. (Ord. 6929, 12-14-2005)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Parental Responsibility
7-3-2: Tobacco Product, Electronic Cigarette, Or Alternative Nicotene Products
7-3-3: Curfew
7-3-4: Truancy
7-3-1: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, unless the context otherwise
requires, the terms specified have the meanings ascribed to them:
    LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by
any court of the state of Illinois or any state of the United States, but does
not include a person appointed guardian, or given custody, of a minor pursuant
to the Illinois juvenile court act 1 , or similar acts.
   MINOR: Any person who is above the age of ten (10) years, but not yet
seventeen (17) years of age.
   B.   Parental Responsibility: A parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated
minor residing with such parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the
absence of evidence to the contrary, to have failed to exercise proper parental
responsibility, and said minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts
described along with the knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian, in
violation of this section, upon the concurrence of the events described in
subsections B1, B2 and B3 of this section:
      1.   An unemancipated minor residing with parent or legal guardian shall
either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or property,
or shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting wilful and malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property; and
      2.   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service return from the
police department of the city, following said adjudication or nonjudicial
sanctions; and
      3.   If at any time within one year following receipt of the notice set
forth in subsection B2 of this section, said minor is either adjudicated to be
in violation of any ordinance, law or statute, as described in subsection B1 of
this section, or shall have incurred a nonjudicial sanction from another
official agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any
ordinance, law or statute, as described in subsection B1 of this section.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of the violation of the provision of this
section shall be guilty of a crime and shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 4881, 10-10-1984; amd. 1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 705 ILCS 405/1-1.
7-3-2: TOBACCO PRODUCT, ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE, OR ALTERNATIVE NICOTENE PRODUCTS:
   A.   No person under twenty-one (21) years of age shall buy or possess any
tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product. Any
violation of this Section shall be reported to the Department of Revenue within
seven (7) business days.
      1.   No person under twenty-one (21) years of age in the furtherance or
facilitation of obtaining any tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or
alternative nicotine product shall display or use a false or forged
identification card or transfer, alter, or deface an identification card.
   B.   No person shall sell, buy for, distribute samples of or furnish any
tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or any alternative nicotine product to
any person under twenty-one (21) years of age.
      1.   Before selling, offering for sale, giving, or furnishing a tobacco
product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product to another
person, the person selling, offering for sale, giving, or furnishing the
tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product shall
verify that the person is at least 21 years of age by examining from any person
that appears to be under 30 years of age a government-issued photographic
identification that establishes the person to be 21 years of age or older.
      2.   For sales of tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative
nicotine products made through the Internet or other remote sales methods, the
person selling shall perform an age verification through an independent, third
party age verification service that compares information available from public
records to the personal information entered by the person during the ordering
process that establishes the person is 21 years of age or older.
      3.   A person shall not distribute without charge samples of any tobacco
product to any other person, regardless of age, except for smokeless tobacco in
an adult-only facility. This subsection does not apply to the distribution of a
tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative nicotine product sample
in any adult-only facility. For the purpose of this Section, "Adult-only
facility" means a facility or restricted area (whether open-air or enclosed)
where the operator ensures or has a reasonable basis to believe (such as by
checking identification as required under State law, or by checking the
identification of any person appearing to be under the age of 30) that no
person under legal age is present. A facility or restricted area need not be
permanently restricted to persons under 21 years of age to constitute an adult-
only facility, provided that the operator ensures or has a reasonable basis to
believe that no person under 21 years of age is present during the event or
time period in question.
      4.   Tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, and alternative nicotine
products may be sold through a vending machine only if such tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, and alternative nicotine products are not placed
together with any non-tobacco product, other than matches, in the vending
machine and the vending machine is in any of the following locations:
         a.   Places to which persons under twenty-one (21) years of age are
not permitted access at any time.
         b.   Places where alcoholic beverages are sold and consumed on the
premises and vending machine operation is under the direct supervision of the
owner or manager.
      5.   The sale or distribution by any person of a tobacco product as
defined in this Section, including but not limited to a single or loose
cigarette, that is not contained within a sealed container, pack, or package as
provided by the manufacturer, which container, pack, or package bears the
health warning required by federal law, is prohibited.
      It is not a violation of this Act for a person under twenty-one (21)
years of age to purchase a tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or
alternative nicotine product if the person under the age of twenty-one (21)
purchases or is given the tobacco product, electronic cigarette, or alternative
nicotine product in any of its forms from a retail seller of tobacco products,
electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products or an employee of the
retail seller pursuant to a plan or action to investigate, patrol, or otherwise
conduct a "sting operation" or enforcement action against a retail seller of
tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products or a
person employed by the retail seller of tobacco products, electronic
cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products or on any premises authorized to
sell tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative nicotine products
to determine if tobacco products, electronic cigarettes, or alternative
nicotine products are being sold or given to persons under twenty-one (21)
years of age if the "sting operation" or enforcement action is approved by,
conducted by, or conducted on behalf of the Department of State Police, the
county sheriff, a municipal police department, the Department of Revenue, the
Department of Public Health, or a local health department. The results of any
sting operation or enforcement action, including the name of the clerk, shall
be provided to the retail seller within seven (7) business days.
   C.   Definitions.
 
            A product or device not consisting of or containing tobacco that provides for the
            ingestion into the body of nicotine, whether by chewing, smoking, absorbing,
            dissolving, inhaling, snorting, sniffing, or by any other means. "Alternative
ALTERNATIVE nicotine product" does not include: cigarettes as defined in Section 1 of the
NICOTINE    Cigarette Tax Act and tobacco products as defined in Section 10-5 of the Tobacco
PRODUCT:    Products Tax Act of 1995; tobacco product and electronic cigarette as defined in
            this Section; or any product approved by the United States Food and Drug
            Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence
            product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for
            that approved purpose.
            1.   a.   Any device that employs a battery or other mechanism to heat a solution
            or substance to produce a vapor or aerosol intended for inhalation;
ELECTRONIC     b.   Any cartridge or container of a solution or substance intended to be used
CIGARETTE:  with or in the device or to refill the device; or
               c.   Any solution or substance, whether or not it contains nicotine intended
            for use in the device.
            2.   "Electronic cigarette" includes, but is not limited to, any electronic
            nicotine delivery system, electronic cigar, electronic cigarillo, electronic pipe,
            electronic hookah, vape pen, or similar product or device, and any components or
            parts that can be used to build the product or device. "Electronic cigarette" does
            not include: cigarettes as defined in Section 1 of the Cigarette Tax Act and
            tobacco products as defined in Section 10-5 of the Tobacco Products Tax Act of
           1995; tobacco product and alternative nicotine product as defined in this Section;
            any product approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as
            a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for other medical
            purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved purpose; any
            asthma inhaler prescribed by a physician for that condition and is being marketed
            and sold solely for that approved purpose; or any therapeutic product approved for
            use under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act.
            Any product containing or made from tobacco that is intended for human
            consumption, whether smoked, heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled,
            snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, including, but not limited to,
            cigarettes, cigars, little cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco, snuff, snus, and
            any other smokeless tobacco product which contains tobacco that is finely cut,
TOBACCO     ground, powdered, or leaf and intended to be placed in the oral cavity. "Tobacco
PRODUCT:    product" includes any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product, whether
            or not sold separately. "Tobacco product" does not include: an electronic
            cigarette and alternative nicotine product as defined in this Section; or any
            product that has been approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration
            for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence product, or for
            other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that approved
            purpose. (Ord. 5463, 7-25-1990; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 7750, 4-23-2020)
 
7-3-3: CURFEW 1 :
   A.   Definitions: Whenever used in this section:
    CURFEW HOURS: 1. Eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on any Sunday, Monday,
Tuesday, Wednesday, or Thursday until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following
day; and
      2.   Eleven fifty nine o'clock (11:59) P.M. on any Friday or Saturday
until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day.
   EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT: Any privately owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN: 1. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
      2.   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
   OPERATOR: Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
   PARENT: A person who is:
      1.   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of another person;
or
      2.   At least eighteen (18) years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
   REMAIN: To:
      1.   Linger or stay; or
      2.   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
   B.   Offenses:
      1.   A minor commits an offense if he remains in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      2.   A parent or guardian of a minor commits an offense if he knowingly
permits, or by insufficient control allows, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew
hours.
      3.   The owner, operator, or any employee of an establishment commits an
offense if he knowingly allows a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
   C.   Defenses:
      1.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B of this section
that the minor was:
         a.   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
         b.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         c.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         d.   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         e.   Involved in an emergency;
         f.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
         g.   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         h.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         i.   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
emancipation of mature minors act, as amended.
      2.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection B3 of this section
that the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
police department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   D.   Enforcement: Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a
police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for being in
the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest
under this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
subsection C of this section is present.
   E.   Custody Procedure: Any police officer who finds a minor in violation of
this section is authorized to take such minor into custody until such time as
the minor's parent, legal guardian, or other adult having legal care or custody
of the minor is located and notified of the violation, and takes custody of the
minor from the police. If no such person can be located within a reasonable
period of time, the minor shall be referred to the appropriate juvenile
authorities.
   F.   Penalties:
      1.   A person who violates a provision of this section is guilty of a
separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the violation is
committed, continued, or permitted. Each offense, upon conviction, is
punishable by a fine not to exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      2.   Any parent, legal guardian or other adult having the legal care or
custody of a minor who violates any provisions of this section shall be
absolutely liable for such violation and be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or be subject to an
order to perform community service, or both, for each such offense. (Ord. 6860,
1-12-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 555/1.
7-3-4: TRUANCY:
   A.   Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
    CHRONIC OR HABITUAL TRUANT: A child subject to compulsory school attendance
and who is absent without valid cause for such attendance for five percent (5%)
or more of the previous one hundred eighty (180) regular attendance days.
   TRUANT MINOR: A chronic truant to whom supportive services, including
prevention, diagnostic, intervention and remedial services, alternative
programs and other school and community resources have been provided and have
failed to result in the cessation of chronic truancy, or have been offered and
refused.
   VALID CAUSE: Valid cause for absence shall be illness, observance of a
religious holiday, death in the immediate family, family emergency, and shall
include such other situations beyond the control of the student as determined
by the board of education in each district, or such other circumstances which
cause reasonable concern to the parent for the safety or health of the student.
(Ord. 6107, 12-18-1996; amd. Ord. 7282, 10-26-2011)
   B.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person subject to compulsory school
attendance under the Illinois school code 1 , to be absent from such attendance
without valid cause for all or any part of a school day, five percent (5%) or
more of the previous one hundred eighty (180) regular attendance days. (Ord.
7300, 3-14-2012)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person having custody or control of any
child subject to compulsory school attendance under the Illinois school code to
knowingly and wilfully permit such child to be absent from such attendance
without valid cause for all or any part of a school day, and shall be deemed to
have permitted truancy.
      3.   This section shall not be enforced by any person other than a school
truant official.
   C.   Penalties: Any person violating this section shall, upon conviction, be
subject to fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code, and in addition thereto or in lieu thereof, a period of
community service not to exceed twenty (20) hours, and/or a requirement that
the person attend social service classes/programs. Each day upon which a
violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 6107, 12-18-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. 105 ILCS 5/26.
CHAPTER 4
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
7-4-3: Manufacture Or Delivery Of Drug Paraphernalia
7-4-4: Delivery Of Drug Paraphernalia To Minors
7-4-5: Advertisements Of Drug Paraphernalia
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES: A. Cannabis which includes marijuana, hashish and other
substances which are identified as including any parts of the plant Cannabis
sativa, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof, the resin extracted from any
part of such plant; and any compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture,
or preparation of such plant, its seeds, or resin, including
tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and all other cannabinol derivatives, including its
naturally occurring or synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced
directly or indirectly by extraction, or independently by means of chemical
synthesis, or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall
not include the mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks,
oil or cake made from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture or preparation of such mature stalks (except the
resin extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or cake, or the sterilized seed of such
plant which is incapable of germination; and
   B.   As also enumerated in the Controlled Substances Act 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 570/101 et seq., in effect upon the passage of this Chapter.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: A. Includes all equipment, products and materials of any
kind which are used, intended for use, or designed for use, in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance in
violation of this Chapter. It includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      2.   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled
substances;
      3.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
      4.   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled
substances;
      5.   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      6.   Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      7.   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed for
use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
      8.   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      9.   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      10.   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      11.   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into
the human body;
      12.   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
         a.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         b.   Water pipes;
         c.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         d.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
         e.   Roach clips: meaning objects used to hold burning material, such
as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be held in
the hand;
         f.   Miniature cocaine spoons, and cocaine vials;
         g.   Chamber pipes;
         h.   Carburetor pipes;
         i.   Electric pipes;
         j.   Air driven pipes;
         k.   Chillums;
         l.   Bongs;
         m.   Ice pipes or chillers;
         n.   Glass tubes designed for smoking "crack" or similar substances,
approximately four inches (4") in length and up to a half inch in diameter.
Said tubes are sold singularly or also as packaging for certain novelty items,
including, but not limited to, miniature roses.
   B.   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
      1.   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
      2.   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
      3.   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of this chapter;
      4.   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      5.   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
      6.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows, or
should reasonably know, intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this chapter the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object,
as to a direct violation of this chapter shall not prevent a finding that the
object is intended for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
      7.   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      8.   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      9.   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      10.   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      11.   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      12.   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      13.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community;
      14.   Expert testimony concerning its use. (Ord. 4511, 5-14-1980; amd.
Ord. 6657, 5-22-2002)
7-4-2: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 4511, 5-
14-1980)
7-4-3: MANUFACTURE OR DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
It is unlawful for any person to deliver, possess with intent to deliver, or
manufacture with intent to deliver, drug paraphernalia, knowing, or under
circumstances where one reasonably should know, that it will be used to plant,
propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of this chapter. (Ord. 4511, 5-14-1980)
7-4-4: DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA TO MINORS:
Any person eighteen (18) years of age or under who violates section
7-4-3 of this chapter by delivering drug paraphernalia to a person under
eighteen (18) years of age who is at least three (3) years his junior is guilty
of a special offense. The amount of the fine which shall be imposed by a court
as a penalty for a violation of a special offense shall be double the amount of
the fine which would be imposed by a court for the offense were it not
designated as a special offense. (Ord. 4511, 5-14-1980; amd. Ord. 4540, 7-23-
1980)
7-4-5: ADVERTISEMENTS OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill, or
other publication any advertisement, knowing, or under circumstances where one
reasonably should know, that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in
part, is to promote the sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug
paraphernalia. (Ord. 4511, 5-14-1980)
CHAPTER 5
ALARMS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Applicability Of Provisions
7-5-3: Alarm Business Requirements
7-5-4: Registration Of Alarm Systems
7-5-5: Alarm Systems
7-5-6: Alarm Reporting
7-5-7: Responsibility Of Alarm Owner
7-5-8: False Alarms
7-5-9: Reinstatement
7-5-10: Administrative Hearing
7-5-11: Deliberate False Alarms
7-5-12: Automatic Dialing And Prerecorded Message Alarm Systems Prohibited
7-5-13: Vision Obscuring Device Prohibited
7-5-14: Local Alarms Not To Sound For More Than Fifteen Minutes
7-5-15: Penalty Provision
7-5-16: Effective Date
7-5-17: Severability
7-5-18: Liability Of The City Of Alton
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meanings given herein:
ALARM BUSINESS: Any business licensed by the Illinois department of financial
and professional regulation, regardless of the jurisdiction in which located,
which is engaged in the selling, leasing, installing, maintaining, servicing,
repairing, altering, replacing, moving or removing any alarm system in any
building, structure or facility, to include subcontractors.
ALARM IDENTIFICATION NUMBER: A number issued to an alarm owner by the chief of
police for the purpose of identifying a specific alarm system at an alarm site
for dispatching and recordkeeping purposes.
ALARM OWNER: Any person who leases, contracts for, buys or otherwise obtains
and operates an alarm system for the purpose of obtaining response to the
alarm, and on whose premises an alarm system is maintained, excluding audible
alarms on motor vehicles and medical alarms.
ALARM SITE: A single premises or location served by an alarm system or systems.
Each tenancy, if served by a separate alarm system in a multi-tenant building
or complex, shall be considered a separate alarm site.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any mechanism, equipment or device, wire or wireless, which is
designed to detect an unauthorized entry into any building or onto any
property, or to direct attention to a robbery, burglary or other emergency in
progress, and to signal the above occurrences either by a local or audible
alarm or by a silent or remote alarm. The following devices shall not
constitute alarm systems within the meaning of this chapter: devices which do
not register alarms that are audible, visible or perceptible outside the
protected premises; or devices which are not installed, operated or used for
the purpose of reporting an emergency to the police department.
AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE: An alarm system that automatically sends over regular
telephone lines, by direct connection or otherwise, a prerecorded voice message
indicating the existence of an emergency situation that the alarm system is
designed to detect.
BURGLARY: The unlawful entry of a structure to commit a felony or a theft.
BURGLARY ALARM SYSTEM: An alarm system designed to signal an unauthorized entry
or attempted entry into a building, structure or facility protected by the
alarm system.
CENTRAL MONITORING STATION: An office to which alarm systems are connected,
where operators supervise the circuits on a continuous basis, and where there
is a subsequent relaying of messages concerning alarm activations to the police
department.
CHIEF OF POLICE: The chief of the police department of the city of Alton or
his/her designated representative.
DURESS ALARM: A silent alarm signal generated by the manual activation of a
device intended to signal a crisis situation requiring police response.
FALSE ALARM: The activation of a burglary or robbery alarm, whereby the police
are summoned to a location and neither of these crimes is occurring nor is
there any evidence of these crimes having occurred, or having been attempted.
Alarms due to vandalism, destruction of property, telephone line faults, acts
of God (to include, but not limited to, thunderstorms as defined by the
national weather service), or natural or manmade catastrophe as determined by
the chief of police, shall not be considered false under this chapter.
HOLDUP ALARM: A silent alarm signal generated by the manual activation of a
device intended to signal a robbery in progress.
ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF FINANCIAL AND PROFESSIONAL REGULATION (IDFPR): The
governmental agency responsible for the administration of professional
licensing of an alarm business.
LOCAL ALARM: Any alarm device audible at the alarm site.
PANIC ALARM: An audible alarm system signal generated by the manual activation
of a device intended to signal a life threatening or emergency situation
requiring law enforcement response, not to include burglary alarm systems.
PERSON: Means and includes natural persons, without regard to number or gender,
or any partnership, corporation or other type of legal entity.
POLICE DEPARTMENT: The police department of the city of Alton, Illinois.
PRIVATE RESPONDER: A private guard company, an alarm company's guard, an alarm
owner, or a person or entity appointed by an alarm owner to confirm by visual
inspection that an attempted or actual crime has occurred at an alarm site.
REVOCATION: The permanent cessation of police response to the site of a
registered alarm system.
ROBBERY: The taking or attempting to take anything of value from another person
by force or threat of force or violence and/or by putting the victim in fear.
SUBCONTRACTOR: Any person or business, regardless of the jurisdiction in which
located, who performs duties, directly or indirectly, at the direction of, or
for, an alarm business which involves the selling, leasing, installing,
maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, moving or removing any
alarm system in any building, structure or facility.
SUSPENSION: The temporary cessation of police response to the site of a
registered alarm system.
VERIFICATION ATTEMPT: An attempt by an alarm business or its representative, to
contact the alarm site by telephone or other electronic means before requesting
police response in an effort to determine if an actual or attempted crime has
occurred, or if the alarm was accidentally activated. (Ord. 7449, 3-11-2015,
eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-2: APPLICABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all alarm systems, wired or
wireless, which are installed, connected, monitored, operated or maintained on
the date this chapter becomes effective, and subsequent thereto. (Ord. 7449, 3-
11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-3: ALARM BUSINESS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   IDFPR License Required: No alarm business, regardless of the
jurisdiction in which located, shall operate in the city of Alton without
having first procured a license from the IDFPR and that the license must remain
in good standing as long as the alarm business operates in the city of Alton.
   B.   Alarm Business Disclosure Information Required: Each alarm company,
monitoring service and subcontractor must submit to the chief of police when
commencing business activities in the city of Alton and annually thereafter,
during the month of January, a completed alarm business disclosure information
form containing the following information:
      1.   IDFPR license number, with proper business or trade name, address
and phone number;
      2.   Full name and phone number of a legal representative designated to
accept service on a court summons and appear in court for an alleged violation
by the alarm business of any applicable provision of this chapter. (Ord. 7449,
3-11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-4: REGISTRATION OF ALARM SYSTEMS:
   A.   An alarm owner shall not enter into an agreement for the installation
of any alarm system with any alarm business or alarm monitoring company,
including contractors or subcontractors, unless said business currently holds a
license in good standing from the IDFPR and has provided a copy of same to the
chief of police.
   B.   Prior to reporting any alarm sounding to the police department, the
alarm owner shall obtain an alarm identification number, through written notice
from the chief of police, for each separate alarm system on his/her premises,
including robbery and panic alarms that are not part of an integrated alarm
system. The chief of police shall also notify, by written notice, the alarm
business providing service to the alarm owner of said alarm identification
number. No police dispatch shall be made in response to the alarm owner's alarm
until written notice of the alarm identification number is made to both the
alarm owner and alarm business. Failure to register an alarm system is a
violation of this chapter.
   C.   Application for an alarm identification number shall be made to the
chief of police in a manner and form prescribed by the chief of police. The
alarm owner must provide a copy of the paid application for appropriate city
inspections of the system, which may include an electrical inspection, before
an alarm identification number can be assigned. In addition, the city may
require subsequent appropriate city inspections of the system, which may
include an electrical inspection, upon notification to the owner when the city
has reasonable grounds to suspect the system is not properly installed,
maintained, or functioning. Such inspections may require additional fees in
accordance with the regular fees for such inspections established by the city
from time to time.
   D.   A registration fee will be collected by the alarm company from the
alarm owner at the time of initial registration of the alarm system and
remitted to the city of Alton. Such registration fee will be assessed annually
and remitted to the city of Alton in a manner prescribed by the chief of
police. Such registration fee shall be thirty dollars ($30.00) for each
residential alarm system and one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each commercial
alarm system. Failure of any alarm owner to pay a required fee within thirty
(30) days of notice by the chief of police shall result in suspension of the
alarm registration.
The alarm identification number shall be assigned to an alarm owner for an
alarm system at a specific location. A new alarm identification number shall be
assigned if there is a change in alarm owner or alarm business responsible for
that alarm system. The alarm business providing service to the alarm system
shall notify the chief of police within ten (10) working days from the date the
new alarm owner begins occupancy at a location where the alarm system is
located, and provide all necessary information concerning such new alarm owner,
along with the effective date of change in alarm owners. It shall be a
violation of this chapter for any person to use an alarm identification number
assigned to another person. Failure to abide by this provision is a violation
of this chapter.
   E.   The chief of police may require the alarm owner to obtain a
reinspection of any alarm system, which may include an electrical inspection,
when there is evidence that such alarm system may be generating excessive false
alarms. Suspension of an alarm registration may be ordered by the chief of
police if such inspection uncovers deficiencies that are not corrected by the
alarm owner within a time period established by the chief of police.
   F.   All alarm systems installed and operating prior to the effective date
of this chapter shall comply with the provisions of this section within one
hundred eighty (180) days of such effective date. (Ord. 7449, 3-11-2015, eff.
3-13-2015)
7-5-5: ALARM SYSTEMS:
All burglary alarm systems installed after the effective date of this chapter
must be equipped with an audible alert that can be heard by the owner
throughout the protected premises. All alarm systems must be equipped with
standby batteries to operate for not less than four (4) hours if power is
interrupted. Backup batteries should also prevent false alarms during power
outages. Failure of an alarm owner to comply with any provision of this section
may result in revocation or suspension of the alarm registration. (Ord. 7449,
3-11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-6: ALARM REPORTING:
   A.   No alarm company or monitoring service shall send, directly or
indirectly, an alarm sounding notification to the police department following
installation of an alarm system, until written notice of the alarm
identification number has been received from the chief of police by both the
alarm owner and the alarm business providing service to such alarm owner.
   B.   All alarm soundings reported to the police department, either directly
or indirectly, shall be done in a manner prescribed by the chief of police and
shall include the requirement that the reporting party, alarm company or
monitoring service give the valid alarm identification number, type of alarm,
exact numerical address of the alarm site, alarm owner name and name of current
alarm company.
   C.   Each alarm company shall establish alarm verification procedures with
their alarm owners. An up to date record shall be maintained by the alarm
company containing the name and phone number(s) of both a primary and secondary
local emergency contact who may be called to verify the validity of an
activated alarm by personally appearing at the alarm site and securing the
premises.
   D.   Prior to requesting police dispatch to the site of an alarm sounding,
the appropriate alarm company or monitoring service will make at least two (2)
verification attempts to determine if the alarm was activated in error before
contacting the police. Additional efforts at verification may be made after
police dispatch. A call canceled by the alarm or monitoring company before
police arrival at the scene will not be counted as a false alarm. (Ord. 7449,
3-11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-7: RESPONSIBILITY OF ALARM OWNER:
It shall be the responsibility of the alarm owner to:
   A.   Remit the initial and annual registration fees to the alarm company in
a timely manner to assure the alarm registration remains in good standing;
   B.   Remit any false alarm service fees within the prescribed period to
assure the alarm registration remains in good standing;
   C.   Maintain the premises containing an alarm system in a manner that
ensures proper operation of the alarm system;
   D.   Maintain the alarm system in a manner that will prevent or minimize
false alarms;
   E.   Refrain from manually activating an alarm for any reason other than for
the occurrence of an event for which the alarm system is intended to report;
and
   F.   Instruct all individuals who are authorized to activate the alarm
system on the proper method of operation, to prevent false alarms. (Ord. 7449,
3-11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-8: FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   Alarm Notifications: All alarm notifications to the police department
requiring a response from the city are characterized as being either a valid
alarm or a false alarm after inspection of the alarm site by the responding
city official.
      1.   The following situations are considered to be valid alarms and are
not chargeable to the alarm owner:
         a.   Alarm activated due to criminal activity or attempted criminal
activity.
         b.   Alarm activated as a result of weather (lightening, high winds,
etc.).
         c.   Alarm activated due to a power outage or surge or damage to phone
lines.
         d.   Alarm properly canceled prior to the arrival of the police.
         e.   Alarm activated as a result of police radio interference.
         f.   Alarm malfunction due to manufacturer's defect of alarm
equipment.
         g.   Other situations where it is determined by the responding police
officer(s) that the alarm owner could not have reasonably prevented the alarm
activation.
      2.   The following situations are considered to be false alarms and are
chargeable to the alarm owner if the police department responds to the alarm
site:
         a.   Business alarms that are accidentally activated by an employee,
owner, cleaning crew or other persons legally at the alarm site; and
residential alarms that are accidentally activated by the homeowner, occupant,
or person who is legally at the residence.
         b.   Alarm activated as a result of a domestic animal.
         c.   Alarm activated due to heating or air conditioning blowers
turning on or due to the operation of other mechanical or electrical devices
left operating.
         d.   Alarm activated due to falling stock or movement of hanging signs
or other objects.
         e.   Alarm activated as a result of a malfunction in the alarm system.
         f.   Alarm caused by any other condition that could have been
reasonably prevented by the alarm owner.
         g.   All other alarm activations not excluded by the provisions of
subsection A1 of this section are classified as false alarms.
   B.   False Alarm Service Fee Schedule: The following provisions shall apply
to each alarm system one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date of
this chapter.
Upon receipt of the first false alarm after the initial activation of an alarm
system, the alarm owner shall be notified by the chief of police that a false
alarm occurrence has been recorded at the registered alarm address, and
notifying the owner that any subsequent false alarm occurrences will be subject
to penalties as provided by ordinance; upon receipt of the second false alarm
within a twelve (12) month period, the alarm owner shall be assessed a service
fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00).
Upon receipt of the third false alarm within a twelve (12) month period, the
alarm owner shall be assessed a service fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
Upon receipt of the fourth false alarm within a twelve (12) month period, the
alarm owner shall be assessed a service fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
In addition, following the fourth false alarm within a twelve (12) month
period, a written notice shall be issued by the chief of police to the alarm
owner, and to the alarm business providing service to such alarm owner,
advising that police response to the alarm system shall be suspended for a
period of thirty (30) days effective fourteen (14) days after the date of the
notice. No alarm owner or alarm business shall send an alarm sounding
notification to the police department from an alarm system that has been
suspended, except as provided herein.
Police dispatch to a location with an alarm suspension or revocation will be
limited to those situations where a private responder has first arrived at the
alarm site and confirmed that an attempted, suspected or actual crime has
occurred at such alarm site; however, the private responder shall be required
to remain at the scene until arrival of police. This provision will also apply
to local alarms, but will not apply to the activation of duress, panic or
holdup alarms. All service fees for false alarms under this section shall be
payable to the city of Alton. (Ord. 7449, 3-11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-9: REINSTATEMENT:
An alarm registration which has been suspended under the provisions of this
chapter shall be reinstated after the completion of the thirty (30) day
suspension provided that the alarm business which installed the alarm system
certifies that the alarm owner has been retrained in the proper use of the
alarm system and certifies that the owner's alarm system is in proper working
condition. Any alarm registration which has been suspended due to false alarms
and has been reinstated shall be subject to a service fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each subsequent false alarm reported on their alarm
system up to a maximum of three (3) additional false alarms within the original
twelve (12) month registration period. If the registration exceeds seven (7)
false alarms within any twelve (12) month period, a written notice shall be
issued by the chief of police to the alarm owner, and to the alarm business
providing service to such alarm owner, advising that police response to the
alarm system shall be suspended for a period of twelve (12) months, effective
fourteen (14) days after the date of the notice. No alarm owner or alarm
business shall send an alarm sounding notification to the police department
from an alarm system that has been suspended, except as provided herein.
Police dispatch to a location with an alarm revocation will be limited to those
situations where a private responder has first arrived at the alarm site and
confirmed that an attempted, suspected or actual crime has occurred at such
alarm site; however, the private responder shall be required to remain at the
scene until arrival of police. This provision will also apply to local alarms,
but will not apply to the activation of duress, panic or holdup alarms. All
service fees for false alarms under this section shall be payable to the city
of Alton.
All other owners shall annually revert to the beginning fine structure at the
start of each annual registration period. (Ord. 7449, 3-11-2015, eff. 3-13-
2015)
7-5-10: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING:
Any alarm owner assessed a service fee pursuant to the provisions of section
7-5-8 of this chapter or any alarm owner who has been suspended pursuant to
section
7-5-8 or
7-5-9 of this chapter shall be entitled to an administrative hearing should the
alarm owner elect to contest the service fee or suspension imposed by the chief
of police or the city of Alton by following the procedures hereinafter set
forth.
The alarm owner or his or her attorney seeking an administrative hearing must
file a written request for an administrative hearing with the office of the
mayor of the city of Alton no later than fifteen (15) business days after
notice of the service fee or the suspension was mailed to or personally served
upon the alarm owner, whichever first occurred. Upon the written request for a
hearing, filed with the office of the mayor of the city of Alton within the
aforesaid time allowed, a hearing date shall be scheduled no more than thirty
(30) business days thereafter. The alarm owner seeking a hearing shall have the
burden of proof establishing that a request for an administrative hearing was
timely filed with the office of the mayor. Any interested person shall be given
a reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. The formal rules of
evidence shall not apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be
admissible. The hearing may be continued once commenced to a subsequent time
and date with notice of the subsequent time and date being delivered to those
present at the hearing. The mayor shall serve as a hearing officer, or he may
designate another individual to serve as a hearing officer on a case by case
basis. No person involved in the decision to impose a service fee or a
suspension of the privileges of the alarm owner may serve as a hearing officer.
If, after the administrative hearing, the hearing officer determines by a
preponderance of the evidence presented that the service fee or the suspension
which is the subject of the administrative hearing was properly imposed upon
the alarm owner, then the hearing officer shall enter a written order
confirming the service fee or the suspension.
If, after the administrative hearing, the hearing officer does not determine by
a preponderance of the evidence presented that the service fee or the
suspension, which is the subject of the administrative hearing, was properly
imposed upon the alarm owner, then the hearing officer shall enter a written
finding for the alarm owner and grant such relief as may be appropriate,
including a waiver of all or a portion of the service fee imposed, a full or
partial refund of the service fee imposed, and a directive to correct any
suspension which may remain in effect or threatened with regard to the
privileges of the alarm owner.
If the alarm owner requests a hearing, but fails to appear at the hearing, the
mayor or hearing officer may enter a default order confirming the service fee
imposed or the suspension of privileges imposed against the alarm owner.
The alarm owner may elect to pay the service fee or to accept the suspension of
the privileges of the alarm owner without constituting a waiver of the right of
the alarm owner to request an administrative hearing in writing and in a timely
manner as provided by this chapter.
The action of the chief of police or his designee in imposing a service fee or
a suspension of the privileges of the alarm owner shall be subject to the
administrative review process as provided herein. The final written decision of
the mayor of the city of Alton or his designated hearing officer shall
constitute a final administrative order and be subject to judicial review under
the provisions of the administrative review act of the state of Illinois. (Ord.
7449, 3-11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-11: DELIBERATE FALSE ALARMS:
   A.   No person shall cause to be activated or transmitted to the police
department an alarm of any type from a wired or wireless system, either
directly or indirectly, knowing the same to be false or without basis in fact.
   B.   No person shall cause to be activated or transmitted to the police
department an alarm of any type from an unregistered or revoked alarm system,
wired or wireless, when no bone fide incident has occurred.
   C.   Central monitoring stations shall not request law enforcement response
to alarm sites when monitoring equipment indicates an alarm system malfunction.
(Ord. 7449, 3-11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-12: AUTOMATIC DIALING AND PRERECORDED MESSAGE ALARM SYSTEMS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful to maintain, operate, connect or allow to be maintained,
operated, or connected any dialing device that automatically dials the police
department and then relays any prerecorded message to report any robbery,
burglary, or other emergency. (Ord. 7449, 3-11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-13: VISION OBSCURING DEVICE PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any person to install or use an alarm system or device that
emits or produces real or simulated smoke, fog, vapor or any like substances
that obscures vision. Use of this device shall result in no police response.
(Ord. 7449, 3-11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-14: LOCAL ALARMS NOT TO SOUND FOR MORE THAN FIFTEEN MINUTES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow a local alarm to sound for more
than fifteen (15) minutes without termination. (Ord. 7449, 3-11-2015, eff. 3-
13-2015)
7-5-15: PENALTY PROVISION:
Any person, partnership or corporation found to be in violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00). Each additional violation of any provision of this
chapter shall constitute a separate offense, and will subject to an additional
fine. All persons charged with a violation of any provision contained in this
chapter shall be issued a summons for appearance in circuit court, and if
convicted, may be assessed the fine stipulated in this section for the
particular violation. (Ord. 7449, 3-11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-16: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be effective on and after April 1, 2015. (Ord. 7449, 3-11-
2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-17: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision, section, paragraph, sentence or clause of this chapter, or
its application to any person or circumstance, is for any reason held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portions of the chapter, and the invalid or unconstitutional provision,
section, paragraph, sentence or clause is held to be severable. The city
council of the city of Alton declares that it would have passed this chapter,
section, provision, paragraph, sentence or clause hereof, irrespective of the
fact that any one or more of the provisions, sections, paragraphs, sentences or
clauses of this chapter is declared invalid or unconstitutional. (Ord. 7449, 3-
11-2015, eff. 3-13-2015)
7-5-18: LIABILITY OF THE CITY OF ALTON:
The police department shall take every reasonable precaution to assure that
alarm notifications received are given appropriate attention and are acted upon
with dispatch. Nevertheless, neither the city of Alton nor the police
department shall be liable for any refusal, failure or neglect to respond to an
alarm sounding generated from any alarm system. (Ord. 7449, 3-11-2015, eff. 3-
13-2015)
CHAPTER 6
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
7-6-1: Purpose And Intent
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Prohibited Acts
7-6-4: Penalties
7-6-5: Graffiti As Nuisance
7-6-6: Removal Of Graffiti By Perpetrator
7-6-7: Removal Of Graffiti By Property Owner Or City
7-6-8: Ease Of Removal Provisions
7-6-9: Prevention Provisions
7-6-10: Trust Fund
7-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   The City Council is enacting this Chapter to help prevent the spread of
graffiti vandalism and to establish a program for the removal of graffiti from
public and private property.
   B.   The City Council finds that graffiti is a public nuisance and
destructive of the rights and values of property owners as well as the entire
community. Unless the City acts to remove graffiti from public and private
property, the graffiti tends to remain. Other properties then become the target
of graffiti, and entire neighborhoods are affected and become less desirable
places in which to be, all to the detriment of the City.
   C.   The City Council intends, through the adoption of this Chapter, to
provide additional enforcement tools to protect public and private property
from acts of graffiti vandalism and defacement. The City Council does not
intend for this Chapter to conflict with any existing anti-graffiti State laws.
(Ord. 6021, 10-25-1995)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
respectively ascribed to them in this Section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
AEROSOL PAINT CONTAINER: Any aerosol container that is adapted or made for the
purpose of applying spray paint or other substances capable of defacing
property.
BROAD-TIPPED MARKER: Any felt tip indelible marker or similar implement with a
flat or angled writing surface that, at its broadest width, is greater than
one-fourth inch (1/4"), containing ink or other pigmented liquid that is not
water soluble.
ETCHING EQUIPMENT: Any tool, device, or substance that can be used to make
permanent marks on any natural or manmade surface.
GRAFFITI: Any unauthorized inscription, word, figure, painting or other
defacement that is written, marked, etched, scratched, sprayed, drawn, painted,
or engraved on or otherwise affixed to any surface of public or private
property by any graffiti implement, to the extent that the graffiti was not
authorized in advance by the owner or occupant of the property, or, despite
advance authorization, is otherwise deemed a public nuisance by the City
Council.
GRAFFITI IMPLEMENT: An aerosol paint container, a broad-tipped marker, gum
label, paint stick or graffiti stick, etching equipment, brush or any other
device capable of scarring or leaving a visible mark on any natural or manmade
surface.
PAINT STICK OR GRAFFITI STICK: Any device containing a solid form of paint,
chalk, wax, epoxy, or similar substance capable of being applied to a surface
by pressure and leaving a mark of at least one-eighth inch (1/8") in width.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, cooperative association, private
corporation, personal representative, receiver, trustee, assignee or any other
legal entity. (Ord. 6021, 10-25-1995)
7-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Defacement: It shall be unlawful for any person to apply graffiti to
any natural or manmade surface on any City-owned property or, without the
permission of the owner or occupant, on any non-City-owned property.
   B.   Possession Of Graffiti Implements:
      1.   Near School Facilities: It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess any graffiti implement while on any school property, ground,
facilities, buildings or structures or in areas immediately adjacent to those
specific locations upon public property, or upon private property without the
prior written consent of the owner or occupant of such private property. The
provisions of this Section shall not apply to the possession of broad-tipped
markers by employees or bona fide students attending or traveling to or from a
school at which the student is enrolled if the student is participating in a
class at the school that formally requires the possession of broad-tipped
markers.
      2.   In Designated Public Places: It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess any graffiti implement while in or upon any public facility, park,
playground, swimming pool, recreational facility or other public building or
structure owned or operated by the City or while in or within fifty feet (50')
of an underpass, bridge abutment, storm drain or similar types of
infrastructure unless otherwise authorized by the City. (Ord. 6021, 10-25-1995)
7-6-4: PENALTIES:
   A.   Fines: Any person violating this Chapter shall be punished as provided
in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 6021, 10-25-1995; amd. 1999 Code)
      1.   In the case of a minor, the parents or legal guardian shall be
jointly and severally liable with the minor for payment of all fines. All
prosecutions of minors under this Chapter shall be consistent with the Juvenile
Court Act, 705 Illinois Compiled Statutes 405/5-1 et seq., as amended.
      2.   Failure of the parents or legal guardian to make payment will result
in the filing of a lien on the parents' or legal guardian's property that
includes the fine and administrative costs.
      3.   Upon an application and finding of indigence, the court may decline
to order fines against the minor, parents or guardian.
   B.   Restitution: In addition to any punishment specified in this Section,
the court shall order any violator to make restitution to the victim for
damages or loss caused directly or indirectly by the violator's offense in the
amount or manner determined by the court. In the case of a minor, the parents
or legal guardian shall be ordered jointly and severally liable with the minor
to make the restitution. (Ord. 6021, 10-25-1995)
7-6-5: GRAFFITI AS NUISANCE:
   A.   The existence of graffiti on public or private property in violation of
this Chapter is expressly declared to be a public nuisance and, therefore, is
subject to the removal and abatement provisions specified in this Chapter.
   B.   It is the duty of both the owner of the property to which the graffiti
has been applied and any person who may be in possession or who has the right
to possess such property to at all times keep the property clear of graffiti.
(Ord. 6021, 10-25-1995)
7-6-6: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI BY PERPETRATOR:
Any person applying graffiti on public or private property shall have the duty
to remove the graffiti within twenty four (24) hours after notice by the City
or private owner of the property involved. Such removal shall be done in a
manner prescribed by the Chief of Police, the Director of Public Works, or any
additional City department head as authorized by the City Council. Any person
applying graffiti shall be responsible for the removal or for the payment of
the removal. Failure of any person to remove graffiti or pay for the removal
shall constitute an additional violation of this Chapter. Where graffiti is
applied by an unemancipated minor, the parents or legal guardian shall also be
responsible for such removal or for the payment for the removal. (Ord. 6021,
10-25-1995)
7-6-7: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI BY PROPERTY OWNER OR CITY:
If graffiti is not removed by the perpetrator, graffiti shall be removed
pursuant to the following provisions:
   A.   Property Owner Responsibility: It is unlawful for any person who is the
owner or who has primary responsibility for control of property or for repair
or maintenance of property in the City to permit property that is defaced with
graffiti to remain defaced for a period of ten (10) days after service by first
class mail of notice of the defacement. The notice shall contain the following
information:
      1.   The street address and legal description of the property sufficient
for identification of the property;
      2.   A statement that the property is a potential graffiti nuisance
property with a concise description of the conditions leading to the finding;
      3.   A statement that the graffiti must be removed within ten (10) days
after receipt of the notice and that if the graffiti is not abated within that
time the City will declare the property to be a public nuisance, subject to the
abatement procedures in this Section; and
      4.   An information sheet identifying any graffiti removal assistance
programs is available through the City and private graffiti removal
contractors.
   B.   Exceptions To Property Owner Responsibility: The removal requirements
of subsection A of this Section shall not apply if the property owner can
demonstrate that:
      1.   The property owner or responsible party lacks the financial ability
to pay any portion of the cost of removing the defacing graffiti; or
      2.   The property owner or responsible party has an active program for
the removal of graffiti and has scheduled the removal of the graffiti as part
of that program, in which case it shall be unlawful to permit such property to
remain defaced with graffiti for a period of fifteen (15) days after service by
first class mail of notice of defacement.
   C.   Right Of City To Remove:
      1.   Use Of Public Funds: Whenever the City becomes aware or is notified
and determines that graffiti is located on publicly or privately owned property
viewable from a public or quasi-public place, the City shall be authorized to
use public funds for the removal of the graffiti, or for the painting or
repairing of the graffiti, but shall not authorize or undertake to provide for
the painting or repair of any more extensive an area than that where the
graffiti is located, unless the Mayor, or the designee of the Mayor, determines
in writing that a more extensive area is required to be repainted or repaired
in order to avoid an aesthetic disfigurement to the neighborhood or community,
or unless the property owner or responsible party agrees to pay for the costs
of repainting or repairing the more extensive area.
      2.   Right Of Entry On Private Property: Prior to entering upon private
property or property owned by a public entity other than the City for the
purpose of graffiti removal, the City shall attempt to secure the consent of
the property owner or responsible party and a release of the City from
liability for property damage or personal injury. If the property owner or
responsible party fails to remove the offending graffiti within the time
specified by this Chapter, or if the City has requested consent to remove or
paint over the offending graffiti and the property owner or responsible party
has refused consent for entry on terms acceptable to the City and consistent
with the terms of this Section, the City shall commence abatement and cost
recovery proceedings for the graffiti removal according to the provisions
specified below. (Ord. 6021, 10-25-1995)
7-6-8: EASE OF REMOVAL PROVISIONS:
Common Utility Colors And Paint Type: Any gas, electric, telephone, water,
sewer, cable, telephone and other utility operating in the City shall paint its
above-surface metal fixtures with a uniform paint type and color. (Ord. 6021,
10-25-1995)
7-6-9: PREVENTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Design Of Potential Graffiti-Attracting Surfaces: Any applicant for
design review approval, or other form of development or building permit shall,
to the extent deemed feasible by the Mayor, or the designee of the Mayor, have
designed any building structures visible from any public or quasi-public place,
or any property constantly subject to graffiti, in such a manner to consider
prevention of graffiti, including, but not limited to, the following: (Ord.
6021, 10-25- 1995; amd. 1999 Code)
      1.   Use of a protective coating to provide for the effective and
expeditious removal of graffiti;
      2.   Use of additional lighting;
      3.   Use of nonsolid fencing;
      4.   Use of landscaping designed to cover large expansive walls such as
ivy or similar clinging vegetation; or
      5.   Use of architectural design to break up long, continuous walls or
solid areas. (Ord. 6021, 10-25-1995)
7-6-10: TRUST FUND:
The City Council hereby creates the City Anti-Graffiti Trust Fund. Penalties
assessed against violators of this Chapter shall be placed in the Fund, along
with any monetary donations received from persons wishing to contribute to the
Fund. The City Council shall direct the expenditures of moneys in the Fund.
Such expenditures shall be limited to the payment of the cost of graffiti
removal, the payment, at the discretion of the Mayor, of rewards for
information leading to the conviction of violation of this Chapter, and such
other public purposes as may be approved by the City Council by resolution.
(Ord. 6021, 10-25-1995)
CHAPTER 7
CIVIL EMERGENCIES
SECTION:
7-7-1: Definitions
7-7-2: Declaration Of Emergency
7-7-3: Curfew
7-7-4: Proclamation By Mayor
7-7-5: Chapter Not Exclusive
7-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: A. Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the City, resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare; or
   B.   A riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of actual force or
violence or any threat to use force if accompanied by immediate power to
execute by three (3) or more persons acting together without authority of law.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant promises within the corporate limits of the City, except
officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty
with reference to said civil emergency. (Ord. 3493, 6-12-1968)
7-7-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
Whenever an emergency as defined in Section
7-7-1 of this Chapter exists, the Mayor shall declare the existence, by means
of a written declaration setting forth the facts which constitute the
emergency. (Ord. 3493, 6-12-1968)
7-7-3: CURFEW:
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the Mayor, he may order a general
curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the City or to the City as a
whole, as he deems advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or
night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
(Ord. 3493, 6-12-1968)
7-7-4: PROCLAMATION BY MAYOR:
   A.   Orders Proclaimed: After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the
Mayor may also in the interest of public safety and welfare make any and all of
the following orders:
      1.   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted.
      2.   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
      3.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
      4.   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
      5.   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the
protection of life and property.
   B.   Period Of Proclamation: The proclamation herein authorized shall be
effective for a period of forty eight (48) hours unless sooner terminated by a
proclamation of the Mayor indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists.
The Mayor shall have the power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency
at the end of each forty eight (48) hour period during the time the said civil
emergency exists.
Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the Chief of Police shall
notify the news media situated within the City. (Ord. 3493, 6-12-1968; amd.
1999 Code)
7-7-5: CHAPTER NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in this Code giving powers to the Police and Fire Departments, but
shall be construed together with existing ordinances now in effect for the
safety and welfare of the citizens of the City. (Ord. 3493, 6-12-1968)
CHAPTER 8
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
7-8-1: Declaration Of Policy
7-8-2: Definitions
7-8-3: Prohibited Acts
7-8-4: Exemptions
7-8-5: Enforcement
7-8-6: Filing Complaints
7-8-7: Priority Of Occupancy
7-8-8: Violations
7-8-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   It is hereby declared the policy of the City to assure full and equal
opportunity to all residents of the City to obtain fair and adequate housing
for themselves and their families in the City without discrimination against
them because of their race, color, religion, sex, creed, ancestry, national
origin or physical or mental handicap.
   B.   It is further declared to be the policy of the City that no owner,
lessee, sublessee, assignee, managing agent or other person having the right to
sell, rent or lease any housing accommodation, within the City, or any agent of
any of these should refuse to sell, rent, lease or otherwise deny to or
withhold from any person or group of persons such housing accommodations
because of the race, color, religion, sex, creed, ancestry, national origin or
physical or mental handicap of such person or persons or discriminate against
any person because of his race, color, religion, sex, creed, ancestry, national
origin or physical or mental handicap in the terms, conditions or privileges of
the sale, rental or lease of any housing accommodation or in the furnishing of
facilities or services in connection therewith.
   C.   In order to effectuate this policy and to eliminate as far as
legislatively permissible, all forms of discrimination and segregation in the
field of housing are viewed with disfavor. (Ord. 3497, 6-27-1968; amd. 1999
Code)
7-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICE: An act that is unlawful under Section
7-8-3 of this Chapter.
DWELLING: Any building, structure or portion thereof which is occupied as, or
designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and
any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereon of any such building, structure or portion thereof.
FAMILY: Includes a single individual.
PERSON: Includes one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships,
associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees in
bankruptcy, receivers and fiduciaries.
TO RENT: Includes to lease, to sublease, to let and otherwise to grant for a
consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant. (Ord.
3497, 6-27-1968)
7-8-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
The following shall be unlawful and discriminatory housing practices under the
terms of this Chapter:
   A.   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or to
refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make unavailable or
deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex, creed,
ancestry, national origin or physical or mental handicap.
   B.   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith, because of race, color, religion, sex,
creed, ancestry, national origin or physical or mental handicap.
   C.   To make, print or publish or cause to be made, printed or published any
notice, statement or advertisement, with respect to the sale or rental of a
dwelling that indicates any preference, limitation or discrimination based on
race, color, religion, sex, creed, ancestry, national origin or physical or
mental handicap, or an intention to make any such preference, limitation or
discrimination.
   D.   To represent to any person because of race, color, religion, sex,
creed, ancestry, national origin or physical or mental handicap that any
dwelling is not available for inspection, sale or rental when such dwelling is
in fact so available.
   E.   For profit, to induce or attempt to induce any person to sell or rent
any dwelling by representations regarding the entry or prospective entry into
the neighborhood of a person or persons of a particular race, color, religion,
sex, creed, ancestry, national origin or physical or mental handicap.
   F.   For any bank or building and loan association, insurance company or
other corporation, association, firm or enterprise whose business consists in
whole or in part in the making of commercial real estate loans, to deny a loan
or other financial assistance to a person applying therefor for the purpose of
purchasing, constructing, improving, repairing or maintaining a dwelling, or to
discriminate against him in the fixing of the amount, interest rate, duration
or other terms or conditions of such loan or other financial assistance,
because of the race, color, religion, sex, creed, ancestry, national origin or
physical or mental handicap of such person or of any person associated with him
in connection with such loan or other financial assistance or the purposes of
such loan or other financial assistance, or of the present or prospective
owners, lessees, tenants or occupants of the dwelling or dwellings in relation
to which such loan or other financial assistance is to be made or given.
   G.   To deny any person access to or membership or participation in any
multiple listing service, real estate brokers' organization or other service,
organizations or facility relating to the business of selling or renting
dwellings, or to discriminate against him in the terms or conditions of such
access, membership or participation, on account of race, color, religion, sex,
creed, ancestry, national origin or physical or mental handicap. (Ord. 3497, 6-
27-1968; amd. 1999 Code)
7-8-4: EXEMPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply:
   A.   To any single-family house sold or rented by an owner; provided, that
such private individual owner does not own more than three (3) such single-
family houses at any one time; provided further, that in the case of the sale
of any such single-family house by a private individual owner not residing in
such house at the time of such sale or who was not the most recent resident of
such house prior to such sale, the exemption granted by this subsection shall
apply only with respect to one such sale within any twenty four (24) month
period; provided, further, that such bona fide private individual owner does
not own any interest in, nor is there owned or reserved on his behalf, under
any express or voluntary agreement, title to or any right to all or a portion
of the proceeds from the sale or rental of, more than three (3) such single
family houses at any one time.
   B.   To prohibit a religious organization, association or society, or any
nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised or controlled by or
in conjunction with a religious organization, association or society, from
limiting the sale, rental or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates
for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion, or from
giving preference to such persons, unless membership in such religion is
restricted on account of race, color or national origin. Nor shall anything in
this chapter prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as
an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns
or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or
occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its
members. (Ord. 3497, 6-27-1968; amd. 1999 Code)
7-8-5: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the Director of Code Enforcement of the City to: (Ord.
3497, 6-27-1968; amd. Ord. 7442, 2-11-2015; Ord. 7664, 8-22-2018)
   A.   Initiate or receive and investigate complaints charging unlawful
housing practices.
   B.   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold hearings, make findings of
fact and refer such findings to the Mayor. (Ord. 3497, 6-27-1968)
7-8-6: FILING COMPLAINTS:
Any person aggrieved in any manner by violation of any provision of this
chapter may file a written complaint setting forth his grievance with the above
referred to Director of Code Enforcement. Said complaint shall state the name
and address of the person or persons, or corporation, against whom the
complaint is brought and shall also state the alleged facts surrounding the
alleged violation of this chapter. (Ord. 3497, 6-27-1968; amd. Ord. 7442, 2-11-
2015; Ord. 7664, 8-22-2018)
7-8-7: PRIORITY OF OCCUPANCY:
   A.   In any public housing constructed in the City, which public housing is
under jurisdiction of the housing authority, a priority of occupancy by
qualified applicants is hereby established.
   B.   From those applicants for any public housing who are qualified for such
public housing under the then existing applicable Federal, State or other
statutes, ordinances, regulations or rules, a priority of acceptance for
occupancy should be as follows:
      1.   First priority for those applicants who have resided in the City for
two (2) years prior to application.
      2.   Second priority for those applicants who have resided in the City
for one year prior to application.
      3.   Third priority for those applicants who are residents of the City
but have been residents for less than one year.
      4.   Fourth priority to all other qualified applicants. (Ord. 3722, 3-8-
1972)
7-8-8: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as in this Code
provided.
   B.   In addition thereto, the Mayor may direct the Corporation Counsel to
file with the Department of Registration and Education of the State of Illinois
a complaint against any real estate broker, agent or realtor who is found
guilty of violation of any of the provisions of this chapter and he may
likewise file a complaint with the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Housing
and Urban Development against any person suspected of violating any provision
of this chapter. (Ord. 3497, 6-27-1968)
CHAPTER 9
PROFESSIONAL STRIKEBREAKERS
SECTION:
7-9-1: Definitions
7-9-2: Employ Professional Strikebreakers
7-9-3: Accept Employment
7-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The words and phrases mentioned in this Section, as used in this Chapter, and
in proceedings pursuant hereto shall, unless the same be inconsistent with the
context, be construed as follows:
EMPLOYER: A person, association of persons, partnership, agency, firm or
corporation which employs any person to work, labor or exercise skill in
connection with the operation of any business, industry, vocation or occupation
operating or being conducted within the City.
PROFESSIONAL STRIKEBREAKER: Any person who repeatedly and habitually offers
himself for employment on a temporary basis where a lockout or strike exists to
take the place of an employee whose work has ceased as a direct consequence of
such lockout or strike. (Ord. 3648, 4-29-1971; amd. 1999 Code)
7-9-2: EMPLOY PROFESSIONAL STRIKEBREAKERS:
It is unlawful for any employer, or officer or agent thereof, involved in a
strike or lockout to employ and/or use the services or skills of any person
defined herein as a professional strikebreaker in place of an employee involved
in such strike or lockout. (Ord. 3648, 4-29-1971)
7-9-3: ACCEPT EMPLOYMENT:
It is unlawful for any person defined herein as a professional strikebreaker to
accept employment in the place of any employee involved in a strike or lockout.
(Ord. 3648, 4-29-1971)
CHAPTER 10
VEHICLE IMMOBILIZATION
(Rep. by Ord. 7299, 2-22-2012)
CHAPTER 11
EPHEDRINE CONTROL
SECTION:
7-11-1: Definitions
7-11-2: Restrictions On Public Access
7-11-3: Exception
7-11-4: Reporting Theft Or Excessive Purchases
7-11-5: Penalty And Injunctive Relief
7-11-6: Effective Date
7-11-7: Saving Clause
7-11-8: Severability Clause
7-11-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and/or phrases shall have the
following meanings as set forth herein:
COUNTER: Any obstructive, physical barrier that separates ephedrine products
from access by a customer or the general public, and which makes such products
available to a customer or the general public only through or by the act of an
employee of the seller.
EPHEDRINE: All forms of ephedrine, pseudoephedrine, ephedrine hydrochloride,
pseudoephedrine hydrochloride, phenylpropanolamine and all combinations of
these chemicals.
EPHEDRINE PRODUCT: Any product that contains ephedrine, its salts, isomers, or
salts of isomers.
PACKAGE: Any number of pills, tablets, capsules, caplets or individual units of
a substance held within a container intended for sale.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, limited liability
company, firm, association or other entity selling an ephedrine product to
customers.
SELL: To knowingly furnish, give away, exchange, transfer, deliver, surrender
or supply, whether for monetary gain or not. (Ord. 6772, 10-22-2003)
7-11-2: RESTRICTIONS ON PUBLIC ACCESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to display or offer to sell any ephedrine
product unless the ephedrine product is placed behind a counter. (Ord. 6772,
10-22-2003)
7-11-3: EXCEPTION:
The prohibition contained in section
7-11-2 of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   The sale of animal feed containing ephedrine. (Ord. 6772, 10-22-2003)
7-11-4: REPORTING THEFT OR EXCESSIVE PURCHASES:
   A.   Any person who sells ephedrine products and who discovers a theft,
disappearance or other loss of ephedrine products shall report the theft,
disappearance or loss in writing to the Alton police department within three
(3) calendar days of such a discovery.
   B.   Any person who sells ephedrine products shall report to the Alton
police department any difference between the quantity of ephedrine products
shipped and the quantity of ephedrine products received within three (3)
calendar days of discovery.
   C.   Any person who sells three (3) or more ephedrine products to one
individual during one or successive transactions shall notify the Alton police
department upon the departure of the purchaser from the store, and must then
provide the police with any and all information leading to the identity of the
purchaser. (Ord. 6772, 10-22-2003)
7-11-5: PENALTY AND INJUNCTIVE RELIEF:
   A.   Each day a violation of this chapter exists shall be considered a
separate offense.
   B.   The city attorney may institute an action for injunctive relief to
enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Every act or omission constituting a violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter by any agent or employee of any person shall be deemed and held
to be the act of such person, and said person shall be punishable in the same
manner as if said act or omission had been done or omitted by him or it
personally, provided such act or omission was within the scope of employment or
the scope of authority of such agent or employee.
   D.   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in title 1,
chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 6772, 10-22-2003)
7-11-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall be in full force and take effect from and after its passage,
approval and publication as required by law. (Ord. 6772, 10-22-2003)
7-11-7: SAVING CLAUSE:
Nothing contained herein shall in any manner be deemed or construed to alter,
modify, supersede, supplant or otherwise nullify any other ordinance of the
city or requirements thereof whether or not relating to or in any manner
connected with the subject matter hereof, unless expressly set forth herein.
(Ord. 6772, 10-22-2003)
7-11-8: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any term, condition, or provision of this chapter shall, to any extent, be
held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder hereof shall be valid in all
other respects and continue to be effective and each and every remaining
provision hereof shall be valid and shall be enforced to the fullest extent
permitted by law, it being the intent of the city council that it would have
enacted this chapter without the invalid or unenforceable provisions. In the
event of a subsequent change in applicable law so that the provision which had
been invalid is no longer invalid, said provision shall thereupon return to
full force and effect without further action by the city and shall thereafter
be binding. (Ord. 6772, 10-22-2003)
CHAPTER 12
DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
7-12-1: Definitions
7-12-2: Duties Of The Director Of Public Works And The Animal Control
Supervisor
7-12-3: License And Microchipping Required
7-12-4: License Fees
7-12-5: Certificate Of Immunization Required
7-12-6: Dogs To Be Restrained
7-12-7: Reckless Pet Owners
7-12-8: Impoundment
7-12-9: Procedures On Violation
7-12-10: Nuisances Declared, Community Cat Nuisances
7-12-11: Biting Animals; Quarantine
7-12-12: Suspicion Of Rabies
7-12-13: Animal Control Officer
7-12-14: Vicious Dogs, Dangerous Dogs, Potentially Dangerous Dogs
7-12-15: Penalty
7-12-1: DEFINITIONS :
As used in this chapter, the following terms mean:
ANIMAL:      Any living creature, domestic or wild.
ANIMAL       Any person designated by the city of Alton, Illinois who is authorized to
CONTROL      investigate and enforce violations relating to animal control or cruelty under
OFFICER:     the provision of this chapter.
ANIMAL       Any premises designated by city administrative authority for the purpose of
SHELTER:     impounding and caring for animals held under authority of this chapter.
AT LARGE:    A dog that is not on its owner’s property and not leashed.
             Any contact between an animal’s mouth and teeth and the skin of a bite victim
BITE INJURY: which causes visible trauma, such as a puncture wound, laceration, or other
             piercing of the skin.
CIRCUS:      A nonresident variety show which features animal acts.
             Any unowned free roaming cat which has been sterilized, vaccinated against
COMMUNITY    rabies, ear tipped, microchipped and returned to field, and may be cared for by
CAT:         one or more community caretakers, who may be known or unknown, in the immediate
             area.
             Any organization, their employees or volunteers, authorized by the city council,
COMMUNITY    in accordance with a good faith effort to trap, sterilize, vaccinate against
CAT          rabies, and return any community cat, provide voluntary care including, but not
CARETAKER:   limited to, food, water, and medical care to a community cat or community cat
             colony.
COMMUNITY    A group of community cats that congregates, more or less, together as a unit and
CAT COLONY   shares a common food source.
OR COLONY:
DANGEROUS    Shall be defined in accordance with 510 ILCS 5/2.05a, as may be amended.
DOG:
ENCLOSURE:   Shall be defined in accordance with 510ILCS 5/2.11a, as may be amended.
FERAL CAT:   Any cat that:
            A.   Is born in the wild or is the offspring of an owned or feral cat and is not
             socialized;
            B.   Is a formerly owned cat that has been abandoned and is no longer socialized;
             or
            C.   Lives on a farm.
HUMANE       Any organization for the prevention of cruelty to animals incorporated under the
SOCIETY:     laws of the state of Illinois.
IMPOUNDMENT: Seizing and confining a dog or cat by any police officer, animal control officer
             or any other public officer under the provisions of this chapter.
             Any person, partnership or corporation engaged in the business of breeding,
KENNEL:      buying, selling or boarding dogs and cats or engaged in the training of dogs for
             guard, sentry or sporting purposes.
             Any person, partnership or corporation owning, keeping or harboring animals. A
OWNER:       community cat caretaker shall not be deemed to be an owner for the purposes of
             this chapter.
PERSON:      An individual, partnership, company or corporation.
PET:         Any animal a person considers to be a companion animal.
PET SHOP:    Any person, partnership or corporation engaged in the business of breeding,
             buying, selling or boarding animals of any species.
POTENTIALLY
DANGEROUS    Shall be defined in accordance with 510 ILCS 2.17c, as may be amended.
DOG:
PROBLEM PET  A problem pet owner is one who:
OWNER:       A.   Has committed four or more violations of this Chapter, other than licensing
             and vaccination violations, in one 12-month period; or
             B.   Has committed two or more violations of this Chapter in a 24-month period
            after having a dog owned by him or her declared to be potentially dangerous,
             dangerous, or vicious under either this Chapter or the Illinois Animal Control
             Act.
RECKLESS DOG Shall be defined in accordance with 510 ILCS 2.18b, as may be amended.
OWNER:
             An animal shall be deemed to be under restraint if on the premises of its owner
             and so confined or on a leash so as to prevent such animal from leaving the
RESTRAINT:   premises of its owner, or, if not on such premises, then on a leash no longer
             than eight feet (8') in length, unless otherwise restrained by some device to
             limit mobility.
             To return a dog in the field to its owner. To return a cat to either the owner or
RETURN:      if the cat is a feral cat to the location where it was trapped after it has been
             sterilized, microchipped and vaccinated for rabies.
THEATRICAL   Any exhibition or act featuring performing animals.
EXHIBIT:
VETERINARY   Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed veterinarian for the
HOSPITAL:    boarding of animals or the diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
             animals.
VICIOUS DOG: Shall be defined in accordance with 510ILCS 5/2.19b, as may be amended.
ZOOLOGICAL   Any park or zoo operated by a person or private corporation. (Ord. 7513, 4-27-
GARDEN:      2016; amd. Ord. 7913, 11-8-2023)
 
7-12-2: DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS AND ANIMAL CONTROL SUPERVISOR:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the of the Public Works Director and the Animal
Control Supervisor, through sterilization, humane education, rabies
inoculation, microchip clinics, stray control, impoundment, quarantine, and any
other means deemed necessary, to control and prevent the spread of rabies and
to exercise dog and cat overpopulation control. The duty shall include, but is
not limited to, return to the field, adoption, transfer to rescues or other
animal shelters, community outreach, impoundment of pets at risk and any other
humane means deemed necessary to address strays, and increase lifesaving for
dogs and cats that are not a danger to the community or suffering irremediably.
      Animal Control may maintain a page on the city’s website of impounded
strays and animals available for adoption within 48 hours of the animal’s
arrival Animal Control shall post a photo of the dog or cat on the city’s
website identifying the sex of the animal and the address where the animal
originated. (Ord. 7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-3: LICENSE AND MICROCHIPPING REQUIRED:
   A.   No person shall, without first obtaining a permit therefor in writing
from the city treasurer, own, keep, harbor or have custody of any animal over
four (4) months of age, except that this section shall not apply to the keeping
of small cage birds or aquatic and amphibian animals solely as pets. All dogs
and cats shall be microchipped, and the microchip number given to Animal
Control. A community cat caretaker shall not be deemed to own, keep, harbor or
have custody of community cats for the purposes of this section.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep or harbor within
the city more than three (3) dogs over four (4) months old, in or about any
premises or in or about all buildings on any one premises occupied by any one
family, and the keeping or harboring of dogs in excess of this number is hereby
declared to be a nuisance; the payment of permit fees on dogs shall not be
construed to allow the keeping of more than three (3) dogs; this limitation
shall not apply to any person, group of persons or corporations engaged in the
commercial business of breeding, buying, selling or boarding dogs, or operating
a veterinary hospital or a chartered animal shelter.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to keep or harbor within
the city more than three (3) cats over four (4) months old, in or about any
premises or in or about all buildings on any one premises occupied by any one
family, and the keeping or harboring of cats in excess of this number is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. The payment of permit fees on cats shall not be
construed to allow the keeping of more than three (3) cats. However, a person
may keep up to six (6) cats subject to the following requirements: If the cat
has:
      1.   Been spayed or neutered,
      2.   Received all required shots,
      3.   Been reasonably restrained to persons’ premises; provided, however,
that the cat creates no nuisance to neighboring property owners,
      4.   Proof of subsections C1 and C2 of this section required.
      This limitation shall not apply to any person, group of persons or
corporation defined as “community cat caretaker” under this chapter, engaged in
the commercial business of breeding, buying, selling or boarding cats or
operating a veterinary hospital or a chartered animal shelter.
   D.   City residents finding strays may care for the animal until the owner
is located if they notify Animal Control, have the animal scanned for a
microchip and provide animal control with a photo and any necessary
information. If a stray animal housed by a resident is not reclaimed within 10
days, the title of the animal will transfer to the finder or the finder can
make arrangements to take the animal to the shelter for adoption or transfer.
Regarding owner turn-ins, the animal shelter may accept them only if space is
available, unless it is an emergency. The Animal shelter shall be open from 7:
00 am - 3:30 pm Monday through Friday. The operating hours will be posted on
the city website. (Ord. 7513, 4-27-2016; amd. Ord. 7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-4: LICENSE FEES:
   A.   Business Licenses Involving Animals: The following regulatory
certificates, as defined in title 4, chapter 1 of this code, must be obtained
for the following business occupations and establishments:
 
Each kennel or pet shop, covering all animals kept during the year    Class B
Any zoological garden or animal act covering all animals kept         Class C
Any abattoir, stockyard, hatchery, livestock auction or other place
where livestock or poultry are regularly bred, kept, offered for sale Class C
or slaughtered for commercial purposes, covering all animals kept
during the year
Humane Society, veterinary hospital or municipal animal control       No fee
facility
 
(Ord. 7451, 4-8-201; amd. Ord. 7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-5: CERTIFICATE OF IMMUNIZATION REQUIRED:
When requested by city officials the owner or keeper of a dog or cat shall be
required to exhibit a certificate from a licensed veterinarian showing that the
dog or cat has been immunized against rabies. A community cat caretaker shall
not be deemed an owner or keeper of community cats for the purposes of this
section. It shall be a violation of this section for an owner or keeper of a
dog or cat to fail to produce a certificate from a licensed veterinarian
showing that the dog or cat was immunized against rabies within two (2)
business days after a request by city officials for such a certificate. (Ord.
7513, 4-27-2016; amd. Ord. 7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-6: DOGS AND CATS TO BE RESTRAINED:
   A.   Dogs: All dogs shall be kept under restraint. The owner of any dog not
under restraint shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
   B.   Cats: No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his
cat(s) to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance as defined in subsection
7-12-8 of this chapter. A community cat caretaker shall not be deemed an owner
of community cats for the purposes of this section. (Ord. 7513, 4-27-2016; amd.
Ord. 7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-7: RECKLESS DOG OWNERS:
   A.   Pursuant to 510ILCS 5/15.5, as maybe amended. Corporate Counsel,
Director of Public Works, or any citizen may file a complaint in circuit court
to determine whether a person is a reckless dog owner. If an owner is
determined to be a reckless dog owner by clear and convincing evidence, the
court shall order the immediate impoundment and forfeiture of all dogs the
reckless dog owner has a property right in.
   B.   Forfeiture maybe to any licensed shelter, rescue, or sanctuary. The
court shall further prohibit the ownership of a dog by the person determined to
be a reckless dog owner for a period of at least 12 months, but not more than
36 months for the first reckless dog owner determination.
   C.   A person who refuses to forfeit a dog under this Section is in
violation each day a person fails to comply with a forfeiture or prohibition
ordered under this Section and they shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord.
7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-8: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Animals Impounded: The following may be taken by police or the animal
control officer, by humane means after being scanned for a microchip, whether
found upon public or private property, and impounded in an animal shelter and
there confined in a humane manner:
      1.   Unrestrained dogs;
      2.   Cats becoming a public nuisance, as defined in section
7-12-10 of this chapter;
      3.   Any female dog or cat in heat not confined in a building or secure
enclosure in such manner that such female dog or cat cannot come into contact
with another animal except for planned breeding purposes.
   B.   Notice Of Impoundment; Disposition: Impounded dogs and cats shall be
kept for not less than five (5) days unless reclaimed by their owner or
retrieved by their caretaker. Dogs and cats shall be scanned for a microchip
prior to impoundment. If the owner or caretaker can be identified the officer
shall make every effort to return a healthy animal to the owner or caretaker
prior to impoundment, and if the animal cannot be returned in the field, the
animal control officer shall immediately, upon impoundment, notify the owner or
caretaker by telephone or mail of the impoundment of the animal. Dogs and cats
not claimed by their owners or caretakers within five (5) days, or placed in
suitable new homes, may be humanely euthanized by an agency delegated by proper
officers of the city to exercise that authority. Healthy community cats that
have been impounded may be adopted, without adherence to the aforementioned
holding period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, whenever a community cat is
visibly injured or diseased and appears to be suffering and it reasonably
appears that such cat cannot be expeditiously cured and returned to field,
transferred to a humane society or private animal nonprofit organization or
placed in foster care, then the police department or animal control officer,
acting in good faith and upon reasonable belief, may humanely euthanize the
community cat.
   C.   Impoundment Fee: Any owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay a
fee of forty dollars ($40.00) to defray the cost of impounding said animal,
plus an additional fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each day or any portion of a
day that the animal has been impounded before being reclaimed.
      Where a particular animal is impounded for a second occasion, the owners
reclaiming the impounded animal shall pay a fee of seventy five dollars
($75.00) plus fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each day or any portion of a day
that the animal has been impounded before being reclaimed.
      On third and subsequent occasions, the owner reclaiming the impounded
animal shall pay a fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) plus fifteen dollars
($15.00) for each day or any portion of a day that the animal has been
impounded before being reclaimed.
      All fees provided to be paid by this section shall be paid to the city
treasurer. The owner may also be proceeded against for violation of this
section.
      The Director of Public Works may waive any fees for good cause. (Ord.
7513, 4-27-2016; amd. Ord. 7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-9: PROCEDURES ON VIOLATION:
   A.   Notice Of Violation: The animal control officer or police officer may
issue to the known owner of any animal found to be in violation of any
provision of this chapter a notice of ordinance violation. Such notice shall
impose upon the owner a penalty of thirty dollars ($30.00) per first offense
and seventy five dollars ($75.00) for the second and subsequent offense
occurring within twelve (12) months of the prior offense. At the discretion of
the animal owner, the penalty may be paid to the City Treasurer within three
(3) business days in full satisfaction of the assessed penalty. In the event
that such penalty is not paid within the time period prescribed, an ordinance
violation complaint shall be initiated by the animal control officer before a
court of proper jurisdiction and upon conviction of a violation of this
chapter, the owner shall be punished as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Certificate Required: In the event the owner elects to pay the penalty,
within three (3) business days, as provided above, the owner shall, within ten
(10) days from date of such payment to the City Treasurer, exhibit to the City
Treasurer an inoculation certificate as required in this chapter. If such owner
fails to exhibit such inoculation permit within the time prescribed herein, the
City Treasurer shall initiate, before a court of proper jurisdiction, an
ordinance violation complaint for failure to have an inoculation certificate.
Upon conviction of such complaint, the owner shall be punished as provided in
this chapter. (Ord. 7451, 4-8-2015; amd. Ord. 7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-10: NUISANCES DECLARED:
   A.   Female Dog Or Cat In Heat: Every female dog or cat in heat shall be
confined in a building or secure enclosure in such manner that such female dog
or cat cannot come in contact with another animal except for planned breeding.
   B.   Public Nuisance: No owner shall fail to exercise proper care and
control of his animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
Excessive, continuous or untimely barking, molesting passersby, chasing
vehicles, habitually attacking other domestic animals, trespassing upon school
grounds, or trespassing upon private property in such manner as to damage
property, shall be deemed a nuisance.
   C.   Community Cat Nuisances. A community cat that disturbs the peace by
repeatedly destroying or desecrating public or private property may constitute
a public nuisance,
   D.   Animal Control may investigate an alleged violation of this section
upon the receipt of two (2) complaints in forms provided by Animal Control
signed by two (2) unrelated Alton residents living in separate dwellings in
close vicinity of the alleged violation. One (1) of the forms may be provided
by a person who works for a recognized business or agency that is located
within 100 yards of the location. The affidavit shall specify the address or
location of the alleged violation, the nature, time and date(s) of the act, the
name and address of the caretaker, if known, a description of the animal,
photographs and videos.
      If, upon investigation, the Director of Public Works determines the
complainant(s) have taken reasonable abatement measures to resolve or mitigate
the nuisance behavior of the cat. Animal Control may request the caregiver, if
any, assist in resolving the nuisance or may remove the cat causing the
nuisance. (Ord. 7451, 4-8-2015; amd. Ord. 7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-11: BITING ANIMALS; QUARANTINE:
Any animal which bites a person shall be quarantined for ten (10) days if
ordered by a police officer or the animal control officer. During quarantine,
the animal shall be securely confined and kept from contact with any other
animal. Upon the quarantine order from a police officer or the animal control
officer the owner shall surrender the animal for the required quarantine period
to any animal shelter, or, at option of the owner, to a veterinary hospital at
owner’s choice; provided, however, that all quarantine fees at either animal
shelter or veterinary hospital shall be at the expense of the owner. (Ord.
7451, 4-8-2015; amd. Ord. 7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-12: SUSPICION OF RABIES:
If any dangerous, fierce or vicious dog or any animal suspected of being rabid
cannot be safely taken up and impounded, such dog or other animal shall be
slain by any police officer or duly authorized animal control officer. In all
cases where any dog or other animal which has bitten a person, or caused an
abrasion of the skin of any person, is slain by any police officer, whether by
order of the court or otherwise, and a period of less than fifteen (15) days
has elapsed since the day on which such dog or other animal bit any person or
caused an abrasion of the skin of any person, it shall be the duty of the
police officer slaying such dog to forthwith deliver the carcass and brain to
the animal control officer who shall forward the brain intact to a laboratory
for pathological examination. If an animal suspected of being rabid can be
safely taken and impounded, such animal shall be placed in quarantine and a
diagnosis of rabies made by a licensed veterinarian. If the veterinarian
diagnoses rabies, then the animal shall be humanely killed and the head of such
animal sent to a laboratory for a pathological examination and confirmation of
the diagnosis. (Ord. 7451, 4-8-2015; amd. Ord. 7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-13: ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER:
Any animal control officer shall have police powers in the enforcement of this
chapter and no person shall interfere with, hinder, molest or abuse any animal
control officer in the exercise of such powers. (Ord. 7451, 4-8-2015; amd. Ord.
7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-14: VICIOUS DOGS, DANGEROUS DOGS, POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   For the purposes of this section, based upon clear and convincing
evidence, the opinion and discretion of the animal control officer after
conferring with the Director of Public Works or his designee:
      1.   May designate a dog found running at large and unsupervised with 3
or more other dogs as potentially dangerous. Potentially dangerous dogs shall
be spayed or neutered and microchipped within 14 days of reclaim at the owner’s
expense. The designation of “potentially dangerous dog1' shall expire 12 months
after the most recent violation of this Section. Failure to comply with this
Section will result in impoundment of the dog or a fine of $500.
      2.   May designate a dog as a dangerous dog after a thorough
investigation including:
         a.   Within 10 business days of the Director of Public Works becoming
aware of the alleged infraction shall send notifications to the owner of the
alleged infractions, the fact of the initiation of an investigation, and
affording the owner an opportunity to meet with the Director prior to the
making of a determination; gathering of any medical or veterinary evidence;
interviewing witnesses; and making a detailed written report, an animal control
warden, or law enforcement agent may ask the Director, or his or her designee,
to deem a dog to be “dangerous”;
         b.   No dog shall be deemed a “dangerous dog” unless shown to be a
dangerous dog by a preponderance of evidence. The owner shall be sent immediate
notification of the determination by registered or certified mail that includes
a complete description of the appeal process.
         c.   A dog shall not be declared dangerous if the Director determines
the conduct of the dog was justified because:
            (1)   The threat was sustained by a person who at the time was
committing a crime or offense upon the owner or custodian of the dog or was
committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises or property
occupied by the owner of the animal;
            (2)   The threatened person was abusing, assaulting, or physically
threatening the dog or its offspring;
            (3)   The injured, threatened, or killed companion animal was
attacking or threatening to attack the dog or its offspring; or
            (4)   The dog was responding to pain or injury or was protecting
itself, its owner, custodian, or a member of its household, kennel, or
offspring.
   B.   Testimony of a certified applied behaviorist, a board certified
veterinary behaviorist, or another recognized expert may be relevant to the
determination of whether the dog’s behavior was justified pursuant to the
provisions of this Section.
   C.   If deemed dangerous, the Director shall order (i) the dog to be spayed
or neutered and microchipped within 30 days at the owner’s expense, if not
already, and (ii) one or more of the following as deemed appropriate under the
circumstances and necessary for the protection of the public:
      1.   evaluation of the dog by a behaviorist, or another recognized expert
in the field and completion of training or other treatment as deemed
appropriate by the expert. The owner of the dog shall be responsible for all
costs associated with evaluations and training ordered under this subsection;
or
      2.   direct supervision by an adult 18 years of age or older whenever the
animal is on public premises.
   D.   The Administrator may order a dangerous dog to be muzzled whenever it
is on public premises in a manner that will prevent it from biting any person
or animal, but that shall not injure the dog or interfere with its vision or
respiration.
   E.   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for persons
with a physical disability, and sentry, guard, or police-owned dogs are exempt
from this Section; provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the
dog is performing duties as expected. To qualify for exemption under this
Section, each such dog shall be currently inoculated against rabies in
accordance with Section 8 of this Act and performing duties as expected.
   F.   An animal control officer has the right to impound a dangerous dog if
the owner fails to comply with the requirements.
   G.   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly or recklessly permit any
dangerous dog to leave the premises of its owner when not under control by
leash or other recognized control methods.
      The owner of a dog found to be dangerous may file a complaint against the
Director in the circuit court within 35 days of receipt of notification of the
determination, for a de novo hearing on the determination. The proceeding shall
be conducted as a civil hearing pursuant to the Illinois Rules of Evidence and
the Code of Civil Procedure, including the discovery provisions. After hearing
both parties* evidence, the court may make a determination of dangerous dog if
the Director meets his or her burden of proof. The final order of the circuit
court may be appealed pursuant to the civil appeals provisions of the Illinois
Supreme Court Rules.
   H.   Keeping Vicious Dogs Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
keep or maintain any dog which has been found to be a vicious dog unless such
dog is at all times kept in an enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may
be allowed out of the enclosure are: 1) if it is necessary for the owner or
keeper to obtain veterinary care for the vicious dog, 2) to comply wife fee
order of court of competent jurisdiction, provided that said vicious dog is
securely muzzled and restrained with a chain having tensile strength of three
hundred (300) pounds and not exceeding three feet (3') in length, and shall be
under the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the vicious
dog, the owner must be at least 18 years of age, or 3) in the case of a public
emergency.
      No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away any vicious
dog within the City limits, and no dog known to be vicious may be obtained by
an Alton resident to be kept within said City limits.
   I.   Restrictions On Keeping: The owner of a dog that has been declared a
vicious dog shall be subject to such requirements as may be imposed by the
Director of Public Works or his designee through written notification to the
owner, including, but not limited to, the following. Said owner shall comply
with the requirements imposed by the Department of Public Works within fourteen
(14) calendar days following the notification to the owner.
      1.   A vicious dog may be required to wear at all times a brightly
colored collar with a large, brightly colored metal tag attached to the collar
so that the animal can readily be identified as a dangerous animal.
      2.   The owner shall immediately notify the Department of Public Works if
a vicious dog is loose, unconfined or missing, has attacked another animal or
has attacked a human being.
      3.   No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio or in any part of a
house or structure that would allow the animal to exit such building of its own
volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a house or structure when
the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are the only
obstacle preventing the animal from exiting the structure.
      4.   The owner shall display a sign on his premises that there is a
dangerous animal on the property. This sign shall be visible and capable of
being read from the public highway or thoroughfare from which the property is
entered. In addition, a similar sign is required to be posted on the kennel or
pen or fenced yard of such animal.
      5.   A vicious dog may be off the owner’s premises only if it is muzzled.
The muzzle must be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the animal or
interfere with its vision or respiration but must prevent it from biting any
person or animal.
      6.   A vicious dog shall be sterilized within 30 days of being declared a
vicious dog.
   J.   Impoundment, Disposition:
      1.   A dog found to be a vicious dog and impounded shall not be released
to the owner until the Director ofPublic Works or his designee approves the
enclosure required in subsection B of this section.
      2.   The owner of a dog declared to be a vicious dog shall have a
reasonable amount of time, not less than ten (10) days from the date of
impounding the vicious dog, plus such extensions of time as the Director
ofPublic Works or his designee deems reasonable, in which to construct, obtain
or provide an enclosure meeting the definition of “enclosure”.
      3.   The owner of a dog declared to be a vicious dog shall inform the
Department of Public Works of the owner’s plans for the dog promptly and in any
event not more than ten (10) days after the dog was impounded. If the owner
informs the Department ofPublic Works that the owner intends to give up the dog
or if the owner fails to inform the Department of Public Works within ten (10)
days of the owner’s decision to keep the dog, or if the owner fails to make
reasonable plans for the future enclosure of the vicious dog, or if the owner
fails to satisfy the Director of Public Works or his designee of the
sufficiency of the enclosure for the vicious dog within a reasonable amount of
time, the vicious dog shall be dispatched promptly.
      4.   The owner shall pay any and all costs incurred for the keeping of
the dog, in addition to the impoundment fees assessed. All fees provided to be
paid by this section shall be paid to the City Treasurer. Proceedings may be
instituted against the owner for violation of this section and the owner’s
permit granted by this chapter may be revoked. (Ord. 7451, 4-8-2015; amd. Ord.
7913, 11-8-2023)
7-12-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished by a fine
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00). If any violation be continuing, each day’s violation
shall be deemed a separate violation. (Ord. 7451, 4-8-2015; amd. Ord. 7913, 11-
8-2023)
CHAPTER 13
NOISE ABATEMENT
SECTION:
7-13-1: Purpose
7-13-2: Definitions
7-13-3: General Prohibition
7-13-4: Noises Prohibited
7-13-5: Exemptions
7-13-6: Enforcement
7-13-7: Penalties
7-13-1: PURPOSE:
   A.   This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health,
safety, welfare, peace, and quiet of the citizens of the city through the
reduction, control, and prevention of unreasonably loud and raucous sounds, or
any noise that unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort,
repose, health, peace, or safety of persons of ordinary sensitivity. Nothing in
this chapter shall be construed as preventing the lawful exercise of right of
free speech protected by the constitution of the United States or the state of
Illinois. (Ord. 7175, 2-10-2010)
7-13-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter:
EMERGENCY: Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or imminent
physical trauma to persons or property damage demanding immediate attention.
EMERGENCY WORK: Any work performed for the purpose of preventing or alleviating
physical trauma to persons or property damage, whether actually caused or
threatened by an emergency, or any work by private or public utilities when
restoring utility service.
NOISE SENSITIVE AREA: Includes, but is not limited to, the land on which a
school, hospital, nursing home, funeral home, church, court or public library
is located and the area within two hundred fifty feet (250') of a school,
hospital, nursing home, funeral home, church, court or public library.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, joint venture or
corporation.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any street, avenue, boulevard, highway, sidewalk, alley,
or similar place normally accessible to the public that is owned or controlled
by a government entity.
PUBLIC SPACE: Any real property or structures on real property, owned by a
government entity and normally accessible to the public, including, but not
limited to, parks and other recreational areas.
RESIDENTIAL AREA: Any real property which contains a structure or building in
which one or more persons reside, provided that the structure or building is
properly zoned, or is a legal, nonconforming residential use in accordance with
the terms and maps of the city's zoning ordinance. (Ord. 7175, 2-10-2010)
7-13-3: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
   A.   No person shall make, continue, or cause to be made or continued, the
following:
      1.   Any unreasonably loud or raucous noise; or
      2.   Any noise which unreasonably disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of reasonable persons of ordinary
sensitivity, within the jurisdictional limits of the city of Alton; or
      3.   Any noise which is so harsh, prolonged, unnatural, or unusual in
time or place as to occasion unreasonable discomfort to any persons within the
neighborhood or vicinity from which said noises emanate, or any noise that
unreasonably interferes with the peace and comfort of neighbors or their
guests, or owners, operators or customers in places of business, or any noise
that shall be found to detrimentally or adversely affect any persons in any
such residences or places of business.
   B.   Factors for determining whether a sound is unreasonably loud and
raucous include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   The proximity of the sound to sleeping facilities, whether
residential or commercial;
      2.   The land use, nature, and zoning of the area from which the sound
emanates and the area where it is received or perceived;
      3.   The time of day or night the sound occurs;
      4.   The duration of the sound;
      5.   Whether the sound is recurrent, intermittent, or constant; and
      6.   Whether the sound is necessary in order to conduct lawful activity.
(Ord. 7175, 2-10-2010)
7-13-4: NOISES PROHIBITED:
   A.   The following acts are declared to be per se violations of this
chapter:
      1.   Unreasonable Noises: The making of, or knowingly permitting to be
made, any unreasonable loud, boisterous or unusual noise, disturbance,
commotion or vibration in any boarding facility, dwelling, place of business or
other structure, or upon any public street, park or other place or building.
Unreasonable noise shall not include the ordinary and usual sounds, noises,
commotion or vibration incidental to lawful activities when conducted in
accordance with the usual and reasonable standards of practice and in full
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and in a manner which will
not disturb the peace and comfort of residents or which will not detrimentally
affect the operators or customers of places of business.
      2.   Nonemergency Signaling Devices: Sounding or permitting sounding any
amplified signal from any bell, chime, siren, horn, whistle or similar device,
intended primarily for nonemergency purposes, from any place for more than ten
(10) consecutive seconds in an hourly period. The reasonable soundings of such
devices by houses of religious worship, charitable contribution solicitors, or
by the governmental officials for traffic control purposes are exempt from the
operation of this provision.
      3.   Emergency Signaling Devices: The intentional sounding or permitting
the sounding outdoors of any emergency signaling device including fire,
burglar, civil defense alarm, siren, whistle, or similar emergency signaling
device, except in an emergency, or except for test purposes as provided in
subsection A3a of this section. Local, state, and federal officials in the
performance of their governmental duties are exempt from this prohibition.
         a.   Testing of an emergency signaling device shall only occur between
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. Any testing shall use
only the minimum cycle test time. In no case shall such test time exceed five
(5) minutes. Testing of the emergency signaling system shall not occur more
than once in each calendar month.
      4.   Radios, Televisions, Boom Boxes, Phonographs, Stereos, Musical
Instruments And Similar Devices: The use or operation of a radio, television,
boom box, stereo, musical instrument, or similar device that produces or
reproduces sound in a manner that is plainly audible to any person other than
the player(s) or operator(s) of the device, and those who are voluntarily
listening to the sound, and which disturbs the peace, quiet, and comfort of
neighbors and passersby, or is plainly audible at a distance of seventy five
feet (75') from any person in a commercial, industrial area, residential or
public space, the use or operation of a radio, vehicles, television, boom box,
stereo, musical instrument, or similar device that produces or reproduces sound
in a manner that is plainly audible to any person other than the player(s) or
operator(s) of the device, and those who are voluntarily listening to the
sound, and disturbs the peace, quiet, and comfort of neighbors in residential
or noise sensitive areas, including multi-family or single-family dwellings.
      5.   Vehicles:
         a.   Sound Amplification Systems: The use or operation of any sound
amplification system from a vehicle that produces or reproduces sound in a
manner that is plainly audible to any person other than the occupants of the
vehicle, and which disturbs the peace, quiet and comfort of passersby or is
plainly audible at a distance of seventy five feet (75') from any persons in a
commercial, industrial, residential, or public place.
         b.   Motor Vehicle Operation: Motor vehicles, including motorcycles,
whose mere operation produces a loud and raucous noise and that produces any
noise that is plainly audible at a distance of seventy five feet (75'). This
provision includes any vehicle in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/12-602 (mufflers, prevention of noise). Every motor vehicle driven or
operated within the city of Alton shall at all times be equipped with an
adequate and lawful muffler or exhaust system in constant operation and
properly maintained to prevent any excessive or unusual noise. No such muffler
or exhaust system shall be equipped with a cutout, bypass or similar device. No
exhaust system shall be modified in a manner, which will amplify or increase
the noise of such exhaust system above that admitted by the muffler originally
installed on the vehicle.
      6.   Loudspeakers, Amplifiers, Public Address Systems And Similar
Devices: The loud and raucous use or operation of loudspeaker, amplifier,
public address system, or other device for producing or reproducing sound
(except as may be permitted by the city of Alton code of ordinances, and/or by
permitted use at the Alton Amphitheater, Alton public school stadium, or other
lawful event) if:
         a.   Within or adjacent to residential or noise sensitive areas; or
         b.   Within public space if the sound is plainly audible across the
real property line of the public space from which the sound emanates, and is
loud and raucous. This shall not apply to any public performance, gathering, or
parade for which a permit had been obtained from the local government.
      7.   Yelling, Shouting, And Similar Activities: Yelling, shouting,
hooting, whistling, or singing in residential or noise sensitive areas or in
public places, between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. of the following day, or at any time or place so as to disturb the
quiet, comfort, or repose of reasonable persons of ordinary sensitivities.
      8.   Animals And Birds: Loud and raucous noise emitted by an animal or
bird for which a person is responsible. A person is responsible for an animal
if the person owns, controls, or otherwise cares for the animal or bird. Sounds
made by animals or birds in animal shelters, veterinary hospitals, pet shops,
or pet kennels licensed under, and in compliance with licensing and zoning
provisions as set forth in this code and which use reasonable measures to
minimize such sounds emanating from their property are exempt from this
subsection.
      9.   Loading Or Unloading Merchandise, Materials, Equipment: The creation
of loud, raucous, and excessive noise in connection with the loading or
unloading of any vehicle at a place of business or residence between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. of the following day.
      10.   Construction Or Repair Of Buildings, Excavation Of Streets And
Highways: The construction, demolition, alteration or repair of any building or
the excavation of streets and highways between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on weekdays and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on weekends. Local, state, and federal officials and
agents in the performance of their governmental duties are exempt from this
prohibition. In cases of emergencies as defined in this chapter, construction
or repair noises are exempt from this provision.
      11.   Noise Sensitive Areas - Schools, Courts, Churches, Hospitals, And
Similar Institutions: The creation of any loud and raucous noise adjacent to or
within any noise sensitive area which interferes with the workings of the
institution or which unreasonably disturbs a person in these institutions is
unlawful.
      12.   Blowers, And Similar Devices: In residential or noise sensitive
areas, between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00)
A.M. of the following day, the operation of any noise creating blower, power
fan, or any internal combustion engine which produces a loud and raucous noise
that can be heard across the property line of the property from which it
emanates is unlawful. This subsection shall not apply to snowblowers and other
snow removal machinery nor to landscaping operations conducted on golf courses.
      13.   Commercial And Industrial Establishments: Loud and raucous noise
from the premises of any commercial establishment, including any outdoor area
which is part of or under the control of the establishment, between the hours
of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. of the following day
and which is audible at any residential property located not less than seventy
five feet (75') from the source of the noise. (Ord. 7175, 2-10-2010)
7-13-5: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Sounds caused by the following are exempt from the prohibitions set out
in this chapter and are in addition to the exemptions specifically set forth:
      1.   Repairs Of Utility Structures: Repairs of utility structures, which
are damaged, in disrepair, or out of service and where such conditions, pose a
clear and immediate danger to life, health, or significant loss of property.
      2.   Emergency Vehicles: Sirens, whistles, horns or bells lawfully used
by emergency vehicles.
      3.   Alarm Systems: Alarm systems activated in case of fire, collision,
civil defense, police activity, or imminent danger.
      4.   Repairs Or Excavations By Government: Repairs or excavations of
bridges, streets, or highways by or on behalf of the city of Alton, the state
of Illinois, or the federal government.
      5.   Outdoor School And Playground Activities: Reasonable activities
conducted on public playgrounds and public or private school grounds, which are
conducted in accordance with the manner in which such spaces are generally
used, including, but not limited to, school athletic and school sponsored
sporting or entertainment events.
      6.   Other Outdoor Events: Outdoor gatherings, public dances, shows,
parades, festivals, and other similar outdoor events, provided that such
activities are in all respects in compliance with any applicable laws or
regulations, including possible permits required and appropriate zoning. (Ord.
7175, 2-10-2010)
7-13-6: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   The chief of police, or his designees, will have primary responsibility
for the enforcement of the noise regulations herein. Nothing in this chapter
shall prevent the police chief, or his designees, from obtaining voluntary
compliance by way of warning, notice, or education. (Ord. 7175, 2-10-2010)
7-13-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   A violation of the provision of this chapter is punishable by a fine of
no less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) but no more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00).
   B.   A subsequent violation of this chapter by the same person, which
occurred within thirty (30) days of a violation, is punishable by a fine of no
less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) but no more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00).
   C.   Each occurrence of a violation of this chapter or, in the case of a
continuous violation, each day a violation occurs or continues, shall
constitute a separate offense and may be punishable separately.
   D.   A motor vehicle, operated with the permission, express or implied, of
the owner of record, that is used in the violation of subsection
7-13-4A5 of this chapter, shall be subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant
to subsection
 8-8-10A8 of this code. The penalties addressed in this section shall be in
addition to any impoundment fees and costs as authorized in title 8, chapter 8
of this code. (Ord. 7175, 2-10-2010)
CHAPTER 14
MDPV PROHIBITED
SECTION:
7-14-1: Purpose
7-14-2: Definitions
7-14-3: General Prohibition
7-14-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city of Alton by prohibiting the possession,
distribution or delivery of any substance containing "MDPV" as hereinafter
defined, it being the specific finding of the city of Alton that such
substances have a dangerous effect upon anyone using said substances and have
no medicinal or beneficial purposes. (Ord. 7253, 4-27-2011)
7-14-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words have the meanings as hereinafter
provided:
DELIVER: The actual, constructive, or attempted transfer from one person to
another of MDPV, whether or not there is an agency relationship, and includes a
sale.
DISTRIBUTE: To deliver other than by administering or dispensing MDPV.
MDPV: Includes any material, compound, mixture or preparation containing any
quantity of the following substances having a stimulant effect on the central
nervous system, including their salts, isomers and salts of isomers of 3.4
Methylenedioxyprovalerone, Methylone, Mephedrone, 4-methoxymethcathinone, 4-
Fluormethcathinine, and 3-Fluoromethcathinone.
POSSESS: With the knowledge of the presence and nature of a substance, either
actually or constructively in control of a substance. A person has actual
possession if he has the substance on his person or within easy reach and
convenient control. A person who, although not in actual possession, has the
power and intention at a given time to exercise dominion or control over the
substance either directly or through another person or persons is in
constructive possession of it. (Ord. 7253, 4-27-2011)
7-14-3: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, distribute or deliver any
substance containing "MDPV" as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 7253, 4-27-2011)
CHAPTER 15
SCRAP METAL
SECTION:
7-15-1: Purpose
7-15-2: Definitions
7-15-3: Electronic Database Requirements
7-15-4: Purchase Of HVAC Scrap Metal; Requirements
7-15-5: Restricted Purchases; Exceptions
7-15-6: Purchase Of Scrap Metal; Requirements
7-15-7: Hold Notice
7-15-8: Penalty For Violation
7-15-9: Video Surveillance System
7-15-10: Use Of Scrap Theft Alert System
7-15-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health, safety,
welfare, peace and protection of private property of the citizens and
businesses of the city through the regulation of scrap metal dealers so as to
more effectively prohibit a criminal from selling small amounts of scrap metal
to a scrap metal dealer, which oftentimes is the result of theft of property.
(Ord. 7304, 5-14-2012)
7-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated
in this section:
SCRAP METAL: Any ferrous or nonferrous metal that is no longer used for its
original purpose and is capable of being processed for reuse by a metal
recycling facility, including, but not limited to, iron, brass, wire, cable,
copper, bronze, aluminum, platinum, lead, solder, steel, stainless steel,
catalytic converters, or other similar obsolete ferrous or nonferrous
materials, but shall not include recyclable aluminum cans.
SCRAP METAL DEALER: Any entity (person, firm, company, partnership,
association, or corporation) who purchases products containing ferrous or
nonferrous metals for recycling or resale. Ferrous metals contain iron, for
example, mild steel, high carbon steel, stainless steel and iron. Nonferrous
metals are for example, aluminum, brass and copper or any other metal alloy
containing these materials, but shall not include recyclable aluminum cans.
(Ord. 7304, 5-14-2012)
7-15-3: ELECTRONIC DATABASE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   By no later than July 1, 2012, every scrap metal dealer shall install
and maintain a retrievable electronic database containing a consecutively
numbered record of each and every purchase.
   B.   Any person selling, exchanging, or trading ferrous or nonferrous
materials including, but not limited to: catalytic converters, scrap iron,
brass, wire, cable, copper, lead or secondhand metals of any sort shall present
valid driver's license and/or a picture identification from a state or federal
issuing agency (i.e., state issued identification or passport) to the scrap
metal dealer.
   C.   Scrap metal dealers shall, at the time of making the purchase, enter
into the electronic database the following information:
      1.   Name, sex, date of birth, and residential address of the seller.
      2.   Date of the scrap metal purchase.
      3.   Driver's license number and/or a picture identification number from
a state or federal issuing agency (i.e., state issued identification or
passport) capable of identifying the seller.
      4.   Amount paid therefor.
      5.   Kind of metal purchased or received.
      6.   Number of pounds of each kind.
      7.   License plate number of vehicle delivering material.
The information entered into the electronic database shall be completed in full
without any missing data or information.
   D.   A transaction receipt shall consist of the same information required
under subsection C of this section. The seller shall sign the transaction
receipt and shall receive a copy of the transaction receipt. The scrap metal
dealer shall also sign the transaction receipt. On the scrap metal dealer copy
of the record of the transaction, the seller shall reproduce his or her right
thumbprint. In the event the right thumb is amputated, then such other
fingerprint as required by the scrap metal dealer shall be taken and such
fingerprint fully described on such record. This thumbprint shall be reproduced
and taken in the usually approved manner and shall not be blurred or
obliterated.
   E.   The electronic database shall at all times be open to the inspection of
the police or other officer who may desire to see it, during normal business
hours without warrant or subpoena and shall be kept in good faith and preserved
on site by such dealer for convenient inspection for a period of three (3)
years from the date of the scrap metal sale.
   F.   The scrap metal dealer shall inquire as to where the scrap metal was
obtained for the purpose of determining if purchasing scrap metal from that
person is a lawful transaction. If the seller presents a bill of sale, receipt
or other document indication that the person is in lawful possession of the
scrap metal, or was otherwise lawfully acquired, the dealer shall photocopy
such document and maintain it with the transaction information otherwise
required by this section.
   G.   No scrap metal dealer shall purchase or otherwise receive from a minor
under the age of eighteen (18) any personal property of any kind with the
exception of aluminum cans. No voucher shall be required for the sale and
purchase of aluminum cans. (Ord. 7304, 5-14-2012)
7-15-4: PURCHASE OF HVAC SCRAP METAL; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It is an offense for a scrap metal dealer to knowingly accept any HVAC
components unless accompanied by written authorization from a licensed HVAC
business evidencing that the components were legally removed and the seller has
the legal right to sell the material.
   B.   Payment for scrap metal described in subsection A of this section shall
be:
      1.   No payment shall be made in the form of cash.
      2.   Made by check or money order to a licensed HVAC contractor named by
the seller; and
      3.   After a period of three (3) business days from the date of the scrap
transaction such check or money order shall be mailed to the business address
of the licensed HVAC contractor; and
      4.   The payee on the check shall be the name of such licensed HVAC
contractor; and
      5.   Checks may not be converted to cash by a scrap metal dealer or by
any related entity. (Ord. 7304, 5-14-2012)
7-15-5: RESTRICTED PURCHASES; EXCEPTIONS:
   A.   It is an offense to knowingly sell or attempt to sell to a scrap metal
dealer or for a scrap metal dealer to knowingly purchase or attempt to purchase
the following types of scrap metal:
      1.   Materials sold by a business but brought in by an individual, such
as new materials that are part of a manufacturing process.
      2.   Property which is often used by government, utilities, railroads or
other specific industries such as guardrails, manhole covers, traffic signs,
railroad signs, copper gutters or downspouts, certain cables used only in high
voltage transmission lines, historical markers and cemetery plaques.
      3.   Full sized, new materials, such as those used in construction,
equipment or tools used by contractors.
      4.   Property which might not be new but are clearly suspect, such as
traffic signs or ten foot (10') lengths of copper or aluminum spouts or
gutters.
      5.   Materials which are clearly marked as property belonging to a
business or someone else other than the seller.
      6.   Catalytic converters unless purchased directly from a vehicle repair
business.
   B.   An exception to this section is if the person attempting to sell the
scrap metal provides reasonable, written documentation that the seller is the
owner of the scrap metal or is an employee, agent, or other person authorized
to sell the scrap metal on behalf of the owner. The dealer shall make a
photocopy of any documentation provided pursuant to this subsection and retain
the copy as part of the transaction record, and maintain such photocopy for a
period of three (3) years following the transaction. All photocopies shall be
made available for inspection upon request by law enforcement officials. (Ord.
7304, 5-14-2012)
7-15-6: PURCHASE OF SCRAP METAL; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It is an offense for a scrap metal dealer to pay cash to a person who
presents "scrap metal" at the time of the transaction.
   B.   After a period of three (3) business days from the date of the scrap
transaction such check or money order shall be mailed to the seller's address
listed on the government issued identification card used in the transaction.
   C.   The payee on the check shall be the name of the seller who conducted
the transaction.
   D.   Issue check for all industrial accounts under company name, no cash
given to employee or owner.
   E.   No scrap dealers shall buy copper wire that was burned in whole or in
part to remove the insulation unless the seller can produce written proof to
the scrap metal dealer that the wire was lawfully burned. (Ord. 7304, 5-14-
2012)
7-15-7: HOLD NOTICE:
If the scrap dealer suspects copper or metal property in their possession to be
stolen or lost they shall immediately notify the police department and provide
the owner's name, if known, and provide the seller's personal information. If
there is reasonable suspicion that the property may be stolen, a ten (10) day
holdover will be placed on the property. (Ord. 7304, 5-14-2012)
7-15-8: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation. Every
transaction conducted by a scrap metal merchant in violation of the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed a separate violation.
   B.   In addition to the penalties described in this section the city may
revoke any license or permit issued for the business of the scrap metal
merchant.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude a person in
violation of this section from also being prosecuted for any applicable
criminal offense. (Ord. 7304, 5-14-2012)
7-15-9: VIDEO SURVEILLANCE SYSTEM:
A video surveillance system shall be required on site which includes sufficient
cameras and angles to capture at minimum a resolution of 640x480 pixels per
camera and a minimum of the following angles/identification information
relevant to each transaction:
   A.   The vehicle with which the scrap metal was delivered in.
   B.   The license or tag plate of each vehicle delivering the scrap metals.
   C.   Full frame face and torso video of the individual selling scrap metal,
supplying identification, and receiving payment for the sale. (Ord. 7304, 5-14-
2012)
7-15-10: USE OF SCRAP THEFT ALERT SYSTEM:
   A.   A scrap metal dealer shall register with or subscribe to, and maintain
that registration or subscription with, an internet based alert system
available to dealers, law enforcement agencies, and the general public that
lists and tracks, at a minimum, thefts of nonferrous metal and articles
containing nonferrous metals. The alert system may be reasonably limited in
terms of time and geographical area.
   B.   The existing alert system established by the Institute Of Scrap
Recycling Industries, Inc., referred to as the IRSI scrap theft alert system,
is considered an appropriate internet based alert system. A dealer may register
with or subscribe to any other alert system that provides substantially the
same services as the alert system described in subsection A of this section.
(Ord. 7304, 5-14-2012)
CHAPTER 16
KRATOM PROHIBITED
SECTION:
7-16-1: Purposes
7-16-2: Definitions
7-16-3: General Prohibition
7-16-1: PURPOSES:
This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the City of Alton by prohibiting the possession,
distribution or delivery of any substance containing kratom as hereinafter
defined, it being the specific finding of the City of Alton that such
substances have a dangerous effect upon anyone using said substances and have
no practical medicinal or beneficial purposes. (Ord. 7628, 3-28-2018)
7-16-2: DEFINITIONS:
When used in this chapter, the following words have the meanings as hereinafter
provided;
DELIVER: The actual, constructive, or attempted transfer from one person to
another of kratom, whether or not there is an agency relationship, and includes
a sale.
DISTRIBUTE: To deliver other than by administering or dispensing kratom.
KRATOM: Includes any product, material, compound, mixture or preparation
containing any quantity of the following substances having a stimulant effect
on the central nervous system, 7-Hydroxymitragynine, Mitragynine, and
Epicatechin.
POSSESS: Means with the knowledge of the presence and nature of a substance,
either actually or constructively to be in control of a substance. A person has
actual possession if he has the substance on his person or within easy reach
and convenient control. A person who, although not in actual possession, has
the power and intention at a given time to exercise dominion or control over
the substance either directly or through another person or persons is in
constructive possession of it. (Ord. 7628, 3-28-2018)
7-16-3: GENERAL PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, distribute or deliver any
substance containing kratom as defined in this chapter. (Ord. 7628, 3-28-2018)
CHAPTER 17
USED TIRES AND RIMS SALES
SECTION:
7-17-1: Purpose
7-17-2: Definitions
7-17-3: Electronic Database Requirements
7-17-4: Purchase Of Used Tires And Rims; Requirements
7-17-5: Hold Notice
7-17-6: Penalty For Violation
7-17-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted to protect, preserve and promote the health, safety,
welfare, peace and protection of private property of the citizens and
businesses of the City through the regulation of used tires and rims so as to
more effectively prohibit a criminal from selling which oftentimes is the
result of theft of property. (Ord. 7626, 4-11-2018, eff. retroactive to 4-1-
2018)
7-17-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning indicated
in this section:
USED RIMS: Any vehicle tire rim that is not new from the manufacturer.
USED TIRES: Any tire that is not new from the manufacturer. (Ord. 7626, 4-11-
2018, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2018)
7-17-3: ELECTRONIC DATABASE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   By no later than June 1, 2018, every used tires and rims dealer shall
install and maintain a retrievable electronic database containing a
consecutively numbered record of each and every purchase.
   B.   Any person selling, exchanging, or trading used tires and rims of any
sort shall present valid driver's license and/or a picture identification from
a state or Federal issuing agency (i.e., state issued identification or
passport) to the used tires and rims dealer.
   C.   Used tires and rims dealers shall, at the time of making the purchase,
enter into the electronic database the following information:
      1.   Name, sex, date of birth, and residential address of the seller.
      2.   Date of the used tires and rims purchase.
      3.   Driver's license number and/or a picture identification number from
a state or Federal issuing agency (i.e., state issued identification or
passport) capable of identifying the seller.
      4.   Amount paid therefor.
      5.   Kind of used tires or rims purchased or received.
The information entered into the electronic database shall be completed in full
without any missing data or information.
   D.   A transaction receipt shall consist of the same information required
under subsection C of this section. The seller shall sign the transaction
receipt and shall receive a copy of the transaction receipt. The used tires and
rims dealer shall also sign the transaction receipt.
   E.   The electronic database shall at all times be open to the inspection of
the police or other officer who may desire to see it, during normal business
hours without warrant or subpoena and shall be kept in good faith and preserved
on site by such dealer for convenient inspection for a period of three (3)
years from the date of the used tires and rims sale.
   F.   The used tires and rims dealer shall inquire as to where the used tires
and rims were obtained for the purpose of determining if purchasing used tires
and rims from that person is a lawful transaction. If the seller presents a
bill of sale, receipt or other document indication that the person is in lawful
possession of the used tires and rims, or was otherwise lawfully acquired, the
dealer shall photocopy such document and maintain it with the transaction
information otherwise required by this section.
   G.   No used tires or rims dealer shall purchase or otherwise receive from a
minor under the age of eighteen (18) any personal property of any kind. (Ord.
7626, 4-11-2018, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2018)
7-17-4: PURCHASE OF USED TIRES AND RIMS; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It is an offense for a used tires and rims dealer to pay cash to a
person who presents used tires and rims at the time of the transaction. A check
may be issued.
   B.   The payee on the check shall be the name of the seller who conducted
the transaction.
   C.   A dealer must issue check for all industrial accounts under company
name, no cash given to employee or owner. (Ord. 7626, 4-11-2018, eff.
retroactive to 4-1-2018)
7-17-5: HOLD NOTICE:
If the used tires and rims dealer suspects tires or rims in their possession to
be stolen or lost they shall immediately notify the Police Department and
provide the owner's name, if known, and provide the seller's personal
information. If there is reasonable suspicion that the property may be stolen,
a ten (10) day holdover will be placed on the property. (Ord. 7626, 4-11-2018,
eff. retroactive to 4-1-2018)
7-17-6: PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
   A.   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation. Every
transaction conducted by a used tires and rims merchant in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a separate violation.
   B.   In addition to the penalties described in this section the City may
revoke any license or permit issued for the business of the used tires and rims
merchant.
   C.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to preclude a person in
violation of this section from also being prosecuted for any applicable
criminal offense. (Ord. 7626, 4-11-2018, eff. retroactive to 4-1-2018)
CHAPTER 18
DISPOSITION OF LOST, FOUND, OR ABANDONED PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-18-1: Purpose
7-18-2: Definitions
7-18-3: Disposal Of Property
7-18-4: Proceeds
7-18-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is for the orderly disposition of lost, found, or
abandoned property within the custody of the City of Alton Police Department.
(Ord. 7693, 4-24-2019)
7-18-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
ABANDONED PROPERTY: Includes property found by an employee or citizen that
appears to be intentionally left or discarded by the owner.
EXEMPTED PROPERTY: Firearms that have been confiscated as a result of having
been abandoned or illegally possessed.
LOST OR FOUND PROPERTY: Property found by an employee or citizen that has no
apparent criminal evidentiary value and where the owner cannot be readily
identified or contacted. (Ord. 7693, 4-24-2019)
7-18-3: DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Return To Owner: The Alton Police Department shall make every
reasonable inquiry and effort to identify and notify the owner or other person
entitled to possession of the lost, found, or abandoned property and shall
return the property after such person provides reasonable and satisfactory
proof of his ownership or right to possession and reimburse the agency for all
reasonable expenses of such custody, if any.
   B.   Sale: If the identity or location of the owner or other person entitled
to possession of the property has not been ascertained within six (6) months
after the Alton Police Department obtains such possession, the Chief of Police,
or his/her designee, shall effectuate the sale of the property for cash to the
highest bidder at public auction. Notice of the public auction, including time,
place, and a brief description of the property, shall be published in at least
one newspaper of general circulation in the City of Alton at least ten (10)
days prior to such auction. Property offered but not sold at such public
auction may be offered and sold at a subsequent public auction without the
notice requirement.
   C.   Donate: If the Chief of Police, or his/her designee, believes that the
value of the property is less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), and the
donation is approved by the Alton City Council, the property may be donated to
a charitable organization which is currently registered in the State of
Illinois.
   D.   Destruction: If no legitimate or lawful claim is made for the property,
or the property is deemed unsuitable for sale at public auction or donation,
then it may be destroyed. In determining whether to destroy lost, found, or
abandoned property, the Chief of Police, or his/her designee, shall consider
the value, hazardousness, state of repair/disrepair, functionality, and/or
soiled state of the property. The Chief of Police, or his/her designee, shall
carry out the destruction of the property not otherwise returned, sold, or
donated. (Ord. 7693, 4-24-2019)
7-18-4: PROCEEDS:
Proceeds of the sale of the property at public auction, less reimbursement to
the City of Alton Police Department for reasonable expenses of custody thereof
shall be deposited with the Alton City Treasurer. (Ord. 7693, 4-24-2019)
(Ord. 4714, 11-24-1982, eff. 1-1-1983; amd. Ord. 6354, 12-16-1998; Ord. 6607,
10-10-2001, eff. 1-1-2002; Ord. 6730, 5-14-2003; Ord. 6991, 2-28-2007; Ord.
7023, 9-26-2007; Ord. 7026, 9-12-2007; Ord. 7051, 12-19-2007; Ord. 7059, 3-26-
2008; Ord. 7085, 6-11-2008; Ord. 7109, 12-10-2008; Ord. 7135, 4-22-2009; Ord.
7173, 12-16-2009; Ord. 7192, 4-28-2010; Ord. 7199, 5-26-2010; Ord. 7242, 2-23-
2011; Ord. 7271, 8-24-2011; Ord. 7279, 10-12-2011; Ord. 7297, 2-22-2012; Ord.
7303, 3-28-2012; Ord. 7318, 8-8-2012; Ord. 7324, 10-10-2012; Ord. 7369, 8-28-
2013; Ord. 7426, 10-22-2014; Ord. 7430, 12-10-2014; Ord. 7511, 4-13-2016; Ord.
7535, 9-14-2016; Ord. 7609, 12-20-2017; Ord. 7611, 12-20-2017; Ord. 7671, 12-
12-2018; Ord. 7684, 2-27-2019; Ord. 7688, 3-13-2019; Ord. 7726, 11-13-2019;
Ord. 7746, 3-12-2020; Ord. 7781, 10-15-2020; amd. 7798, 2-25-2021; Ord. 7799,
3-11-2021; Ord. 7803, 4-29-2021; Ord. 7804, 4-29-2021; Ord. 7806, 4-29-2021;
Ord. 7809, 5-13-2021; Ord. 7810, 5-13-2021; Ord. 7816, 10-27-2021; Ord. 7836,
5-25-2022; Ord. 7842, 6-8-2022; Ord. 7844, 6-22-2022; Ord. 7845, 6-22-2022;
Ord. 7924, 1-10-2024)
CHAPTER 19
CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
SECTION:
7-19-1:    Purpose
7-19-2:    Definitions
7-19-3:    Unlawful Camping Or Storage Of Personal Property In Public Places
7-19-4:    Enforcement; Warnings; Removal And Confiscation Of Debris And
Personal Property
7-19-5:    Penalties
7-19-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to prevent harm to the health and safety of the
public and to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare by
prohibiting unauthorized camping and storage of personal property on public
property within the City, which interferes with the right of others to use the
areas for the purposes for which they were intended. (Ord. 7923, 12-20-2023)
7-19-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
BRIDGE: A structure, including the approaches thereto, erected in order to
afford passage over any obstruction in any public road, railroad, or other
right-of-way, or to afford passage under or over existing public roads,
railroads, or other rights-of-way.
CAMP OR CAMPING: To pitch, use, or occupy camp facilities, or to use camp
paraphernalia, or both, for the purpose of habitation. Camp or camping does not
include the use of public property or public facilities for recreational use or
for authorized public or private events that involve the use of tents, awnings,
or other structures in connection with such recreational use or authorized
public or private event.
CAMP FACILITIES: Include, but are not limited to, tents, huts, temporary
shelters, campers, recreational vehicles, or trailers. Camp facilities do not
include tents, huts, or temporary shelters, when used temporarily in a park for
recreation or play during daylight hours when the park is open to the public.
CAMP PARAPHERNALIA: Includes, but is not limited to, tarpaulins, cots, beds,
sleeping bags, hammocks, blankets, mattresses, or cooking facilities and
similar equipment.
PARK: Any publicly owned area controlled by the City or other governmental
entity for park purposes. Park also includes all associated areas, including
parking lots for parks.
PUBLIC PROPERTY: Without limitation, any real property, building, structure,
equipment, sign, shelter, vegetation, greenspace, playground, bench, trail,
picnic shelters, recreational and athletic fields, and public open space,
including all associated areas such as parking lots, controlled or owned by the
City of Alton or any other governmental agency.
STORE OR STORING: To put aside or accumulate for use when needed, to put for
safekeeping, or to place or leave in a location, leaving one’s personal
property such as, without limitation, clothing, bedrolls, cookware, sleeping
bags, luggage, shopping carts, knapsacks, or backpacks, unattended for more
than one hour.
STREET: Any highway, lane, road, street (including adjacent shoulders, medians,
and terrace areas), right-of-way, sidewalk, boulevard, alley, and every way or
place in the City open as a matter of right to public pedestrian and vehicular
travel.
UNAUTHORIZED ENCAMPMENT: The collection of camp facilities, camp paraphernalia,
and/or personal property used for unauthorized camping in violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 7923, 12-20-2023)
7-19-3: UNLAWFUL CAMPING OR STORAGE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY IN PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to camp, or to engage in the activity of
unauthorized camping, or to store personal property, including camp facilities
or camp paraphernalia as defined in this Section of the ordinance, within the
following areas:
   A.   Any street; or
   B.   Any bridge; or
   C.   Any park; or
   D.   Any public property, improved or unimproved; or
   E.   Any public property where camping obstructs or interferes with the
intended public use of the property. (Ord. 7923, 12-20-2023)
7-19-4: ENFORCEMENT; WARNINGS; REMOVAL AND CONFISCATION OF DEBRIS AND PERSONAL
PROPERTY:
The chief of police, or their designee(s), will have primary responsibility for
the enforcement of the camping regulations herein. Nothing in this chapter
shall prevent the police chief, or their designee(s), from obtaining voluntary
compliance by way of warning, notice, education, or coordination with other
willing public or private entities and/or community members.
   A.   Prior to issuing any citation pursuant to this Chapter, the
investigating officer shall provide a verbal and written warning to cease such
unlawful conduct and a verbal and written referral for possible alternatives to
their present camping practices, such as, (without limitation), transportation,
shelter, and/or contact information to public or private agencies who may be
able to provide services or support. Any public or private entities who wish to
assist the Alton Police Department (“Department”) in effectively and humanely
transitioning individuals from unauthorized encampments on public property to
an environment consistent with City ordinances should contact the Department
with a description of what services they can provide and effective contact
information. The Department will develop and maintain a policy to include
procedural guidance regarding the implementation of this chapter. The
Department shall consult relevant professional resources and engage interested
community members, service providers, or other willing public or private
entities when designing and implementing this policy. The policy shall be
published and implemented no later than 6 months after the passage of this
chapter. The policy shall provide for the collection of relevant data that
shall be used to review and revise the manual every three (3) years, or as
needed. Said revision shall be made in the same manner the policy is developed.
   B.   Police shall exercise discretion to ensure that individuals are not
cited for violating this chapter due only to a true personal necessity that
requires their present unauthorized camping practices. When possible, the
Department may work directly with community members, service providers or other
willing public or private entities to determine whether a true personal
necessity exists in a particular circumstance. The department shall provide
specific support, guidance and contacts for officers. But it shall be evidence
that no true personal necessity exists if the individual who is camping refuses
to take advantage of proffered alternatives to their present camping practices
(which could include, in the most extreme cases, short term use of another
location more easily monitored by the police).
   C.   Upon a determination by law enforcement that an area constitutes an
unauthorized encampment, regardless of whether an individual is cited for a
violation of this chapter, City officials shall have the right to remove any
debris, contraband, or personal property that creates a legitimate health and
safety concern, or that creates an immediate and substantial danger to the
environment. No warning is required prior to such confiscation relating to
health and safety concerns.
   D.   Materials confiscated pursuant to this chapter that are unsanitary or a
danger to the health and safety of any person may be immediately disposed of.
Otherwise, the Department shall provide 24 hour written notice prior to
confiscating property.
   The Department shall retain personal property confiscated pursuant to this
chapter in a manner consistent with the handling of other confiscated property,
and must not dispose of such personal property for a period of at least 30
calendar days, during which time the owner may retrieve such property from the
Department, pursuant to the procedure outlined in the policy. Nothing prevents
Department members from disposing of property with the consent of the property
owner. When Department members have received consent to dispose of property,
City officials shall assist Department members when necessary. (Ord. 7923, 12-
20-2023)
7-19-5: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter may be punishable
by a fine of no more than one hundred dollars ($ 100.00). All fines under this
chapter may be satisfied by cash payment or community service.
   B.   Any person who commits a subsequent violation of this chapter, which
occurred within thirty (30) days of a violation, may be punishable by a fine of
no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). All fines under this chapter may
be satisfied by cash payment or community service.
   C.   Each occurrence of a violation of this chapter or, in the case of a
continuous violation, each day a violation occurs or continues, may constitute
a separate offense and may be punishable separately. (Ord. 7923, 12-20-2023)
TITLE 8
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Short Title
8-1-2: Applicability Of Title
8-1-3: Definitions
8-1-4: Enforcement Of Regulations
8-1-5: Report On Proposed Amendments To Traffic Ordinances
8-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title may be known and cited as the TRAFFIC CODE. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-1-2: APPLICABILITY OF TITLE:
The provisions of this Title shall apply to the operator of any privately or
publicly owned vehicle or any vehicle owned by or used in the service of any
governmental agency, except as otherwise provided herein; and any person doing
any act forbidden or failing to perform any act required by this Title shall be
fined as provided in this Code. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966; amd. Ord. 4255, 11-23-
1977)
8-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this Title shall have the
following meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section.
ALLEY: A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of the Fire Department,
ambulances and such emergency vehicles of governmental agencies or public
service corporations as are designated or authorized by the Chief of Police.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is more than twenty inches (20")
in diameter.
BUSINESS DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway when
within any six hundred feet (600') along such highway there are buildings in
use for business or industrial purposes, including, but not limited to, hotels,
banks or office buildings, railroad stations and public buildings which occupy
at least three hundred feet (300') of frontage on one side or three hundred
feet (300') collectively on both sides of the highway.
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT: All streets or portions of streets within the area
zoned for C-4 Central Business District uses.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Every vehicle designed, maintained or used primarily for
the transportation of property.
CONTROLLED-ACCESS HIGHWAY: Every highway, street or roadway in respect to which
owners or occupants of abutting lands and other persons have no legal right of
access to or from the same except at such points only and in such manner as may
be determined by the public authority having jurisdiction over such highway,
street or roadway.
CROSSWALK: That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs from the edges of
the traversable roadway. Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or
elsewhere distinctly indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other
markings on the surface.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the roadways
of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different highways
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
Where a highway includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more apart, then
every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting
highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such
intersecting highway also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more
apart, then every crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be
regarded as a separate intersection.
LANED ROADWAY: A roadway which is divided into two (2) or more clearly marked
lanes for vehicular traffic.
LOADING ZONE: A space adjacent to a curb reserved for the exclusive use of
vehicles during the loading or unloading of passengers or materials.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is propelled otherwise than by muscular
power, including, but not limited to, motorcycles, motor-driven cycles, pole
trailers, reconstructed vehicles, road tractors, school buses, semi-trailers,
special mobile equipment, specially constructed vehicles, trackless trailer
coaches, trailers, trucks, truck-tractors. Motor vehicles which are designed
and used for the carrying of not more than seven (7) persons shall be
classified as motor vehicles of the first division. Those motor vehicles which
are designed and used for pulling or carrying freight or which are used for the
carrying of more than seven (7) persons, shall be called motor vehicles of the
second division.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
NOXIOUS OR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Materials which by their inherent nature can
cause bodily injury, damage to property or undue annoyance to the public.
OFFICIAL TIME STANDARD: Whenever certain hours are named herein they shall mean
standard time or daylight-saving time as may be in current use in this City.
OFFICIAL TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES: All signs, signals, markings and devices not
inconsistent with this Code placed or erected by authority of a public body or
official having jurisdiction, for the purpose of regulating, warning or guiding
traffic.
OPERATOR OR DRIVER: Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of
a vehicle.
PARK OR PARKING: The standing of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than temporarily for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading or
unloading passengers or merchandise.
PARKING METER: An automatic or manually-operated device located near a parking
scope, which device, when properly operated by the insertion of a coin, will
indicate the number of minutes of legal parking remaining unused.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer of the Police Department or any officer
authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to make arrests for violations of
traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
RAILROAD TRAIN: A steam engine, electric or other motor, with or without cars
coupled thereto, operated upon rails, except street cars.
RESIDENCE DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including a highway not
comprising a business district when the property on such highway for a distance
of three hundred feet (300') or more is in the main imposed with residences or
residences and buildings in use for business.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle owned by a public or governmental agency, or
privately owned and operated, used for the transportation of children to or
from school or school-sponsored or authorized activities.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
STAND OR STANDING: The halting of a vehicle, whether occupied or not, otherwise
than for the purpose of and while actually engaged in receiving or discharging
passengers.
STOP: When required, means complete cessation from movement.
STOP OR STOPPING: When prohibited means any halting even momentarily of a
vehicle, whether occupied or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic-control sign or signal.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
THROUGH STREET: Every street or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is
given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting streets is required by law to yield right of way to
vehicles on such through street in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this Title.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances,
either singly or together, while using any street for purposes of travel.
TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNAL: Any device, whether manually, electrically or
mechanically operated, by which traffic is alternately directed to stop and
proceed.
VEHICLE: Every device in or upon which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices manned by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign, means the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway, to
traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from right or eft,
but when the roadway is clear, may proceed into the intersection. (Ord. 3378,
10-12-1966; amd. Ord. 3392, 1-11-1967)
8-1-4: ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS:
   A.   Traffic Engineer: The Director of Public Works shall serve as traffic
engineer, and he shall exercise the powers and duties with respect to traffic
as provided in this Title.
      1.   It shall be the general duty of the traffic engineer, in cooperation
with the Police Department, to determine the proper installation, timing and
maintenance of traffic-control devices, to conduct engineering investigations
of traffic conditions, to plan the operation of traffic on the streets and
highways of the City and to cooperate with other City officials and appropriate
organizations in the development of ways and means to improve traffic
conditions.
      2.   The traffic engineer may test traffic-control devices under actual
conditions of traffic.
   B.   Emergency Regulations: The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make
regulations necessary to make effective the provisions of the traffic
ordinances of this City and to make and enforce temporary regulations to cover
emergency conditions. No such temporary regulation shall remain in effect for
more than ninety (90) days. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-1-5: REPORT ON PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO TRAFFIC ORDINANCES:
Upon the introduction of any motion, resolution or ordinance before the City
Council which calls for the amendment of ordinances regulating traffic within
the City, including ordinances pertaining to pedestrians or parking of
vehicles, the motion, resolution or ordinance shall be referred to the Mayor
who shall order a report from the Police Department and/or Public Works
Department, which report shall consider the proposed amendment and its effect,
if any, on the improvement of the traffic regulations of the City. The report
shall be prepared and made available for consideration of the City Council
prior to the next regular meeting of the committee of the City Council which
shall consider said matter. Nothing herein contained shall require an
additional report on an amendment to a motion, resolution or ordinance already
pending before the City Council or a committee thereof which has been the
subject of a report before final action is taken with regard thereto. Failure
of the City to comply with this Section shall not invalidate any ordinance
adopted by the City Council regulating traffic. (Ord. 6228, 12-17-1997)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Operators Of Vehicles To Be Properly Licensed
8-2-2: Obeying Traffic Regulations
8-2-3: Authorized Emergency Vehicles
8-2-4: Traffic-Control Devices
8-2-5: Speed Regulations
8-2-6: Turning Movements
8-2-7: Driving Restrictions
8-2-8: Overtaking And Passing
8-2-9: One-Way Streets And Alleys
8-2-10: Stop And Yield Intersections
8-2-11: Stop At Railroad Crossings
8-2-12: Driving Near Fires
8-2-13: Parades And Processions
8-2-14: Miscellaneous Driving Regulations
8-2-15: Driver's Signals Required
8-2-16: Load Restrictions Upon Vehicles Using Certain Highways
8-2-17: Commercial Vehicles Prohibited From Using Certain Streets
8-2-18: Loading And Unloading Restrictions
8-2-1: OPERATORS OF VEHICLES TO BE PROPERLY LICENSED:
No person shall operate any motor vehicle upon the streets or alleys of the
City unless such person shall have been issued a valid license or permit as an
operator, or as an operator of a commercial vehicle, or a restricted driving
permit by the state in which he is domiciled, or is exempted from having a
license or permit by the laws of such state. A violation of this Section shall
be punishable by a fine as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 3510, 10-23-1968; amd. Ord. 3880, 12-12-1973; 1999
Code)
8-2-2: OBEYING TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   A.   Public Employees: The provisions of this Title shall apply to the
driver of any vehicle owned by or used in the service of the United States
government, this State, County or City, and it shall be unlawful for any said
driver to violate any of the provisions of this Title, except as otherwise
permitted herein or by State statute.
   B.   Persons Propelling Push Carts Or Riding Animals: Every person
propelling any push cart or riding an animal upon a roadway, and every person
driving any animal-drawn vehicle, shall be subject to the provisions of this
Title applicable to the driver of any vehicle, except those provisions which by
their very nature can have no application. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-3: AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   A.   Driver Regulations:
      1.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle, when responding to an
emergency call or when in the pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the
law or when responding to but not upon returning from a fire alarm, may
exercise the privileges set forth herein, but subject to the conditions herein
stated.
      2.   The driver of an authorized emergency vehicle may:
         a.   Park or stand, irrespective of the provisions of this Title;
         b.   Proceed past a red or stop signal or stop sign, but only after
slowing down as may be necessary for safe operation;
         c.   Exceed the maximum speed limits so long as he does not endanger
life or property, as provided by State statute;
         d.   Disregard regulations governing direction of movement or turning
in specified directions.
      3.   The exemptions herein granted to an authorized emergency vehicle
shall apply only when the driver of any said vehicle while in motion, sounds
audible signal by bell, siren or exhaust whistle as may be reasonably
necessary, and when the vehicle is equipped with at least one lighted lamp
displaying a red light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of such vehicle, except that
an authorized emergency vehicle operated as a police vehicle need not be
equipped with or display a red light visible from in front of the vehicle.
      4.   The foregoing provisions shall not relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons, nor shall such provisions protect the driver from the
consequences of his reckless disregard for the safety of others.
   B.   Operation Of Vehicles On Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles:
      1.   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle
making use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of the laws
of this State or of a police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an
audible signal only:
The driver of every vehicle shall yield the right of way and shall immediately
drive to a position parallel to, and as close as possible to, the right-hand
edge or curb of the roadway clear of any intersection, and shall stop and
remain in such position until the authorized emergency vehicle has passed,
except when otherwise directed by a police officer.
      2.   This subsection shall not operate to relieve the driver of an
authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the
safety of all persons using the highway. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-4: TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES:
   A.   Authority To Install: The traffic engineer shall place and maintain
traffic-control signs, signals and devices when and as required under the
traffic ordinances of this City to make effective the provisions of said
ordinances, and may place and maintain such additional traffic-control devices
as he may deem necessary to regulate traffic under the traffic ordinances of
this City or under State law or to guide or warn traffic.
   B.   Manual And Specifications For Traffic-Control Devices: All traffic-
control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the manual and
specifications approved by the State Highway Commission or resolution adopted
by the legislative body of this City. All signs and signals required hereunder
for a particular purpose shall so far as practicable be uniform as to type and
location throughout the City. All traffic-control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of State law or this Title shall be official
traffic-control devices.
   C.   Obedience To Official Traffic-Control Devices: The driver of any
vehicle shall obey the instructions of any traffic-control device applicable
thereto placed in accordance with the provisions of this Title, unless
otherwise directed by traffic or police officers, subject to the exceptions
granted the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle in this Title.
   D.   When Required For Enforcement Purposes: No provision of this Title for
which signs are required shall be enforced against an alleged violator if at
the time and place of the alleged violation an official sign is not in proper
position and sufficiently legible to be seen by an ordinarily observant person.
Whenever a particular section does not state that signs are required, such
section shall be effective even though no signs are erected or in place.
   E.   Traffic-Control Signal Legend: Whenever traffic is controlled by
traffic-control signals exhibiting different colored lights successively one at
a time, or with arrows, the lights shall indicate and apply to drivers of
vehicles and pedestrians as follows:
   Green Alone   Vehicular traffic facing the signal, except when otherwise
prohibited, may proceed straight through or turn right or left unless a sign at
such place prohibits either such turn. But, vehicular traffic, including
vehicles turning right or left, shall yield the right of way to other vehicles
and to pedestrians lawfully within the intersection or an adjacent crosswalk at
the time such signal is exhibited.
Pedestrians facing the signal may proceed across the roadway within a marked or
unmarked crosswalk. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
   Steady Yellow   Vehicular traffic facing a steady yellow signal is thereby
warned that the related green movement is being terminated or that a red
indication will be exhibited immediately thereafter when vehicular traffic may
not enter the intersection.
Pedestrians facing a steady yellow signal unless otherwise directed by a
pedestrian control signal, are thereby advised that there is insufficient time
to cross the roadway, and no pedestrian shall start to cross. (Ord. 3501, 8-28-
1968)
   Steady Red   Vehicular traffic facing the signal shall stop before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then before
entering the intersection and shall remain standing until the green light is
shown alone.
No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the green light
is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian "Walk" signal.
   Steady Red With
   Arrows   Vehicular traffic facing such signal may cautiously enter the
intersection only to make the movement indicated by such arrow but shall yield
the right of way to pedestrians lawfully within a crosswalk and to other
traffic lawfully using the intersection.
No pedestrian facing such signal shall enter the roadway until the green light
is shown alone unless authorized to do so by a pedestrian "Walk" signal.
   Flashing Yellow   When a yellow lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent
flashes, drivers of vehicles may proceed through the intersection post such
signal only with caution.
   Flashing Red   When a red lens is illuminated with rapid intermittent
flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop before entering the nearest crosswalk
at an intersection or at a limit line when marked, or if none, then before
entering the intersection, and the right to proceed shall be subject to the
rules applicable after making a stop at a stop sign.
   "Walk"   Pedestrians facing such signal may proceed across the roadway in
the direction of the signal and shall be given the right of way by drivers of
all vehicles.
   "Don't Walk" or
   "Wait"   No pedestrian shall start to cross the roadway in the direction of
such signal, but any pedestrian who has partially completed his crossing on the
"Walk" signal shall proceed to a sidewalk or safety zone while the "Don't Walk"
or "Wait" signal is showing.
   F.   School Crossing Signals:
      1.   Definition: A school crossing signal shall be defined as a
permanently mounted electrically operated signal device equipped with two-way,
two (2) color (red and yellow) signal heads, together with a standard sign
reading "School Crosswalk" by which at predetermined times and when actuated by
a push button, traffic is directed to stop so as to permit school children to
cross the street or highway safely.
      2.   Legend: Whenever the red lens of a school crossing signal is
illuminated by rapid intermittent flashes, drivers of vehicles shall stop
before entering the nearest crosswalk at said intersection, or at a limit line
when marked, or if none, then before entering the intersection, and pedestrians
within or entering the crosswalk at either edge of the roadway shall have the
right of way over vehicles so stopped. Drivers of vehicles having so yielded
the right of way to pedestrians entering or within the nearest crosswalk at
said intersection may proceed but shall also yield the right of way to
pedestrians within any other crosswalk at the intersection.
   G.   Location: Traffic-control signals shall be installed and maintained at
the locations designated by the City.
   H.   Display Of Unauthorized Signs, Signals Or Markings:
      1.   No person shall place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which purports to be
or is an imitation of or resembles an official traffic-control device or
railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of traffic,
or which hides from view or interferes with the effectiveness of any official
traffic-control device or any railroad sign or signal.
      2.   No person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic sign or signal bearing thereon any
commercial advertising.
      3.   This subsection shall not be deemed to prohibit the erection upon
private property adjacent to highways of signs giving useful directional
information and of a type that cannot be mistaken for official signs.
      4.   Every such prohibited sign, signal or marking is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and the authority having jurisdiction over the highway is
hereby empowered to remove the same or cause it to be removed without notice.
(Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
   I.   Barricades Equipped With Flashing Lights: All barricades used on City
streets at night shall be equipped with amber flashing lights with a minimum
diameter of six inches (6").
   J.   Interference With Official Traffic-Control Devices, Barricades Or
Railroad Signs Or Signals: No person shall, without lawful authority, attempt
to or in fact alter, deface, injure, knock down or remove any official traffic-
control device, barricade or any railroad sign or signal or any inscription,
shield or insignia thereon, or any other part thereof. (Ord. 3443, 8-9-1967)
   K.   Crosswalks: The traffic engineer is hereby authorized to maintain, by
appropriate devices, marks or lines, upon the surface of the roadway,
crosswalks at intersections where, in his opinion, there is particular danger
to pedestrians crossing the roadway and shall maintain crosswalks as
established by ordinance of the City Council.
   L.   Traffic Lanes: The traffic engineer is hereby authorized to mark
traffic lanes upon the roadway of any street or highway where a regular
alignment of traffic is necessary. Where such traffic lanes have been marked,
it shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to fail or refuse to keep
such vehicle within the boundaries of any such lane except when lawfully
passing another vehicle or prepatory to making a lawful turning movement. Where
such roadways have not been marked for traffic lanes, it shall be unlawful for
any operator of any vehicle to fail or refused to keep such vehicles within the
boundary of any designated roadway. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966; amd. 1973 Code)
8-2-5: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.   In General: Except as otherwise provided by this Chapter, it shall be
unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street in the City at a speed in
excess of thirty (30) miles per hour, or in an alley at a speed in excess of
fifteen (15) miles per hour. The speed of all vehicles, of the second division,
as defined by Statute, having two (2) or more solid tires shall not exceed ten
(10) miles per hour.
   B.   Speed Reduced: The fact that the speed of a vehicle is lower than the
limits set by this Chapter shall not relieve the driver from the duty to
decrease speed when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching
and going round a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any
narrow or winding roadway or when special hazards exist with respect to
pedestrians or other traffic by reason of weather or highway conditions, and
speed shall be decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person
or vehicle, or on entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements
and the duty of all persons to use due care. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
   C.   Decrease Of Maximum Speed:
      1.   When it is determined, upon the basis of an engineering and traffic
investigation, that the speed permitted in subsection A of this Section upon
those streets or portions designated by the City is greater than is reasonable
or safe under the conditions found to exist upon such streets, it is hereby
declared that the maximum speed limit upon those streets or portions thereof
shall be as designated by the City, which speeds shall be effective when signs
are erected giving notice thereof.
      2.   On a school day when school children are present and so close
thereto that a potential hazard exists because of the close proximity of the
motorized traffic, no person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of twenty (20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling
upon any public thoroughfare where children pass going to and from school. For
the purposes of this subsection, a school day shall begin at seven o'clock (7:
00) A.M. and shall conclude at four o'clock (4:00) P.M. This subsection shall
not be applicable unless appropriate signs are posted. Such signs shall give
proper due warning that a school zone is being approached and shall indicate
the school zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during school days when
school children are present. Nothing in this Chapter shall prohibit the use of
electronic speed-detecting devices within five hundred feet (500') of signs
within a special school speed zone indicating such zone, as defined in this
subsection, nor shall evidence obtained thereby be inadmissible in any
prosecution for speeding, provided the use of such device shall apply only to
the enforcement of the speed limit in such special school speed zone. (Ord.
6200, 10-22-1997)
   D.   Increase Speed Limit On Certain Streets: When it is determined, upon
the basis of an engineering and traffic investigation, that the speed permitted
by this Chapter upon certain streets or portions thereof is less than is
necessary for safe operation of vehicles thereon by reason of the designation
and sign posting of said streets as through highways, or by reason of widely
spaced intersections, it is hereby declared that the maximum speed limit upon
those streets or portions thereof shall be as designated by the City, which
speed so declared shall be effective when signs are erected giving notice
thereof.
   E.   Regulation Of Speed By Traffic Signals: The traffic engineer is
authorized to regulate the timing of traffic signals so as to permit the
movement of traffic in an orderly and safe manner at speeds slightly at
variance from the speeds otherwise applicable within a district or at
intersections and shall erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof. (Ord.
3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-6: TURNING MOVEMENTS:
   A.   Required Position And Method Of Turning At Intersections: The driver of
a vehicle intending to turn at an intersection shall do so as follows:
      1.   Right Turns: Both the approach for a right turn and a right turn
shall be made as close as practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the
roadway.
      2.   Left Turns On Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where traffic is
permitted to move in both directions on each roadway entering the intersection,
an approach for a left turn shall be made in that portion of the right half of
the roadway nearest the center line thereof and by passing to the right of such
center line where it enters the intersection and after entering the
intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection to the
right of the center line of the roadway being entered. Whenever practicable the
left turn shall be made in that portion of the intersection to the left of the
center of the intersection.
      3.   Left Turns On Other Than Two-Way Roadways: At any intersection where
traffic is restricted to one direction on one or more of the roadways, the
driver of a vehicle intending to turn left at any such intersection shall
approach the intersection in the extreme left-hand lane lawfully available to
traffic moving in the direction of travel of such vehicle and after entering
the intersection the left turn shall be made so as to leave the intersection,
as nearly as practicable, in the left-hand lane lawfully available to traffic
moving in such direction upon the roadway being entered.
   B.   Authority To Place And Obedience To Turning Markers:
      1.   The traffic engineer is authorized to place markers, buttons or
signs within or adjacent to intersections indicating the course to be traveled
by vehicles turning at such intersections.
      2.   When authorized markers, buttons or other indications are placed
within an intersection indicating the course to be traveled by vehicles turning
thereat, no driver of a vehicle shall disobey the directions of such
indications.
   C.   Left Turns Prohibited In Certain Areas: It shall be unlawful for any
person to make a left turn in any of the areas designated by the City when
signs are erected giving notice thereof.
   D.   Limitations On Turning Around: The driver of any vehicle shall not turn
such vehicle so as to proceed in the opposite direction upon any street in the
City.
   E.   Turn Lanes At Intersections: Where traffic lanes have been marked upon
the street for "Left Turn" only or "Right Turn" only in correlation with
intersections where a traffic-control signal is installed and operated, drivers
of vehicles shall use such lanes only for the left turn or right turn as the
case may be, and it shall be unlawful for any driver approaching such
intersection to drive in said lane unless he shall be intending to make a left
turn or right turn as the case may be in compliance with the proper signal
displayed to him by the traffic control signal. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-7: DRIVING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Driving On Right Side:
      1.   Upon all roadways of sufficient width a vehicle shall be driven upon
the right half of the roadway, except as follows:
         a.   When overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction under the rules governing such movement;
         b.   When an obstruction exists making it necessary to drive to the
left of the center of the highway; provided, any person so doing shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles traveling in the proper direction upon the
unobstructed portion of the highway within such distance as to constitute an
immediate hazard;
         c.   Upon a roadway divided into three (3) marked lanes for traffic
under the rules applicable thereon; or
         d.   Upon a roadway designated and signposted for one-way traffic.
         e.   Whenever there is a single track paved road on one side of the
public highway and two (2) vehicles meet thereon, the driver on whose right is
the wider shoulder shall give the right of way on such pavement to the other
vehicle.
      2.   Upon all roadways any vehicle proceeding at less than the normal
speed of traffic at the time and place and under the conditions then existing
shall be driven in the right-hand lane available for traffic, or as close as
practicable to the right-hand curb or edge of the roadway, except when
overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same direction or when
preparing for a left turn at an intersection or into a private road or
driveway.
   B.   Driving On Roadways Laned For Traffic: Whenever any roadway has been
divided into two (2) or more clearly marked lanes for traffic, the following
rules in addition to all others consistent herewith shall apply:
      1.   A vehicle shall be driven as nearly as practicable entirely within a
single lane and shall not be moved from such lane until the driver has first
ascertained that such movement can be made with safety.
      2.   Upon a roadway which is divided into three (3) lanes and provided
for two (2) way movement of traffic, a vehicle shall not be driven in the
center lane except when overtaking and passing another vehicle traveling in the
same direction when such center lane is clear of traffic within a safe
distance, or in preparation for making a left turn or where such center lane is
at the time allocated exclusively to traffic moving in the same direction that
the vehicle is proceeding and such allocation is designated by official
traffic-control devices.
      3.   Official traffic-control devices may be erected directing specific
traffic to use designated lanes or designating those lanes to be used by
traffic moving in a particular direction regardless of the center of the
roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the directions of every such sign.
      4.   Official traffic-control devices may be installed prohibiting the
changing of lanes on sections of roadway and drivers of vehicles shall obey the
directions of every such device.
   C.   Following Too Closely:
      1.   The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more
closely than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway.
      2.   The driver of any motor vehicle of the second division or motor
vehicle drawing another vehicle when traveling upon a roadway outside of a
business or residence district shall not follow within three hundred feet
(300') of another motor vehicle of the second division or motor vehicle drawing
another vehicle. The provisions of this subdivision shall not be construed to
prevent overtaking and passing nor shall the same apply upon any lane specially
designated for use by motor vehicles of the second division.
      3.   Motor vehicles being driven upon any roadway outside of a business
or residence district in a caravan or motorcade whether or not towing other
vehicles shall be so operated as to allow sufficient space between each such
vehicle or combination of vehicles so as to enable any other vehicle to enter
and occupy such space without danger. This provision shall not apply to funeral
processions. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-8: OVERTAKING AND PASSING:
   A.   Passing Vehicles Proceeding In Opposite Direction: Drivers of vehicles
proceeding in opposite directions, except as provided in subsection
 8-2-7A of this Chapter, shall pass each other to the right and upon roadway
having width for not more than one line of traffic in each direction each
driver shall give to the other at least one-half (1/2) of the main traveled
portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
   B.   Overtaking A Vehicle On The Left: The following rules shall govern the
overtaking and passing of vehicles proceeding in the same direction, subject to
those limitations, exceptions, and special rules hereinafter stated:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle overtaking another vehicle proceeding in the
same direction shall pass to the left thereof at a safe distance and shall not
again drive to the right side of the roadway until safely clear of the
overtaken vehicle.
      2.   Except when overtaking and passing on the right is permitted, the
driver of an overtaken vehicle shall give way to the right in favor of the
overtaking vehicle on audible signal and shall not increase the speed of his
vehicle until completely passed by the overtaking vehicle.
   C.   Overtaking On The Right Permitted:
      1.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass upon the right of
another vehicle only under the following conditions:
         a.   When the vehicle overtaken is making or about to make a left
turn;
         b.   Upon a street or highway with unobstructed pavement not occupied
by parked vehicles of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles in each direction;
         c.   Upon a one-way street, or upon any roadway on which traffic is
restricted to one direction of movement, where the roadway is free from
obstructions and of sufficient width for two (2) or more lines of moving
vehicles.
      2.   The driver of a vehicle may overtake and pass another vehicle upon
the right only under conditions permitting such movement in safety. In no event
shall such movement be made by driving off the pavement or main-traveled
portion of the roadway.
   D.   Limitations On Overtaking On The Left And No Passing Zones:
      1.   No vehicle shall be driven to the left side of the center of the
roadway in overtaking and passing another vehicle proceeding in the same
direction unless such left side is clearly visible and is free of oncoming
traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to permit such overtaking and passing
to be completely made without interfering with the safe operation of any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction or any vehicle overtaken. In
every event the overtaking vehicle must return to the right-hand side of the
roadway before coming within two hundred feet (200') of any vehicle approaching
from the opposite direction.
      2.   No vehicle shall, in overtaking and passing another vehicle or at
any other time, be driven to the left side of the roadway under the following
conditions:
         a.   When approaching the crest of a grade or upon a curve in the
highway where the driver's view is obstructed within such distances as to
create a hazard in the event another vehicle might approach from the opposite
direction.
         b.   When approaching within one hundred feet (100') of or traversing
any intersection or railroad grade crossing.
         c.   Where official signs are in place directing that traffic keep to
the right, or a distinctive center line is marked, which distinctive line also
directs traffic.
         d.   The limitations in subsections D2a and D2b of this Section shall
not apply upon a one-way roadway or upon a roadway with unobstructed pavement
of sufficient width for two (2) or more lanes of moving traffic in each
direction when such movement can be made with safety.
         e.   The City Council shall determine, upon the basis of an
engineering and traffic investigation, that a no passing zone be authorized
upon certain streets or portions thereof.
Where it is reasonable or safe under the conditions found to exist upon such
streets and which said no passing zone shall be effective when signs are
erected giving notice thereof. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-9: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Whenever any ordinance of this City designates any one-way street or alley, the
traffic engineer shall place and maintain signs giving notice thereof, and no
such regulation shall be effective unless such signs are in place. Signs
indicating the direction of lawful traffic movement shall be placed at every
intersection where movement of traffic in the opposite direction is prohibited.
Upon those streets and parts of streets and in those alleys designated by the
City, vehicular traffic shall move only in the indicated direction when signs
indicating the direction of traffic are erected and maintained at every
intersection where movement in the opposite direction is prohibited. (Ord.
3378, 10- 12-1966)
8-2-10: STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets Designated: All State highway routes through the City
are hereby designated as through streets and all conditions and regulations
prescribed in this Chapter shall apply to State highway routes. Those streets
and parts of streets designated by the City are hereby declared to be through
streets for the purpose of this Title.
Whenever any ordinance of this City designates and describes a through street,
it shall be the duty of the traffic engineer to place and maintain a stop sign
on each and every street intersecting such through street unless traffic at any
such intersection is controlled at all times by traffic-control signals;
provided, however, that at the intersection of two (2) such through streets or
at the intersection of a through street and a heavy traffic street not so
designated, stop signs shall be erected at the approaches of either of said
streets as may be determined by ordinance of the City from time to time.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City Council may designate that a yield sign
be placed in lieu of a stop sign in any of the foregoing situations.
   B.   Other Stop And Yield Intersections: The City Council may determine and
designate intersections where particular hazard exists upon other than through
streets and to determine: 1) whether vehicles shall stop at one or more
entrances to any such intersection, or 2) whether vehicles shall yield the
right of way to vehicles on a different street at such intersection as
prescribed in subsection C of this Section.
   C.   Vehicles Entering Stop And Yield Intersections:
      1.   Stop Intersections:
         a.   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic-
control signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near
side of the intersection or in the event there is no crosswalk, shall stop at a
clearly marked stop line, but if none, then at the point nearest the
intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the
intersecting roadway before entering the intersection.
         b.   Such driver after having stopped shall yield the right of way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another highway or which is
approaching so closely on said highway and to constitute an immediate hazard,
but said driver having so yielded may proceed and the drivers of all other
vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield the right of way to the
vehicle so proceeding.
      2.   Yield Intersections:
         a.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in
obedience to such sign, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing
conditions, or shall stop if necessary, and shall yield the right of way to any
pedestrian legally crossing the roadway on which he is driving, and to any
vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another highway so closely as to
constitute an immediate hazard. Said driver having so yielded may proceed, and
the drivers of all other vehicles approaching the intersection shall yield to
the vehicle so proceeding; provided, however, that a driver who enters a yield
intersection without stopping and has or causes a collision with a pedestrian
in a crosswalk or a vehicle in the intersection shall prima facie be considered
not to have yielded as required herein. The foregoing shall not relieve the
drivers of other vehicles approaching the intersection at such distance as not
to constitute an immediate hazard from the duty to drive with due care to avoid
a collision.
         b.   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign, if required for
safety to stop, shall stop before entering the crosswalk on the near side of
the intersection; or, in the event there is no crosswalk, at a clearly marked
stop line; but if none, then at a point nearest the intersecting roadway where
the driver has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway.
   D.   Additional Stop Requirements:
      1.   Emerging From Alley, Driveway Or Building: The driver of a vehicle
within a business or residence district emerging from an alley, driveway or
building shall stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk
or onto the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway or driveway, and shall
yield the right of way to any pedestrian as may be necessary to avoid
collision, and upon entering the roadway, shall yield the right of way to all
vehicles approaching on said roadway.
      2.   Stop When Traffic Obstructed: No driver shall enter an intersection
or a marked crosswalk unless there is sufficient space on the other side of the
intersection or crosswalk to accommodate the vehicle he is operating without
obstructing the passage of other vehicles or pedestrians, notwithstanding any
traffic-control signal indication to proceed. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-11: STOP AT RAILROAD CROSSINGS:
   A.   Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade
crossing under any of the circumstances stated in this Section, the driver of
such vehicle shall stop within fifty feet (50') but not less than ten feet
(10') from the nearest rail of such railroad, and shall not proceed until he
can do so safely. The foregoing requirements shall apply when:
      1.   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
      2.   A crossing gate is lowered or when a human flagman gives or
continues to give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
      3.   A railroad train approaching within approximately one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') of the highway crossing emits a signal audible from such
distance and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such
crossing, is an immediate hazard;
      4.   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to such crossing.
   B.   No person shall drive any vehicle through, around, or under any
crossing gate or barrier at a railroad crossing while such gate or barrier is
closed or is being opened or closed. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-12: DRIVING NEAR FIRES:
   A.   Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited: The driver of any vehicle other
than one on official business, shall not follow any fire apparatus traveling in
response to a fire alarm closer than five hundred feet (500') or drive into or
park such vehicle within the block where the apparatus has stopped in answer to
a fire alarm.
   B.   Crossing Fire Hose: No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected
hose of a fire department laid down on any street or private driveway, to be
used at any fire or alarm of fire, without the consent of the Fire Department
official in command. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-13: PARADES AND PROCESSIONS:
   A.   Funeral And Other Processions:
      1.   Driving Through: No driver of a vehicle shall drive between the
vehicles comprising a funeral or other authorized procession while they are in
motion and when such vehicles are conspicuously designated as required in this
Chapter.
      2.   Drivers In A Procession: Each driver in a funeral or other
procession shall drive as near to the right-hand edge of the roadway as
practicable and shall follow the vehicle ahead as close as is practicable and
safe. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each driver shall at all times have the
duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the streets
and this Section does not protect the driver of any such vehicle described
herein from the consequences of reckless disregard for the safety of others.
      3.   Funeral Processions Identified: A funeral composed of a procession
of vehicles shall be identified as such by the display upon the outside of each
vehicle of a pennant or other identifying insignia. All vehicles in a
procession shall at all times have their headlights turned on.
   B.   Permits Required For Parades And Processions: No procession or parade
containing two hundred (200) or more persons or thirty (30) or more vehicles
except the forces of the United States Army or Navy, the military forces of
this State and the forces of the Police and Fire Departments, shall occupy,
march or proceed along any street, except in accordance with a permit issued by
the Chief of Police and such other regulations as are set forth herein which
may apply. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-14: MISCELLANEOUS DRIVING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Driving On Sidewalks: The driver of a vehicle shall not drive within
any sidewalk area except at a permanent or temporary driveway.
   B.   Limitations On Backing: The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same
unless such movement can be made with reasonable safety and without interfering
with other traffic.
   C.   Opening And Closing Vehicle Doors: No person shall open the door of a
motor vehicle on the side available to moving traffic unless and until it is
reasonably safe to do so, nor shall any person leave a door open on the side of
a motor vehicle available to moving traffic for a period of time longer than
necessary to load or unload passengers.
   D.   Riding On Motorcycles: A person operating a motorcycle shall ride only
upon the permanent and regular seat attached thereto, and such operator shall
not carry any other person nor shall any other person ride on a motorcycle
unless such motorcycle is designed to carry more than one person, in which
event a passenger may ride upon the permanent and regular or seat if designed
for two (2) or more persons, or upon another seat firmly attached at the rear
or side of the operator.
   E.   Controlled Access: No person shall drive a vehicle onto or from any
controlled access roadway except at such entrances and exits as are established
by public authority.
   F.   Clinging To Vehicles: No person riding upon any bicycle, coaster,
roller skates, sled or toy vehicle, shall attach same or himself to any vehicle
moving upon a roadway. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-15: DRIVER'S SIGNALS REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any vehicle to start, slow down, stop
or attempt to turn such vehicle without first giving a suitable signal in the
manner required by Illinois Compiled Statutes for such circumstances. (Ord.
3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-16: LOAD RESTRICTIONS UPON VEHICLES USING CERTAIN HIGHWAYS:
   A.   When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate
any vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts designated by the City
at any time upon any of the streets or parts of streets so designated.
   B.   No person shall operate any vehicle with a weight, including load, in
excess of the amount specified by State law for driving on improved highways,
or with weight distributed in a manner not conforming to such law. (Ord. 3378,
10-12-1966)
   C.   Ordinances providing for load restrictions on City streets shall not be
applicable to school buses. (Ord. 4232, 8-24-1977)
8-2-17: COMMERCIAL VEHICLES PROHIBITED FROM USING CERTAIN STREETS:
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
commercial vehicle except as hereinafter provided at any time upon any of the
streets or parts of streets designated by the City, except that any truck whose
point of origin or delivery is at such a place as to make it absolutely
necessary for it to use any of the streets herein specified shall not be
affected by the provisions of this Chapter, provided that such over-weight
truck, or trucks, using streets closed to trucks shall, after picking up loads,
immediately seek the nearest unlimited street and also that trucks making
deliveries shall remain upon unlimited streets until reaching a point as close
as possible to their destinations. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-2-18: LOADING AND UNLOADING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Curb Loading Zones:
      1.   Designated: The City Council is hereby authorized to determine the
location of passenger and freight curb loading zones. The traffic engineer
shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the
hours during which the provisions of this subsection are applicable.
      2.   Standing In Curb Loading Zones:
         a.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a curb loading zone.
         b.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a curb loading zone for the purpose of and while actually engaged in
loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any
motor vehicle used for the transportation of materials which is waiting to
enter or about to enter such zone.
      3.   Permits For Curb Loading Zones: The City Council shall not hereafter
designate nor shall the traffic engineer sign any curb loading zone upon
special request of any person unless such person makes application for a permit
for such zone. Said applications shall be filed with the City Clerk, with a
service fee of ten dollars ($10.00) per lineal foot per year or fraction
thereof granted. The City Council may impose conditions upon the use of such
zone. Each curb loading zone permit shall expire at the end of the year but may
be renewed prior to expiration date upon payment of fee as required to the City
within thirty (30) days. All curb loading zones shall become due and payable
January 1 of each and every year. New curb loading zones may be made on a half
(1/2) year basis after July 1 of said year. The application shall show the name
of the person or persons, owner or tenant, requesting same and the reason
therefor. Said curb loading zone shall not exceed fifty feet (50') in length,
except upon the City Council's approval. Curb loading zones shall be those
designated by the City.
   B.   Bus Stops:
      1.   Designation Of Bus Stops, Zones: The City Council may from time to
time, by ordinance duly enacted, establish bus stops on such public streets, in
such place and in such number as it shall deem to be of the greatest benefit
and convenience to the public, and every such bus stop shall be designated by
appropriate signs.
      2.   Stopping And Standing Of Buses Regulated:
         a.   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than a bus stop so designated as provided herein.
         b.   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street
at any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their
baggage other than at a bus stop so designated as provided herein, except in
case of an emergency.
      3.   Manner Of Passenger Loading: The operator of a bus shall enter a bus
stop on a public street in such a manner that the bus when stopped to load or
unload passengers or baggage, shall be in a position with the right front wheel
of such vehicle not further than eighteen inches (18") from the curb and the
bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to unduly impede the movement
of other vehicular traffic. All bus stop zones shall be sixty feet (60') in
length except in the following instances:
         a.   Where zones are designated for side, the length of said zones
shall be fifty feet (50') in length.
         b.   Where the length of any bus stop zone is specifically designated
by ordinance of the City.
Bus stop zones shall be those designated by the City.
   C.   Mail Pickup Locations Designated: The City Council shall from time to
time authorize by ordinance mail pickup locations on such public streets and in
such number as it shall determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience
to the public and to the transportation of United States mail, and every such
mail pick-up location not within thirty feet (30') of a street corner shall be
designated by appropriate signs.
   D.   Taxi Stands: All taxi stands in the City shall be designated by
ordinance of the City.
All requests for taxi stands or changes in taxi stands shall be made by the
owner or owners of said cab company, citing the location and the need for a
taxi stand or stands. Taxi stands shall be those designated by the City.
   E.   Permits For Loading Or Unloading At Angle To The Curb:
      1.   The traffic engineer is authorized to issue special permits to
permit the backing of a vehicle to the curb for the purpose of loading or
unloading merchandise or materials subject to the terms and conditions of such
permit. Such permits may be issued either to the owner or lessee of real
property or to the owner of the vehicle and shall grant to such person the
privilege as therein stated and authorized herein.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any permittee or other person to violate
any of the special terms or conditions of any such permit. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-
1966)
CHAPTER 3
STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
SECTION:
8-3-1: Manner Of Parking
8-3-2: General Prohibited Parking
8-3-3: Parking Restricted
8-3-4: Handicapped Parking
8-3-5: Restrictions In City Parks
8-3-6: Parking Places And Times Restricted
8-3-7: Parking In Residential Areas Restricted
8-3-8: Private Property Parking Contract
8-3-9: Parking Signs Required
8-3-1: MANNER OF PARKING:
   A.   Standing Or Parking Close To Curb: Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, every vehicle stopped or parked upon a roadway where there are
adjacent curbs shall be so stopped or parked with the right hand wheels of such
vehicle parallel to and within twelve inches (12") of the right hand curb as in
accordance with state law.
   B.   Parallel Parking: Except where parking has been prohibited, or where
the city council by ordinance has provided that angle parking shall be
permitted, no person shall park or stand a vehicle other than parallel to the
curb or edge of the roadway.
   C.   Obedience To Signs Or Markings:
      1.   Angle Parking: On those streets which have been signed or marked by
the traffic engineer for angle parking, according to ordinances, no person
shall park or stand a vehicle other than at the angle to the curb or edge of
the roadway indicated by such signs or markings. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
      2.   Parking Lines: On those streets and on city owned parking lots which
have been marked by the traffic engineer with lines to indicate boundaries for
the purpose of parking vehicles, no person shall park or stand a vehicle on
said street or lot unless properly within the boundaries so marked by the
traffic engineer. (Ord. 4365, 10-25-1978)
8-3-2: GENERAL PROHIBITED PARKING:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk.
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway.
      3.   Within an intersection.
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant.
      5.   On a crosswalk.
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection and
within ten feet (10') of a midblock crosswalk.
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') of an intersection, upon the approach to
any flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of
a roadway. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
      8.   At a bus stop, except:
         a.   The driver of a passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at a place
marked as a bus stop for the purpose of and while actually engaged in loading
or unloading passengers when such stopping does not interfere with any bus that
is waiting to enter or about to enter such bus stop;
         b.   Vehicle parking shall be and the same is hereby permitted in
designated bus zone stops in the city on Sundays and legal holidays and from
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight on all days except
in the bus zone stops in which all parking is prohibited as designated by the
City. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966; amd. Ord. 3631, 10-9-1970)
      9.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the City Council indicates a different length by signs or markings.
      10.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
      11.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance (when properly signposted).
      12.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic.
      13.   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      14.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel.
      15.   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping.
      16.   In front of or within ten feet (10') of any United States mailbox.
(Ord. 3512, 11-27-1968)
      17.   Lanes marked as bicycle lanes.
      18.   Within twenty feet (20') of a bike crossing at an intersection and
within ten feet (10') of a midblock bike crossing. (Ord. 3974, 3-26-1975)
   B.   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful.
   C.   No person shall park a vehicle upon any roadway for the principal
purpose of:
      1.   Displaying such vehicle for sale;
      2.   Greasing or repairing such vehicle except repairs necessitated by an
emergency. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
   D.   No person shall park a motor vehicle upon any street designated as a
municipal designated on-street permit parking area unless said vehicle displays
a valid permit in the lower left rear window of said vehicle. (Ord. 5139, 4-22-
1987)
8-3-3: PARKING RESTRICTED:
   A.   Not To Obstruct Traffic: No person shall park any vehicle upon a
street, other than an alley, in such a manner or under such conditions as to
leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free
movement of vehicular traffic.
   B.   Parking In Alleys: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in
such a manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet
(10') of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic
and no person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such
position as to block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   C.   Prohibited On Narrow Streets: When official signs prohibiting parking
are erected upon narrow streets as authorized by law, no person shall park a
vehicle upon any such street in violation thereof.
   D.   Standing Or Parking On One-Way Roadways: In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways and traffic is restricted to one
direction upon any such roadway, no person shall stand or park a vehicle upon
the left-hand side of such one way roadway unless the City Council or other
public agency having control of such highway permits such standing or parking
and erects signs giving notice thereof.
   E.   No Stopping, Standing Or Parking Near Hazardous Or Congested Places:
The City Council may by ordinance designate places in which the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would create an especially hazardous condition
or would cause unusual delay to traffic. When official signs are erected at
hazardous or congested places as authorized herein, no person shall stop, stand
or park a vehicle in any such designated place.
   F.   Parking Adjacent To:
      1.   Schools: The City Council may by ordinance provide no parking upon
either or both sides of any street adjacent to any school property when such
parking would, in its opinion, interfere with traffic or create a hazardous
situation. When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon either
side of a street adjacent to any school property as authorized herein, no
person shall park a vehicle in any such designated place.
      2.   Theaters: No person shall park any vehicle directly in front of the
entrance to any theater at any time the theater is open for business.
      3.   Hospitals: No person shall park within an area extending for seventy
five feet (75') along the curb before the entrance to any hospital. (Ord. 3378,
10-12-1966)
8-3-4: HANDICAPPED PARKING:
   A.   Decal Issued: The City shall issue a special decal or device to a
physically handicapped person upon his application, which decal or device shall
be the property of such handicapped individual and may be used by that person
to designate and identify a vehicle when the vehicle is being used to transport
said handicapped person, and thus is entitled to enjoy all the privileges that
would be afforded a handicapped licensed vehicle under the provisions of the
Illinois Motor Vehicle Code. The decal or device shall be the design, size and
color of a handicapped motorist decal or device established by administrative
rules of the Illinois Secretary of State, in force from time to time. The
aforesaid special decal or device shall be officially referred to as a
handicapped parking decal.
   B.   Application For Decal: A person desiring to obtain a handicapped
parking decal, as defined in this Section, shall apply for same by written
application to the office of the City Clerk upon forms to be provided by said
office. Said form of application shall contain information disclosing the name
and address of the applicant, the applicant date of birth, height, weight and
other pertinent physical characteristics for identification, and a brief
description of the physical handicap of the applicant. Said application must
also be accompanied by a statement certified by a licensed physician of the
State to the effect that such applicant is a person who has permanently lost
the use of a leg or both legs, or an arm or both arms, or any combination
thereof, or any person who is so severely disabled as to be unable to move
without the aid of crutches or a wheelchair. The office of the City Clerk shall
issue a handicapped parking decal to the applicant upon receipt of the properly
completed application form as established by the office of the City Clerk,
along with the aforesaid verified statement of a licensed physician, unless the
City Clerk has reasons to suspect the validity, completeness or truthfulness of
said documents, in which case the City Clerk shall so notify the applicant to
submit additional data or evidence as required. No fee shall be required in
connection with the application or issuance of a handicapped parking decal.
   C.   Display Of Decal: The handicapped parking decal, issued to a
handicapped person pursuant to this Section, shall be used by that person to
designate and identify a vehicle which is being used to transport said
handicapped person, and thus is entitled to enjoy all the privileges that would
be afforded a handicapped licensed vehicle, when said handicapped parking decal
is displayed through the front windshield of a motor vehicle in such a manner
as to be clearly visible from the outside of said motor vehicle. (Ord. 4578,
12-10-1980)
   D.   Restricted Parking: It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle
which is not bearing registration plates or decals issued to a physically
handicapped person pursuant to sections 3-616 or 11-1301.2 or to a disabled
veteran pursuant to section 3-609, Illinois Vehicle Code, as the same is now in
force and effect, as evidence that the vehicle is operated by or for a
handicapped person or disabled veteran, in any parking place, including any
private or public off-street parking facility specifically reserved, by the
posting of an official sign, for motor vehicles bearing such restriction
plates. (Ord. 4893, 12-12-1984)
   E.   Signs And Markings: The signs to be utilized in parking areas
enumerated in subsection D of this Section shall be the same as the R7-8 sign
adopted by the United States Department of Transportation made a part hereof by
reference. Said signs shall also have affixed below the words "$100.00 Fine" as
enumerated in appendix D 1 . (Ord. 5316, 2-8-1989; amd. Ord. 6316, 8-26-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. Appendices C and D are attached to Ordinance 5316, on file in the office
  of the City Clerk.
8-3-5: RESTRICTIONS IN CITY PARKS:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within the confines of any city
park, unless in the normal flow of traffic on the roadways designated therein,
except parking shall be permitted upon those roadways, paths, paved lots, or
other specific areas designated by the rules and regulations established by the
park and recreation commission. (Ord. 6620, 11-28-2001)
8-3-6: PARKING PLACES AND TIMES RESTRICTED:
   A.   Applicability Of Regulations: The provisions of this section
prohibiting the standing or parking of a vehicle shall apply at all times or at
those times herein specified or as indicated on official signs, except when it
is necessary to stop a vehicle to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or official traffic control
device, and the provisions imposing a time limit on parking shall not relieve
any person from the duty to observe other and more restrictive provisions
prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles in
specified places or at specified times.
   B.   More Restrictive Provisions: The provisions imposing a time limit on
parking shall not relieve any person from the duty to observe other and more
restrictive provisions prohibiting or limiting the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles in specified places or at specified times.
   C.   Types Of Restrictions: When signs are erected giving notice thereof:
      1.   Parking Prohibited At All Times On Certain Streets: No person shall
park a vehicle at any time on said streets.
      2.   Parking Prohibited During Certain Hours On Certain Streets: No
person shall park a vehicle between the hours specified on any day except
Sundays and public holidays within the district or upon any of said streets.
      3.   Stopping, Standing Or Parking Prohibited During Certain Hours On
Certain Streets: No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle between the
hours specified on any day except Sundays and public holidays within the
district or upon any of said streets.
      4.   Parking Time Limited On Certain Streets: No person shall park a
vehicle for longer than the times designated on any day except Sundays and
public holidays within the district or upon any of said streets.
The above and foregoing shall not apply to a motor vehicle bearing special
registration plates issued to a physically handicapped person or a disabled
veteran limited to such vehicles parked by the person to whom the registration
plates are issued, and qualified operators acting under his express direction
while the disabled or handicapped person is present. (Ord. 4127, 8-11-1976)
A permanent resident located within the area bounded by Fourth Street, Henry
Street, Landmarks Boulevard and William Street shall be entitled to a special
identification decal for his or her vehicle or vehicles, which shall allow him
or her to park that vehicle in parking spaces on the public streets or alleys
as listed below regardless of established parking restrictions and without
being subject to illegal parking citations, except that the aforesaid
privileges shall not apply to parking in spaces designated for handicapped
parking. To obtain a special identification decal, the resident shall produce
proof of permanent residency within the aforesaid area to the office of the
city treasurer on forms to be supplied by the city treasurer. The decal shall
be limited for display on an identified vehicle of the resident and shall be
displayed in accord with the instructions of the city treasurer at the time of
issuance. The city treasurer shall collect a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for
each decal issued to the resident. The decal shall be valid only during the
calendar year (January 1 through December 31) for which it is issued. If the
resident desires to transfer the decal to another vehicle owned by the
resident, the resident must bring in a portion of the previously issued decal
sufficient to prove that it has been removed or destroyed and a new decal may
be issued to the new vehicle of the resident for an administrative charge of
ten dollars ($10.00). The parking privileges granted to the permanent residents
as provided by this section shall be effective within the area bounded by
Fourth Street, Henry Street, Landmarks Boulevard and William Street. (Ord.
7203, 6-23-2010)
      5.   Stopping, Standing Or Parking In Bus Stops: The driver of a
passenger vehicle may stop temporarily at any marked bus stop for the purpose
of loading or unloading a passenger or passengers except that such stop shall
be prohibited when a bus or buses have already stopped or are about to stop at
said bus stop. Vehicle parking shall be and the same is hereby permitted in
designated bus stops in the city between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M.
and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, except as otherwise posted.
      6.   Parking In Excess Of Eight Hours Restricted: It shall be unlawful
for motor vehicles of the second division to be parked on any street within the
corporate limits of the city for a period of time in excess of eight (8) hours.
The foregoing shall not apply to motor vehicles of the second division commonly
classified as three-quarter (3/4) ton or pickups, or to motor vehicles licensed
for a gross weight not exceeding eight thousand (8,000) pounds. (Ord. 3392, 1-
11-1967)
8-3-7: PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS RESTRICTED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for motor vehicles of the second division to park
in the corporate limits of the city which is located within a residential
district as shown on the zoning district map of the city, excepting those
vehicles parked for the purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading and
unloading; and excepting those vehicles having a license or gross weight not in
excess of eight thousand (8,000) pounds, and provided the overall length of
such vehicle does not exceed twenty two feet (22'). The above and foregoing
shall not apply to vehicles licensed as recreational vehicles.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any motor vehicle having an overall length
which exceeds twenty four feet (24') to park on city streets in the corporate
limits of the city which is located within a residential district as shown on
the zoning district map of the city, excepting those vehicles parked for the
purpose of, and while actually engaged in, loading and unloading. (Ord. 4115,
6-9-1976)
   C.   No off street parking shall be permitted in any yard located in any
residential district, including, but not limited to, the front, side, and back
yards, except upon a driveway providing access to a garage, carport, or parking
area for a dwelling. Any person who knowingly allows a vehicle to be parked in
a yard in violation of this subsection upon property to which he has right of
possession shall be guilty of a violation of this subsection. Any person who
parks a vehicle upon a yard in violation of this subsection, regardless of
ownership of the vehicle, shall be deemed guilty of a violation of this
subsection. (Ord. 6553, 1-10-2001)
8-3-8: PRIVATE PROPERTY PARKING CONTRACT:
When the city and the school board, hospital or owner of any shopping center or
apartment complex which controls a parking area located within the limits of
the city deem it desirable and in their mutual best interest, they may enter
into a contract authorized by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-209 to
empower the city to regulate the parking of automobiles on owner's parking
area. (Ord. 5297, 10-12-1988)
8-3-9: PARKING SIGNS REQUIRED:
Whenever, by this or any other ordinance of this city, any parking time limit
is imposed or parking is prohibited on designated streets, it shall be the duty
of the traffic engineer to erect appropriate signs giving notice thereof and no
such regulations shall be effective unless said signs are erected and in place
at the time of any alleged offense. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
CHAPTER 4
PEDESTRIANS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Pedestrians Subject To Traffic-Control Signals
8-4-3: Pedestrians Use Of Crosswalks
8-4-4: General Restrictions
8-4-5: Blind Pedestrians
8-4-6: Drivers To Exercise Due Care
8-4-7: Soliciting
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
CROSSWALKS: That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs, or in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway.
Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly indicated
for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
(Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-4-2: PEDESTRIANS SUBJECT TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL SIGNALS:
Pedestrians shall be subject to traffic-control signals, but at all other
places pedestrians shall be granted those rights and be subject to the
restrictions stated in this Chapter. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-4-3: PEDESTRIANS USE OF CROSSWALKS:
   A.   Right Of Way:
      1.   When traffic-control signals are not in place or not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall yield the right of way in slowing down or
stopping, if need be, to so yield to a pedestrian crossing the roadway within a
crosswalk when the pedestrian is upon the half of the roadway upon which the
vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so closely from the
opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger.
      2.   No pedestrian shall suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety
and walk or run into the path of a vehicle which is so close as to constitute
an immediate hazard.
      3.   Subsection A1 of this Section shall not apply under the condition
stated in subsection
 8-4-4C of this Chapter.
      4.   Whenever any vehicle is stopped at a marked crosswalk or at any
unmarked crosswalk at an intersection to permit a pedestrian to cross the
roadway, the driver of any other vehicle approaching from the rear shall not
overtake and pass such stopped vehicle.
      5.   Whenever stop signs or flashing red signals are in place at an
intersection or at a plainly marked crosswalk between intersections, drivers
shall yield the right of way to pedestrians as set forth in this Section. (Ord.
6056, 3-27-1996)
   B.   Use Right Half: Pedestrians shall move, whenever practicable, upon the
right half of crosswalks.
   C.   Cross With Dispatch: Pedestrians in marked or unmarked crosswalks shall
proceed across the roadway with dispatch when the way is clear. It shall be
unlawful for pedestrians to delay vehicular traffic which has yielded to
pedestrians by deliberately straggling, stalling or in any other way
deliberately hindering such vehicles. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-4-4: GENERAL RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Walking Along Roadways: For the purposes of this subsection, "roadway"
is defined to include all of that portion of a street or highway used for the
movement of motor vehicles, not including sidewalks intended for pedestrian
use, but specifically including areas between traffic lanes where such areas
are designed to divide lanes of traffic or to provide a location for traffic-
control devices.
      1.   Where sidewalks are provided, it shall be unlawful for any
pedestrian to walk along and upon an adjacent roadway.
      2.   Where sidewalks are not provided, any pedestrian walking along and
upon a highway shall, when practicable, walk only on the left side of the
roadway or its shoulder facing traffic which may approach from the opposite
direction. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
   B.   Pedestrians In Roadways:
      1.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of soliciting a
ride from the occupant of any vehicle.
      2.   No person shall stand in a roadway for the purpose of distributing
any materials of whatever nature to the occupant of any vehicle.
      3.   No person shall stand on or in proximity to a roadway for the
purpose of soliciting the watching or guarding of any vehicle while parked or
about to be parked on a roadway, street or highway. (Ord. 4278, 1-25-1978; amd.
Ord. 5808, 8-25-1993)
   C.   When To Yield:
      1.   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right of way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
      2.   Any pedestrian crossing a roadway at a point where a pedestrian
tunnel or overhead crossing has been provided shall yield the right of way to
all vehicles upon the roadway.
      3.   Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-control signals are
in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place except in a marked
crosswalk.
      4.   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway intersection diagonally unless
authorized by official traffic-control devices; and, when authorized to cross
diagonally, pedestrians shall cross only in accordance with the official
traffic-control devices pertaining to such crossing movement. (Ord. 6056, 3-27-
1996)
   D.   Prohibited Crossings: Between adjacent intersections at which traffic-
control signals are in operation, pedestrians shall not cross at any place
except in a crosswalk, nor shall any pedestrian cross a roadway other than in a
crosswalk in any business district.
      1.   No pedestrian shall cross a roadway other than in a crosswalk upon
any of the streets designated by the City.
      2.   There are established midblock crosswalks at the locations
designated by the City. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
   E.   Pedestrian Traffic Only:
      1.   Restrictions: No person shall bicycle, skateboard, rollerblade,
roller skate, ride, sled or use any device using runners or wheels upon the
area known as Lincoln Douglas Square or upon the areas of Gordon F. Moore Park,
known as the Dr. Raymond R. Simpson Tennis Center, the Workers Memorial and the
Veterans Memorial.
      2.   Exceptions: This subsection shall not apply to wheelchairs, carts or
other devices designed to assist disabled persons. (Ord. 6285, 6-10-1998)
8-4-5: BLIND PEDESTRIANS:
Any blind pedestrian who is carrying in a raised or extended position, a cane
or walking stick which is white in color or white tipped in red, or who is
being guided by a dog, shall have the right of way in crossing any street or
highway, whether or not traffic on that street is controlled with traffic-
control signals, other provisions of this Chapter notwithstanding.
The driver of any vehicle approaching the place where a blind person so
carrying such a cane or walking stick or being so guided is crossing a street
or highway shall bring his vehicle to a full stop and before proceeding, shall
take such precautions as may be necessary to avoid injury to such blind
pedestrian.
The provisions of this Section shall not apply to a blind pedestrian who is not
carrying such a cane or walking stick or who is not guided by a dog, but the
other provisions of this chapter shall then be applicable to such pedestrian.
The failure of a blind person to so use or carry a cane or walking stick or to
be guided by a guide dog when walking on the streets, highways or sidewalks,
shall not be considered as evidence of contributory negligence. (Ord. 3378, 10-
12-1966)
8-4-6: DRIVERS TO EXERCISE DUE CARE:
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this chapter, every driver of a
vehicle shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian upon any
roadway and shall give warning by sounding the horn when necessary and shall
exercise proper precaution upon any child or confused or incapacitated person
upon a roadway. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-4-7: SOLICITING:
Soliciting contributions from the occupant of any vehicle shall be allowed in
the city, subject to the following terms and conditions:
   A.   Only at intersections where all traffic is required to come to a full
stop;
   B.   The soliciting agency must be registered with the attorney general as a
charitable organization as provided by "an act to regulate solicitation and
collection of funds for charitable purposes, providing for violations thereof,
and making an appropriation therefor", approved July 26, 1963, as amended;
   C.   The soliciting agency must be engaged in a statewide fundraising
activity;
   D.   The soliciting agency shall be liable for any injuries to any person or
property during the solicitation which is causally related to an act of
ordinary negligence of the soliciting agent;
   E.   Any person engaged in the act of solicitation shall be sixteen (16)
years of age or more and shall be wearing a high visibility vest;
   F.   The soliciting agency will also fully indemnify the city from any
claims, injuries, expenses or judgments that may arise from the solicitation
activity; (Ord. 5808, 8-25-1993)
   G.   The soliciting agency shall carry liability insurance in the minimum
amount of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) covering soliciting agency and
naming the city of Alton as an additional insured and the soliciting agency
shall file a certified copy of said insurance policy with the city treasurer;
(Ord. 6682, 10-23-2002)
   H.   The soliciting agency shall pay a twenty five dollar ($25.00) permit
fee to the city treasurer for each fundraising activity which is contemplated.
(Ord. 5808, 8-25-1993)
CHAPTER 5
BICYCLES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Traffic Laws And Signals
8-5-3: Riding Restrictions
8-5-4: Designated Bicycle Routes, Trails, Lanes, Paths
8-5-5: Bicycle Equipment
8-5-6: Penalty
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
BICYCLE: A lightweight device propelled mostly by human peddle power upon which
a person may ride, having two (2) or three (3) wheels. References to "BICYCLE"
in this chapter are intended to include tricycles and tandem cycles for two or
more persons.
BICYCLE CROSSING: A point of crossing at a roadway designated and marked for
the purpose of orderly crossing of vehicular traffic lanes similar to and under
the same restrictions normally imposed within the context of a pedestrian
crosswalk.
BICYCLE LANE: A portion of a roadway which has been designated for preferential
or exclusive use of bicycles. It is distinguished from the portion of the
roadway for motor vehicular traffic by a painted stripe, curb or other similar
device.
BICYCLE ROUTE, BICYCLE WAY, BICYCLE TRAIL BIKEWAY, OR SHARED ROADWAY: Any road,
street, path or way which in some manner is specifically designated as being
open to bicycle travel but is to be shared with other transportation modes.
BICYCLE PATH: A separate path which is for the exclusive use of bicycles,
walkers and runners. Where such trail or path forms part of a highway, it is
separated from the roadway for motor vehicular traffic by an open space or
barrier. (Ord. 3974, 3-26-1975; amd. Ord. 7956, 9-25-2024)
8-5-2: TRAFFIC LAWS AND SIGNALS:
   A.   Laws Applicable To Bicycle Riders: Every person riding a bicycle upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the laws of this State
declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by the traffic ordinances
of this City applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to special
regulations in this Chapter and except as to those provisions of laws and
ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
   B.   Traffic-Control Signals:
      1.   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of
official traffic-control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
      2.   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or
left or "U" turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-5-3: RIDING RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Riding On Bicycles: A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other
than astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto, nor shall any
bicycle be used to carry more persons at one time than the number for which it
is designed and equipped.
   B.   Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths:
      1.   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near
to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
      2.   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
(2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles.
      3.   Where a useable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
   C.   Riding On Sidewalks:
      1.   No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business
district.
      2.   The City Council may from time to time, by ordinance, prohibit the
riding of bicycles on certain sidewalks and/or roadways by any person and when
signs are in place pursuant to such ordinance or ordinances, no person shall
disobey same.
      3.   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, such person
shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal
before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
   D.   Speed: No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is
reasonable and prudent under the conditions then existing.
   E.   Emerging From Alley Or Driveway: The operator of a bicycle emerging
from an alley, driveway or building shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the
sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, yield the right of way to all
pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway
shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
   F.   Carrying Articles: No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one
hand upon the handlebars.
   G.   Parking: No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon
the roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the
bicycle or against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford the
least obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-5-4: DESIGNATED BICYCLE ROUTES, TRAILS, LANES, PATHS:
   A.   State Street Trail
      State Street from East Broadway to Elm Street.
   B.   Alton Heritage Trail
      Starting at the intersection of Elm and State Streets, follow Elm Street
east until it crosses Rt 67 and intersects with Central Avenue. Then follow
Central Avene south until it intersects with Grove Street. Go on Grove to
Liberty Street then south on Liberty to 15th Street. Then go one block on 15th
to Henry Street. Go South on Henry Street all the way to cross East Broadway as
well as Landmarks Blvd and continue until it intersects with the MCT Confluence
Trail.
   C.   Riverview Park Loop
      Along Bluff Street from State Street to Riverview Drive and continuing on
Park Avenue adjacent to Riverview Park to the intersection with Angle Street.
Thence on Angle Street to Foulds Avenue, thence along Foulds Avenue to turn
north on Lohr Street behind Irving School to intersect with Bluff Street.
   D.   River Trails Connector
      Beginning at the intersection of Jefferson and State Streets and
progressing along Jefferson to Mack Street, thence on Mack Street to McInerney
Street, thence on McInerney Street to Grand Avenue unimproved right of way.
      Beginning at the Grand Avenue right of way on McInerney Street go south
to an intersection with the Sam Vadalebene Bicycle Trail adjacent to the
McAdams Highway. (This portion marked and maintained as a restricted Bicycle
Path but allowing use by authorized vehicles.)
      Starting at the intersection of Jefferson Street and State Street
continuing to its intersection with 9th Street. Then continuing along 9th
Street until intersecting with Market Street, Then continuing along Market
Street south until it intersects with Lincoln-Douglus Park at East Broadway.
   E.   Cross Town Connector
      Starting at the intersection of 6th and Market, follow 6th Street until
it intersects with Henry Street.
   F.   Bell Street Connector
      Starting at the intersection of Bell Street and 9th Street, proceed south
to Fourth Street and follow Fourth west to State Street.
   G.   River Front Trail
      On W Broadway from Piasa to the Vadalebene Trailhead
   H.   College & Rt 140
      Starting at the intersection of Washington Avenue and College Avenue
proceeding easterly therefrom along College Avenue to its intersection with
Illinois Route 140; continuing easterly on Illinois Route 140 to the entrance
to Gordon F. Moore Park. (Ord. 7402, 5-14- 2014; amd. Ord. 7956, 9-25-2024)
8-5-5: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp on
the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type which shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet (50') to three
hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of
headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the
red reflector.
   B.   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least one
hundred feet (100'), except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall
any person use upon a bicycle any siren or whistle.
   C.   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (Ord.
3378, 10-12-1966)
8-5-6: PENALTY:
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) or by
impounding of such person's bicycle for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days
or by any combination thereof. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966; amd. Ord. 4255, 11-23-
1977)
CHAPTER 6
INOPERABLE, ABANDONED AND WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
8-6-1: Definitions
8-6-2: Interpretation Of Provisions
8-6-3: Prohibited Conditions
8-6-4: Abatement Of Nuisance
8-6-5: Junk Vehicle Facility
8-6-6: Procedures On Abandoned, Wrecked Vehicles
8-6-7: Sale Of Unclaimed Vehicles
8-6-8: Liability
8-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of disrepair
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition or which is
unlicensed; or any motor vehicle or other vehicle that has not been moved from
the street or used for seven (7) consecutive days or more and is apparently
deserted.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle twenty five (25) years of
age or older.
HIGHWAY: Any street, alley or public way within the city.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at
least seven (7) days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or
on which the engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or
otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its
own motor power, or which is unlicensed, but shall not include:
   A.   A motor vehicle which has been rendered temporarily incapable of being
driven under its own power in order to perform ordinary service or repair
operations;
   B.   Any motor vehicle that is kept within a building when not in use;
   C.   A motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in the
wrecking or junking of motor vehicles.
JUNK VEHICLE FACILITY: A place of business where motor vehicles, in excess of
fifty (50), are being stacked, disassembled, salvaged or otherwise reduced to a
state in which they no longer can be returned to an operable state, and where
the length of time the motor vehicle is stored at the facility is in excess of
thirty (30) days. (Ord. 6581, 6-13-2001)
8-6-2: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the power of the city to
abate a nuisance where the circumstances creating the nuisance include the
maintenance of a motor vehicle on public or private property. (Ord. 5286, 9-28-
1988)
8-6-3: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Inoperable Motor Vehicles: All inoperable motor vehicles in view of the
general public, whether on public or private property within the city, are
hereby declared nuisances. (Ord. 5286, 9-28-1988)
   B.   Abandoned Vehicles: The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle
or any part thereof on any highway in the city is unlawful and subject to
penalties as set forth in this code. The abandonment of a motor vehicle or
other vehicle or any part thereof on private or public property, other than a
highway, in view of the general public, anywhere in this city is unlawful
except on property of the owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle. A motor
vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private property
may be authorized for removal by or upon the order of the chief of police,
after a waiting period of seven (7) days or more has expired. (Ord. 3609, 7-9-
1970)
8-6-4: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE:
   A.   Notice: A person is required to dispose of any inoperable motor vehicle
(s) or parts thereof under his or her control within seven (7) days after
written notice is issued by the building and housing inspector or from the
chief of police or any member of his department designated by him, commanding
disposition of the inoperable motor vehicle(s).
   B.   Permission Required: A person shall not deposit on any public or
private roadway, alley, driveway, parking area, or other place within the city
limits, any inoperable vehicle or part thereof without first obtaining
permission of the owner, occupancy or agent of the private property, and the
building and housing inspector or the police department of the city. (Ord.
5368, 8-9-1989; amd. Ord. 5503, 12-19-1990)
   C.   Disposal; Removal: If a person fails to dispose of any inoperable motor
vehicle(s) or parts thereof under his control within seven (7) days from the
issuance of the municipal notice, the police department may remove said
inoperable vehicles or parts thereof. (Ord. 5286, 9-28-1988)
   D.   Penalty: Any person who fails to dispose of an inoperable motor vehicle
(s) or parts thereof or an abandoned motor vehicle(s) under his control within
the period of time delineated in the notice served pursuant to subsection A of
this section, shall be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day such offense continues shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder. (Ord.
5286, 9-28-1988; amd. 1999 Code)
8-6-5: JUNK VEHICLE FACILITY:
The owner or operator of a junk vehicle facility shall each be required to
abide by the following regulations: (Ord. 5480, 10-24-1990)
   A.   The junk vehicle facility shall be screened from public view by a solid
fence of good repair that has a minimum height of ten feet (10') when said
facility is adjacent to a conservation zoning district, a residential zoning
district or a designated state or federal highway. Said fence shall be
constructed of accepted fencing material and maintained in a uniform, sightly
and nonoffensive manner. No forms of signage shall be allowed to be placed upon
said fence, except for that legally allowed to identify the enterprise located
upon the premises. (Ord. 5817, 10-27-1993)
   B.   Motor vehicles shall not be stacked more than two (2) high. In no case
shall salvaged and/or stored materials be arranged in a manner to be made
visible above the fence or landscaping.
   C.   Emergency vehicle access lanes shall be maintained throughout the junk
vehicle facility with a minimum of fifteen feet (15').
   D.   There shall be no storage of hazardous materials within the junk
vehicle facility. (Ord. 5480, 10-24-1990)
8-6-6: PROCEDURES ON ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES:
   A.   Notify Police Department: When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed
motor vehicle or other vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody
of a person in this state, not the owner of the vehicle such person shall
immediately notify the police department when the vehicle is within the
corporate limits of the city. Upon receipt of such notification, the chief of
police shall authorize a towing service to remove and take possession of the
abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing
service will safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record
of the tow until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person
legally entitled to possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided
in this chapter.
   B.   Removal:
      1.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in
this city ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the chief of police.
      2.   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially
dismantled motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because
of its position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is
causing the impeding of traffic, its immediate removal from the highway by a
towing service may be authorized by order of the chief of the police
department.
      3.   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the Chief of Police, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing costs.
   C.   Records Kept: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to be
towed away, the Police Department shall keep and maintain a record of the
vehicle towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade
name, manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow.
   D.   Owner Unknown:
      1.   When the Police Department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the State of Illinois to be searched by a
directed communication to the Secretary of State for the purpose of obtaining
the required ownership information.
      2.   The Police Department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of
the Illinois State Police to be searched by a directed communication to the
Illinois State Police for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the
Illinois State Police files are searched with negative results, the information
contained in the National Crime Information Center (NCIC) files will be
searched by the Illinois State Police. The information determined from these
record searches will be used by the Police Department in sending a notification
by certified mail to the owner or legally entitled person advising where the
vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be made and setting forth public sale
information.
      3.   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a motor vehicle or other vehicle cannot be identified from the
registration files of this State or from the registration files of a foreign
state, if applicable, the Police Department shall notify the Illinois State
Police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by
the Illinois State Police will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement
agency having custody of the vehicle for notification of owner. (Ord. 3609, 7-
9-1970)
8-6-7: SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
   A.   Sale At Public Auction: Any time before a motor vehicle or other
vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as provided herein, the owner or
other person legally entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by
presenting to the Police Department proof of ownership or proof of the right to
possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner or other
person under this Section until all towing and storage charges have been paid.
   B.   Notice Of Sale: Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor
vehicle or other vehicle, seven (7) years of age or newer, remains unclaimed by
the registered owner or other person legally entitled to its possession for a
period of thirty (30) days after notice has been given as provided herein, the
Police Department having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at
public sale to the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale
shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the
sale on the premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10)
days prior to the sale, the Police Department shall cause a notice of the time
and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or
other person known by the Police Deportment or towing service to be legally
entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete
description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any
legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
In those instances where the certified notification specified herein has been
returned by the postal authorities to the Police Department due to the
addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this State, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required.
   C.   Sale Without Notice: When the identity of the registered owner or other
person legally entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed
vehicle of seven (7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means
provided for in this Chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or
disposed of in the manner authorized by this Chapter without notice to the
registered owner or other person legally entitled to the possession of the
vehicle.
When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is impounded as
specified by this Chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten (10)
days for the purpose of determining ownership, the contacting of the registered
owner by the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a determination of
disposition; and, an examination of the Illinois State Police stolen motor
vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the ten
(10) day period, without the benefit of disposition being received from the
registered owner, the Chief of Police will authorize the disposal of the
vehicle as junk only.
A motor vehicle or other vehicle classified as an antique vehicle is excluded
from this Chapter.
   D.   Report Maintained: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in the custody
of the Police Department is reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally
entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise
disposed of as provided in this Chapter, a report of the transaction will be
maintained by the Police Department for a period of one year from the date of
the sale or disposal.
   E.   Proceeds Of Sale: When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of
the Municipality is authorized to be towed away by the Chief of Police and
disposed of as set forth in this Chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or
disposition after the deduction of towing, storage and processing charges shall
be deposited in the Municipal Treasury. (Ord. 3609, 7-9-1970)
8-6-8: LIABILITY:
Any police officer, towing service owner, operator or employee shall not be
held to answer or be liable for damages in any section brought by the
registered owner, former registered owner or his legal representatives, or any
other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor vehicle or other
vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this Chapter. (Ord. 3609, 7-9-1970)
CHAPTER 7
VEHICLE EQUIPMENT AND CONDITION
SECTION:
8-7-1: Windows And Mirrors
8-7-2: Lights
8-7-3: Horns And Warning Devices
8-7-4: Tires
8-7-5: Brakes
8-7-6: Mufflers, Prevention Of Noise
8-7-7: Dimension Of Vehicles Restricted
8-7-8: Volunteer Firefighter Vehicles
8-7-9: Prohibited Conditions
8-7-1: WINDOWS AND MIRRORS:
   A.   Clear Vision: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which is
loaded or in such a condition that the operator does not have clear vision of
all parts of the roadway essential to the safe operation of the vehicle.
   B.   Mirrors: Any vehicle that is so constructed or in such condition as to
obstruct the operator's view of the roadway to the rear of such vehicle shall
be equipped with a mirror so located that it will afford such operator a view
of the roadway behind him for a distance of two hundred feet (200').
   C.   Windshields And Wipers:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle to
operate such motor vehicle upon any street with any sign, poster or other
nontransparent material attached to the windshield, sidewings, side or rear
windows of such motor vehicle which obstructs the operator's clear view of the
street.
      2.   The windshield on every motor vehicle shall be equipped with a
device for cleaning rain, snow, or other moisture from the windshield, and such
device shall be so constructed and maintained as to be subject to the control
and operation of the operator of such vehicle. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-7-2: LIGHTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any vehicle upon any street
unless such vehicle is equipped with such lamp equipment as required by and in
such condition as is prescribed by State law. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-7-3: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
Every motor vehicle when operated upon any street of the City shall be equipped
with a horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible under
normal conditions from a distance not less than two hundred feet (200') but no
horn or other warning device shall emit an unreasonably loud or harsh sound or
whistle.
No vehicle equipped with a gong, siren, bell, whistle, or explosive type of
warning signal, except fire apparatus, fire patrol vehicles, ambulances,
motorbuses and emergency vehicles of any governmental agency shall be operated
upon the streets. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-7-4: TIRES:
   A.   Generally: All freight-carrying motor vehicles operating upon the
public streets and alleys of the City shall have tires of rubber or other
material of equal resiliency; provided, that solid tires shall be considered
defective and the use thereof shall not be permitted if the rubber or other
material has been worn or otherwise reduced to a thickness of less than three-
quarters of an inch (3/4"), or if such tires have been so worn or otherwise
damaged as to cause pounding on the pavement. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
   B.   Studded Tires: No motor vehicle shall be operated upon the streets or
alleys of the City which shall be equipped with studded tires; provided,
however, this prohibition shall not be applicable between October 1 of any year
and until May 1 of the following year on single tire vehicles with a rated
capacity of not more than ten thousand (10,000) pounds gross vehicle weight on
which there are wheel-wells or other items of a similarly protective nature,
whether permanently or temporarily attached thereto. (Ord. 3461, 12-13-1967)
8-7-5: BRAKES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle upon any
street, unless such motor vehicle is equipped with such brake equipment as
required by and in such condition as prescribed by State law. (Ord. 3378, 10-
12-1966)
8-7-6: MUFFLERS, PREVENTION OF NOISE:
   A.   Unnecessary Noise: It shall be unlawful to operate a vehicle which
makes unusually loud or unnecessary noise. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
   B.   Mufflers: Every motor vehicle driven or operated upon a street or
highway of this City shall at all times be equipped with an adequate muffler or
exhaust system in constant operation and properly maintained to prevent any
excessive or unusual noise. No such muffler or exhaust system shall be equipped
with a cutout, bypass or similar device. No person shall modify the exhaust
system of a motor vehicle in a manner which will amplify or increase the noise
of such vehicle above that emitted by the muffler originally installed on the
vehicle, and such original muffler shall comply with all the requirements of
this Section. (Ord. 4521, 5-14-1980)
8-7-7: DIMENSION OF VEHICLES RESTRICTED:
   A.   Length Of Vehicles:
      1.   No vehicle, unladen or with load, shall exceed a length of forty two
feet (42') extreme overall dimension.
      2.   No truck tractor and semi-trailer, unladen or with load, shall
exceed a length of fifty five feet (55') overall dimension, except that such
combination, when specially designed to transport motor vehicles may have a
length of sixty feet (60') extreme overall dimension. No other combination of
vehicles, unladen or with load, shall exceed a length of sixty feet (60')
extreme overall dimension.
      3.   Length limitation shall not apply to vehicles operated in the day
time when transporting poles, pipe, machinery or other objects of a structural
nature which cannot readily be dismembered, nor to such vehicle transporting
such objects operated at night time by a public utility when required for
emergency repair of public service facilities or properties or when operated
under special permit as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-301,
but in respect to such night transportation every such vehicle and the load
thereon shall be equipped with a sufficient number of clearance lamps on both
sides and marker lamps upon the extreme ends of any projecting load to clearly
mark the dimension of such load. Neither shall the length limitations apply to
a combination of vehicles consisting of a towing vehicle and a disabled vehicle
or vehicles when engaged in removing the disabled vehicle or vehicles from the
highway to the nearest repair station.
      4.   The load upon any vehicle operated alone, or the load upon the front
vehicle of a combination of vehicles, shall not extend more than three feet
(3') beyond the front wheels of such vehicle or the front bumper of such
vehicle if it is equipped with such a bumper.
   B.   Projecting Loads: No passenger-type vehicle shall be operated on any
highway with any load carrier thereon extending beyond the line of the fenders
on the left side of such vehicle nor extending more than six inches (6") beyond
the line of the fenders on the right side thereof.
Any vehicle having a load projecting more than four feet (4') beyond the rear
of the body of such vehicle during the period from sunrise to sunset must have
firmly attached to the end of the projecting load, in such a way as to be seen
by persons approaching from either side at the rear of such vehicle, a red
cloth not less than sixteen inches (16") square, and during the period from
sunset to sunrise, must have a lighted red lamp or lantern plainly visible from
a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the side and rear, firmly
attached to the rear end of such projecting load. Such lighted red lamp or
lantern shall be in addition to any other light required to be carried by
vehicles under any law of the State or any ordinance of the City in regard to
vehicles. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-7-8: VOLUNTEER FIREFIGHTER VEHICLES:
Any motor vehicle owned or usually operated by a volunteer firefighter may be
equipped with not to exceed two (2) lamps which shall emit a blue light without
glare. One such lamp may be mounted on the rear of any such vehicle. Except
that a flashing blue light may be used only when such fireman is responding to
a fire call. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-7-9: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Gas And Smoke: It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle which emits
dense smoke or such an amount of smoke or fumes as to be dangerous to the
health of persons or as to endanger the drivers of other vehicles.
   B.   Spilling Loads: No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load
spills or drops on any street or alley in the City.
   C.   Unattended Motor Vehicles: No person driving or in charge of a motor
vehicle shall permit it to stand unattended without first stopping the engine,
locking the ignition and removing the key, or when standing upon any
perceptible grade without effectively setting the brake thereon and turning the
front wheels to the curb or side of the street. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
CHAPTER 8
ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
SECTION:
8-8-1: Enforcement By Police Officers And Firefighters
8-8-2: Unlawful Acts
8-8-3: Accidents
8-8-4: Penalty For Violations
8-8-5: Traffic Citations
8-8-6: Disposition Of Records, Fines And Forfeitures
8-8-7: Audit Of Records And Reports (Rep. by Ord. 7299, 2-22-2012)
8-8-8: Prohibited Acts
8-8-9: Police Authorized To Relocate Vehicles
8-8-10: Authority To Impound Vehicles
8-8-11: Impoundment Of Motor Vehicles
8-8-12: Sale Of Unclaimed Motor Vehicles
8-8-1: ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE OFFICERS AND FIREFIGHTERS:
   A.   Police Officers:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the members of the police department to
enforce all street traffic laws of this city and all of the state vehicle laws
applicable to street traffic in this city.
      2.   Members of the police department are hereby authorized to direct all
traffic by voice, hand or signal in conformance with traffic laws; provided
that, in the event of a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or to
safeguard pedestrians, members of the police department may direct traffic as
conditions may require notwithstanding the provisions of the traffic laws.
(Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966; amd. 1999 Code)
      3.   Police officers as used in this chapter when pertaining to illegal
parking shall include sworn police officers, parking control officers or police
cadets of the city of Alton. (Ord. 7299, 2-22-2012)
   B.   Firefighters: Members of the fire department, when at the scene of a
fire, may direct or assist police in directing traffic thereat or in the
immediate vicinity. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966; amd. 1999 Code)
8-8-2: UNLAWFUL ACTS:
   A.   Persons Under Influence Of Intoxicating Liquor Or Narcotic Drugs: It
shall be unlawful for any person to drive any motor vehicle on any street in
the city who is a habitual user of narcotic drugs or who is under the influence
of intoxicating liquor. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
   B.   Reckless Driving: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive any
vehicle with a wilful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property
within the city. (Ord. 4656, 11-25-1981)
   C.   Drag Racing: It shall be unlawful for any person to compete in "drag
racing" in any motor vehicle on any street within the city. For the purpose of
this subsection, "drag racing" means the act of two (2) or more individuals
competing or racing on any street in a situation in which one of the motor
vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing
driver and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing
or overtaking him, or one or more individuals compete in a race against time on
any street in this city. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-8-3: ACCIDENTS:
   A.   Immediate Notice Of Accident: The driver of a vehicle involved in an
accident on a public way, resulting in injury to or death of any person or
total damage to all property to an apparent extent of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) or more, shall immediately by the quickest means of communication,
give notice of such accident to the police department if such accident occurs
within this city.
   B.   Written Report: The driver of a vehicle which is in any manner involved
in an accident on a public way, resulting in bodily injury to or death of any
person or total damage to all property to an apparent extent of two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00) or more shall, within twenty four (24) hours after such
accident, forward a written report of such accident to the police department.
The provisions of this section shall not be applicable when the accident has
been investigated at the scene by a police officer while such driver was
present thereat. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966; amd. Ord. 7299, 2-22-2012)
   C.   Driver Unable To Report:
      1.   Whenever the driver of a vehicle is physically incapable of giving
an immediate notice of an accident as required in subsection A of this section,
and there was another occupant in the vehicle at the time of the accident
capable of doing so, such occupant shall make or cause to be given the notice
not given by the driver.
      2.   Whenever the driver is physically incapable of making a written
report of an accident as required in subsection B of this section, and such
driver is not the owner of the vehicle, then the owner of the vehicle involved
in such accident shall within twenty four (24) hours after the accident make
such report not made by the driver. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-8-4: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
   A.   General: Unless another penalty is expressly provided by law, every
person convicted of a violation of any provision of this title shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 3978, 3-26-1975; amd. Ord. 4255, 11-23-1977; 1999
Code)
   B.   Parking: Any person accused of a violation of an ordinance prohibiting
parking or stopping a vehicle in a designated area or restricting the length of
time a vehicle may be parked there, may settle and compromise the claim against
him or her for such illegal act by paying to the city the sum specified below
for each alleged offense:
 
Overtime parking (if paid within 30 days)                         $ 20.00
Overtime parking (if paid after 30 days)                          50.00
                                                                  
Illegal parking (if paid within 30 days)                          20.00
Illegal parking (if paid after 30 days)                           50.00
                                                                  
Parking in a parking place reserved for a handicapped person or a
disabled veteran without appropriate handicapped parking decal or 250.00
handicapped registration plates
 
Should the chief of police or his designee determine that a citation for
parking in a parking place reserved for a handicapped person or a disabled
veteran without appropriate handicapped parking decal or handicapped
registration plates has been issued to a person or vehicle when the person or
vehicle had a valid handicapped parking decal or handicapped parking
registration plates that was not properly displayed, the police chief or his
designee shall have the discretion to dismiss the parking citation but only if
the accused shall voluntarily pay twenty dollars ($20.00) for failure to
properly display a handicapped parking decal or handicapped registration plates
as required by subsection
8-3-4C of this title.
Parking citation violations may be paid at the office of the city treasurer,
the Alton police department or electronically as permitted and directed on the
city of Alton website. A receipt shall be prepared for all payments so
received. All such payments shall be deposited by the city treasurer and shall
accrue to the general fund of the city of Alton.
This subsection shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so as to obstruct
the entrance or exit of any place where police or fire department apparatus or
other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so as to block an emergency
entrance in a hospital. Nor shall this subsection apply to any person charged
with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in any street or
alley or another person's driveway, or parking in such a way as to reduce
traffic on an arterial street to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who
refuses to move a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the
city of Alton police or fire department.
   C.   Illegal Parking:
      1.   Citation On: Whenever any motor vehicle with or without a driver is
found parked or stopped in violation of any of the restrictions imposed by any
ordinance of this city or by state law, the police officer, or parking control
officer or police cadet of the city of Alton finding such vehicle in violation
shall take its registration number and may take any other information displayed
on the vehicle which may identify its user or owner and shall conspicuously
affix to such vehicle a parking citation on a form to be provided by the Alton
police department.
      2.   Responsibility In Reference To Illegal Parking: The fact that a
motor vehicle which is illegally parked or stopped is registered in a name of a
person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in control of
such motor vehicle at the time of such parking or stopping. When a motor
vehicle which is illegally parked or stopped is registered in the name of a
person that person shall be responsible for any penalties imposed for such
illegal parking or stopping of such a motor vehicle whether in the possession
of the registered owner or in the possession of his bailees, lessees, or
customers.
      3.   Failure To Comply With Citation: The violator of the restrictions on
stopping, standing or parking under the traffic laws or ordinances established
within the city of Alton shall be required to comply with the citation issued
by payment of the penalties as set forth in this section within sixty (60) days
of the date of issuance of the citation. If the owner or violator fails to pay
the penalty for the citation issued within sixty (60) days of the date of
issuance, the chief of police shall cause to be sent to the registered owner of
the motor vehicle to which the parking citation was affixed, a notice informing
him or her of the parking violation and warning that in the event the penalties
are not paid to the city of Alton within fourteen (14) days of the aforesaid
notice, an ordinance violation complaint shall be filed with the circuit court
of Madison County, Illinois, charging the ordinance violation offense of
"failure to comply with parking citation". The circuit court shall thereafter
issue a summons or a warrant for the ordinance violation complaint directed to
the defendant named in said ordinance violation complaint. (Ord. 7299, 2-22-
2012)
8-8-5: TRAFFIC CITATIONS:
   A.   Citations Issued: For offenses under this title, police officers, after
taking the name, address and operator's license number of the offender, the
registration number of the vehicle involved, and other pertinent information as
may be necessary, may issue a traffic violation citation notifying the offender
to appear in court at the time designated for hearing such cases. Such officer
may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if the offender does not
appear at the time and place so specified. A police officer may, in the
exercise of his discretion, make an immediate arrest of the offender when
deemed necessary to protect the public health and safety.
   B.   Forms And Records: The chief of police shall be responsible for the
issuance of books of traffic citation forms to individual members of the police
department. Said books shall include serially numbered sets of citations in the
form prescribed by the mayor. The chief of police shall require a written
receipt for every book so issued and shall maintain a record of every such book
and each set of citations contained therein.
   C.   When Copy Of Citation Deemed Lawful Complaint: In the event the form of
citation provided under subsection A of this section, includes information and
is sworn to as required under the general laws of this state in respect to a
complaint charging commission of the offense alleged in said citation to have
been committed, then such citation when filed with a court having jurisdiction,
shall be deemed to be a lawful complaint for the purpose of prosecution under
this chapter.
   D.   Failure To Obey Citation:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to appear in answer to a
traffic citation regardless of the disposition of the charge for which such
citation was originally issued.
      2.   In the event any person fails to comply with a traffic citation
given to such person or attached to a vehicle, or fails to make appearance
pursuant to a summons directing an appearance in the proper court within the
time permitted by ordinance, the chief of police shall secure and issue a
warrant for his arrest. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-8-6: DISPOSITION OF RECORDS, FINES AND FORFEITURES:
   A.   Records Of Citations, Warrants And Complaints:
      1.   Every police officer upon issuing a traffic citation to an alleged
violator of any provision of the motor vehicle laws of this state or of any
traffic ordinances of this city, shall deposit the original and a duplicate
copy of the citation with his immediate superior officer, who shall cause the
original to be delivered to the proper court of this city and said duplicate
copy to the central records section of the police department. The second
duplicate copy of the citation shall be retained in the traffic citation book
and shall be delivered by such superior officer to the chief of police together
with such book when all traffic citations therein have been issued.
      2.   Upon the filing of such original citation in the proper court as
aforesaid, said citation may be disposed of only by trial in said court or by
other official action by a judge of said court, including forfeiture of bail or
by payment of a fine to said court.
      3.   The chief of police shall require the return to him of each traffic
citation and all copies thereof, except that copy required to be retained in
the book as provided herein, which has been spoiled or upon which any entry has
been made and has not been issued to an alleged violator.
      4.   The chief of police shall also maintain or cause to be maintained in
connection with every traffic citation issued by a member of the police
department a record of the disposition of the charge by the proper court of
this city.
      5.   The chief of police shall also maintain or cause to be maintained a
record of all warrants issued by the court or by any other court on said
traffic violation charges and which are delivered to the police department for
service, and of the final disposition of all such warrants.
      6.   Except as provided in subsection A1 of this section, it shall be
unlawful and official misconduct for any member of the police department or
other officer or public employee to dispose of, alter or deface a traffic
citation or any copy thereof, of the record or the issuance or disposition of
any traffic citation, complaint or warrant in a manner other than as required
in this section.
   B.   Fines And Forfeitures: All fines or forfeitures collected upon
conviction or upon forfeiture of bail of any person charged with a violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter and all fines and forfeitures collected
for violation of any of the provisions of the state motor vehicle act, when
said violations are prosecuted by the city, shall be paid into the city
treasury and deposited in the general fund. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966)
8-8-7: AUDIT OF RECORDS AND REPORTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 7299, 2-22-2012)
8-8-8: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Illegal Cancellation Of Citations: It shall be unlawful for any person
to cancel or solicit the cancellation of any traffic citation in any manner
other than as provided by this chapter; provided, however, that this section
shall not be construed as to prohibit the chief of police or his designee
specified in writing from voiding for good cause traffic citations issued for
parking violations provided a record of any such tickets voided and the reasons
therefor is maintained. (Ord. 3378, 10-12-1966; amd. Ord. 7299, 2-22-2012)
   B.   Official Misconduct: Failure, refusal or neglect on the part of any
judicial or other officer or employee receiving or having custody of any such
fine or forfeiture, either before or after a deposit with the city treasurer to
comply with the foregoing provisions of this section shall constitute
misconduct in office and shall be grounds for removal therefrom. (Ord. 3378,
10-12-1966)
8-8-9: POLICE AUTHORIZED TO RELOCATE VEHICLES:
In the event of any emergency necessitating the removal of any vehicle upon any
street or highway, members of the police department are authorized to remove or
relocate any such vehicle from one location to any other location. (Ord. 3378,
10-12-1966)
8-8-10: AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES:
   A.   Members of the city of Alton police department are hereby authorized to
remove or cause to be removed, any motor vehicle from a street or highway to a
place of safety or to a motor vehicle storage facility approved by the city of
Alton or otherwise maintained by the city of Alton under the circumstances
hereinafter enumerated and to impound such motor vehicle until all fees and
charges as provided in this chapter have been paid, satisfied or challenged as
provided for by this chapter.
      1.   When any motor vehicle is left unattended upon any bridge, viaduct,
railroad track or right of way, or causeway, or in any tunnel where such motor
vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic.
      2.   When a motor vehicle upon a highway is so disabled as to constitute
an obstruction to traffic and the person or persons in charge of the motor
vehicle are by reason of physical injury incapacitated to such an extent as to
be unable to provide for its removal or designate a responsible licensed driver
to assume custody of the motor vehicle and cause its safe removal.
      3.   When any motor vehicle is left unattended upon a street and is so
parked illegally as to constitute a definite hazard or obstruction to the
normal movement of traffic, or an obstruction to any private driveway.
      4.   When any abandoned motor vehicle is found on any street or highway,
a vehicle shall be deemed abandoned when: a) in such state of disrepair as to
be incapable of being driven, or b) not used or moved for more than five (5)
consecutive days and is apparently deserted, or c) is left unattended and
becomes by reason of fire, snow or any happening or occurrence, a hazard to
public safety and convenience.
      5.   Whenever a motor vehicle is left parked and unattended on a street
or on any other properly designated public facility, which street or other
facility has been designated by city ordinance as an area in which parking is
prohibited, and which no parking prohibition is properly posted including
designation as a "towing zone", the members of the police department are hereby
authorized to cause such motor vehicle to be removed from said street or other
public facility by a towing service and impounded.
      6.   When any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied
permission of the owner or owners of record, is used in connection with the
following violations, it shall be subject to seizure, removal and impoundment
by order of a member of the police department of the city of Alton, and the
owner or owners of record of said motor vehicle shall thereafter be liable to
the city of Alton for a level 1 administrative fee, as provided for in this
chapter, together with any towing and storage fees incurred, as provided by
this chapter.
         a.   Possession or delivery of a controlled substance or drug
paraphernalia as defined by the controlled substances act, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 570/201 et seq., the cannabis control act, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq., or the drug paraphernalia act of the state of
Illinois, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 600/2 so long as the offense charged
is a class A misdemeanor or is a more serious offense as defined by the
Illinois criminal code.
         b.   Any weapons offense as defined in article 24 of chapter 720 of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
         c.   Driving under the influence (DUI) of alcohol, drugs or
intoxicating compounds as defined by the state of Illinois in section 5/11-501
of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501.
         d.   The offense of the commission of prostitution as defined in
section 5/11-14 of the criminal code, solicitation of a sexual act as defined
in section 5/11-14.1 of such code, soliciting for a prostitute as defined in
section 5/11-15 of such code, soliciting for a juvenile prostitute as defined
in section 5/11-18 of such code, patronizing a juvenile prostitute as defined
in section 5/11-18.1 of such code, or pandering as defined in section 5/11-16
of such code of a prostitute as defined by the criminal code of the state of
Illinois.
         e.   Driving with suspended or revoked driver's license as defined in
section 5/6-303 of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
6-303 except and unless the driver's license was suspended solely as a result
of violation of vehicle emission regulations as required by 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/13C-55(a)(2).
         f.   Fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer as defined in
section 5/11-204 or 11-204.1 of the Illinois vehicle code, 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-204 and 204.1.
         g.   Leaving the scene of a personal injury or property damage
accident as defined in sections 5/11-401, 5/11-402 and 5/11-403 of the Illinois
vehicle code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-401, 402 and 403.
         h.   Violation of any outstanding order of protection as defined in
750 Illinois Compiled Statutes 60/103 or domestic battery offense as defined in
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-3.2.
         i.   Any and all arrests for felony offenses as defined by the state
of Illinois criminal code or by the criminal code of the United States of
America.
      7.   When any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied
permission of the owner or owners of record, is used in connection with the
following violations, it shall be subject to seizure, removal and impoundment
by order of a member of the police department of the city of Alton, and the
owner or owners of record of said motor vehicle shall be liable to the city of
Alton for a level 2 administrative fee, as provided for in this chapter,
together with any towing and storage fees incurred, as provided by this
chapter.
         a.   Any custodial arrest of a suspect for a misdemeanor as defined by
the Illinois criminal code and not included in those offenses enumerated in
subsection A6 of this section.
         b.   Any custodial arrest of a suspect for a traffic violation as
defined by the Illinois vehicle code or by this code and not included in those
offenses enumerated in subsection A6 of this section.
         c.   Any custodial arrest of a suspect on an outstanding misdemeanor
warrant for arrest issued by any court of competent jurisdiction and not
included in those offenses enumerated in subsection A6 of this section.
      8.   When any motor vehicle, operated with the express or implied
permission of the owner or owners of record is subject to removal, seizure or
impoundment by order of a member of the police department of the city of Alton
for any reason not enumerated in subsection A6 or A7 of this section, the owner
or owners of record of said motor vehicle shall be liable to the city for a
level 3 administrative fee, as provided for in this chapter, together with any
towing and storage fees incurred, as provided in this chapter.
   B.   Whenever a member of the police department of the city of Alton causes
a motor vehicle to be removed, towed or impounded as authorized by this code,
the police department of the city of Alton shall use due diligence to ascertain
the name and address of the owner or owners of record thereof and shall give or
cause to be given notice in writing to such owner or owners of record of the
fact of such removal, towing and impoundment and the reasons therefor and of
the place to which such motor vehicle had been removed, towed or impounded.
   C.   Whenever a member of the police department of the city of Alton causes
a motor vehicle to be removed, towed or impounded as authorized by this
section, and the police department of the city of Alton is unable after due
diligence to ascertain the name and address of the owner or owners of record,
or for any other reason is unable to give the written notice to the owner or
owners of record as provided herein, and in the event the motor vehicle is not
returned to the owner within a period of three (3) business days following its
removal, towing or impoundment, then, and in that event, the police department
of the city of Alton shall send or cause to be sent a written report of such
removal, towing or impoundment by mail to the secretary of state of the state
of Illinois. Such notice shall include a complete description of the vehicle,
the date, time and place from which the motor vehicle was removed, the reasons
for such removal and the name of the towing agent and place where the motor
vehicle is impounded.
   D.   A member of the police department of the city of Alton who shall be
authorized by this code to cause a motor vehicle to be seized, removed, towed
and/or impounded shall not be required to exercise that authority. A member of
the police department may, in his or her discretion, permit an owner or an
authorized agent of an owner, to assume custody and control of the motor
vehicle if a licensed driver under circumstances determined in the judgment of
the member of the police department to be reasonably safe and appropriate.
(Ord. 7164, 12-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
8-8-11: IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
   A.   Definitions: The following terms shall be defined as hereinafter set
forth for the purpose of this chapter:
    BUSINESS DAY: Any day in which the offices of city hall are open to the
public for a minimum of seven (7) hours.
   LEVEL 1 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE: Means and shall be five hundred dollars
($500.00).
   LEVEL 2 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE: Means and shall be two hundred dollars
($200.00).
   LEVEL 3 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE: Means and shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00).
   MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles and motor scooters.
   OWNER OF RECORD: The record title holder or holders of a motor vehicle as
registered with the secretary of state of the state of Illinois, or if not
registered in Illinois, the particular state in which the motor vehicle is
registered. If the motor vehicle is not required by law to be registered, the
owner of record shall be the legal owner as determined by law following
reasonable due diligence to determine the owner by authorities of the city of
Alton.
   B.   Removal Of Impounded Vehicle: Before the owner of record or person
entitled to possession of any impounded motor vehicle shall be permitted to
remove the same, he or she shall furnish documentation of the following:
      1.   His or her true identity.
      2.   Ownership of the motor vehicle.
      3.   His or her right of possession of the motor vehicle.
      4.   Proof of registration of licensing of the motor vehicle with the
appropriate state authorities.
      5.   Proof of insurance for the operation of the motor vehicle in
accordance with the laws of the state of Illinois.
      6.   Proof of a valid driver's license held by the person who shall drive
the motor vehicle from the impoundment area.
   C.   Administrative Fee: Before the owner of record or other person entitled
to possession of any motor vehicle impounded by authority of the police
department of the city of Alton, an administrative fee shall be paid to the
city of Alton. The administrative fee shall be a "level 1 administrative fee",
a "level 2 administrative fee" or a "level 3 administrative fee" as defined by
this section and by section
8-8-10 of this chapter. The appropriate fee shall be paid at the city of Alton
police department prior to the release of the motor vehicle as partial
reimbursement to the city of Alton police department in compensation for the
time and resources spent by the department regarding the seizure, impoundment
and release of said motor vehicles. The appropriate fees are to be paid by the
registered owner or other authorized person seeking the vehicle's release,
regardless of whether the registered owner of said motor vehicle or any other
authorized person was driving the motor vehicle prior to the circumstances
which gave rise to the impoundment of the motor vehicle by the city of Alton
police department.
   D.   Documentation: It shall be the duty of the towing or storage company in
possession of the impounded motor vehicle to obtain documentation issued by the
city of Alton police department confirming compliance with the foregoing
requirements prior to releasing the motor vehicle and to retain photocopies of
that documentation in their files for a period of not less than six (6) months
following the release of each respective motor vehicle. The foregoing
information shall be made available by the towing or storage company to the
authorities of the city of Alton police department for inspection and copying
upon request. The towing or storage company is prohibited from releasing any
motor vehicle they may tow pursuant to the direction of the city of Alton
police department until and unless the towing or storage company obtains the
documentation as aforesaid.
   E.   Towing Fee: The towing or storage company shall be entitled to receive
a fee from the owner or person entitled to possession of any such motor vehicle
prior to the release of the motor vehicle. The fee shall be to cover the cost
of removing said motor vehicle and, in addition thereto, the cost of storage of
said motor vehicle for each day or fraction thereof that said motor vehicle
shall have remained stored.
   F.   Violation Fee: The foregoing fees shall be in addition to any fees
levied or assessed against the owner or operator of said motor vehicle by
reason of violation of any ordinance, statute or warrant which may have
resulted from such violation that may have been the basis of or associated with
the impoundment of the motor vehicle.
   G.   Impoundment Of Vehicle: Whenever a police officer of the city of Alton
has reason to believe that a motor vehicle is subject to seizure, removal and
impoundment pursuant to this code, the state of Illinois or federal law, the
police officer shall provide for the removal of the motor vehicle to a facility
approved by the city of Alton. At the time of the seizure, removal and
impoundment of a motor vehicle, the police officer shall attempt to notify any
person identifying himself or herself as the owner of the respective motor
vehicle or the person who is found to be in control of the motor vehicle at
that time, if present, of the fact of the seizure of the motor vehicle and of
the right of the owner of the motor vehicle to request an administrative
hearing in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   H.   Administrative Hearing: At the time a motor vehicle is seized, removed
or impounded or within five (5) business days after a motor vehicle is seized,
removed and impounded by order or direction of a police officer of the city of
Alton, the city of Alton shall notify by personal service or by certified mail
the owner or owners of record of the owner's right to request an administrative
hearing to challenge whether violation of this chapter has occurred or to
contest the administrative fee imposed in connection with the seizure or
impoundment of the motor vehicle. The owner of record or his or her attorney
seeking a hearing must file a written request for a hearing with the office of
the chief of police of the city of Alton no later than ten (10) business days
after the aforesaid notice was mailed or personally served, whichever first
occurred. Upon the request of a hearing, in writing filed with the office of
the chief of police of the city of Alton within the aforesaid time allowed, a
hearing date must be scheduled no more than twenty (20) business days
thereafter. The person seeking a hearing shall have the burden of proof
establishing that a request for an administrative hearing was timely filed with
the office of the chief of police. Any interested person shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to be heard at the hearing. The formal rules of evidence
shall not apply at the hearing and hearsay evidence shall be admissible. The
hearing may be continued once commenced to a subsequent time and date certain.
The chief of police shall serve as a hearing officer, or he may designate
another individual to serve as a hearing officer on a case by case basis. No
person involved in the particular seizure, removal or impoundment decision or
process may serve as a hearing officer.
If, after the hearing, the hearing officer determines by a preponderance of the
evidence presented that the motor vehicle was properly subject to seizure,
removal and impoundment by order of a member of the city of Alton police
department, then the hearing officer shall enter a written order finding the
owner or owners of record of the respective motor vehicle civilly liable to the
city of Alton for the applicable administrative fee as provided by this
chapter.
If, after a hearing, the hearing officer does not determine by a preponderance
of the evidence that the motor vehicle was properly subject to seizure and
impoundment by order of a member of the city of Alton police department, then
the hearing officer shall enter a written finding for the record owner and
grant such relief as may be appropriate, including waiver of all or a portion
of the administrative fee and the return of the motor vehicle to the record
owner.
If the owner or owners of record request a hearing but fail to appear at the
hearing, or if the owner or owners of record fail to request a hearing in
writing in a timely manner, the owner or owners of record shall be deemed to
have waived his or her rights to an administrative hearing and the hearing
officer may enter a default order in favor of the city of Alton in the amount
of the appropriate administrative fee.
The owner or owners of record may elect to pay the administrative fee deemed
necessary to redeem the motor vehicle without constituting a waiver of the
right of the owner or owners of record to request an administrative hearing in
writing and in a timely manner as provided by this chapter and upon payment of
the appropriate administrative fee, together with any towing and storage fees
incurred, the motor vehicle shall be returned to the owner or owners of record
without further bond. The action of the Alton police department shall be
subject to administrative review as provided herein.
The final written decision of the city of Alton police chief or his designated
hearing officer shall constitute a final administrative order and be subject to
judicial review under the provisions of the administrative review act of the
state of Illinois.
   I.   Disposition Of Impounded Vehicles: An administrative fee imposed
pursuant to this chapter shall constitute a debt due and owing the city of
Alton. A motor vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter shall remain
impounded until:
      1.   The administrative fee is paid in full to the city of Alton and all
applicable towing and storage fees are paid to the towing agent and all of the
requirements of subsection B of this section have been satisfied; or
      2.   The motor vehicle is deemed abandoned, in which case the motor
vehicle shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition
of abandoned motor vehicles; and
      3.   Any motor vehicle that is not properly redeemed by the record owner
or owners within thirty (30) days after the expiration of the appropriate time
during which the owner or owners of record may seek a further administrative or
judicial review of the city's actions in causing a motor vehicle to be seized,
towed and impounded under this chapter, may be disposed of as an unclaimed
motor vehicle as provided by law; provided, however, that where proceedings
have been instituted under state or federal drug asset forfeiture laws, the
subject motor vehicle may not be disposed of by the city of Alton except as
consistent with those proceedings. (Ord. 7164, 12-9-2009, eff. 1-1-2010)
8-8-12: SALE OF UNCLAIMED MOTOR VEHICLES:
Whenever any motor vehicle so impounded as aforesaid shall remain unclaimed by
the owner or other person legally entitled to possession thereof for a period
of thirty (30) days from and after notice shall have been given, the police
department shall sell such motor vehicle at public auction to the highest
bidder for cash, the time and place of such sale to be published at least once
in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, not less than ten (10) nor
more than fifteen (15) days before the date of such sale. The police department
shall cause a notice of such sale to be mailed to the secretary of state, said
notice to contain a full description of every motor vehicle to be sold and the
time and place of sale, provided any such motor vehicle not sold at the first
sale may be offered for sale and sold at subsequent dates without further
notice. The proceeds of such sale after paying all liens and deducting all
reasonable charges and expenses, including the fees and charges herein provided
and the expenses of advertising and conducting the sale, shall be paid to the
city treasurer.
No member of the police department, nor any other employee of the city,
directly or indirectly, shall purchase or participate in the bidding for or the
purchase of any vehicle offered for sale as aforesaid. (Ord. 7164, 12-9-2009,
eff. 1-1-2010)
CHAPTER 9
NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLE REGISTRATIONS
SECTION:
8-9-1: Findings
8-9-2: Definitions
8-9-3: Requirements For Use
8-9-4: Operation Under The Influence
8-9-5: License Required
8-9-6: Insurance
8-9-7: Local Permit Required
8-9-8: Authorization
8-9-1: FINDINGS:
After full and careful consideration of the volume, speed and character of
traffic on the streets, roads, highways and alleys of the city of Alton, the
city council of the city of Alton does hereby determine and find that the
public safety will not be jeopardized by the authorization of the operation of
neighborhood vehicles. Further, the city council of the city of Alton does
hereby determine and find that neighborhood vehicles may safely travel on or
across the streets, roads, highways and alleys of the city of Alton. (Ord.
7187, 3-24-2010)
8-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
A "neighborhood vehicle" means a self-propelled, electronically powered four
(4) wheeled motor vehicle (or a self-propelled gasoline powered 4 wheel motor
vehicle with an engine displacement under 1,200 cubic centimeters), which is
capable of attaining in one mile a speed of more than twenty (20) miles per
hour, but not more than twenty five (25) miles per hour, and which conforms to
federal regulations under title 49 CFR part 157.500. (Ord. 7187, 3-24-2010)
8-9-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR USE:
No neighborhood vehicle may be operated on any streets, roads, highways and
alleys in the city of Alton unless, at a minimum, it has the following: brakes,
a steering apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, red reflectorized warning
devices in front and rear, a slow moving emblem (as required of other vehicles
in section 12-709 of the Illinois motor vehicle code 1 ) on the rear of the
neighborhood vehicle, a headlight that emits a white light visible from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front, a taillamp that emits a red
light visible from at least one hundred feet (100') from the rear, brake
lights, and turn signals. When operated on streets, roads, highways and alleys,
neighborhood vehicle shall have its headlight and taillamps lighted as required
by section 12-201 of the Illinois motor vehicle code 2 . (Ord. 7187, 3-24-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-709.
2 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-201.
8-9-4: OPERATION UNDER THE INFLUENCE:
A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a neighborhood vehicle
on any street, road, highway or alley of the city of Alton while under the
influence of alcohol or drugs is subject to sections 11-500 through 11-502 of
the Illinois motor vehicle code 1 . (Ord. 7187, 3-24-2010)
 
Notes
1 2. 625 ILCS 5/11-500 – 5/11-502.
8-9-5: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall operate a neighborhood vehicle upon any street, road, highway
or alley in the city of Alton unless he or she has a valid Illinois driver's
license issued in his or her name by the secretary of state of the state of
Illinois. (Ord. 7187, 3-24-2010)
8-9-6: INSURANCE:
No person shall operate a neighborhood vehicle upon any street, road, highway
or alley in the city of Alton unless he or she has complied with the minimum
liability insurance requirements imposed upon a vehicle operator by the
statutes of the state of Illinois and has proof of such minimum liability
insurance coverage on or in his or her possession at all times while operating
said neighborhood vehicle. (Ord. 7187, 3-24-2010)
8-9-7: LOCAL PERMIT REQUIRED:
No neighborhood vehicle may be operated on any street, road, highway or alley
in the city of Alton unless such neighborhood vehicle has a valid permit for
operation of that neighborhood vehicle issued by the city of Alton. Permits
shall be issued by the chief of police of the city of Alton. The chief of
police of the city of Alton is hereby authorized and directed to prepare an
application form, which shall be required as a part of the process to initiate
a request for a permit. Upon submission of a completed application for permit,
a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) payable to the city of Alton shall be collected
by the chief of police before the application is processed. The fee shall be
nonrefundable and shall apply to each neighborhood vehicle. The chief of police
shall cause an inspection of each neighborhood vehicle to assure compliance
with the various provisions of this chapter. If the chief of police or his
designee is satisfied that the application is properly completed, the fee
received, and the inspection discloses compliance with each provision of this
chapter, the chief of police shall issue a permit on a form to be determined by
the chief of police. The permit must be permanently affixed to the neighborhood
vehicle for which it is applicable. Regardless of the day of issuance, a permit
shall be valid for the remainder of a calendar year. A new application, fee and
inspection shall be required for operation of a neighborhood vehicle with
regard to any subsequent calendar year. (Ord. 7187, 3-24-2010)
8-9-8: AUTHORIZATION:
The operation of neighborhood vehicles upon the streets, roads, highways and
alleys of the city of Alton is hereby allowed, so long as the operation of
neighborhood vehicles is in full compliance with this chapter. The public works
department of the city of Alton is hereby authorized and directed to erect
appropriate signage in relation to the adoption of this chapter.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the operation of a neighborhood vehicle shall be
permitted only on or across streets, roads, highways and alleys of the city of
Alton as specifically identified and enumerated as follows:
Belle Street between Third and Seventh Streets.
State Street between Broadway and Fourth Streets.
Sugar Alley between Piasa and State Streets.
William Street between Broadway and Fourth Streets.
Third Street between Piasa and State Streets.
Fourth Street between Piasa and William Streets.
Fifth Street between Piasa and Belle Streets.
Sixth Street between Piasa and Belle Streets.
Seventh Street between Piasa and Belle Streets.
The operation of a neighborhood vehicle on or across any streets, roads,
highways and alleys of the city of Alton not specifically identified and
enumerated herein is hereby prohibited and shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. (Ord. 7187, 3-24-2010)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Official Building Code
9-1-2: Building Permits; Fees
9-1-3: Amendments To Building Codes
9-1-4: Fire Limits
9-1-5: Accessibility Of Buildings, Handicapped And Elderly Persons
9-1-6: Demolition Or Repair Of Certain Buildings
9-1-7: Unsafe And Dangerous Buildings
9-1-8: Color Coordinated Board Up Materials
9-1-9: Securing Vacant And Abandoned Buildings
9-1-10: Fences
9-1-1: OFFICIAL BUILDING CODE:
   A.   Adoption: There is hereby adopted as the Building Code of the City, the
following codes:
ICC International Building Code                 2021 edition
ICC International Existing Building Code        2021 edition
ICC International Fire Code                     2021 edition
Appendix B, C, D of the International Fire Code 2021 edition
Appendix I of the International Fire Code       2021 edition
Appendix K of the International Fire Code       2021 edition
ICC International Mechanical Code               2021 edition
ICC International Property Maintenance Code     2021 edition
ICC International Residential Code              2021 edition
National Electrical Code                        2020 edition
Life Safety Code (as published by the NFPA)     2015 edition
Illinois Plumbing Code                          2014 edition
 
   B.   Copies On File: One copy of each code above mentioned, being the
official Building Code of the City, shall be at all times on file in the City
Hall. Any person desiring a copy of the official Building Code may obtain same
on a loan basis for a period not to exceed sixty (60) days, and shall at the
time of securing same, deposit with the City Treasurer a security deposit in an
amount to be determined sufficient by the City Treasurer.
(Ord. 7259, 6-22-2011; amd. Ord. 7594, 11-8-2017; Ord. 7970, 12-18-2024)
9-1-2: BUILDING PERMITS; FEES:
   A.   Fees Established: The fees for building permits issued for the
erection, construction, alterations, repairs or removal of any wall, fence,
building or structure, or part thereof, shall be as hereinafter provided:
Building and sign permit fees:
 Residential Sign                       $50.00 plus $10.00 for each additional
                                         thousand or part thereof
 Commercial Sign                        $50.00 plus $10.00 for each additional
                                         thousand or part thereof
Demolition permit fees:
  Accessory structures                   $75.00
  Residential dwelling and commercial    $100.00
  buildings
Electrical permit fees:
 100 amp service                        $50.00
 200 amp service                        $100.00
 400 amp service                        $150.00
 800 amp service                        $150.00
 Electrical circuits                    $50.00
 Exit sign circuit                      $50.00
 Fire alarm system                      $50.00
 Illuminated sign circuit               $50.00
 Residential alarm system               $50.00
 Residential Electric - Trailer hook-up $50.00
 Residential Electric - Other (Meter    $50.00
  Placement, Wiring, Storm Damage, etc.)
 Commercial alarm system                $50.00 plus $10.00 for each additional
                                         thousand or part thereof
 Commercial electric                    $100.00 plus $10.00 for each
                                         additional thousand or part thereof
 Solar panel permit                     $75.00 plus $15.00 for each additional
                                         thousand or part thereof
 Reinspection                           $35.00
Plumbing permit fees:
 Residential mechanical and plumbing    $50.00
  permit fees
 Commercial mechanical and plumbing     $100.00 plus $10.00 for each
  permit fees                            additional thousand or part thereof
 Reinspection                           $35.00
Fence permit fees:
 Residential fence                      $50.00
 Commercial fence                       $50.00 plus $10.00 for each additional
                                         thousand or part thereof
 
   B.   Waiver Of Fees: Recognizing that Piasa Area Habitat for Humanity is a
not for profit corporation whose main purpose is to upgrade and improve current
housing stock and provide better housing for lower income people within the
City as well as elsewhere, the building permit fees required by this section
shall be waived with regard to any properties owned by or contracted to be
improved by Piasa Area Habitat for Humanity. With the exception of the waiver
of the fees, Piasa Area Habitat for Humanity shall in all other respects be
required to comply with the provisions of this chapter and to obtain
appropriate permits.
   C.   Charitable Waiver Of Fees: Recognizing that Christmas in April is a not
for profit corporation whose main purpose is to upgrade and improve current
housing stock and to provide better housing for lower income people within the
City of Alton, the building permit fees required by this section shall be
waived with regard to any properties owned by or contracted to be improved by
Christmas in April. With the exception of the waiving of the fees, Christmas in
April shall in all other respects be required to comply with the provisions of
this chapter and to obtain all appropriate permits.
(Ord. 5733, 1-13-1993; amd. Ord. 6599, 8-22-2001; Ord. 6742, 6-25-2003; Ord.
7439, 2-11-2015; Ord. 7668, 11-14-2018; Ord. 7970, 12-18-2024)
9-1-3: AMENDMENTS TO BUILDING CODES:
The following amendments and additions to the codes adopted in section 9-1-1 of
this chapter shall be and the same are hereby adopted as follows:
   A.   Definitions: In said official building code, when the term “city” or
“village” is used, said term is hereby declared to designate the city of Alton,
Madison County, Illinois, and whenever in said official building code the term
“state” or “state of” is used, the term is hereby declared to designate the
state of Illinois.
   B.   ICC International Building Code 2021 Edition Amendments:
      Section 105 entitled Permits is hereby amended to add thereto a section
105.1.3 entitled Demolition to read as follows:
         Section 105.1.3 Demolition: The fee for a permit for the demolition of
a building or structure shall be determined at the same rate as for building
permit fees based on the cost of the demolition. No fee shall be charged for
demolition as a result of condemnation.
         a.   The time limit for a demolition permit for the demolition of a
building or structure shall be sixty (60) days, and upon the expiration of said
sixty (60) day time limit the demolition permit shall be automatically revoked
unless an unusual delay or such demolition is caused by an act of God, in which
event the issuing authority may, in its discretion, grant an extension period
of thirty (30) days.
         b.   No demolition permit shall be issued under this action until
applicant deposits with the issuing authority a cash performance bond of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00), which cash performance bond shall be returned to
applicant if the demolition permitted is accomplished within the time limits
set forth in subsection a above; in the event the permitted demolition is not
completed within the allowable time, said cash performance bond shall be
forfeited to the city.
         c.   The provisions of subsections a and b above shall not apply to
those applicants who contract with the city for demolition work regardless of
whether the city is acting in its own corporate capacity or as an agent for
another governmental entity.
      Section 105.1.4 Signs: The fee for the issuance of a sign permit required
under the provisions of the basic code shall be deemed at the same rate as for
building permit fees.
      Section 105.2 entitled Work Exempt from Permit, is hereby amended by
adding thereto the following:
         Building:
         14.   Repairs carried out as maintenance to industrial structures or
process equipment or replacement thereof shall be exempt from application or
notice under this section.
      Section 105.3 entitled Application for Permit, is hereby amended to add
thereto a section 105.3.3 to read as follows:
         105.3.3: The provisions of the official building code shall not apply
to any industrial construction such as alteration, repair, removal, demolition,
use or maintenance of any structure or service equipment as referred to in use
group classification F, H, S, S1 or S2, except that any industry desiring to
construct or add to any building, shall apply for and shall receive an
inspection exempt permit upon submission of the following:
         a.   A scaled plot showing the proposed construction, adjacent
railroads, public roadways, and public utilities; a description of the
surrounding area, and the location of any immediately adjacent residential or
business areas.
         b.   A verified statement by a registered engineer or architect, or by
an engineer who is exempt from the provisions of the Illinois professional
engineering act, that the plans and specifications were prepared by him or
under his supervision, in accordance with the minimum standards set forth in
this code, or according to the customary usages and practices in the industry.
         c.   The permit fee now is in force and effect.
      Section 110 of the ICC international building code is hereby amended by
adding section 110.1.1 thereto as follows:
         a.   It shall be unlawful to occupy any building or structure
constructed or remodeled after March 27, 1974, without first having made
application for and received an executed certificate of occupancy as
hereinafter provided.
            1.   Upon satisfactory application being made and approved, the
building official shall issue to the applicant, with the building permit, an
unexecuted certificate of occupancy, stating the correct address, legal
description and/or parcel identification number. The applicant shall cause the
said issued and receipted unexecuted certificate of occupancy to be filed
directly with the Alton township assessor. The applicant shall then obtain a
receipt, with corresponding building permit number from said assessor, showing
that the unexecuted certificate of occupancy has been filed.
            2.   The owner of the property, or his designated representative,
shall, upon completion of the new construction, reconstruction or remodeling,
and before occupying, file the receipt with the building official within five
(5) days after completion, not including Saturdays, Sundays or holidays.
            3.   The building official shall, upon receiving said receipt,
issue an executed certificate of occupancy with correct address, legal
description and/or parcel identification number, upon satisfactory proof or
inspection that verifies that all applicable building and zoning requirements
have been met.
            4.   The city, or its agent, shall then cause a copy of the
executed certificate of occupancy to be filed directly with the Alton township
assessor. The property shall be subject to increased assessment, from the date
of issuance of the certificate on a proportionate basis for the year in which
the improvement was completed.
            5.   The Alton township assessor will notify the building official
of the city in writing when the assessment is placed against the property.
         b.   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined as provided in section 1-4-1 of the
city code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
      Section 115.3 entitled Unlawful Continuance, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         Section 115.3 Unlawful Continuance: Any person who shall continue any
work in or about the building after having been served with a stop work order,
except such work as he is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition, shall be liable to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of the city code.
      Sections 3410 and 3410.1 are hereby amended to read as follows:
      Section 3410 Moved Structures
         Section 3410.1 Compliance: Buildings and structures moved into or
within the jurisdiction shall comply with the provisions of this code for new
buildings and structures and shall not be used or occupied in whole or in part
until the certificate of use and occupancy has been issued by the appropriate
code official.
         a.   The fee for the building permit for the removal of a building or
structure from one lot to another or to another part of the same lot shall be
determined at the same rate as for building permit fees plus the cost of new
foundations and all work necessary to place the building or structure in its
completed condition in the new location.
   C.   ICC International Residential Code 2021 Amendments:
      R102.7.2 is hereby created to read as follows:
      Section R105.2 entitled Work Exempt from Permit, subsection; building 1
is hereby amended to read as follows:
         1.   One-story detached accessory structures used as tool and storage
sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the floor area does not exceed 100
square feet (9.29 m2).
      Section R105.2 entitled Work Exempt from Permit, subsections; building #2
and #10 shall be omitted.
         2.   Fences not over 7 feet (2134 mm) high.
         10.   Decks not exceeding 200 square feet (18.58 m2) in area, that are
not more than 30 inches (762 mm) above grade at any point, are not attached to
a dwelling do not serve the exit door required by Section R311.4.
         Section #2 and #10 will require building permits.
      Section R105.5 entitled Expiration is hereby amended to read as follows:
         R105.5 Expiration: Every permit issued by the building official under
the provisions of this code shall expire by limitation and become null and void
if the building or work authorized by such permit is not commenced within three
(3) months from the date of issuance of the permit, or if the building or work
authorized by such permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work
is commenced for a period of three (3) months, or if the work authorized by
such permit is not completed within a period of nine (9) months. Before work
can be resumed, a new permit shall be obtained to do so, provided no changes
have been made to the original plans and specifications for such work, and
provided further that such suspensions or abandonment has not exceeded three
(3) months, and further provided that good and satisfactory reasons are
provided to justify time extension by permission of the code official if
conditions beyond his control prevent commencement or completion of work within
the required period. Extension of a permit or renewal of a permit after it has
expired shall require payment of a new full permit fee and permission of the
building official and/or director of public works.
      Section R109.1 entitled Inspections, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         R109.1 Types of Inspections: From time to time the building official,
as he deems necessary, or upon notification from the permit holder or his
agent, shall make or cause to be made any necessary inspections and shall
either approve that portion of the construction as completed or shall notify
the permit holder or his agent wherein he fails to comply with this code. The
parts of the building for which inspection is required shall not be covered
until the building official has performed such inspections and approvals have
been obtained. Failure of the permit holder or his agent to allow such
inspections to be performed shall be violations of this code and subject to
penalties thereof.
      Section R113.4 entitled Violation Penalties, is hereby amended to read as
follows:
         Section R113.4 Violation Penalties: Any person who shall violate a
provision of the basic code, including all codes adopted as a part thereof and
specifically the national electrical code and Illinois plumbing code, or who
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof, or who shall erect,
construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of any approved
plan or directive of the director of the Division of Building & Zoning or of a
permit or certificate issued under the provisions of the basic code, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided in section
1-4-1 of the city code. Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      Chapter 3 is hereby amended to create section 2021 IRC R331.1 Minimum
Dimensions of a Dwelling; and R331.1 which shall read as follows:
      Section R331.1 Minimum Dimensions of a Dwelling: The minimum overall size
of the habitable area of an individual dwelling unit shall be 800 square feet.
The minimum footprint size shall be not less than 600 (six hundred) square
feet. The minimum horizontal dimension of a dwelling unit shall not be less
than 30 (thirty) percent of the horizontal dimension perpendicular to it.
      Section R402 shall be modified by deleting all references to wood
foundations.
      Section R703 Exterior Coverings, subsection R703.1 entitled General shall
be amended to add the following:
         Metal panels used as exterior wall covering, including flat,
corrugated, or ribbed sheets shall be prohibited on primary structures within
residential zoning districts. Metal panels may be utilized for exterior wall
covering on accessory structures in residential districts unless the property
is located within a historic district.
      Section R801.4 shall be created to read as follows:
         Section R801.4 Roof Slopes and Overhangs:
         Roof slopes of less than 4 in 12 pitch shall not be allowed over
habitable areas for new construction. The edge of the roof shall overhang the
vertical wall or structural supports below by not less than 12 inches for all
new construction.
      Section R905.2.1 entitled Sheathing Requirements is hereby amended to
read as follows:
         Section R905.2.1 Sheathing Requirements: Asphalt or Fiberglass
shingles shall be fastened to solidly sheathed decking. Sheathing used as roof
decking shall have an American Plywood Association grading of APA exposure 1,
32/16 span rating, or equivalent.
      Section R905.2.2 entitled Slope is hereby amended to read as follows:
         Section R905.2.2 Slope: Asphalt or fiberglass shingles shall only be
used on roof slopes of four units vertical in twelve units horizontal (4:12) or
greater.
      Section R905.2.9.1 entitled Color Coordination is created to read as
follows:
         Section R905.2.9.1 Color Coordination: The installation of asphalt and
fiberglass shingles on new construction and re-roofing projects shall be done
with coordinated colors, patterns and textured materials. The use of different
color, texture and/or pattern materials on a single roof slope or adjacent roof
slope shall be prohibited. Any variation from single color, texture, and
pattern materials on a single roof slope or adjacent roof slope shall be
aesthetically harmonious. The aesthetically harmonious test shall be applied
with consideration to the neighborhood in which said structure is located and
shall be judged according to what a reasonable man viewing the structure and
considering all relevant circumstances would deem to be aesthetically
acceptable or unacceptable.
         This shall not apply to minor roof repairs where the original
weathered shingles cannot be matched. If repairs involve more than one-third
(1/3) of a roof surface, the entire surface shall be re-roofed.
      R905.10 Metal Roof Panels will be allowed provided the product used meets
a (minimum) 25-year warranty.
      Section R2904.1.1 entitled Dwelling Unit Sprinkler Requirements shall be
omitted.
   D.   ICC International Property Maintenance Code 2021 Amendments:
      Section 404.4.1 is deleted and replaced with the following:
         Section 404.4.1 Room Area. Every living room shall contain at least
120 square feet (11.2 m2), every bedroom occupied by one person shall contain
at least 70 square feet (6.5 m2) of floor area, and every bedroom occupied by
more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet (4.6 m2) of floor
area for each occupant thereof.
   E.   ICC International Fire Code 2021 Amendments:
      1.   Adoption of the 2021 International Fire Code including the following
appendices: B, C, D, I and K.
      2.   Deletion of Section 903.2.8.1 Group R-3 Sprinkler requirements.
      3.   Adoption of the 2015 NFPA Life Safety Code that is consistent with
the Office of the State Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 7594, 11-8-2017; amd. Ord. 7970, 12-18-2024)
9-1-4: FIRE LIMITS:
The fire limits as designated in the official Building Code of the City and as
on file with the Fire Chief, shall be the fire limits which have heretofore
been designated by ordinances of the City. (Ord. 3432, 7-26-1967; amd. 1999
Code)
9-1-5: ACCESSIBILITY OF BUILDINGS, HANDICAPPED AND ELDERLY PERSONS:
   A.   Accessibility For Handicapped And Elderly: All accessibility of
buildings for handicapped and elderly persons are subject to all changes and
amendments of the Illinois accessibility code 1 . (Ord. 5483, 10-10-1990)
   B.   Enforcement:
      1.   Compliance: It shall be a condition precedent to the acquisition of
a building permit in the city for all applicable facilities to comply with all
sundry provisions of this section in planning construction of new buildings or
structures or in partial improvement of existing buildings and structures.
      2.   Building Inspection Duties: It shall be the duty of the building
inspector of the city to inspect all buildings and structures to which this
section is applicable and seek enforcement of the terms and provisions of this
section.
      3.   Conflict: The provisions of this section shall take preference when
they are in conflict with existing building ordinances.
      4.   Violations And Penalties: Any person who violates any of the
provisions of this section shall pay a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and each day upon which such a violation
occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 4024, 9-24-1975;
amd. Ord. 4315, 5-24-1978; 1999 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 410 ILCS 25/3 et seq.
9-1-6: DEMOLITION OR REPAIR OF CERTAIN BUILDINGS:
   A.   Procedure For Ordering Demolition Or Repair: The corporate authority of
the city may demolish, repair or cause the demolition or repair of dangerous
and unsafe buildings or uncompleted and abandoned buildings. No building may be
boarded up or otherwise enclosed. The corporate authority shall apply to the
circuit court of the county in which such building is located for an order
authorizing such action to be taken with respect to any such building if the
owner or owners thereof, including the lien holders of record, after at least
fifteen (15) days' written notice by mail so to do, have failed to put such
building in a safe condition or to demolish it. It is not a defense to such
cause of action that the building is boarded up or otherwise enclosed nor may
the court order such building boarded up or otherwise enclosed. Where, upon
diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the owner or owners of any such
building including the lien holders of record is not ascertainable, notice
mailed to the person or persons in whose name such real estate was last
assessed is sufficient notice under this section. The hearing upon such
application to the circuit court shall be expedited by the court and shall be
given precedence over all other suits. The cost of such demolition or repair
incurred by the city or by a lien holder of record is recoverable from the
owner or owners of such real estate and is a lien thereon, which lien is
superior to all prior existing liens and encumbrances; provided that, within
sixty (60) days after such repair or demolition, the municipality or the lien
holder of record who incurred such cost and expense shall file notice of lien
of such cost and expense incurred in the office of the recorder of deeds in the
county in which the real estate is located. The notice must consist of a sworn
statement setting out: 1) a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification thereof; 2) the amount of money representing the cost and
expense incurred; and 3) the date or dates when the cost and expense was
incurred by the municipality or by the lien-holder of record. Upon payment of
the cost and expense by the owner of or persons interested in the property
after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be released by the city or
person in whose name the lien has been filed and the release may be filed of
record as in the case of filing notice of lien. The lien may be enforced by
proceedings to foreclose as in the case of mortgages or mechanics' liens. An
action to foreclose this lien may be commenced at any time after the date of
filing of the notice of lien. (Ord. 4153, 12-8-1976; amd. Ord. 4474, 9-27-1979;
Ord. 5468, 8-8-1990)
   B.   Bond For Repair Of Posted Properties: After fifteen (15) days' written
notice to the owner or owners of the corporate authority's intention to
demolish, repair or cause the demolition or repair of a dangerous and unsafe
building or uncompleted or abandoned building, and where the owner or owners
thereof have failed to notify the corporate authority, in writing, within said
fifteen (15) days, of their intention to repair such building, a cash bond in
the amount of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) shall be required prior to the
issuance of a building permit therefor.
   In all cases, whether or not a bond is required as stated hereinabove, a
City building inspector shall inspect the said building and list the repairs
required to be made thereto to secure the property so as to no longer be a
dangerous and unsafe building or a nuisance as defined in the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Alton. Said repairs must be completed within sixty
(60) days of issuance of the building permit; and furthermore, in every case
the building shall be brought up to code within six (6) months after the
building permit is issued. If all such repairs are completed and the building
is brought up to code as aforesaid, the cash bond will be refunded to the owner
or owners. If, however, the owner or owners fails to so complete the repairs or
bring the building up to code, then and in that event the cash bond shall be
forfeited to and become property of the City.
   The City shall give a fifteen (15) day notice to the owner or owners by
regular mail directed to the last address on file with the Building & Zoning
Department that the bond shall be forfeited. The owner or owners may request in
writing a hearing on the question of forfeiture if the written request is
delivered to the Building & Zoning Department within said fifteen (15) days. If
a hearing is requested, a hearing officer shall be appointed by the Mayor. The
hearing officer shall not be an employee of the Building Department but may be
an employee of the City of Alton. (Ord. 6039, 1-24-1996; amd. Ord. 7800, 3-25-
2021)
9-1-7: UNSAFE AND DANGEROUS BUILDINGS:
   A.   Definition:
DANGEROUS BUILDING: Includes:
      1.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which is
dangerous to the public health because of its construction or condition, or
which may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health
of the occupants of it or of neighboring structures.
      2.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because
of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is
especially liable to fire and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
      3.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, by
reason of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is liable to cause injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of
any part of such structure.
      4.   Any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, because
of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to and
frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful occupants of
such structure.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Any dangerous building in the City is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 5167, 8-31-1987)
   C.   Maintaining Nuisance Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to maintain or
permit the existence of any dangerous building in the City, and it shall be
unlawful for a record owner, occupant or person in custody of any dangerous
building to permit the same to remain in a dangerous condition, or to occupy
such building or permit it to be occupied while it is or remains in a dangerous
condition. Any person convicted of a violation of this subsection shall, upon
conviction, be punished by imposition of a fine as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Every day a building shall be maintained or permitted to
exist in a dangerous condition shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 5167,
8-31-1987; amd. 1999 Code)
   D.   Notice To Abate: Whenever the Director of the Division of Building and
Housing is of the opinion, based upon a viewing of the premises, that any
building or structure in the City is a dangerous building, he may cause written
notice to be served upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if
any, by registered mail or personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in a dangerous condition, that such dangerous
condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the building or
by demolishing it and that the condition must be remedied at once. Such notice
may be in the following form:
To . . . (owner-occupant of the premises) of the premises known and described
as . . . You are hereby notified that (described building) on the premises
above described has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous building after
inspection by . . .
The causes for this decision are (here insert the facts as to the dangerous
condition).
You must remedy this condition or demolish the building immediately, or the
City will proceed to do so.
You may also be subject to a fine as provided in Section
1-4-1 of the City Code per day for each day the building has been or shall
remain in dangerous condition.
If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith within thirty
(30) days from the time when this notice is served upon such person by personal
service or by registered mail, the director of the division of building and
housing or other offices of the city directed by the mayor and city council may
proceed to remedy the condition or demolish the dangerous building. (Ord. 5167,
8-31-1987; amd. Ord. 5503, 12-19-1990; 1999 Code)
   E.   Posting Of Notice When Owner Unknown: If the owner of the premises
concerned is unknown, or if his address is unknown, service of any notice
provided for in this section may be made by posting a copy thereof on the
premises and by publishing one time a copy thereof in a newspaper published
within the city.
   F.   Order Demolition Or Repair; Lien: In addition to the actions authorized
by other subsections of this section, the city officials may proceed under the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-1, which authorizes the
demolition or repair of unsafe and dangerous buildings or uncompleted and
abandoned building by applying to the circuit court for an order for the owners
to do so and which authorizes a lien when the city is compelled to take action.
The city officials may also proceed under the provisions of 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-2, which authorizes an injunction to require
compliance with building, fire, health and safety standards. (Ord. 5167, 8-31-
1987)
9-1-8: COLOR COORDINATED BOARD UP MATERIALS:
Where the owner or other person in control of any building elects to board up
or cover over the doors and/or windows of said building, the materials used in
boarding up or covering over said doors and/or windows must be color
coordinated with the dominant colors of said structure so as to be
aesthetically harmonious with said structure. The aesthetically harmonious test
shall be applied with consideration to the neighborhood in which said structure
is located and shall be judged according to what a reasonable person viewing
the structure and considering all relevant circumstances would deem to be
aesthetically acceptable or unacceptable. (Ord. 4759, 4-27-1983)
9-1-9: SECURING VACANT AND ABANDONED BUILDINGS:
The owner of any building or any portions thereof which are vacant or abandoned
shall board up, enclose or otherwise secure said building or portion thereof
sufficiently so as to make the same secure against entrance by any
nondomesticated birds or animals of any type or by any persons. The failure of
the owner to so secure any vacant or abandoned building shall be considered a
nuisance and is hereby declared unlawful. Each day such condition is allowed to
exist shall be considered a separate offense. Any person found in violation of
this section by a court of competent jurisdiction shall be fined as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. The fact that a person is in compliance
with this section shall not be a defense to actions brought under the authority
of any other section of this code or applicable regulations in the city. (Ord.
4905, 2-27-1985; amd. 1999 Code)
9-1-10: FENCES:
   A.   No person shall erect, construct or maintain any partition or division
fence, or any section or portion thereof, which exceeds six feet (6') in height
above the surface of the ground for the first fifty feet (50') back from the
front or any street line of the lot or lots, and no partition or division fence
shall be constructed of such height or in such manner as to interfere with the
access of light or air to any dwelling house or place used as a permanent
habitation. Any person violating any provisions of this section shall be fined
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 6488, 5-24-2000)
   B.   No person shall erect or construct any fence, or any section or portion
thereof, without a permit from the department of building, housing, planning
and zoning. The nonrefundable application fee for such a permit shall be thirty
dollars ($30.00) plus an additional fifteen dollars ($15.00) for each thousand
dollars of construction cost for any property located in any district that is
not zoned residential. There shall be no additional fee for the actual issuance
of a permit, if found to be appropriate by the department of building, housing,
planning and zoning. (Ord. 7439, 2-11-2015)
   C.   Before issuance of a permit for the erection or construction of any
fence of any kind, the department of building, housing, planning and zoning
must determine that said fence meets all of the following criteria:
      1.   The requested fence will fulfill the purpose intended;
      2.   The material to be used in the construction of the fence must be of
a commercially available material manufactured and intended primarily as
fencing material;
      3.   Any wood used in fence construction must be sealed, treated or
painted;
      4.   The burden upon adjoining property owners, occupants, or the general
public by the erection of the requested fence is not substantial or
unacceptable. The burden upon the adjoining property owners, occupants, or the
general public by the erection of the requested fence shall be presumed
substantial and unacceptable if the fence is to be constructed in such a manner
as to expose support posts or support rails of the fence to the view of the
adjoining property owners, occupants or the general public to a greater extent
than exposed to the view of the property owner or occupant desiring to erect or
construct the requested fence;
      5.   The fence to be constructed must be located entirely upon the
property of the applicant or upon property which applicant has written
permission to use. (Ord. 6604, 9-26-2001)
CHAPTER 2
MINIMUM STANDARDS GOVERNING THE CONDITION AND MAINTENANCE OF DWELLINGS,
DWELLING UNITS AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definitions
9-2-2: Purpose And Applicability Of Chapter
9-2-3: Authority To Inspect Dwellings, Dwelling Units, Accessory Structures And
Premises
9-2-4: Enforcement; Service Of Notices And Orders, Hearings
9-2-5: Building Board Of Appeals
9-2-6: Transfer Of Ownership
9-2-7: Registration Of Agents
9-2-8: Occupancy Permit Required
9-2-9: Inspections
9-2-10: Utilities
9-2-11: Minimum Standards For Basic Equipment And Facilities
9-2-12: Minimum Standards For Light, Ventilation And Heating
9-2-13: Minimum Standards For Electrical Service
9-2-14: Minimum Standards For Plumbing Service
9-2-15: Minimum Heating System
9-2-16: Owners And Occupants Requirements And Responsibilities
9-2-17: Minimum Space, Use And Location Requirements
9-2-18: Designation Of Unfit Dwellings; Condemnation
9-2-19: Violations; Penalties
9-2-20: Manufactured Home Foundations; Minimum Standards
9-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A subordinate structure which is not used for living by
human occupants.
BASEMENT: A portion of a building located partly underground, but having less
than half (1/2) its clear floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of
the adjoining ground.
BLIGHT: A state of physical deterioration of premises which is conducive to ill
health, transmission of disease and/or degradation of neighborhood property
values.
CELLAR: A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground and having
half (1/2) or more than half (1/2) of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below
the average grade of the adjoining ground.
DEPUTY DIRECTOR: The supervisor of housing and building inspectors.
DETERIORATION: The condition or appearance of a building or part thereof,
characterized by breaks, holes, rot, crumbling, cracking, peeling, rusting or
other evidence of physical decay or neglect.
DORMITORY: A room or group of rooms in any dwelling unit for living and
sleeping but not cooking purposes for four (4) or more persons.
DWELLING: Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that "temporary housing" as
hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
DWELLING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and forming
a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
EXTERMINATION: The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating,
trapping; or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods
approved by the deputy director.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, occupying a
dwelling unit as an individual housekeeping organization. A family may include
two (2) additional persons not related by blood, marriage or adoption. Foster
children, who are legal wards of the court, are construed as adopted children
for purposes of enumeration.
FLUSH WATER CLOSET: A toilet bowl flushed with water under pressure with a
water sealed trap above the floor level.
GARBAGE: The vegetable and animal waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food, from whatever source.
HABITABLE ROOM: A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water closet
compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or communicating corridors, closets
and storage spaces.
HEATED WATER: Water heated to a temperature of not less than one hundred twenty
degrees Fahrenheit (120°F) at the outlet.
INFESTATION: The presence, within or around a dwelling, of any insects, rodents
or other pests.
KITCHEN: Any room containing any or all of the following equipment, or any area
of a room within three feet (3') of such equipment; sink or other device for
dishwashing, stove or other device for cooking, refrigerator or other device
for cool storage of food, cabinets or shelves for storage of equipment and
utensils, and counter or table for food preparation.
MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY: The maximum number of persons permitted to reside in a
dwelling unit or rooming unit.
MULTIPLE DWELLING: Any dwelling containing two (2) or more dwelling units.
OCCUPANT: Any person over one year of age, living, sleeping, cooking or eating
in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
OPERATOR: Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, or part
thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
ORDINARY MAXIMUM SUMMER CONDITIONS: A temperature of ninety five degrees
Fahrenheit (95°F).
ORDINARY MINIMUM WINTER CONDITIONS: A temperature of minus five degrees
Fahrenheit (-5°F).
OWNER: Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with:
   A.   Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with or
without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
   B.   Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling unit, as
owner or agent of the owner, or as executrix, administrator, administratrix,
trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner.
PERSON: Includes any individual, firm, corporation, association or partnership.
PLUMBING: Includes all of the following supplied facilities and equipment: gas
pipes, gas-burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes,
water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, shower
baths, installed clothes-washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and any
other similar supplied fixtures, together with all connections to water, sewer
or gas lines.
PREMISES: A platted lot or part thereof or unplatted lot or parcel of land or
plot of land, either occupied or unoccupied by any dwelling or nondwelling
structure including any such building, accessory structure or other structure
thereon.
PRIVACY: The existence of conditions which will permit a person or persons to
carry out an activity without interruption or interference, either by sight or
sound or by unwanted persons.
RAT HARBORAGE: Any place where rats may live, nest or seek shelter.
REPAIR: To restore to a state of operation, serviceability or appearance free
from defect or decay.
REPLACE: To remove an existing item or portion of a system and to construct or
install a new or used item of similar or improved quality as the existing item
when new. Replacement will ordinarily take place when the item is irreparable.
ROOMING HOUSE: Any dwelling, or that part of any dwelling containing one or
more rooming units, in which space is let by the owner or operator to three (3)
or more persons who are not husband or wife, son or daughter, mother or father,
or sister or brother of the owner or operator.
ROOMING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit used
or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking or eating
purposes.
RUBBISH: Combustible and noncombustible waste materials except garbage; and the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and other
combustible material; paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery, etc.
RUBBISH CONTAINER: A watertight container with tight fitting lid for the
temporary storage of garbage and rubbish that is constructed of metal, or other
durable material impervious to rodents, that is capable of being serviced
without creating unsanitary conditions.
SAFETY: The condition of being free from danger and hazards which may cause
accidents or disease.
SCOPE OF CERTAIN WORDS: When the words "dwelling", "dwelling unit",
"nondwelling structure", "rooming house", "rooming unit", and "premises", are
used in this Chapter, they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words "or any part thereof".
SPACE HEATER: A self-contained heating appliance of either the circulating type
or the radiant type and intended primarily to heat only one room.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected which requires location on the
ground or is attached to something on the ground, including a fence or
freestanding wall.
SUBSTRUCTURE: All dwellings which do not conform to the minimum standards
established by this Chapter and by any other provision of this Code or other
ordinances.
SUPPLIED: Paid for, furnished, or provided by or under the control of, the
owner or manager/operator.
TEMPORARY HOUSING: Any tent, trailer, or other structure used for human shelter
which is designed to be transportable and which is not permanently attached to
the ground, or to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same
premises for more than two (2) consecutive days. (Ord. 4267, 1-11-1978; amd.
Ord. 4356, 10-11-1978; Ord. 5503, 12-19-1990; 1999 Code; Ord. 7748, 3-26-2020)
9-2-2: PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY OF CHAPTER:
   A.   Purpose: The general purpose of this Chapter is to protect the public
health, safety, comfort and the general welfare of the people of the City.
These general objectives include, among others, the following specific
purposes:
      1.   To protect the character and stability of the City.
      2.   To establish minimum standards for cooking, heating and sanitary
equipment necessary to the health and safety of occupants of buildings.
      3.   To establish minimum standards for light and ventilation, necessary
to health and safety.
      4.   To prevent the overcrowding of dwellings and neighborhoods, to the
end that existing buildings, streets, schools, parks and other private and
public facilities be preserved.
      5.   To provide minimum standards for the maintenance of existing
residential buildings, and to prevent the spread of blight.
      6.   To preserve the value and quality of land and buildings throughout
the City.
   B.   Applicability: Every dwelling and its premises (including accessory
structures), shall conform to the requirements of this Chapter, irrespective of
the zoning classification of such building and irrespective of when such
building may have been constructed, altered or repaired, except as hereinafter
provided. (Ord. 4267, 1-11-1978)
9-2-3: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT DWELLINGS, DWELLING UNITS, ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND
PREMISES:
The Deputy Director is hereby authorized and directed to make inspections to
determine the condition of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and
premises located within the City in order that they may perform their duty of
safeguarding the health and safety of the occupants of dwellings and of the
general public. For the purpose of making such inspections the Deputy Director
is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey at all reasonable times all
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units and premises. In the event the owner
or occupant of any dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit or the person in
charge thereof, refuses to give the Deputy Director free access to such
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit and its premises, at any reasonable
time for the purpose of such inspection, examination and survey, then, and in
that event, the Deputy Director may apply for a search warrant for such
inspection from a court of competent jurisdiction when it is reasonably
believed and probable cause exists that any provision of this Chapter is being
violated. (Ord. 5503, 12-19-1990)
9-2-4: ENFORCEMENT; SERVICE OF NOTICES AND ORDERS, HEARINGS:
Whenever the Deputy Director determines that there are reasonable grounds to
believe that there has been a violation of any provision of this Chapter, he
shall give notice of such alleged violation to the person or persons
responsible therefor. Such notice shall:
   A.   Be put in writing.
   B.   Include a statement of the reasons why it is being issued.
   C.   Allow a reasonable time for the performance of any act it requires.
   D.   Be served upon the owner or his agent, or the occupant, as the case may
require; provided that such notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon
such owner or agent, or upon such occupant, if a copy thereof is served upon
him personally; or if a copy thereof is sent by registered mail to his last
known address; or if a copy thereof is posted in a conspicuous place in or
about the dwelling affected by the notice; or if he is served with such notice
by any other method authorized or required under the laws of this State.
Such notice may contain an outline of remedial action, which if taken, will
effect compliance with the provisions of this Chapter and with rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto. (Ord. 5503, 12-19-1990)
9-2-5: BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS:
   A.   Application For Appeal: Any person shall have the right to appeal a
decision of the code official to the Board of Appeals. An application for
appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this Code or the rules
legally adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of
this Code do not fully apply, or an equivalent form of construction is to be
used.
   B.   Membership Of Board: The board of appeals shall consist of five (5)
members appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the council as
follows: one for five (5) years, one for four (4) years, one for three (3)
years, one for two (2) years, and one for one year. Thereafter, each new member
shall serve for five (5) years or until a successor has been appointed.
   C.   Qualifications: The board of appeals shall consist of five (5)
individuals, one from each of the following professions or disciplines:
      1.   Registered design professional that is a registered architect, or a
builder or superintendent of building construction with at least ten (10) years
experience, five (5) of which shall have been in responsible charge of work.
      2.   Registered design professional with structural engineering or
architectural experience.
      3.   Registered design professional with mechanical or plumbing
engineering experience; or a mechanical or plumbing contractor with at least
ten (10) years experience, five (5) of which shall have been in responsible
charge of work.
      4.   Registered design professional with electrical engineering
experience; or an electrical contractor with at least ten (10) years
experience, five (5) of which shall have been in responsible charge of work.
      5.   Registered design professional with fire protection engineering
experience; or a fire protection contractor with at least ten (10) years
experience, five (5) of which shall have been in responsible charge of work.
   D.   Alternate Members: The mayor with the advice and consent of the council
shall appoint two (2) alternate members who shall be called by the board
chairperson to hear appeals during the absence or disqualification of a member.
Alternate members shall possess the qualifications required for board
membership, and shall be appointed for five (5) years or until a successor has
been appointed.
   E.   Chairperson: The board shall annually select one of its members to
serve as chairperson.
   F.   Disqualification Of Member: A member shall not hear an appeal in which
that member has any personal, professional, or financial interest.
   G.   Secretary: The mayor shall designate a qualified clerk to serve as
secretary to the board. The secretary shall file a detailed record of all
proceedings in the office of the deputy director.
   H.   Notice Of Meeting: The board shall meet upon notice from the
chairperson, within ten (10) days of the filing of an appeal, or at stated
periodic meetings.
   I.   Open Hearing: All hearings before the board shall be open to the
public. The appellant, the appellant's representative, the code official, and
any person whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be
heard.
   J.   Procedures: The board shall adopt and make available to the public
through the secretary procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The
procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of evidence but shall
mandate that only relevant information be received.
   K.   Postponed Hearing: When five (5) members are not present to hear an
appeal, either the appellant or the appellant's representative shall have the
right to request a postponement of the hearing.
   L.   Board Decision: The board shall modify or reverse the decision of the
code official by a concurring vote of three (3) members.
   M.   Resolution: The decision of the board shall be by resolution. Certified
copies shall be furnished to the appellant and to the code official.
   N.   Administration: The code official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the board.
   O.   Court Review: Any person, whether or not a previous party of the
appeal, shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of
certiorari to correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in
the manner and time required by law following the filing of the decision in the
office of the chief administrative officer. (Ord. 5965, 4-12-1995)
   P.   Fee: Except in the case where the appeal or variance request is
initiated on behalf of the City by the City Council, the Building Board of
Appeals, the City Planner, the Fire Chief, the Corporation Counselor or the
City Attorney, a fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall be deposited
with the City Clerk in conjunction with a completed application. Under no
condition shall said fee or any part thereof be refunded for failure of such
proposed appeal or variance before the Building Board of Appeals. (Ord. 7440,
2-11-2015)
9-2-6: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP:
The transfer of ownership of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall not in and of
itself require an occupancy permit to be secured. The occupancy permit is
required to be secured only upon the change of an occupant or the addition of
an occupant occupying a dwelling or dwelling unit. (Ord. 7564, 4-26-2017)
9-2-7: REGISTRATION OF AGENTS:
Owners of residential property in the City, who are not residents of the State
nor live within twenty five (25) miles of the City shall designate an agent who
shall either reside or have a place of business in the City, as authorized to
accept service of notice under the provisions of this chapter. It shall be the
owner's responsibility to register said agent with the Deputy Director. (Ord.
4267, 1-11-1978; amd. Ord. 4356, 10-11-1978; 1999 Code)
9-2-8: OCCUPANCY PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to hereinafter occupy any dwelling
or dwelling unit, or for any owner or agent of any dwelling or dwelling unit to
permit the occupancy of any dwelling or dwelling unit, or addition thereto, or
part thereof, by any person for any purpose until an occupancy permit has been
issued by the Deputy Director granting the right for that person to occupy that
dwelling or dwelling unit. The occupancy permit shall be issued only when the
occupancy of the dwelling or dwelling unit by that person complies with all the
provisions of this chapter.
   B.   The Deputy Director may issue a conditional occupancy permit under
circumstances where a buyer has made an affidavit stating that he will correct
deficiencies within a specified time. Such buyer may then occupy the dwelling
while repairs are being made. At such time as the dwelling complies with all
the provisions of this chapter, an occupancy permit will be issued as provided
in subsection A of this section.
   C.   This section shall not apply to any occupancy in existence at the time
of the adoption of this chapter, nor shall a family be considered in violation
of this section by reason of births or deaths within a family or by reason of
the return of a family member.
   D.   
      1.   The minimum fee for said occupancy permit shall be fifty-five
dollars ($55.00) for all permits. An additional fee of thirty five dollars
($35.00) shall be charged in connection with any occupancy permit if the owner,
lessor, seller, or their agent fails to be present at the appointed time
scheduled for an inspection unless written notice of the cancellation of a
scheduled inspection is delivered to the Office of the Deputy Director at least
twenty four (24) hours in advance of the scheduled inspection. An additional
fee of thirty five dollars ($35.00) shall be charged in connection with each
and every subsequent inspection in connection with any occupancy permit if an
inspection of the residential dwelling unit indicates that the residential
dwelling unit has failed to meet the minimum Building and Housing Codes or
standards of the City of Alton so as to permit the issuance of an occupancy
permit. Said occupancy permit must be applied for and all fees paid for by the
owner, lessor, or seller; said occupancy permit will not be issued until such
time as there is an actual change of occupancy at which time of issuance no
additional fee shall be charged, but any occupant must furnish such additional
information as is required by the City of Alton pursuant to City Code or
regulations. If any changes are made to an existing occupancy permit including
adding or removing occupants, there shall be a ten dollar ($10.00) charge for
each modification.
      2.   In the event the Deputy Director, or his or her agent, shall
determine that an advanced inspection of the dwelling or the dwelling unit is
required, as provided in section
9-2-9 of this chapter, an additional fee of seventy dollars ($70.00) shall be
required to defray the cost of the inspection and administrative expenses
incurred by the city.
   E.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false
statement in his application for an occupancy permit including the names, ages,
relationships, or number of occupants who will occupy the premises.
   F.   In the event a person desires to continue to receive a utility service,
such as natural gas, water, electricity, etc., to a dwelling or a dwelling unit
during a period of time that the dwelling or dwelling unit actually has no
occupants, then upon application and without fee, the deputy director may issue
a retention of utility services permit. A retention of utility services permit
shall be valid only so long as the dwelling or dwelling unit has no occupants.
In the event a property owner desires to restore a utility service, such as
natural gas, water, electricity, etc., to a dwelling or a dwelling unit where
no utilities are currently being provided, then upon application and without
fee, the deputy director may issue a restoration of utility services permit.
Said permit shall be valid for a period of time not to exceed sixty (60) days.
If upon the conclusion of the sixty (60) days the property owner has not
obtained the necessary permits leading to the legal occupancy of said dwelling
or dwelling unit, or the property owner is using said dwelling or dwelling unit
contrary to the provisions of this code, then the city shall have the right to
order the person(s) providing utility service(s) to discontinue utilities to
the dwelling or dwelling unit in question.
   G.   No occupancy permit shall be issued by the deputy director until such
time as all refuse service fees, sewer service fees, fines or levies issued
against the property in question are paid in full. The comptroller shall be
responsible for checking with all appropriate departments to determine if such
refuse fees, sewer service fees, fines or levies have been paid. The
comptroller shall certify this information to the deputy director as requested.
   H.   No person or company shall provide natural gas, water, or electricity
as a utility service to a dwelling or dwelling unit until and unless such
person or company providing a utility service has verified that the city of
Alton has issued a valid occupancy permit, a conditional occupancy permit, a
retention of utility services permit, or a restoration of utility services
permit as provided by this chapter. The person or company providing a utility
service shall not permit the transfer of a utility service provided to a
dwelling or dwelling unit from one utility service customer to another without
requiring proof of a new occupancy permit, a conditional occupancy permit, a
retention of utility services permit, or a restoration of utility services
permit except as provided in subsection C of this section. (Ord. 4267, 1-11-
1978; amd. Ord. 4356, 10-11-1978; Ord. 5810, 9-8-1993; Ord. 7161, 10-28-2009,
eff. 11-1-2009; Ord. 7184, 3-10-2010; Ord. 7564, 4-26-2017; Ord. 7767, 8-13-
2020)
9-2-9: INSPECTIONS:
Upon proper application for an occupancy permit, the deputy director or his or
her agent shall cause a basic inspection to be made of the premises in question
to determine that the provisions of this chapter are complied with. If no
violations are noted, the deputy director shall issue an occupancy permit which
shall be valid until the next change of ownership or occupancy or until said
occupancy permit is revoked by the deputy director for good cause.
Upon consideration of the factors as listed below, the deputy director may
require an advanced inspection to be made of the premises in question to
determine that the provisions of this chapter are complied with. The factors
that may lead the deputy director to conclude that an advanced inspection of
the premises in question is required or appropriate may include any of the
following criteria:
   A.   Prior ordinance violation complaints concerning the premises in
question.
   B.   General deteriorated or unsafe condition of the premises in question.
   C.   A reasonable belief or suspicion that the premises in question may
contain contamination presenting a danger or risk to the public health, safety
or welfare, including, but not limited to, asbestos, lead paint, mold, mercury
or petroleum products.
   D.   A reasonable belief or suspicion of damage to the interior caused by
fire or flood, including broken or inadequate plumbing.
   E.   A reasonable belief or suspicion that there exist code violations
within the premises in question that cannot be fully identified in the course
of a basic inspection.
Persons contemplating a change of ownership or occupancy of a dwelling or
dwelling unit may apply for an occupancy permit to determine if there are any
violations of this chapter. After proper inspection, if the deputy director
determines that an occupancy permit may be issued, upon the request of the
applicant, said occupancy permit may be reserved for a reasonable time (not to
exceed 120 days) by the deputy director, to be issued to a subsequent owner or
occupant when such person or persons are ascertained and qualified for said
occupancy permit. (Ord. 7184, 3-10-2010)
9-2-10: UTILITIES:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person that provides a utility service,
such as natural gas, water, electricity, etc., to provide its service to any
building, or addition thereto, or part thereof, that is to be used as a
dwelling or dwelling unit until an occupancy permit, conditional occupancy
permit, or retention of utility services permit has been issued by the deputy
director concerning the dwelling or dwelling unit to be served by said utility
and until said occupancy permit, conditional occupancy permit, or retention of
utility services permit is presented to said utility service. The owner of a
dwelling can, however, contact Union Electric Company to have the utilities
changed over to his name in the event that the tenants move out without
sufficient notice. In the event that the utilities are placed back in the
owner's name, the owner has seven (7) days to obtain a retention of services
permit from the office of building inspectors.
If no attempt has been made by the property owner to get a retention of
services permit at the end of the seven (7) consecutive days, then the utility
company shall discontinue their services. This section shall not apply to any
occupancy in existence at the time of the adoption of this section. (Ord. 5115,
2-11-1987; amd. Ord. 5503, 12-19-1990)
   B.   For any month when there is a change of user of residential (rate 001)
or nonresidential (rate 043) electric service within the city of Alton provided
by Ameren UE, Ameren UE shall notify the supervisor of housing and building
inspectors of the city of Alton, in writing, within seven (7) working days
after the end of the month of said changes, indicating the address and
apartment or unit number in whose name the service is connected or billed.
(Ord. 6661, 6-26-2002)
9-2-11: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES:
No person shall occupy as owner-occupant, or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or
eating therein, which does not comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Every dwelling unit shall have a room or portion of a room in which
food may be prepared and/or cooked, which shall have adequate circulation area,
and which shall be equipped with the following:
      1.   A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected to a
water supply system of the city which provides at all times an adequate amount
of heated and unheated running water under pressure, and which is connected to
a sewer system approved by the appropriate authority.
      2.   Cabinets and/or shelves for the storage of eating, drinking and
cooking equipment and utensils and of food that does not under ordinary summer
conditions require refrigeration for safekeeping; and a counter or table for
food preparation; said cabinets and/or shelves and counter or table shall be
adequate for the permissible occupancy of the dwelling unit and shall be
constructed with surfaces that will not impart any toxic or deleterious effect
to food.
      3.   Sufficient space for a stove or similar device, for cooking food,
and a refrigerator, or similar device for the safe storage of food at
temperatures less than fifty degrees Fahrenheit (50°F) but more than thirty two
degrees Fahrenheit (32°F) under ordinary maximum summer conditions, which are
installed with all necessary connections for safe, sanitary and efficient
operation.
   B.   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a nonhabitable room which
affords privacy to a person within said room and which is equipped with a flush
water closet in good working condition. Said flush water closet shall be
equipped with cleanable surfaces, be connected to a water system that at all
times provides an amount of running water under adequate pressure to cause the
water closet to be operated properly, and shall be connected to a sewer system
which is approved by the appropriate authority.
   C.   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a lavatory sink. Said
lavatory sink may be in the same room as the flush water closet, or if located
in another room, the lavatory sink shall be located in close proximity to the
door leading directly into the room in which said water closet is located. The
lavatory sink shall be in good working condition and properly connected to a
water supply system of the City of Alton Water Company, and which provides at
all times heated and unheated running water under adequate pressure, and which
is connected to a sewer system approved by the appropriate authority.
   D.   Within every dwelling unit there shall be a room which affords privacy
within said room and which is equipped with a bathtub or shower in good working
condition. Said bathtub or shower may be in the same room as the flush water
closet or in another room and shall be properly connected to a water supply
system which is approved by the appropriate authority and which provides at all
times an adequate amount of heated and unheated water under adequate pressure,
and which is connected to a sewer system approved by the appropriate authority.
   E.   Every dwelling shall have supplied water heating facilities which are
properly installed and connected with the hot water lines required under
subsection D of this section, and are capable of heating water to such a
temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every
required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, tub or shower at a temperature of not
less than one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120°F).
   F.   The owners of every dwelling unit shall supply each dwelling unit with
adequate rubbish containers, the type and location of which are approved by the
deputy director. (Ord. 4267, 1-11-1978; amd. Ord. 4356, 10-11-1978)
   G.   The occupants of not more than two (2) dwelling units may share a
single flush water closet, a single lavatory basin and a single bathtub or
shower if:
      1.   Neither of the two (2) dwelling units contains more than two (2)
rooms; provided, that for the purposes of this subsection G, a kitchenette or
an efficiency kitchen with not more than sixty (60) square feet of floor area
shall not be counted as a room; and
      2.   The habitable area of such dwelling units shall equal not more than
two hundred fifty (250) square feet of floor area; and
      3.   Such water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be in
good working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system; and
      4.   Such facilities shall be in the same building in which sleeping
units are located and shall be conveniently accessible to the tenants, but
shall not be in any habitable room.
   H.   Every dwelling shall have approved dual means of egress. Every dwelling
unit in a multiple dwelling shall have immediate access to means of egress as
required by the laws of the state and the city. Dual means of egress shall be
interpreted to permit one operable window as one exitway and shall require not
less than one doorway as an exitway.
   I.   Access to or egress from each dwelling unit shall be provided without
passing through any other dwelling or dwelling unit. (Ord. 4267, 1-11-1978;
amd. Ord. 4356, 10-11-1978)
   J.   The owners and the occupants of every dwelling unit (as defined in the
carbon monoxide alarm detector act) shall comply with the provisions of the
carbon monoxide alarm detector act of the state of Illinois approved by public
act 94-741, effective January 1, 2007, now found in 430 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 135/1. In the event the Illinois legislature shall amend the carbon
monoxide alarm detector act, it is the intent of this section that the owners
or occupants of any dwelling unit shall continue to comply with the carbon
monoxide alarm detector act of the state of Illinois, as it may be amended from
time to time. (Ord. 7039, 12-12-2007)
9-2-12: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR LIGHT, VENTILATION AND HEATING:
No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight facing
directly to the outdoors. The minimum total window area for every habitable
room shall be at least ten percent (10%) of the floor area of such room.
Whenever walls or other portions of structures are located less than three feet
(3') from the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the
room, such a window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors and
shall not be included as contributing to the minimum total window area.
Whenever the only window is the skylight type window in the top of such room,
the total window area of such skylight shall equal at least twelve and one-half
percent (121/2%) of the total floor area of such room.
   B.   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight which
can easily be opened or such other device as will adequately ventilate the
room. The total of openable window area in every habitable room shall be equal
to at least forty five percent (45%) of the minimum window area size or minimum
skylight type window size, as required in subsection A of this Section, except
where there is supplied some other device affording adequate ventilation and
approved by the Deputy Director.
   C.   Every bathroom, and water closet compartment shall comply with the
light and ventilation requirements for applicable rooms contained in subsection
B of this Section, except that no window or skylight shall be required in an
adequately ventilated system which is kept in continuous operation and approved
by the Deputy Director.
   D.   Every public hall and stairway in every multiple dwelling containing
five (5) or more dwelling units shall be adequately lighted at all times. Every
public hall and stairway in structures devoted solely to dwelling occupancy and
containing not more than four (4) dwelling units may be supplied with
conveniently located light switches, controlling an adequate lighting system
which may be turned on when needed, instead of continuously lit.
   E.   During that portion of each year when the Deputy Director deems it
necessary for protection against mosquitoes, flies and other insects, every
door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outdoor space shall have supplied
screens and a self-closing device; and every window or other device with
openings to outdoor space, used or intended to be used for ventilation, shall
likewise be supplied with screens; provided that such screens shall not be
required during such period in rooms deemed by the Deputy Director to be
located high enough in the upper stories of buildings as to be free from such
insects, and in rooms located in areas of the City which are deemed by the
Deputy Director to have so few such insects as to render screens unnecessary.
   F.   Every basement or cellar window used or intended to be used for
ventilation, and every other opening to a basement which might provide an entry
for rodents, shall be supplied with a screen or such other device as will
effectively prevent their entrance. (Ord. 4267, 1-11-1978; amd. Ord. 4356, 10-
11-1978)
9-2-13: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ELECTRICAL SERVICE:
The Electrical Code of the City prevails as the final authority for a new
construction. This Chapter recognizes that older structures may be entirely
safe while not conforming to current code standards. Total conformity to the
code in existing structures is not required by this Chapter; however,
electrical system defects which constitute a fire or safety hazard must be
corrected in accordance with the electrical code.
   A.   The following shall be considered as absolute minimum requirements:
      1.   Where there is electric service available from power lines which are
not more than three hundred feet (300') away from a dwelling, every habitable
room shall contain not less than two (2) operable convenience outlets, with the
exception that in rooms having permanently installed ceiling or wall light
fixtures one operable convenience outlet is permissible.
      2.   Every laundry, furnace room and all similar nonhabitable work spaces
located in a dwelling or multi-family dwelling shall contain not less than one
operable electric light fixture.
      3.   Every electrical service panel must be provided with an approved
ground.
      4.   Every bathroom and public hall shall contain not less than one
operable ceiling or wall lighting fixture.
      5.   A grounded receptacle shall be provided for laundry equipment and
sump pumps.
      6.   Every electrical service shall provide two hundred forty (240) volts
and have a minimum capacity of sixty (60) amperes.
   B.   The following installations are prohibited and their presence shall be
deemed a hazard:
      1.   Extension cords for other than short term, temporary use.
      2.   Loose or hanging wires.
      3.   Frayed or bare wires.
      4.   Outlets or switches which are defective or without cover plates.
      5.   Fuse or circuit breaker capacity greater than the rating of the
circuit it protects. (Ord. 4267, 1-11-1978)
   C.   Amendments to National Electrical Code:
Article 336-3, National Electric Code, 1978 Edition previously adopted by the
City, is amended so that Article 336-3 will read as follows:
One and two-family or multi-family dwellings not over three (3) floors above
the grade can use non-metallic and non-corrosive cables.
Multi-family dwellings exceeding three (3) floors and all commercial buildings
and buildings in fire zones shall use conduit or tubing.
      (Ord. 5411, 12-20-1989)
9-2-14: MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR PLUMBING SERVICE:
The plumbing code of the City of Alton prevails as the authority for new
construction and alteration work where plumbing permits are required. This
Chapter recognizes that older structures may be entirely safe while not
conforming to the current plumbing code standards. Total conformity to the
plumbing code in existing structures is not required by this Chapter; however,
plumbing system defects which constitute a hazard shall be corrected in
accordance with the plumbing code. Such hazards include, but are not
necessarily limited to the following:
   A.   Deteriorated or leaking pipes, fittings or fixtures.
   B.   Inoperative or faulty valves or taps.
   C.   Inadequately supported piping or fixtures.
   D.   Untrapped fixture.
   E.   Unvented fixture.
   F.   Improperly installed water heaters. (Ord. 4267, 1-11-1978)
9-2-15: MINIMUM HEATING SYSTEM:
   A.   Every owner or operator of a building, who permits to be occupied any
dwelling unit, or rooming unit herein under an agreement, express or implied,
to the occupants thereof, shall supply heat adequate to maintain therein from
September 15 through May 30 of the following year, a minimum inside temperature
of seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) at three feet (3') above floor level based
on outside design temperature in all habitable rooms, bathrooms, shower rooms
and toilet rooms or compartments, between the hours of six thirty o'clock (6:
30) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and not less than sixty degrees
Fahrenheit (60°F) between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and six
thirty o'clock (6:30) A.M. in all such rooms. Provisions of this Section shall
not apply where the failure to maintain minimum requirements is caused by a
general shortage of fuel, neglect or malicious act to the premises, necessary
repairs or alterations, or any cause beyond the control of the owner or
occupant.
   B.   No owner or occupant shall install, operate or use a gas-fired furnace,
boiler, water heater or room heater that is not vented outside the structure by
means of an approved type vent which is properly installed.
All such devices shall be equipped with a safety shut-off device in accordance
with the City's Fire Prevention Code 1 . (Ord. 4267, 1-11-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-1-1 of this Code.
9-2-16: OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS REQUIREMENTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
No person shall occupy as owner-occupant or let to another for occupancy any
dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not
comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Every foundation, roof, chimney, gutter and downspout, exterior wall,
door, skylight and window shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
Floors, interior walls and ceilings shall be sound and in good repair. Any
structure whose exterior surface is deteriorated, decaying, disintegrating, or
whose exterior surface has weathered with dirt and grime or has been impaired
through peeling or flaking of the paint or other protective coating, shall be
repaired, repainted or resurfaced. Toxic paint and materials shall not be
applied on interior surfaces where readily accessible to children. Every
premises shall be graded, drained free of standing casual water and maintained
in a clean, sanitary and safe condition.
   B.   Every window, exterior door and hatchway or similar device, shall be
watertight, and shall be kept in a sound condition. During that portion of the
year when there is a need for protection against mosquitoes, flies and other
flying insects every door opening directly from a dwelling unit to outside
space shall have supplied properly fitting screens having at least sixteen (16)
mesh and a self-closing device, and every window or other device with openings
to outdoor space, used for ventilation, shall likewise be supplied with
screens; except that such screens shall not be required in dwelling units
equipped with air conditioning systems in which windows or doors are not
required for ventilation.
   C.   Every owner shall maintain his or her property in a rat free condition.
   D.   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests therein or on the
premises. Whenever infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a
dwelling in a rat proof or reasonably insect proof condition, extermination
shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   E.   Accessory structures present or provided by the owner, agent, or
tenant-occupant on the premises of a dwelling shall be free of flaw, defect, or
decay, and be maintained in good repair and free of insects and rats, or such
structures shall be removed from the premises. The exterior of such structures
shall be made weather resistant through the use of decay-resistant materials or
the use of paint or other preservatives.
   F.   Every foundation, roof, floor, exterior and interior wall, ceiling,
inside and outside stair, every porch, and every appurtenance thereto, shall be
capable of supporting the loads that nominal use may cause to be placed
thereon; and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair.
   G.   Every plumbing fixture and all water and waste pipes shall be installed
and maintained in accordance with the plumbing code of the City 1 .
   H.   Every occupant of a dwelling unit or accessory structure shall keep all
plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be
responsible for the exercise of reasonable care and the proper use and
operation thereof.
   I.   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall be responsible for
hanging all screens and double or storm doors and windows whenever the same are
required under the provisions of this Chapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, and where the owner has agreed to supply such
service.
   J.   Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or utility which is
required under this Chapter shall be so constructed or installed that it will
function safely and effectively, and shall be maintained in satisfactory
working condition.
   K.   Every owner of a dwelling containing two (2) or more dwelling units or
an accessory structure shall be responsible for maintaining a clean and
sanitary condition of the shared or public areas of such buildings and premises
thereof.
   L.   Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep in a clean and sanitary
condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling unit, accessory structure and
premises thereof which he occupies and controls.
   M.   Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose of all
rubbish and any other organic waste, which might provide food for rodents, in a
clean and sanitary manner.
   N.   Every water closet compartment, bathroom and kitchen floor surface
shall be constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water
so as to permit such floor to be kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
   O.   No owner, operator, or occupant shall cause any service, facility,
equipment or utility which is required under this Chapter to be removed from or
shut off or discontinued for any occupied dwelling or dwelling unit let or
occupied by him; except for such temporary interruption as may be necessary
while actual repairs or alterations are in process, or during temporary
emergencies when discontinuance of service is approved by the Deputy Director.
   P.   No owner shall occupy or let to another occupant any vacant dwelling
unit unless it is clean, sanitary and fit for human occupancy conforming with
the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 4267, 1-11-1978; amd. Ord. 4356, 10-11-
1978)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-1-1 of this Code.
9-2-17: MINIMUM SPACE, USE AND LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
No person shall occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or dwelling
unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with the
following requirements:
   A.   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least one hundred fifty (150)
square feet floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least one hundred
(100) additional square feet of floor space for every additional occupant
thereof, the floor space to be calculated on the basis of total habitable room
area.
   B.   In every dwelling unit of two (2) or more rooms, every room occupied
for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at least seventy (70)
square feet of floor space, and every room occupied for sleeping purposes by
more than one occupant shall contain at least fifty (50) square feet of floor
space per each occupant thereof.
   C.   No dwelling or dwelling unit containing two (2) or more sleeping rooms
shall have such room arrangements that access to a bathroom or water closet
intended for use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be had only by
going through another sleeping room or a bathroom or water closet compartment.
Single-family dwellings or dwelling units are exempt from the provisions of
this section.
   D.   At least one-half (1/2) of the floor area of every habitable room shall
have a ceiling height of at least seven feet (7'), and the floor area of that
part of any room where the ceiling height is less than five feet (5') shall not
be considered as part of the floor area in computing the total area of the room
for the purpose of determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
   E.   No basement and/or cellar space shall be used as a habitable room or
dwelling unit unless:
      1.   The floor and walls are impervious to leakage of underground and
surface runoff water and are insulated against dampness.
      2.   The total of the window area in each room is equal to at least the
minimum window area sizes required under section
9-2-12 of this chapter, except where there is supplied some other device
affording adequate ventilation and approved by the deputy director.
      3.   The clear inner height is at least six feet eight inches (6'8") and
no pipes or beams are below six feet (6') from the lower level. (Ord. 4267, 1-
11-1978; amd. Ord. 4356, 10-11-1978)
9-2-18: DESIGNATION OF UNFIT DWELLINGS; CONDEMNATION:
The designation of dwellings or dwelling units as unfit for human habitation
and the procedure for the condemnation and placarding of such unfit dwellings
or dwelling units shall be carried out in compliance with the following
requirements:
   A.   Any dwelling or dwelling unit which shall be found to have any of the
following defects shall be condemned as unfit for human habitation or required
to be brought up to standards of this chapter and shall be so designated and
placarded by the deputy director:
      1.   One which is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe,
or vermin infested that it creates a serious hazard to the health or safety of
the occupants or of the public.
      2.   One which lacks illumination, ventilation or sanitation facilities
adequate to protect the health or safety of the occupants or of the public.
      3.   One which because of its general condition or location is
unsanitary, or otherwise dangerous, to the health or safety of the occupants or
of the public.
      4.   One which does not meet the minimum standards as outlined in section
9-2-13,
9-2-14 or
9-2-15 of this chapter.
   B.   Any dwelling or dwelling unit condemned as unfit for human habitation,
and so designated and placarded shall be vacated within a reasonable time as
ordered by the deputy director. Failure to comply with such vacation order
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
No dwelling or dwelling unit which has been condemned and placarded as unfit
for human habitation shall again be used for human habitation until written
approval is secured from and such placard is removed by the deputy director.
The deputy director shall remove such placard whenever the defect or defects
upon which the condemnation and placarding action were based have been
eliminated.
No person shall deface or remove the placard from any dwelling or dwelling unit
which has been condemned as unfit for human habitation and placarded as such,
except as provided in the preceding paragraph. (Ord. 6643, 3-13-2002)
9-2-19: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Any person who maintains as occupant or owner any dwelling, dwelling unit or
premises which does not comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this chapter.
Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter, shall upon
conviction be punished by as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 4267, 1-11-1978; amd.
Ord. 4356, 10-11-1978; 1999 Code)
9-2-20: MANUFACTURED HOME FOUNDATIONS; MINIMUM STANDARDS:
If not placed upon a permanent foundation, each manufactured home lot shall be
equipped with a concrete slab that will encompass the entire exterior perimeter
of the manufactured home and have a minimum thickness of four inches (4"). Tie
downs will be located in the slab area. Skirting will be required after the
manufactured home is secured in place and connected to electric, gas, and sewer
services. The skirting must be free of any holes, watertight, and maintained
properly. (Ord. 6590, 7-11-2001)
CHAPTER 3
FLOOD HAZARD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Purpose
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Duties Of The Supervisor Of Housing And Building Inspectors
9-3-4: Base Flood Elevation
9-3-5: Development Permit
9-3-6: Preventing Increased Damages
9-3-7: Protecting Buildings
9-3-8: Other Development Requirements
9-3-9: Variances
9-3-10: Disclaimer Of Liability
9-3-11: Penalty
9-3-12: Permit Required
9-3-13: Application
9-3-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
9-3-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this city by
65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8 and 5/
11-31-2 in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To protect human life and health from the hazards of floodings;
   D.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   E.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating flood blighted areas;
   F.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the city by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance
program; and
   G.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riperian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year flood.
The base flood elevation at any location is as defined in section
9-3-4 of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE): The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the
crest of the base flood.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by walls
and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured home
or a prefabricated building. The term also includes recreational vehicles and
travel trailers to be installed on a site for more than one hundred eighty
(180) days.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   A.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a
building or any structural alteration to a building valued at more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00);
   B.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   C.   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   D.   Installing utilities, construction of roads or similar projects;
   E.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, fences, bridges or
culverts;
   F.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving or
other nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface;
   G.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks; and
   H.   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height or velocity of flood or surface waters.
Development does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities such as reroofing, resurfacing roads, or gardening, plowing and
similar agricultural practices that do not involve filling, grading or
construction of levees.
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
FPE OR FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION: The elevation of the base flood plus one
foot (1') of freeboard at any given location in the SFHA.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation
of the runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the regulatory
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP: A map prepared by the federal emergency management
agency that depicts the floodplain or special flood hazard area (SFHA) within
the city. This map includes insurance rate zones and may or may not depict
floodways and show base flood elevations.
FLOODPLAIN AND SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): These definitions are
synonymous and mean those lands within the jurisdiction of the city that are
subject to inundation by the base flood. The floodplains of the city are
generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate maps of the county
prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated April 15, 1982.
The floodplains of those parts of the unincorporated city that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed into the city
are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map prepared for
Madison County by the federal emergency management agency and dated April 15,
1982, (70436). Floodplain also includes those areas of known flooding as
identified by the community.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural or nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate, property and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by the federal emergency management
agency that is used to certify that a building has been designed and
constructed to be structurally dry and floodproofed to the flood protection
elevation.
FLOODWAY: That portion of the SFHA floodplain required to store and convey the
base flood. The floodway for the SFHAs of the Mississippi River and Coal Branch
Creek, Wood River Creek and Beltline Creek shall be as delineated on the flood
boundary and floodway map prepared by the federal emergency management agency
and dated May 1, 1984. The floodway for each of the remaining SFHAs of the city
shall be according to the best data available to the Illinois state water
survey floodplain information repository.
IDOT/DWR: The Illinois department of transportation/division of water
resources.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities. Manufactured homes
are not permitted to be situated in the city except in areas zoned as R-6. No
R-6 areas are located in the floodplain.
NFIP: The national flood insurance program.
REPETITIVE LOSS: Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two (2)
separate occasions during a ten (10) year period for which the cost of repairs
at the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds twenty
five percent (25%) of the market value of the structure before the damage
occurred.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch or any other identified channel. This term does not include areas
subject to flooding from lakes (except public bodies of water), ponding areas,
areas of sheet flow or other areas not subject to overbank flooding.
SFHA OR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA: Those lands within the jurisdiction of the
city that are subject to inundation by the base flood. The SFHAs of the city
are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map of the city
prepared by the federal emergency management agency and dated May 1, 1984. The
SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Madison County that are within the
extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or that may be annexed into the city
are generally identified as such on the flood insurance rate map prepared for
Madison County by the federal emergency management agency and dated April 15,
1982, (70436).
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either before the improvement or repair is
started or, if the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the
damage occurred. Substantial improvement is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building
commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of
the structure. The term does not, however, include either any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to ensure
safe living conditions or any alteration of a structure listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or the State Register of Historic Places.
TRAVEL TRAILER OR RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which is: built on a single
chassis, four hundred (400) square feet or less in size, designed to be self-
propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and designed primarily
not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living quarters for
recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-3: DUTIES OF THE SUPERVISOR OF HOUSING AND BUILDING INSPECTORS:
The supervisor shall be responsible for the general administration and
enforcement of this chapter, including, but not limited to, the following
duties:
   A.   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Provide information and assistance to citizens upon request about
permit procedures and floodplain construction techniques.
   C.   Ensure that construction authorization has been granted by the Illinois
department of transportation, office of water resources for all development
projects subject to section
9-3-6 of this chapter, and maintain a record of such authorization.
   D.   Maintain a record of the "as built" elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all buildings subject to section
9-3-7 of this chapter.
   E.   Maintain a record of the engineer's certificate and the "as built"
floodproof elevation of all buildings subject to subsection
9-3-7B5 of this chapter.
   F.   Inspect all development projects to ensure they comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   G.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood and floodway data and to improve the administration of this
chapter. Submit reports as required for the national flood insurance program.
   H.   Maintain for public inspection and furnish upon request, base flood
data, SFHA maps, copies of federal or state permit documents and "as built"
elevation and floodproofing data for all buildings constructed subject to this
chapter. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-4: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
This chapter's protection standard is the base flood. The best available base
flood data are listed below. Whenever a party disagrees with the best available
data, the party may finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace
existing data with better data and submit it to the state water survey.
   A.   The base flood elevation for the SFHAs of the Mississippi River, Coal
Branch Creek, Wood River Creek and Beltline Creek shall be as delineated on the
100-year flood profiles in the flood insurance study of the city prepared by
the federal emergency management agency and dated May 1, 1984.
   B.   The base flood elevation for each SFHA delineated as an AH zone or AO
zone shall be that elevation (or depth) delineated on the flood insurance rate
map of the city.
   C.   The base flood elevation for each of the remaining SFHAs delineated as
an A zone on the flood insurance rate map of the city shall be according to the
best data available to the Illinois state water survey floodplain information
repository. When no base flood elevation exists, the base flood elevation shall
be the 100-year flood depth calculated according to the formulas presented in
"Depth and Frequency of Floods in Illinois" published by the United States
geological survey, 1976.
   D.   The base flood elevation for the SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated
Madison County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the city or
that may be annexed into the city shall be as delineated on the 100-year flood
profiles in the flood insurance study of Madison County prepared by the federal
emergency management agency and dated April 15, 1982, (70436). (Ord. 6675, 9-
25-2002)
9-3-5: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
No person not exempted by state law shall commence any development in the SFHA
without first obtaining a development permit from the supervisor of housing and
building inspectors. The supervisor shall not issue a development permit if the
proposed development does not meet the requirements of this chapter.
   A.   The application for a development permit shall be accompanied by
drawings of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions, existing
grade elevations and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or
fillings, the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings and the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
9-3-7 of this chapter.
   B.   Upon receipt of an application for a development permit, the building
official shall compare the elevation of the site to the base flood elevation.
Any development located on land that can be shown to have been higher than the
base flood elevation as of the date of the site's first flood insurance rate
map identification is not located in the SFHA and therefore not subject to the
requirements of this chapter. The building official shall maintain
documentation of the existing ground elevation at the development site and
certification that this ground elevation existed prior to the date of the
site's first flood insurance rate map identification.
   C.   The supervisor shall inform the applicant of any and all other local,
state and federal permits that may be required for this type of development
activity. The supervisor shall not issue the development permit unless all
required federal and state permits have been obtained. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-6: PREVENTING INCREASED DAMAGES:
No development in the SFHA shall create a damaging or potentially damaging
increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health and safety.
   A.   Within the floodway identified on the flood boundary floodway map, the
following standards shall apply:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection A2 of this section, no development
shall be allowed which, acting in combination with existing or future similar
works, will cause any increase in the base flood elevation. The specific
development activities identified in subsection B2 of this section shall be
considered as meeting this requirement.
      2.   No increase in the base flood elevation may be permitted unless:
         a.   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the base flood elevation more than one foot (1') for the affected hydraulic
reach of the stream and will not increase flood damages or potential flood
damages;
         b.   A permit has been issued by the Illinois department of
transportation, office of water resources as required in subsection B1 of this
section; and
         c.   For all projects involving channel modifications or fill
(including levees), the city shall submit sufficient data to the federal
emergency management agency to revise the regulatory flood data.
   B.   Within all other riverine SFHAs, the following standards shall apply:
      1.   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a development
permit for a site located in a floodway (or in a riverine SFHA where no
floodway has been identified) shall not be issued unless the applicant first
obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is not required from
the Illinois department of transportation, office of water resources, issued
pursuant to 20 Illinois Compiled Statutes 801/5-5.
      2.   The following activities may be constructed without the individual
permit required in subsection B1 of this section in accordance with statewide
permits issued by the Illinois department of transportation, office of water
resources provided the activities do not involve placement of fill, change of
grade or construction in the normal channel. Such activities must still meet
the other requirements of this chapter:
         a.   The construction of walls, septic tanks and underground utility
lines not crossing a lake or stream;
         b.   The construction of light poles, signposts and similar
structures;
         c.   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
         d.   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment pavilions and carports;
         e.   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten feet (10') in any dimension (e.g.,
animal shelters and tool sheds); and
         f.   The construction of additions to existing buildings which do not
increase the first floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), which are
located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which
do not extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to
the flow of floodwaters.
      3.   The total cumulative effect of the proposed development, when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not increase
the base flood elevation more than one foot (1') for the affected hydraulic
reach of the stream and will not increase flood damages or potential flood
damages.
   C.   Public health standards in all SFHAs:
      1.   No development in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, flammable liquids, pollutants or
other hazardous or toxic materials below the FPE unless such materials are
stored in a storage tank or floodproofed building constructed according to the
requirements of subsection
9-3-7B5 of this chapter.
      2.   New and replacement sanitary sewer lines and on site waste disposal
systems may be permitted providing all manholes or other aboveground openings
located below the FPE are watertight. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-7: PROTECTING BUILDINGS:
   A.   In addition to the damage prevention requirements of section
9-3-6 of this chapter, all buildings to be located in the SFHA shall be
protected from flood damage below the FPE. The building protection requirements
apply to the following situations:
      1.   Construction or placement of a new building valued at more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) at the time of construction or seventy (70) square
feet;
      2.   Substantial improvements made to an existing building. This
alteration shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any alteration which
has taken place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter;
      3.   Repairs made to a substantially damaged building. These repairs
shall be figured cumulatively beginning with any alteration which has taken
place subsequent to the adoption of this chapter;
      4.   Structural alterations made to an existing building that increase
the floor area by more than twenty percent (20%), or the market value of the
building by more than fifty percent (50%), both at time of construction;
      5.   Reconstruction or repairs made to a damaged building that are valued
at or more than fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the building before
the damage occurred;
      6.   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new manufactured
home on an existing site. This chapter does not apply to returning a
manufactured home to the same site it lawfully occupied before it was removed
to avoid flood damage;
      7.   Installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a site for
more than one hundred eighty (180) days per year; and
      8.   "Repetitive loss" to an existing building as defined in section
9-3-2 of this chapter.
   B.   The building protection requirements may be met by one of the following
methods. The building official shall maintain a record of compliance with
building protection standards as required in section
9-3-3 of this chapter.
      1.   A residential or nonresidential building may be constructed on
permanent landfill in accordance with the following:
         a.   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than six inches
(6") deep before compaction.
         b.   The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at or above the
FPE. The fill should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond the foundation of
the building before sloping below the FPE.
         c.   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour during
flooding by vegetative cover, riprap, or bulkheading. If vegetative cover is
used, the slopes shall be no steeper than three horizontal to one vertical (3:
1).
         d.   The fill shall be composed of rock or soil and not incorporate
debris or refuse materials.
         e.   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow of surface drainage
from or onto neighboring properties, and when necessary, storm water management
techniques such that swales or basins shall be incorporated.
      2.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         a.   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
walls, stilts, piles or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters, provided:
            (1)   If walls are used, all enclosed areas below the base flood
elevation shall address hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic entry
and exit of floodwaters. Designs must either be certified by a registered
professional engineer or by having a minimum of two (2) permanent openings no
more than one foot (1') above grade and providing a total net area of not less
than one square inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding below the base flood elevation;
            (2)   The walls and floor are not subject to damage by hydrostatic
pressures associated with the base flood; and
            (3)   The finished interior grade shall not be less than the
finished exterior grade.
         b.   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris.
         c.   All areas below the FPE shall be constructed of materials
resistant to flood damage. The lowest floor (including basement) and all
electrical, heating, ventilating, plumbing, air conditioning equipment and
utility meters shall be located at or above the FPE. Water and sewer pipes,
electrical and telephone lines, submersible pumps and other waterproofed
service facilities may be located below the FPE.
         d.   The area below the flood protection elevation shall be used
solely for parking or building access and not later modified or occupied as
habitable space.
      3.   Manufactured homes and travel trailers to be permanently installed
on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days shall be:
         a.   Elevated at or above the FPE in accordance with subsection B1 or
B2 of this section; and
         b.   Anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement by
being tied down in accordance with the rules and regulations for the Illinois
mobile home tie down act issued pursuant to 210 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/
1 and 120/6.
      4.   Travel trailers and recreational vehicles on site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days shall meet the elevation requirements of subsection
B2 of this section unless the following conditions are met:
         a.   The vehicle must be either self-propelled or towable by a light
duty truck. The hitch must remain on the vehicle at all times; and
         b.   The vehicle must not be attached to external structures such as
decks and porches; and
         c.   The vehicle must be designed solely for recreation, camping,
travel, or seasonal use rather than as a permanent dwelling; and
         d.   The vehicle's largest horizontal projections must be no larger
than four hundred (400) square feet; and
         e.   The vehicle's wheels must remain on axles and inflated; and
         f.   Air conditioning units must be attached to the frame so as to be
safe for movement out of the floodplain; and
         g.   Propane tanks, electrical and sewage connections must be quick
disconnect and above the 100-year flood elevation; and
         h.   The vehicle must be licensed and titled as a recreational vehicle
or park model; and
         i.   The vehicle must be either: a) entirely supported by jacks rather
than blocks or b) have a hitch jack permanently mounted, have the tires
touching the ground, and be supported by blocks in a manner that will allow the
blocks to be easily removed by use of the hitch jack.
      5.   Only a nonresidential building may be floodproofed in accordance
with the following:
         a.   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the
building has been designed so that below the FPE, the structure and attendant
utility facilities are watertight and capable of resisting the effects of the
base flood. The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy and impacts from debris or ice.
         b.   Floodproofing measures shall be incorporated into the building
design and operable without human intervention and without an outside source of
electricity.
         c.   Levees, berms, floodwalls and similar works are not considered
floodproofing for the purpose of this subsection.
      6.   Garages or sheds constructed ancillary to a residential use may be
permitted provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   The garage or shed must be nonhabitable; and
         b.   The garage or shed must be used only for the storage of vehicles
and tools and cannot be modified later into another use; and
         c.   The garage or shed must be located outside of the floodway; and
         d.   The garage or shed must be on a single-family lot and be
accessory to an existing principal structure on the same lot; and
         e.   Below the base flood elevation, the garage or shed must be built
of materials not susceptible to flood damage; and
         f.   All utilities, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical
must be elevated above the flood protection elevation; and
         g.   The garage or shed must have at least one permanent opening on
each wall no more than one foot (1') above grade with one square inch of
opening for every square foot of floor area; and
         h.   The garage or shed must be less than seven thousand five hundred
dollars ($7,500.00) in market value or replacement cost whichever is greater or
less than five hundred (500) square feet; and
         i.   The structure shall be anchored to resist flotation and
overturning; and
         j.   All flammable or toxic materials (gasoline, paint, insecticides,
fertilizers, etc.) shall be stored above the flood protection elevation; and
         k.   The lowest floor elevation should be documented and the owner
advised of the flood insurance implications.
      7.   A building may be constructed with a crawl space located below the
flood protection elevation provided that the following conditions are met:
         a.   The building must be designed and adequately anchored to resist
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy; and
         b.   Any enclosed area below the flood protection elevation shall have
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing for the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters. A minimum of one opening on each wall having a
total net area of not less than one square inch per one square foot of enclosed
area. The openings shall be no more than one foot (1') above grade; and
         c.   The interior grade of the crawl space below the flood protection
elevation must not be more than two feet (2') below the lowest adjacent
exterior grade; and
         d.   The interior height of the crawl space measured from the interior
grade of the crawl space to the top of the foundation wall must not exceed four
feet (4') at any point; and
         e.   An adequate drainage system must be installed to remove
floodwaters from the interior area of the crawl space within a reasonable
period of time after a flood event; and
         f.   Portions of the building below the flood protection elevation
must be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage; and
         g.   Utility systems within the crawl space must be elevated above the
flood protection elevation. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-8: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The city council shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that they
are known, in all official actions related to land management, use and
development.
   A.   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements,
planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured home parks and
subdivisions shall meet the requirements of sections
9-3-6 and
9-3-7 of this chapter. Plats or plans for new subdivisions, manufactured home
parks and planned unit developments (PUDs) shall include a signed statement by
a registered professional engineer that the plat or plan accounts for changes
in the drainage of surface waters in accordance with the plat act, 765 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 205/2.
   B.   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, planned unit
developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured home parks and subdivisions
shall include base flood elevation data. Where the base flood elevation is not
available from an existing study filed with the Illinois state water survey,
the applicant shall be responsible for calculating the base flood elevation and
submitting it to the state water survey for review and approval as best
available elevation data. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-9: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the city council for a
variance. The city council shall review the applicant's request for a variance.
The city council may attach such conditions to granting of a variance as it
deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   A.   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities or other
public facilities; and
      6.   The provisions of subsection
9-3-5C of this chapter are met.
   B.   The city clerk shall notify an applicant in writing that a variance
from the requirements of section
9-3-7 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
that may be as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars
($100.00) of insurance coverage; and
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability.
   C.   Variances to the building protection requirements of section
9-3-7 of this chapter requested in connection with the reconstruction, repair
or alteration of a site of building included on the National Register of
Historic Places or the Illinois Register of Historic Places may be granted
using criteria more permissive than the requirements of subsections A1 through
A5 of this section. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-10: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may
occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This
chapter does not imply that development either inside or outside of the SFHA
will be free from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on
the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision made
lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-11: PENALTY:
Failure to obtain a permit for development in the SFHA or failure to comply
with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance resolution shall
be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due investigation, the
supervisor of housing and building inspectors may determine that a violation of
the minimum standards of this chapter exist. The supervisor shall notify the
owner in writing of such violation.
   A.   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The city may make application to the circuit court for an injunction
requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as the court
deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof
be fined as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
   B.   The supervisor shall inform the owner that any such violation is
considered a wilful act to increase flood damages and therefore may cause
coverage by a standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
   C.   Nothing herein shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-12: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall commence any construction, substantial improvement, subdivision
of land, placement of manufactured homes or other development in areas located
in an A zone without first obtaining a permit from the supervisor of housing
and building inspectors. The supervisor shall not issue such permit for any
construction, substantial improvement or other development that does not comply
with the provisions of this chapter or that has been denied a permit required
by the federal or state law including section 404 of the federal water
pollution control act, 1972, 33 USC 1334. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-13: APPLICATION:
   A.   Within areas designated as A zones each application for development
shall be accompanied by elevations, in relation to mean sea level, of the
lowest habitable floor, including basement, and in the case of floodproofed
structures, the elevations to which it will be floodproofed.
   B.   The supervisor of housing and building inspectors shall require
certification from a registered professional engineer or architect that
floodproofing methods are adequate to withstand the flood depths, pressures,
velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated with the base
flood.
   C.   The application shall also contain information or certification as
reasonably may be required by the supervisor in order to determine eligibility
for permits or to enforce the terms of this chapter.
   D.   The supervisor shall review applications for permits and determine
before issuing a permit that the development activity would be reasonably safe
from flood damage. (Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
9-3-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city council
to fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program. However,
this chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to
achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate or
impair any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. Where this
chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict
or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Ord. 6675, 9-25-2002)
CHAPTER 4
SAFETY AROUND WATER
SECTION:
9-4-1: Water Depth
9-4-2: Gates
9-4-3: Fences
9-4-1: WATER DEPTH:
   A.   Swimming Pools: It shall be unlawful, within the corporate limits of
the City, for any person or persons to maintain a swimming pool that has a
maximum depth of more than eighteen inches (18") of water unless same is
completely surrounded by a fence not less than four feet (4') in height and
which fence shall be constructed sufficiently strong and of such design so as
to prevent said pool from being readily accessible. (Ord. 5835, 11-24-1993)
   B.   Other Bodies Of Water: It shall also be unlawful, within the corporate
limits of the City, for any person to maintain a fish pond or any other
decorative pond or pool that has a maximum depth of more than eighteen inches
(18") of water and has an opening of more than fifteen (15) square feet, unless
same is completely surrounded by a guard or fence not less than two feet (2')
in height and which guard or fence shall be constructed sufficiently strong and
of such design so as to prevent said pond or pool from being readily
accessible. (Ord. 2948, 4-27-1960)
9-4-2: GATES:
All gates or doors opening into said pools or ponds shall be equipped with a
self-closing and self-latching device with locking provisions for keeping the
gate or door securely closed at all times when not in actual use. (Ord. 2948,
4-27-1960)
9-4-3: FENCES:
The owners of all pools in existence on or before the effective date hereof who
have a guard or fence or enclosure less than three feet (3') in height or not
otherwise in compliance with this Chapter shall cause said improvements and
additions to be carried out over a period not to exceed six (6) months from the
effective date hereof in order to comply with the requirements of this Chapter;
provided, however, that whenever any guard, fence or enclosure as described in
this Section is replaced, it shall fully comply with the minimum four feet (4')
in height requirements hereinabove set forth in Section
9-4-1 of this Chapter. (Ord. 2948, 4-27-1960)
CHAPTER 5
EARTH CONTOUR CHANGE PERMITS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Plan And Permit Required
9-5-2: Application And Fee
9-5-3: Conditions For Issuance
9-5-4: Redundant Permit Fees Not Required
9-5-5: Exemptions
9-5-6: Enforcement
9-5-7: Penalty
9-5-1: PLAN AND PERMIT REQUIRED:
Prior to the commencement of any excavating, grading, regrading, landfilling,
berming or diking of any property within the city, an earth contour change plan
shall be on file with the department of building and zoning and an earth
contour change permit shall be obtained from the public works director. Said
earth contour change plan shall describe and/or depict the work to be done, the
purpose of said work, the amount of earth to be moved, the dimensions of the
change in contour at finish and the estimated change of the drainage from the
site due to said contour change. Said earth contour change plan shall be on
file and shall be reviewed by the public works director prior to the issuance
of an earth contour changer permit. A separate permit shall be required for
each separate, noncontiguous site or lot, and no permit shall be transferable
without the prior written consent of the public works director. (Ord. 6441, 10-
27-1999)
9-5-2: APPLICATION AND FEE:
Any person required to obtain an earth contour change permit shall file a
written application for an earth contour change permit with the public works
director. Applications shall be in such form and have such content as the
public works director may require and shall be accompanied by the payment of a
permit fee of fifty dollars ($50.00). Every application shall contain
sufficient information to enable the public works director to determine that
the conditions for issuance required by this chapter will be met, and the
director may require such sketches, site drawings, surveys, plans, blueprints,
specifications, and other technical data as the director deems necessary to
determine that the conditions for issuance will be met prior to issuance of a
permit. (Ord. 6169, 7-23-1997)
9-5-3: CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE:
Prior to granting any earth contour change permit, the public works director
shall attach such conditions thereto as are necessary to prevent any determent
to the public or private lands or to persons and to prevent the work thereby
authorized from being conducted in a manner detrimental to life or property or
otherwise likely to create a public nuisance. Such conditions may include, but
are not limited to, the following:
   A.   Conformity to and compliance with the subdivision code, including, but
not limited to, compliance with section
12-4-9 of this code, relating to storm water management.
   B.   Compliance with phase II of the United States EPA storm water
regulations as adopted by the city of Alton with the notice of intent to comply
with the EPA regulations filed on or before March 10, 2003.
   C.   A site plan showing specific finished grade land contours indicating
that the site will be left in a viable state for future development.
   D.   Boring logs, or pothole depth checks, showing that sufficient soil will
remain after final grading to facilities the installation of public utilities,
such as water and sewer.
   E.   Compliance with the applicable portions of section 200 of the state of
Illinois standard specification for road and bridge construction; specifically
including, but not limited to, articles 202.03, 202.05, 204.01, 204.02
pertaining to clearing, drainage and borrow pits.
   F.   No permit will be issued for the removal of soil, when the removal will
result in a pond or lake, unless specifically shown as a feature of a
development as shown on the submitted site plan.
   G.   An erosion control plan for the project shall be submitted for review
and approval by the public works director or his appointed designee and shall
include a performance bond equal to five percent (5%) of the estimated project
cost or five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), whichever is the lesser.
   H.   The necessary public easements and rights of way.
   I.   A specific method for performing the work as authorized, and a
sufficient surety bond or letter of credit or cash escrow approved by the
public works director guaranteeing completion of the work as authorized. (Ord.
6729, 4-23-2003)
9-5-4: REDUNDANT PERMIT FEES NOT REQUIRED:
This chapter shall not be construed or interpreted to require a fee for an
earth contour change permit when a building permit or other permit issued
pursuant to an ordinance of this city permitting such excavating, grading,
regrading, landfilling, berming or diking has already been paid for. This
chapter shall not be construed or interpreted to require an earth contour
permit for any activity which is governed by the regulations of title 6,
chapter 14, "Storm Water Control", of this code. (Ord. 6262, 4-8-1998; amd.
Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
9-5-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The requirement for an earth contour change permit shall not apply to the
following activities:
   A.   Customary, routine, and incidental grounds maintenance, landscaping,
and home gardening which does not affect water runoff or storm water drainage.
   B.   Trenching and temporary excavation for the purpose of installing,
maintenance, or repairing any public street, public utility facility or any
utility service line.
   C.   Emergency work of a temporary nature necessary for the preservation of
life, health or property which is done under such circumstances where it would
be impossible or impracticable to obtain an earth contour change permit. (Ord.
6169, 7-23-1997)
9-5-6: ENFORCEMENT:
If at any time any excavating, grading, regrading, landfilling, berming or
diking of any property within the city is performed which is not in accordance
with this chapter or an earth contour change permit, including conditions
attached hereto and approved modifications thereof, a written notice to comply
shall be given, stating the location, the nature of the alleged noncompliance
and such time as may be deemed reasonable to correct the noncompliance,
determined according to the nature of the deficiency and whether or not it
creates a nuisance or a hazard. If in the judgment of the public works
director, any such noncompliance has not been corrected within a reasonable
time or any condition exists or any act is done which constitutes or creates a
hazard endangering human life or property of others, he shall suspend any
permit which may have been issued and issue a stop work order. The city may
institute actions or proceedings at law or in equity for the enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 6169, 7-23-1997)
9-5-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues; and
such fine shall be in addition to or as an alternative to the enforcement
procedures above. (Ord. 6169, 7-23-1997; amd. 1999 Code)
CHAPTER 6
RENTAL OF DWELLING UNITS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 7616, 3-28-2018, eff. 4-1-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 4, chapter 21 of this Code.
CHAPTER 7
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTIES
SECTION:
9-7-1: Nuisance Properties
9-7-2: Definitions
9-7-3: Remedy
9-7-4: Abatement Of A Nuisance
9-7-5: Exception
9-7-6: Procedure
9-7-7: Commencement Of Action; Burden Of Proof
9-7-8: Emergency Closing Procedures
9-7-9: Severability
9-7-1: NUISANCE PROPERTIES:
   A.   Any certain property within the city of Alton which becomes a chronic
nuisance property is in violation of this chapter and is subject to its
remedies.
   B.   Any person in charge who permits property under his or her ownership or
control to be a chronic nuisance property shall be in violation of this chapter
and is subject to its remedies. (Ord. 7549, 12-21-2016)
9-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: Property upon which three (3) or more of the
behaviors listed below have occurred during any two hundred seventy (270) day
period, as a result of any three (3) separate factual events that have been
independently investigated by any law enforcement agency and found to be
supported by admissible corroborating evidence that the behavior has occurred:
   A.   Unlawful use of weapons as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24 et seq.
   B.   Mob action as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1.
   C.   Discharge of a firearm as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1.2 and 1.5.
   D.   Gambling as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1.
   E.   Possession, manufacture or delivery of controlled substances as defined
in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/401 et seq.
   F.   Prostitution as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14 et
seq.
   G.   Possession, cultivation, manufacture or delivery of cannabis as defined
in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.
   H.   Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol as defined in 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
   I.   Three (3) convictions for Alton city building code or property
maintenance violations. The three (3) convictions as stated herein shall
constitute one of the behaviors as outlined in this definition. No more than
one of the three (3) behavior requirements as listed herein shall be from this
subsection within the two hundred seventy (270) day period.
   J.   Aggravated battery as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-
3.05 et seq.
   K.   Possession, manufacture or delivery of methamphetamine as defined by
the Methamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act in 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 646/1 et seq.
   L.   Violation of the Litter Control Act as defined in 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 105/6.
CONTROL: The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or govern
conduct that occurs on that property.
OWNER: Any person, agent, firm, or corporation having any legal or equitable
interest in the property. Owner shall include, but is not limited to:
   A.   A mortgagee in possession and in whom is vested:
      1.   All or part of the legal title to the property, or
      2.   All or part of the beneficial ownership and the right to the present
use and enjoyment of the premises;
   B.   An occupant who can control what occurs on the property;
   C.   A property manager.
PERMIT: To knowingly allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly assent or agree to the doing of an act. A crime victim, victim of
domestic or sexual violence, or innocent third party will not be found to have
permitted, allowed, acquiesced, failed to prevent, or consented to an act.
PERSON: Any natural person, association, partnership or corporation capable of
owning or using property in the city of Alton.
PERSON IN CHARGE: Any person in actual or constructive possession of a
property, including, but not limited to, an owner, or occupant of property
under his domain, ownership or control.
PROPERTY: Any real property, including land in that which is affixed,
incidental or pertinent to land, including, but not limited to, any premises,
room, house, building, or structure or any separate part or portion thereof,
whether permitted or not. (Ord. 7549, 12-21-2016; amd. Ord. 7829, 4-13-2022)
9-7-3: REMEDY:
   A.   In the event a court determined property to be a chronic nuisance
property, the court may order that the property be closed and secured against
all use and occupancy for a period of not less than thirty (30) days, but not
more than one hundred eighty (180) days, or that the court may employ any other
remedy deemed by it to be appropriate to abate the nuisance.
   B.   In addition to the remedy provided in subsection A of this section, the
court may impose upon the owner of the property a civil penalty in the amount
of up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day, payable to the city of Alton,
for each day the owner had actual knowledge that the property was a chronic
nuisance property and permitted the property to remain chronic nuisance
property.
   C.   In determining what remedy or remedies shall employ, the court may
consider evidence of other conduct which has occurred on the property,
including, but not limited to:
      1.   The disturbance of neighbors;
      2.   The recurrence of loud and obnoxious noises; and
      3.   Repeated consumption of alcohol in public. (Ord. 7549, 12-21-2016)
9-7-4: ABATEMENT OF A NUISANCE:
The corporation counselor or city attorney of the city may commence an action
to abate chronic nuisance as described above. Upon being satisfied by
affidavits or other sworn evidence that an alleged public nuisance exists, the
court may, without notice or bond enter a temporary restraining order or a
preliminary injunction to enjoin any defendant from maintaining such nuisance
and may enter an order restraining any defendant from removing or interfering
with all property used in connection with the chronic nuisance. (Ord. 7549, 12-
21-2016)
9-7-5: EXCEPTION:
The above sections shall not apply to:
   A.   Contact made to police or other emergency services, if:
      1.   The contact was made with the intent to prevent or respond to
domestic violence or sexual violence;
      2.   The intervention or emergency assistance was needed to respond to or
prevent domestic violence or sexual violence; or
      3.   The contact was made by, on behalf of, or otherwise concerns an
individual with a disability and the purpose of the contact was related to the
individual's disability;
   B.   An incident or incidents of actual or threatened domestic violence or
sexual violence against a tenant, household member, or guest occurring in the
dwelling unit or on the premises; or
   C.   Criminal activity or a local ordinance violation occurring in the
dwelling unit or on the premises that is directly relating to domestic violence
or sexual violence, engaged in by a tenant, member of a tenant's household,
guest, or other party, and against a tenant, household member, guest, or other
party; or
   D.   A person who is an innocent party or the victim of a crime, including,
but not limited to, actual or threatened domestic violence, or sexual violence,
will not be in violation of this chapter or subject to eviction based on
criminal activity. Nothing in this chapter prohibits an owner from evicting
only the perpetrator of the domestic violence, or sexual violence, or other
criminal activity without affecting the tenancy of the remaining tenants in the
unit. This chapter is not intended to discourage crime victims, including
victims of domestic violence and sexual violence, victims of child abuse,
persons with disabilities, persons in legitimate need of police services, or a
person coming to the aid of an individual in need of police assistance, from
obtaining those services. (Ord. 7549, 12-21-2016)
9-7-6: PROCEDURE:
   A.   When the chief of police of the city of Alton receives two (2) or more
police reports documenting the occurrence of nuisance activity on or within a
property, the chief of police shall independently review such report to
determine whether they describe criminal acts. Upon such findings the chief
may:
      1.   Notify persons in charge, including, but not limited to, the owner
and any tenant(s), in writing that the property is in danger of becoming a
chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the following information:
         a.   The street address or a legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
         b.   A statement that the chief of police has information that the
property may be chronic nuisance property, with a concise description of the
nuisance activities that may exist, or that have occurred. The chief of police
shall offer the person in charge an opportunity to propose a course of action
that the chief of police agrees will abate the nuisance activities giving rise
to the violation;
         c.   A statement that the action does not mandate eviction of a tenant
or other occupant, and that any eviction action must be conducted in accordance
with the statutory requirements stated in Illinois forcible entry and detainer
act, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-101 et seq.;
         d.   The exceptions in section
9-7-5 of this chapter;
         e.   Information allowing any tenant(s) to request a meeting with
appropriate city officials, including the chief of police or his designee, to
discuss or correct the allegations contained in the notice and the need for
abatement measures at the premises;
         f.   Demand that the person in charge respond to the chief of police
within ten (10) days to discuss the nuisance activity.
   B.   After complying with the notification procedures described herein when
the chief of police receives a police report documenting the occurrence of a
third nuisance activity at or within the property and determines that the
property has become a chronic nuisance property, the chief of police shall:
      1.   Notify the person in charge, including, but not limited to, the
owner and any tenant(s), in writing that the property has been determined to be
a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the following
information:
         a.   The street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property;
         b.   A statement that the chief of police has determined the property
to be chronic nuisance property with a concise description of the nuisance
activities leading to his/her findings;
         c.   A statement that the action does not mandate eviction of a tenant
or other occupant, and that any eviction action must be conducted in accordance
with the statutory requirements stated in Illinois forcible entry and detainer
act, 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/9-101 et seq.;
         d.   The exceptions in section
9-7-5 of this chapter;
         e.   Information allowing any tenant(s) to request a meeting with
appropriate city officials, including the chief of police or his designee, to
discuss or correct the allegations contained in the notice and the need for
abatement measures at the premises;
         f.   Demand that the person in charge respond within ten (10) days to
the chief of police and propose a course of action that the chief of police
agrees will abate the nuisance activities giving rise to the violation.
Service shall be made either personally or by first class mail, postage
prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the person in charge at the
address of the property believed to be a chronic nuisance property, or such
other place which is likely to give the person in charge notice of the
determination by the chief of police.
A copy of the notice shall also be posted at the property after ten (10) days
has elapsed from the service or mailing of the notice to the person in charge
and the person in charge has not contacted the chief of police.
      2.   If after the notification, but prior to the commencement of legal
proceedings by the city pursuant to this chapter, a person in charge stipulates
with the chief of police that the person in charge will pursue a course of
action the parties agree will abate the nuisance activities giving rise to the
violation, the chief of police may agree to postpone legal proceedings for a
period of not less than ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days. If the
agreed course of action does not result in the abatement of the nuisance
activity or if no agreement concerning abatement is reached within thirty (30)
days, the chief of police shall request authorization for the corporation
counselor or the city attorney to commence a legal proceeding to abate the
nuisance.
      3.   Concurrent with the notification procedures set forth herein, the
chief of police shall send copies of the notice, as well as any other
documentation which supports legal proceedings, to the corporation counselor or
the city attorney.
   C.   When a person in charge makes a response to the chief of police as
required above, any conduct or statements made in connection with the
furnishing of that response shall not constitute an admission that any nuisance
activities have or are occurring. This subsection does not require the
exclusion of any evidence which is otherwise admissible or offered for any
other purpose. (Ord. 7549, 12-21-2016)
9-7-7: COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION; BURDEN OF PROOF:
   A.   In an action seeking closure of a chronic nuisance property, the city
shall have the initial burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence
that the property is a chronic nuisance property.
   B.   It is a defense to an action seeking the closure of chronic nuisance
property that the owner of the property at the time in question could not, in
the exercise of reasonable care or diligence, determine that the property had
become chronic nuisance property, or could not, in spite of the exercise of
reasonable care and diligence, control the conduct leading of the findings that
the property is a chronic nuisance property.
   C.   In establishing the amount of any civil penalty requested, the court
may consider any of the following factors if they need be found appropriate,
and shall cite those found applicable:
      1.   The actions or lack of action taken by the person in charge to
mitigate or correct the problem at the property.
      2.   Whether the problem at the property was repeated or continuous.
      3.   The magnitude or gravity of the problem.
      4.   The cooperation of the person in charge with the city.
      5.   The cost of the city investigating and correcting or attempting to
correct the condition. (Ord. 7549, 12-21-2016)
9-7-8: EMERGENCY CLOSING PROCEDURES:
   A.   In the event that it is determined that the property is an immediate
threat to the public safety and welfare, the city may apply to the court for
such interim relief, as is deemed by the chief of police to be appropriate. In
such an event, the notification provision set forth in section
9-7-6 of this chapter need not be complied with, however, the city shall make a
diligent effort to notify the person in charge prior to the court hearing.
   B.   In the event that the court finds the property constitutes a "chronic
nuisance property" as defined in this chapter, the court may order the remedy
set out above. In addition, in the event that it also finds the person in
charge had knowledge of activities or conditions of the property constituting
or violating this chapter and permitted the activities to occur, the court may
assess a civil fine as provided above.
   C.   The court may authorize the city of Alton to physically secure the
property against use or occupancy in the event the owner fails to do so within
the time specified by the court. In the event that the city is authorized to
secure the property, all costs reasonably incurred by the city to effect a
closure shall be made and assessed as a lien against the property. If used
herein, "costs" means the costs actually incurred by the city for the physical
securing of the property.
   D.   The city of Alton department of building and zoning effecting the
closure shall prepare a statement of cost and the city of Alton shall
thereafter submit said statement to the court for its review. If no objection
of the statement is made within the period described by the court, a lien in
said amount may be recorded against said property.
   E.   Any person who is assessed the cost of closure and/or civil penalty by
the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof to the city. (Ord.
7549, 12-21-2016)
9-7-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter or its application, or any person or
circumstances held to be invalid for any reason, the remainder of said
application of its provision to the other person or circumstances shall not be
in any way affected. (Ord. 7549, 12-21-2016)
TITLE 10
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code
10-1-2: Definitions
10-1-3: Enforcement
10-1-4: Modifications
10-1-5: Appeals
10-1-6: Fire Hydrants
10-1-7: Flying Debris
10-1-8: Key Lock Boxes
10-1-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to
life and property from fire or explosion, that certain code known as the
international fire code, as adopted by the city council in section
9-1-1 of this code, and the provisions thereof shall be controlling within the
limits of the city. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997; amd. 1999 Code; Ord. 7347, 12-19-
2012)
10-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the words "code official" are used in the fire prevention code, they
shall be held to mean the fire chief of the city or his designee. (Ord. 6131,
2-26-1997)
10-1-3: ENFORCEMENT:
The fire prevention code shall be enforced by the fire department under the
supervision of the chief of the fire department. The chief of the fire
department may detail such members of the fire department as inspectors as
shall from time to time be necessary. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997)
10-1-4: MODIFICATIONS:
The fire chief shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the fire
prevention code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly
authorized agent, where there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying
out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall
be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decisions of
the fire chief thereon shall be entered upon the records of the fire department
and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997)
10-1-5: APPEALS:
Whenever the chief of the fire department shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a license or permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the
provisions of the fire prevention code, as adopted in section
9-1-1 of this code, do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of such
code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal
the decision of the fire chief to the building board of appeals within thirty
(30) days from the date of the decision appealed. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997)
10-1-6: FIRE HYDRANTS:
   A.   Installation: Upon the construction of any building, fire hydrants
where required shall be immediately connected and maintained in an operative
condition as soon as water mains have been installed at the construction site.
Access to all fire hydrants by firefighting apparatus shall be provided and
maintained.
   B.   Privately Owned Fire Hydrants:
      1.   It shall be the duty of owner, lessee, occupant, agent, servant,
representative or employee of owner of fire hydrants not owned by Illinois-
American Water Company to have each such hydrant painted red in color. It shall
be unlawful for any owner, lessee, occupant, agent, servant, representative or
employee of such owner to fail to have such hydrant painted red in color.
      2.   It shall be the duty of owner, lessee, occupant, agent, servant,
representative or employee of owner of fire hydrants not owned by Illinois-
American Water Company to keep each such hydrant in proper working order. It
shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, occupant, agent, servant,
representative or employee of such owner to fail to keep each such hydrant in
proper working order.
      3.   It shall be the duty of owner, lessee, occupant, agent, servant,
representative or employee of owner of fire hydrants not owned by Illinois-
American Water Company to have each such hydrant annually inspected by a
licensed plumber to verify its proper operation. Inspection shall include, at a
minimum, proper operation and flow (gallons per minute), pressure, condition of
threads and caps, lubricating threads, checking for leaks, and filling oil
reservoir, where applicable. A written report from such plumber shall be filed
with the office of the chief of the fire department within fourteen (14) days
of inspection. If such inspection indicates repairs need to be made, such
repairs shall be completed within fourteen (14) days. It shall be unlawful for
any owner, lessee, occupant, agent, servant, representative or employee of such
owner to fail to have an annual inspection conducted.
   C.   Penalty: Any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
punished as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997; amd.
1999 Code)
10-1-7: FLYING DEBRIS:
Whenever any blasting occurs, in connection with any mining or other activity
or operation, the blasting shall be conducted so as not to allow any flying
debris, of any type whatsoever, to go onto the property of any other individual
or entity, public or private, whether or not said flying debris causes any
damage. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997)
10-1-8: KEY LOCK BOXES:
   A.   The following structures may be equipped with a key lock box at or near
the main entrance or such other location as designated by the fire chief:
      1.   Commercial or industrial structures protected by a remote station or
central station fire alarm system or structures equipped with an automatic fire
sprinkler system;
      2.   Multi-family residential structures that have restricted access
through locked doors and have a common corridor for access to the living units;
      3.   Governmental structures and nursing care facilities.
   B.   All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall have the
key lock box installed and operational prior to the issuance of an occupancy
permit.
   C.   The fire chief shall designate the type of key lock box system to be
implemented within the city of Alton, and shall have the authority to require
all structures subject to this section to use the designated system.
   D.   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock box
shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that will allow for access to
the structure.
   E.   The fire chief shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations
for the use of the lock box system. (Ord. 6605, 9-26-2001)
CHAPTER 2
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Fire Prevention Code Amendment
10-2-2: Definition
10-2-3: Storage; Discharge
10-2-4: Permit Required
10-2-1: FIRE PREVENTION CODE AMENDMENT:
Chapter 33 of the international fire code, 2009 edition, regarding fireworks,
is hereby repealed. Regulations governing fireworks are as outlined in this
chapter. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997; amd. Ord. 7347, 12-19-2012)
10-2-2: DEFINITION:
FIREWORKS: Includes any explosive composition, or any substance or combination
of substances, or article prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or
audible effect of a temporary exhibitional nature by explosion, combustion,
deflagration, or detonation, and shall include blank cartridges, toy cannons,
in which explosives are used, the type of balloons which require fire
underneath to propel the same, firecrackers, torpedoes, skyrockets, roman
candles, bombs or other fireworks of like construction and any fireworks
containing any explosive compound, or any tablets or other device containing
any explosive substance or containing combustible substances producing visual
effects; provided, however, that the term "fireworks" shall not include snake
or glow worm pellets; smoke devices; trick noisemakers known as "partypoppers",
"booby traps", "snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads", and "auto
burglar alarms"; toy or plastic caps containing twenty five hundredths (0.25)
grains or less of explosive compound, provided they are so constructed that the
hand cannot come into contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and
toy pistol paper or plastic caps which contain less than twenty hundredths
(0.20) grains of explosive mixture; the sale and use of which shall be
permitted at all times. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997)
10-2-3: STORAGE; DISCHARGE:
It shall be unlawful to store any "fireworks", as the same is defined herein,
in the city, excepting as may be necessary for the giving of a licensed public
exhibition of pyrotechnics as is provided for in this chapter.
Except as provided herein by definition, it shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly possess, offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail, or use or
explode any fireworks, provided that the mayor may order the public display of
fireworks by properly qualified individuals under the direct supervision of
experts in handling of fireworks. Provided, also, that such display or displays
shall be of such character and so located as in the opinion of the chief of the
fire department shall not be hazardous to surrounding property or endanger any
person or persons. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997)
10-2-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
The storage or sale of fireworks at wholesale is prohibited except by permit
from the mayor, such permit to be issued for a period to include only the
specific day(s) of the scheduled event. Application for such a permit must be
filed with the city clerk at least thirty (30) days previous to the issuing of
the permit and must give a detailed description of the proposed care and
storage of said materials and of the structural conditions and occupants of the
building. Before any permit shall be issued by the mayor, the premises
described in the application must be inspected by the chief of the fire
department, or his authorized agent, who shall file with the city clerk a
certificate of approval or his disapproval and the reasons therefor. (Ord.
6131, 2-26-1997)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
10-3-1: Outdoor Leaf And Lawn Burning
10-3-2: Bonfires
10-3-3: Penalty
10-3-1: OUTDOOR LEAF AND LAWN BURNING:
Section 307 of the international fire code, 2009 edition, is hereby amended to
also include the regulations as are outlined in this section. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-
1997; amd. Ord. 6448, 11-24-1999; Ord. 7347, 12-19-2012)
   A.   Leaf Burning Restrictions:
      1.   Hours, Months And Days Permitted: Outdoor leaf burning in the city
shall be permitted only on Wednesdays and Saturdays of each week during the
months of October, November, and December, and from April 15 through May 30 and
only between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
of each day. Outdoor leaf burning shall not be permitted at any other time
other than those set forth in this section. This section shall not apply to the
park and recreation department of the city or to any cemetery located in the
city. (Ord. 6516, 8-9-2000)
      2.   Containers: Such burning shall be permitted only in containers
located not less than fifteen feet (15') from any building or structure on
private property only, except that the park department of the city may conduct
such outdoor leaf burning on publicly owned property, which burning shall be
under direct park department supervision, and cemeteries may conduct such
outdoor leaf burning under direct and continuous supervision. A "container" is
defined as a metal burning barrel not to exceed fifty five (55) gallon capacity
or a mesh barrel approximately the same size.
      3.   Burning On Public Streets Prohibited: Outdoor leaf burning shall be
prohibited at all times on or in any public street or alley in the city.
      4.   Burning Of Leaves Only: Outdoor leaf burning shall include only
leaves fallen from trees, plants, and shrubs. It shall not include burning of
any trash, garbage, or other disposables or any other material of any nature
whatsoever. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997)
   B.   Lawns: A bona fide property owner or tenant may conduct lawn burning
any day of the year during daylight hours. Such burning shall require the
tenant or owner to remain on said property until all burning has ceased and
have a readily available method to control or extinguish such burning. (Ord.
6131, 2-26-1997; amd. 1999 Code)
   C.   Burning During Atmospheric Conditions: Outdoor leaf or lawn burning
which is permitted under this chapter may be prohibited at any time when, in
the opinion of the appropriate and proper official of the city or the Illinois
environmental protection agency, atmospheric conditions are such that open leaf
or lawn burning would prove harmful to the citizens of the city.
   D.   Use Of Flammable Liquids: Flammable liquid should not be used in the
burning at any time. If at any time the fire appears to be spreading or getting
out of hand, the Alton fire department should be called immediately. (Ord.
6131, 2-26-1997)
10-3-2: BONFIRES:
Section 307.4.1 of the international fire code, 2009 edition, regarding
bonfires, is hereby repealed. Said section is amended to allow the maximum size
and duration of bonfires to be determined by the fire chief or his designee.
(Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997; amd. Ord. 7347, 12-19-2012)
10-3-3: PENALTY:
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each burning in violation of this chapter shall be
considered a separate offense. (Ord. 6131, 2-26-1997)
CHAPTER 4
FIRE AND AMBULANCE SERVICE
SECTION:
10-4-1: Operation Of Ambulance Service
10-4-2: Definitions
10-4-3: Ambulance Fees
10-4-4: Payment Of Fees
10-4-5: Destination
10-4-1: OPERATION OF AMBULANCE SERVICE:
The city of Alton has determined to operate an ambulance service utilizing the
personnel and equipment of the city of Alton fire department to serve the needs
of residents and visitors to the city of Alton in order to better promote the
health and welfare of the community. It is the policy of the city of Alton to
charge fees for the ambulance service and related services to be provided in
connection therewith in order to recoup some of the cost incurred by the city
of Alton in connection with the personnel and equipment required by the city of
Alton fire department to provide said services. The city council of the city of
Alton does hereby determine that appropriate fees shall be those as set forth
in this chapter to be periodically adjusted to account for anticipated
inflation with regard to the cost of personnel and equipment reasonably
required in connection with providing said services. (Ord. 7550, 12-21-2016)
10-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT I: At least one ALS intervention (i.e., electrocardiogram
monitoring, intravenous therapy).
ADVANCED LIFE SUPPORT II: Three (3) separate administrations of one or more
medications, or manual defibrillation/cardioversion, cardiac pacing, chest
decompression, intraosseous line, endotracheal intubation.
BASIC LIFE SUPPORT (BLS): Vital signs, transport.
EXTRICATION: Use of tools to remove an individual from a vehicle. (Ord. 7550,
12-21-2016)
10-4-3: AMBULANCE FEES:
A. Basic life support nonemergency transport        $500.00
B. Advanced life support I nonemergency transport   750.00
C. Advanced life support I emergency transport      750.00
D. Advanced life support II transport               800.00
E. Advanced life support care rendered nontransport 75.00
F. Nonemergency convalescent transfer               500.00
G. Mileage                                          15.00 per mile
H. Ambulance nonemergency standby                   110.00 per hour
 
The charges for the foregoing services shall be adjusted on April 1 of every
year, commencing in 2018, by multiplying the then current fee by 1.03 and the
product shall be the new fee for such service. Initial charges are established
as of December 1, 2016. (Ord. 7550, 12-21-2016)
10-4-4: PAYMENT OF FEES:
Said fees shall be paid to the city of Alton or its designee by the individual
receiving such service(s) within thirty (30) days after such service is
invoiced; except that when such service is provided to a minor, such fee shall
be paid by the parent or legal guardian. Any person failing to timely remit
payment for such service shall be assessed a late fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each thirty (30) days late. (Ord. 7550, 12-21-2016)
10-4-5: DESTINATION:
All transports performed by the Alton fire department personnel shall be to St.
Anthony's Hospital, Alton, Illinois, or Alton Memorial Hospital, Alton,
Illinois; unless diverted by medical control or required by 210 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 50 emergency medical services systems act. (Ord. 7550, 12-21-
2016)
TITLE 11
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
AUTHORITY, PURPOSE AND GENERAL DESIGN
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Authority And Purpose
11-1-3: Interpretation, Conflict With Other Ordinances
11-1-4: Permissive Title Design
11-1-5: Applicability
11-1-6: Repeal Of Conflicting Provisions
11-1-7: Severability
11-1-8: Effective Date
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF ALTON,
ILLINOIS. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
Pursuant to the home rule authority granted through article VII, section 6 of
the Illinois constitution and in accordance with state law 1  this zoning
ordinance regulates lots, structures and uses in order to preserve, protect and
promote the public health, safety and welfare; and to implement the city's
comprehensive plan adopted in 2003, as amended. More specifically, this zoning
ordinance is intended to assist in achieving the following objectives:
   A.   To ensure the provision of adequate light, pure air, and safety from
fire and other dangers;
   B.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
city;
   C.   To encourage the development of buildings and uses on appropriate sites
in order to maximize community wide social and economic benefits while
accommodating the particular needs of all residents, and to discourage
development on inappropriate sites;
   D.   To protect and enhance the character and stability of sound existing
residential, commercial, and industrial areas, and to gradually eliminate
nonconforming uses and structures;
   E.   To provide adequate and well designed parking and loading space for all
buildings and uses, and to reduce vehicular congestion on the public streets
and highways;
   F.   To promote the health, safety, comfort, morals and general welfare of
the public;
   G.   To ensure and facilitate the preservation of sites, areas, and
structures of historical, architectural and aesthetic importance;
   H.   To ensure the proper regulation of manufactured home parks to protect
the health and safety of residents;
   I.   To authorize and regulate the design of planned developments; and
   J.   To provide for the efficient administration and fair enforcement of all
the regulations in this zoning ordinance. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1 et seq.
11-1-3: INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT WITH OTHER ORDINANCES:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
convenience and general welfare. It is not intended by this title to interfere
with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between
parties, except that if this title imposes a greater restriction, this title
shall control. In addition, it is not intended by this title to interfere with
or abrogate or annul any permits previously issued that were in compliance with
the zoning regulations in effect when the permits were issued. Any legal
nonconforming use of buildings or premises, any legal nonconforming building,
structure or lot, and any other legal site related nonconformity may continue
to exist except as specifically required to be brought into conformance with
this title. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-1-4: PERMISSIVE TITLE DESIGN:
This title is designed as a permissive title. Uses that are allowed by right
are listed as permitted uses. As a permissive title, the regulations contained
herein provide what is allowed and this title is not intended to provide lists
of every use, structure or activity that is prohibited. Uses, structures and
activities that are not listed as permitted, allowed by special use permit, or
that are a customary accessory use, are prohibited. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-1-5: APPLICABILITY:
This zoning ordinance shall be applicable to all lands within the corporate
limits of the city of Alton. Outside of the corporate limits, the
unincorporated territory within one and one-half (11/2) miles of the city and
in Madison County, Illinois, is subject to the Madison County zoning ordinance
(enacted pursuant to Illinois statutes). (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-1-6: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING PROVISIONS:
Any regulations previously adopted are hereby repealed if in conflict with this
zoning ordinance or any amendment thereto. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-1-7: SEVERABILITY:
The phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this zoning
ordinance are severable and if any phrase, clause, sentence, paragraph or
section of this zoning ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional or
otherwise unlawful by the valid judgment, decree, or injunction order of a
court of competent jurisdiction, such ruling shall not affect any of the
remaining phrases, clauses, sentences, paragraphs and sections of this zoning
ordinance. In the event that, contrary to the policies, interests, and values
of the city of Alton, a court of competent jurisdiction issues a judgment,
decree, or injunction order that this zoning ordinance, or any part thereof, is
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful because of any omission or prohibition
in this zoning ordinance, then all provisions of this zoning ordinance not
specifically declared to be unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful shall remain
in full force and effect. In the event that a judgment, decree, or injunction
order declaring all or a portion of this zoning ordinance to be
unconstitutional or otherwise unlawful is reversed or vacated by a court of
competent jurisdiction, the provisions contained in this zoning ordinance shall
remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-1-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
These regulations shall take effect ten (10) days after their final passage,
approval, and publication in pamphlet form as provided by law, except that
subsection
11-7-1G of this title shall not be effective until and after January 1, 2004.
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
CHAPTER 2
LANGUAGE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules For Interpreting Language
11-2-2: Definition Of Terms
11-2-3: Yard Locations And Yard Setback Lines On A Typical Lot
11-2-1: RULES FOR INTERPRETING LANGUAGE:
This chapter provides the general rules for interpreting language and the
definitions of terms within this zoning ordinance.
For the purpose of this zoning ordinance, the following rules shall be
observed:
   A.   The words "shall" and "must" are mandatory; the word "may" is
discretionary;
   B.   The word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual;
   C.   The present tense includes the future tense, the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural number includes the singular unless the
context clearly indicates otherwise;
   D.   The words "used" or "occupied" include the words "intended",
"designed", or "arranged to be used or occupied" as well as "constructed",
"altered", "converted", "rented", "leased", or "intended to be used"; and
   E.   Words denoting the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the
feminine and neuter genders.
   F.   Captions (i.e., titles of sections, subsections, etc.) are intended
merely to facilitate general reference and in no way limit the substantive
application of the provisions set forth thereunder.
   G.   References to sections shall be deemed to include all subsections
within that section; but a reference to a particular subsection designates only
that subsection. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-2-2: DEFINITION OF TERMS:
For the purpose of the administration and enforcement of this zoning ordinance,
and unless otherwise stated in this zoning ordinance, the following words and
phrases shall have a meaning as indicated herein. If any term is not defined in
this section, it shall have its standard English dictionary meaning except as
provided for in section
11-2-1 of this chapter.
ABUTTING: Having a common border with, or being separated from such a common
border by a right of way, alley or easement.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure which is clearly incidental to,
customarily found in association with, and serves a principal use; is
subordinate in purpose, area, and extent to the principal use served; and is
located on the same lot as the principal use, or on an adjoining lot in the
same ownership as that of the principal use.
ADJOINING LOT: A lot that shares all or part of a common point or line with
another lot.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
(P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product, per the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A.101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time,
and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTING ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
transport cannabis on behalf of a cannabis business establishment or a
community college licensed under the Community College Cannabis Vocational
Training Pilot Program, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, and animal and
poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses, provided, however, that the
operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal
agricultural activities.
ALLEY: A minor right of way dedicated to public use which gives a secondary
means of vehicular access to the back or side of properties otherwise abutting
a street, and which may be used for public utility purposes.
ALTER: A physical change or an addition. The term "alter" includes renovation,
modification, rehabilitation or restoration, but does not include changing the
copy on an institutional bulletin board sign, or other legal changeable copy
sign.
ALTERATION: Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an
existing building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders, any
enlargement to or diminution of a building or structure, whether horizontally
or vertically, or the moving of a building or structure from one location to
another.
AMENDMENT: A change in the provisions of this zoning ordinance, properly
effected in accordance with state law and the procedures set forth herein.
ANTENNA, ACCESSORY: An antenna and supporting structure attached to a building
or located on the same lot as a building, designed and used for an amateur
radio or citizens band radio (including such antenna used for transmitting and
receiving), a similar communication device that only receives a radio frequency
(RF) signal or any receive only home television antenna.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm or governmental agency who executes the necessary
forms to procure official approval of a development or permit to carry out
construction of a development or redevelopment from the city of Alton.
AREA, GROSS: See definition of Land Area, Gross.
ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES: Establishments that are not licensed and not
regulated but are primarily engaged in providing residential and personal care
services without on site nursing care for the elderly or other persons who are
unable to fully care for themselves. The care typically includes room, board,
supervision, and assistance in daily living, such as housekeeping services.
BASEMENT: For residential buildings, the lowest level of a building or the
story just below the main floor and which is wholly or partially lower than the
surface of the ground. In nonresidential buildings, there may be more than one
level classified as a basement provided that all such levels are wholly or
partially lower than the surface of the ground.
BED AND BREAKFAST INN: A private, owner occupied residence providing
accommodations for a charge to the public with no more than five (5) guestrooms
for rent. No meals shall be provided to guests except for breakfast. Bed and
breakfast inns do not include motels, hotels, boarding houses, or food service
establishments. (Performance standards for bed and breakfast inns in
residential districts are contained in section
11-7-3 of this title.)
BOND: Any form of a surety bond in an amount and form satisfactory to the city
council.
BUFFER: An area that contains extensive landscape material and/or a decorative
wall or similar material designed to screen from view a particular land use or
activity.
BUILDABLE AREA: The area of a lot remaining after the minimum yard, dedicated
lands and open space requirements of this zoning ordinance have been met.
BUILDING: Any enclosed structure designed, constructed or used for residential,
commercial, institutional, industrial or agricultural purpose or accessory
thereto.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance at the center of the principal front of
a building, measured from the grade on that front to the highest point of the
coping of a flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean
height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING PERMIT: A permit issued by the city of Alton for the construction,
erection or alteration of a structure or building and the related ground and
surface preparation prior to and after completion of construction, erection or
alteration of a structure or building.
BULK STANDARDS: Specifications in this zoning ordinance that provide minimum
building setbacks, and maximum building height, building coverage, and floor
area ratio requirements.
CALIPER: The diameter of a tree measured one foot (1') above ground level.
CANOPY: A shelter or protective cover projecting from and supported by the
exterior wall of a building constructed of nonrigid materials over a rigid
framework which is either ground supported or which can be raised or retracted
to a position against the building when not in use.
CHANGE OF USE: Any use which substantially differs from the previous use of a
building or land, such as a conversion from a residential use to a commercial
use. For commercial and industrial uses, any conversion from a use in a three-
digit NAICS code group to a use in a different three-digit group is considered
a change of use.
CHILDCARE CENTER: A facility which regularly provides daycare for less than
twenty four (24) hours per day for four (4) or more children not related to the
operator. A childcare center shall include the terms "daycare center", "part
day childcare facility", and "daycare home" as defined by chapter 225, act 10,
section 2 of the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
CHURCH OR PLACE OF WORSHIP: A building or set of buildings used for the purpose
of worship and customarily related activities.
CITY: The city of Alton, Illinois.
COMMERCIAL USE: A use or activity that is primarily limited to commercial
districts and which includes retail sales, personal services, business
services, offices and similar uses involved in commerce.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle which is designed or used principally for
business, governmental or nonprofit organizational purposes or for carrying
passengers for hire, and has a platform, cabinet, box, rack, compartment, or
other facility for transportation of materials, equipment, and items other than
the personal effects of private passengers.
COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A group home or specialized residential care home serving
unrelated persons with disabilities which is licensed, certified or accredited
by appropriate local, state or national bodies, or a group home or specialized
residential care home serving unrelated persons with disabilities which is
operated by an organization which is licensed, certified or accredited by
appropriate local, state or national bodies. A community residence may provide
for food, lodging, supervision and other services needed by a person with a
disability. Residents and staff shall live together as a single housekeeping
unit and in a long term, family like environment. Community residence does not
include a residence which serves persons as an alternative to incarceration for
a criminal offense, nor persons whose primary reason for placement is treatment
of a communicable disease, nor persons whose primary reason for placement is
for treatment from the effects of chemical or alcohol dependency. In all cases
community residences shall be spaced a distance of greater than six hundred
feet (600') from other community residences, as measured from lot line to lot
line, regardless of class.
   Class I: A community residence with not more than four (4) persons who are
classified as having a disability, plus a maximum resident staff of two (2) at
any given time or a maximum nonresident staff of two (2) during any given
shift. A greater amount of staff may be permissible if required to meet state
or federal regulations and adequate proof of such is provided.
   Class II: A community residence with more than four (4) persons but not more
than eight (8) persons who are classified as having a disability, plus a
maximum resident staff of two (2) at any given time or a maximum nonresident
staff of two (2) during any given shift. A greater amount of staff may be
permissible if required to meet state or federal regulations and adequate proof
of such is provided.
   Class III: A community residence with more than eight (8) persons but not
more than sixteen (16) persons who are classified as having a disability, plus
staff.
   Class IV: A community residence with more than sixteen (16) persons who are
classified as having a disability, plus staff.
COMPOSTING: A controlled biological reduction of organic wastes to hummus.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The plan or any portion thereof adopted by the city council
to guide and coordinate the physical and economic development of Alton. The
comprehensive plan includes, but is not limited to, plans and programs
regarding the locations, character, and extent of public buildings or uses,
utilities, residential, commercial or industrial land uses, parks, etc.
CORNER LOT: See definition of Lot, Corner.
COVERED WALKWAY: A pedestrian space under a structure constructed of rigid
material extending from, attached to and supported by a building, but not
including an awning, canopy or similar object constructed of nonrigid material.
CRAFT BREWER: The holder of a class 10 state of Illinois manufacturer's license
which limits the licensed brewer to the manufacture of up to four hundred sixty
five thousand (465,000) gallons (15,000 barrels) of beer per year.
CUSTOMARY ACCESSORY USE: An accessory use, as defined in this section, that is
usually found in conjunction with a particular principal use.
DAY: In counting days, a day shall be a calendar day, unless the Illinois state
statutes specifically provide for an alternate means of counting days, in which
case the statute shall prevail.
DEDICATE: To transfer the ownership of a right of way, parcel of land, or
improvement to the city of Alton or other public entity without compensation.
DEVELOP: To erect any structure or to install any improvements on a tract of
land, or to undertake any activity (such as grading) in preparation therefor.
DEVELOPER: The owner of land proposed to be developed, subdivided, or
redeveloped or the developer's representative who is responsible for any
undertaking that requires review and/or approval under these regulations.
DEVELOPMENT: A project involving the construction, reconstruction,
redevelopment, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or enlargement of
any structure; or any use or extension of land; any of which has the effect of
increasing the requirements for capital improvements, and which requires either
the approval of a plat pursuant to the city's subdivision regulations, the
issuance of a building permit, or connection to the city's wastewater sewer
system.
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: An agreement between the city council and the developer
through which the city council agrees to vest development use or intensity or
refrain from interfering with subsequent phases of development through new
legislation in exchange for the provision of public facilities or amenities by
the developer in excess of those required under current community regulations.
DISABILITY: A person whose disability: a) is attributable to mental,
intellectual or physical impairments; and b) is likely to continue for a
significant amount of time or indefinitely; and c) results in functional
limitations in three (3) or more of the following areas of major life
activities: 1) self-care, 2) receptive or expressive language, 3) learning, 4)
mobility, 5) self-direction, 6) capacity for independent living, 7) economic
self-sufficiency; and reflects the person's need for a combination and sequence
of special interdisciplinary or generic care, treatment or other services which
are of a lifelong or extended duration.
DISTRICT: Any section or area of the city within which the zoning regulations
governing the use, placement of structures, yard and setback requirements, and
size and dimension criteria are uniform throughout the city.
DUPLEX: A residential building divided into two (2) dwelling units.
DWELLING, ATTACHED: A one-family dwelling attached to one or more other one-
family dwellings by common vertical walls.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A residential building containing three (3) or more
dwelling units.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building, detached from other buildings, designed
for or occupied exclusively by one family as a single housekeeping unit. A
single-family dwelling does not include a manufactured home.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms in a residential building or portion of a
building which are arranged, designed, used, or intended for use as a complete,
independent living facility for no more than one family, and which includes
permanent provisions for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation. A
dwelling unit must have direct access to the outside or to a public hallway.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner of the right of use of his land by
another party for a specific purpose.
ERECT: To build, construct, install, attach, hang, place, inscribe, suspend or
affix, and shall include the painting of wall signs.
EXTRACTION/MINING: The extraction of rock, sand, gravel and other raw materials
which includes accessory uses such as the subsurface storage of explosives, the
subsurface use of explosives for blasting, the breaking of rock and minerals,
the storage of rock, sand and minerals, surface openings for ventilation,
storage of fuel oil, the processing and sale of rock, sand and minerals,
commercial storage above and below ground and any other accessory use
customarily encountered in the extraction/mining industry.
FACTORY BUILT HOME: A residential structure including modular, precut, paneled,
kit and log homes. Such structures consist of panels or precut materials which
are shipped and assembled on site. Such structures are certified as being built
according to the "CABO one and two family dwelling code" and shall not be
considered a manufactured home.
FAMILY:
   A.   Any number of individuals related by blood, marriage or legal adoption
living together as a single housekeeping unit including up to six (6) foster
children, or
   B.   Any number of persons related by blood, marriage or legal adoption
living together as a single housekeeping unit including up to six (6) foster
children plus up to two (2) unrelated individuals, or
   C.   Up to three (3) unrelated individuals living together as a single
housekeeping unit.
FARM: A parcel of land of not less than three (3) acres, in one ownership, that
is used primarily for the commercial, soil dependent cultivation of
agricultural crop production and/or for the raising of livestock, but not
including a feedlot.
FENCE: An outdoor freestanding structure of any material or combination of
materials erected for confinement, screening or partition purposes.
FLAG: Any fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns or symbols,
used as a symbol of a government, institution or business.
FLOOD FRINGE: That area as designated by the federal emergency management
agency (FEMA) on either side of the floodway. This area is subject to
inundation from the base flood but conveys little or no flow.
FLOODPLAIN: That land adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood elevation
which is subject to inundation. The floodplain as designated by the federal
emergency management agency is also known as the special flood hazard area
(SFHA). This area is the collective combination of the regulatory floodway and
the flood fringe.
FLOODWAY: The channel and that portion of the floodplain, including on stream
lakes, adjacent to a stream or watercourse which is needed to store and convey
the anticipated existing and future 100-year frequency flood discharge with no
more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to any loss of flood conveyance or
storage and no more than a ten percent (10%) increase in velocities.
FLOOR AREA: The outside dimensions of all enclosed floor area under roof,
excluding garages, open and screened porches, carports, terraces, and patios.
FLOOR AREA RATIO: The gross floor area of all principal buildings on a lot
divided by the area of the lot.
FOOD RESIDUALS: Source separated and uncontaminated material that is derived
from processing or discarding of food and that is recyclable or compostable.
"Food residuals" may include preconsumer and postconsumer food scraps.
FOOTPRINT: The land area covered by a building or structure.
FRONTAGE: All of the property abutting and measured along the street right of
way line.
GASOLINE STATION: Any structure or land used for retail sales and dispensing of
motor vehicle fuels or oils, whether self-service or not, and whether retail
sales of vehicle fuels is a principal or accessory use. A gasoline station may
furnish supplies, equipment and minor repair services, including tires, to
vehicles incidental to selling and dispensing of motor vehicle fuels and oils.
GRADE:
   A.   For a building having walls adjoining one street only, the elevation of
the sidewalk at the center of the wall adjoining the street;
   B.   For buildings having walls adjoining more than one street, the average
of the elevations of the sidewalk at the centers of all walls adjoining the
streets;
   C.   For buildings having no wall adjoining a street, the average level of
the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building;
   D.   Any wall approximately parallel to and not more than fifteen feet (15')
from a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street. Where sidewalks
do not exist the grade shall be as established by the office of the city
engineer.
HEALTH, SAFETY OR GENERAL WELFARE: The purpose for which municipalities may
adopt and enforce land use regulations for the prevention of harm or promotion
of public benefit to the community; commonly referred to as the police power.
HEIGHT, BUILDING: See definition of Building Height.
HOME KITCHEN OPERATION: A person who produces or packages nonpotentially
hazardous baked goods in a kitchen of that person's primary domestic residence
for direct sale by the owner or a family member and meets the requirements of a
"home kitchen operation" as defined by 410 Illinois Compiled Statutes 625.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation or activity carried on within a residential
property where the activity is conducted only by members of the family living
within the residence, where products are not offered for sale from the
premises, where no evidence of the occupation is visible or audible from the
exterior of the residential property, where traffic is not generated in excess
of that customary at residences, and where no commercial vehicles are kept on
the premises or parked overnight on the premises (home occupation regulations
are contained in subsection
11-7-2B of this title).
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: That area of property that is covered by materials other
than soil and vegetation and that has no intended capacity to absorb
stormwater, such as parking lots, driveways, sidewalks, patios, tennis courts,
roofs and other structures.
IMPROVEMENTS: Any street, curb and gutter, sidewalk, drainage ditch, sewer,
catch basin, water main, streetlight, newly planted tree, off street parking
area, or other facility necessary for a subdivision or development.
INTERSECTION: The point at which two (2) or more public rights of way
(generally streets) meet.
JUNK VEHICLE: Any vehicle that has had its engine, wheels or other parts
removed, damaged, altered, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle has been
incapable of being driven under its own motor power for a period of at least
seven (7) days, or a vehicle which is not currently registered or licensed by
the Illinois secretary of state or similar licensing authority of another
state.
LAND AREA, GROSS: For land proposed to be developed, used, redeveloped, or
subdivided, the entire area within the lot lines of the property proposed for
subdivision, including any areas to be dedicated/reserved for street and alley
rights of way and for public uses.
LANDSCAPING: Trees, shrubbery and other plant materials arranged to beautify
and/or screen from view all or part of a premises.
LARGE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A system that uses the power of the sun to capture,
distribute and/or store energy which is intended to generate electric power at
a utility scale and identified by NAICS code 221114.
LARGE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: A wind energy conversion system consisting of a wind
turbine, a tower or mounting, and associated control or conversion electronics,
which is intended to generate utility power at a commercial scale and
identified by NAICS code 221115.
LIFE CARE FACILITY: A place or places in which a provider undertakes to provide
a resident with nursing services, medical services or personal care services,
in addition to maintenance services, for a term in excess of one year or for
life pursuant to a life care contract. The term also means a place or places in
which a provider undertakes to provide such services to a nonresident.
LIVESTOCK: Animals which have historically been bred, reared and utilized for
the production of meat, wool, leather, milk, eggs and similar products,
including, but not limited to, cows, hogs, sheep, goats, catfish and fowl which
are raised on a commercial basis.
LOADING ZONE: An area having minimum dimensions of twelve feet (12') and thirty
five feet (35') with fourteen feet (14') of vertical clearance on the same
premises as a use requiring such zone that provides for the standing, loading
or unloading of trucks and does not use any required off street parking spaces
nor unreasonably block traffic circulation on the site.
LOT: A designated parcel, tract or area of land established by plat,
subdivision, or as otherwise permitted by law, to be used, developed or built
upon as a unit.
LOT AREA: The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the front, side and rear
lines of a lot.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) or more streets with
frontage on two (2) or more adjacent sides.
LOT DEPTH: The mean distance measured from the front lot line to the rear lot
line.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a pair of approximately parallel lot lines
that abut two (2) approximately parallel streets.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot whose side lot lines do not abut upon any street.
LOT LINE: A line of record bounding a lot thereby dividing such lot from
another lot or from a right of way.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is a part of a subdivision, the plat of which has
been recorded with the Madison County recorder of deeds, or a parcel of land,
the deed of which was recorded with the Madison County recorder of deeds prior
to the adoption of this zoning ordinance.
LOT WIDTH: For lots with parallel or roughly parallel side lot lines, the
shortest distance between the side lot lines. For lots where the side lot lines
are not parallel, the width of the lot shall be the length of a straight line
measured at right angles to the axis of the lot at the front setback required
for the district in which the lot is located. The axis of a lot shall be a line
joining the midpoints of the front and rear lot lines.
MANUFACTURED HOME:
   A.   A structure transportable in one or more sections, which in the
traveling mode is eight feet (8') wide or more and forty feet (40') long or
more, and when erected, is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used
as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities; and
   B.   A building assembly or system of building subassemblies, designed for
habitation as a dwelling for one or more persons, including the necessary
electrical, plumbing, heating, ventilating and other service systems, which is
of closed or open construction and which is made or assembled by a
manufacturer, on or off the building site, for installation, or assembly and
installation, on the building site, with a permanent foundation.
Such dwelling units shall be subject to the safety codes for manufactured
housing and mobile homes promulgated by the Illinois department of public
health as authorized by the Illinois manufactured housing and mobile home
safety act.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: A tract of land or two (2) or more contiguous tracts of
land upon which contain sites with the necessary utilities for five (5) or more
independent manufactured homes for permanent habitation either free of charge
or for revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, vehicle, or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such
manufactured home park. Separate ownership of contiguous tracts of land shall
not preclude the tracts of land from common licensure as a manufactured home
park if they are maintained and operated jointly. A motorized recreational
vehicle shall not be construed as being a part of a manufactured home park.
MICROBREWERY: A business defined by NAICS code 312120 which produces up to four
hundred sixty five thousand (465,000) gallons (15,000 barrels) of beer per year
and which is operated by a craft brewer.
MODEL HOME: A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which typifies
the type of units that will be constructed in the subdivision and which will
not be permanently occupied during its use as a model.
MOTOR VEHICLE: A self-propelled means of transportation not operated
exclusively upon tracks, except farm tractors and motorized bicycles.
NET METERING: An arrangement by which excess energy generated by a renewable
energy system is distributed back to the electrical utility grid.
NONCONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: A building or structure whose size,
dimensions or location was lawful prior to the adoption, revision or amendment
of this zoning ordinance but which would be prohibited or further restricted
under the terms of this zoning ordinance.
NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot whose area, dimensions or location was lawful prior to
the adoption, revision or amendment of this zoning ordinance, but which would
be prohibited or further restricted under the terms of this zoning ordinance.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use or activity which was lawful prior to the adoption,
revision or amendment of this zoning ordinance, but which would be prohibited
or further restricted under the terms of this zoning ordinance.
NONCONFORMITY, SITE RELATED: A characteristic of the site, such as off street
parking or loading, landscaping, drainage or similar matters which are
incidental to the principal use of the property but which do not satisfy
current city standards, as established in this zoning ordinance.
NURSING HOME: A place, whether operated for profit or not, or a county home for
the infirm and chronically ill which provides, through its ownership or
management, personal care, sheltered care or nursing for three (3) or more
persons, not related to the applicant or owner by blood or marriage. It
includes skilled nursing facilities and intermediate care facilities as those
terms are defined in titles XVIII and XIX of the federal social security act.
OUTDOOR RESTAURANT: An eating or drinking establishment which has an unroofed
area or a covered area which is not enclosed by walls where patrons may be
served food and/or beverages.
OUTDOOR STORAGE: The keeping, in an unroofed area, of any goods, material, or
merchandise in the same place for more than twenty four (24) hours unless such
goods, material, or merchandise have been authorized through the issuance of a
permit for a temporary outdoor display or temporary seasonal display. The
parking of motor vehicles, in operating condition, which are used in the
operation of a commercial establishment shall not be considered outside
storage.
PARAPET OR PARAPET WALL: A low, protective wall at the edge of a balcony or
roof, especially that part of an exterior wall, firewall or party wall that
rises above the roof.
PARKING PAD: For single-family residential uses, that portion of a driveway
located behind the front line of a house and used for vehicle access and/or
parking. For other uses, that portion of a driveway or parking lot used for the
temporary storage of vehicles.
PERMITTED USE: A use allowed by right in a zoning district and subject to the
restrictions applicable to that zoning district.
PLAN COMMISSION: The plan commission of the city of Alton, Illinois.
PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE: A tract of land which is developed as a unit
under single ownership or unified control, which includes two (2) or more
principal buildings or uses and follows applicable procedures of this zoning
ordinance.
POLICE POWER: Inherent, delegated, or authorized legislative power for purposes
of regulation to secure health, safety, and general welfare.
POULTRY COMPOST FORAGING OPERATION: A poultry farm managing between one hundred
(100) and two thousand (2,000) poultry that composts not more than two thousand
(2,000) cubic yards per year of food residuals. For the purpose of this
definition, poultry shall include chickens only.
PREMISES: Any land together with any structures occupying it.
PRINCIPAL USE: The primary use of a lot or premises occupying the major portion
of all buildings and structures.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle which can be towed, hauled or driven and is
primarily designed as temporary living accommodations for recreational, camping
and travel use, or for other recreational transportation, including, but not
limited to, travel trailers, truck campers, camping trailers, self-propelled
motor homes, boats and snowmobiles.
RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM: A system that generates energy from natural resources
such as sunlight, wind, and geothermal heat. As used herein, "renewable energy
system" refers to small wind energy systems and solar energy systems only.
RETAINING WALL: A wall of treated lumber, masonry, railroad ties, concrete or
similar material for holding in place a mass of earth.
RIGHT OF WAY: Land acquired by reservation, dedication, prescription or
condemnation and intended to be occupied by a road, railroad, electric
transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water line, wastewater sewer line,
storm sewer line, or other similar use.
SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA: A device or structure used to transmit and/or receive
radio, television or electromagnetic waves or signals between terrestrially
and/or orbitally based uses through a reflective surface that is solid, open
mesh or bar configured and generally in the shape of a shallow dish, cone,
horn, or cornucopia. This definition includes, but is not limited to, satellite
earth stations, television reception only (TVROs), and satellite microwave
antennas.
SCREENING: A method of visually shielding or obscuring one abutting or nearby
structure or use from another by fencing, walls, berms or densely planted
vegetation.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the front, side or rear lines
of the lot and the front, side or rear lines of the building including porches,
carports, and accessory uses subject to yard encroachment provisions of this
zoning ordinance. For lots fronting on curvilinear streets, the front setback
shall be measured from a line perpendicular to the chord line to the nearest
point of a structure.
SETBACK, REQUIRED: The minimum horizontal distance between the lot line and the
buildable area of a lot necessary to meet the yard requirements of the
applicable zoning district. The required setback line shall be parallel to the
lot line.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT: An accommodation for one group of transient guests
where a residential dwelling is rented for licensed lodging for a period of
time no less than 24 hours and not to exceed 30 days. For the purpose of this
definition, a residential dwelling shall include all housing types. This
definition does not apply to a lease-back provision as part of a sale in a real
estate transaction.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT, OWNER: The person or entity that holds legal and
equitable title to a Short-Term Rental property.
SHORT-TERM RENTAL UNIT, TYPE A: An owner-occupied Short-Term Rental Unit in
which the owner of the dwelling shall maintain the Short-Term Rental as their
permanent residence and shall reside on the premises at the time that Short-
Term Rental guests are present.
SHORT TERM RENTAL UNIT, TYPE B: A non-owner occupied Short-Term Rental Unit in
which the owner of the dwelling is not present on site during the Short-Term
Rental.
SIGN: Any device, fixture, placard or structure that uses any color, form,
graphic illumination, symbol or writing to advertise, announce the purpose of,
or identify the purpose of a person or entity, or to communicate information of
any kind to the public, but not including a church steeple.
   Alter: A physical change or an addition. The term "alter" includes
renovation, modification, rehabilitation or restoration, but does not include
changing the copy on an institutional bulletin board sign, or other legal
changeable copy sign.
   Animated Sign: Any sign or part of a sign which changes physical position by
any movement or rotation or which gives the visual impression of such movement
or rotation.
   Area Of Sign: See definition of Sign: Gross Sign Area.
   Banner: Any sign of lightweight fabric or other nonrigid material that is
mounted to a pole, building or other structure by a frame at one or more edges.
Flags shall not be considered banners.
   Billboard: A sign that identifies or communicates a commercial or
noncommercial message related to an activity conducted, a service rendered, or
a commodity sold at a location other than where the sign is located.
   Bulletin Board Sign: A wall sign or freestanding sign located on the
premises of a place of worship or school, on government owned property, or a
city owned sign placed on other property, which contains changeable copy
information such as the names of individuals connected with the institution,
general announcements of events or activities occurring at the institution or
within the city, or similar messages.
   Canopy Sign: Any sign that is a part of or attached to a canopy or other
fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance, window,
or outdoor service area.
   Changeable Copy: Message information on a sign face which is altered
manually through the use of attachable letters, numbers and symbols.
   Commercial Message: Any sign wording, logo or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business,
product, service or other commercial activity.
   Construction Sign: A temporary sign erected on the premises on which
construction is taking place, during the period of such construction, which may
indicate the names of the owners and/or contractors having a role or interest
with respect to the structure or project.
   Copy: Message information on a sign face.
   Covered Walkway Sign: A sign hung from the ceiling of a covered walkway in
front of a retail store.
   Election Sign: A temporary sign supporting a candidate and/or issue on the
ballot in an impending election.
   Erect: To build, construct, install, attach, hang, place, inscribe, suspend
or affix, and shall include the painting of wall signs.
   Flag: Any fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns or
symbols, used as a symbol of a government, institution or business.
   Freestanding Sign: Any sign supported by structures or supports that are
placed on, or anchored in, the ground and that are independent from any
building or other structure including low monument signs and pole signs.
   Gross Sign Area: The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
composed of parallelograms, triangles, circles, ellipses or combinations
thereof, enclosing the extreme limits of the sign, but not including structural
supports which are not an integral part of the sign; except that in the case of
an individual letter sign erected on a wall only two-thirds (2/3) of the entire
area of the enclosing parallelograms, triangles, circles, ellipses or
combinations thereof, shall be counted as the gross area of the sign. Where a
sign has two (2) or more faces, the gross area of all such faces shall be
included in determining the total gross area of the sign.
   Incidental Sign: A sign which is generally informational and has a purpose
secondary to the use of the premises on which it is located, such as "credit
cards accepted here", "loading only", "telephone", or similar information. No
sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the premises shall
be considered incidental.
   Light Pole Artwork Banner: A banner with a design applied through
silkscreening or similar application method, attached to a light pole, utility
pole or similar object.
   Low Monument Sign: A freestanding sign located adjacent to a road right of
way with a single pedestal base where the pedestal base is at least fifty
percent (50%) of the width of the sign face.
   Moving Sign: An "animated sign", as herein defined.
   Nonconforming Sign: Any sign that was lawfully erected but no longer
conforms to the requirements of this zoning ordinance.
   Off Premises Sign: Any sign, except a "billboard" as defined herein, which
advertises or identifies a property, business or address other than the
property, business or address where the sign is displayed.
   Off Site Sign: See definition of Sign: Off Premises Sign.
   On Premises Permanent Sign: A sign pertaining primarily to the use of the
premises on which the sign is located and which may contain, but is not limited
to, any of the following information: the name of the owner, occupant,
management, business or building; the address; the type of business,
profession, service or activity; and the type or types of products offered.
   Pole Sign: A freestanding sign elevated above ground level by one or more
narrow structures or supports that are anchored in the ground and that is
independent from any building or other structure, but not including a
billboard.
   Portable Sign: Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, which is designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels, signs
converted to A- or T-frames, menu and sandwich board signs, and any inflatable
sign other than a special event balloon.
   Primary Highway: A major road on the state highway system designated a
primary highway by the Illinois department of transportation and that portion
of Alby Street beginning at the south line of Big Arch Road and extending north
to the limits of the city of Alton.
   Projecting Sign: Any sign attached to, and extending more than fourteen
inches (14") from a wall which is supported by such wall.
   Real Estate Sign: Any sign pertaining to the sale, lease or rental of real
estate.
   Residential Sign: A sign on a residentially zoned lot that contains a
political, religious or other noncommercial message.
   Roof Sign: Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a
building, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above the
highest portion of the roof.
   Sandwich Sign: A "portable sign", as herein defined, with two (2) sign faces
designed as a movable A-frame with a hinge at the top joining the two (2) sign
faces, intended to be set up in front of an activity on a temporary basis.
   Sign Area: See definition of Sign: Gross Sign Area.
   Sign Face: The area or display surface used for the message.
   Sign Frontage: The lineal distance along the street in front of the
premises; or absent frontage on a street, the length along the front of the
ground floor of a building occupied by a separate and distinct use and the
length along the side of the ground floor of a building occupied by a separate
and distinct use when the side of such building faces a street; or the width of
a tenant space measured along the ground floor of a building occupied by a
separate and distinct use which does not face a street but faces a parking lot.
   Sign Height: For all signs except billboards, the vertical distance measured
from the elevation of the centerline of the adjacent right of way at the point
closest to the sign to the highest point of the sign.
   Sign Permit: A document certifying that the plans for the proposed sign
comply with all applicable city ordinances and requirements.
   Snipe Sign: A temporary sign or poster affixed to a utility pole, tree,
fence or similar object not designed to support a sign.
   Special Event Balloon: A temporary sign which is inflated by air or gas and
which promotes an extraordinary happening.
   Special Event Sign: A temporary sign announcing or promoting an event
sponsored by a governmental or nonprofit organization. Such event could include
a Fourth Of July celebration, or other seasonal or annual event.
   Subdivision Direction Sign: A temporary sign intended to direct the general
public to a subdivision under development and limited to the name of the
subdivision, a directional arrow and written directions.
   Subdivision Information Sign: A temporary sign intended to inform the
general public about a subdivision under development.
   Temporary Advertising Sign: A temporary sign or signs displayed so as to
attract attention to the sale of merchandise or services, or a change in policy
or in the status of a business.
   Temporary Sign: A sign which is not illuminated and is not permanently
installed or affixed to any sign, structure, building or lot.
   Unkempt Or Unsightly Sign: A sign that, in the opinion of the zoning
administrator or the zoning administrator's designee, is clearly in disrepair,
is missing part of its copy, has letters or other copy that are broken, missing
or so faded that they are difficult to read from the street, is not securely
affixed to either the ground or some other supporting structure, contains an
illegible message, contains rust or peeling or flaking paint, or has damage to
its face which is clearly visible from the street.
   Wall Sign: Any sign attached parallel to, and within fourteen inches (14")
of, a wall, painted on the wall surface, or erected and confined within the
limits of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by
such wall or building, and which displays only one sign face. A wall sign may
extend above the eaves of a roof provided that it does not extend above the
highest point of the roof.
   Window Sign: Any sign, pictures, symbol or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale or
service, that is placed immediately inside a window or upon the windowpanes or
glass and is visible from the exterior of the window.
SITE COVERAGE: The percentage of a lot or parcel that is covered by buildings,
parking lots, driveways and other impervious surfaces.
SMALL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A system that uses the power of the sun to capture,
distribute and/or store energy for on site consumption of utility power.
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM: A wind energy conversion system consisting of a wind
turbine, a tower or mounting, and associated control or conversion electronics,
which is intended primarily to reduce on site consumption of utility power.
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING MOUNTED: A small wind energy system mounted
on a principal structure.
SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM, FREESTANDING: A small wind energy system that is not
attached to another structure and is ground mounted, or which is attached to an
antenna, light pole, or other utility facility.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING MOUNTED: A solar energy system mounted on either
the principal or accessory structure.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, FREESTANDING: A solar energy system that is not attached
to another structure and is ground mounted.
SPECIAL USE: A use that would not be appropriate generally throughout a zoning
district because of potential danger, smoke, noise, odor or other undesirable
effect, but which, if controlled as to number, area, location, or relation to
the neighborhood, would not be detrimental to public health, safety, morals or
general welfare.
STORY: That portion of a building, other than a cellar, included between the
surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if there be
no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling next above
it.
STREET: A public or private way for motor vehicle travel. The term "street"
includes a highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, pike, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court, and similar designations, but excludes an
alley or a way for pedestrian use only.
STREET TREE, APPROVED: A deciduous hardwood tree with a minimum caliper of two
and one-half inches (21/2") and with a clear trunk of at least six feet (6')
which is suitable for urban environments, is tolerant of disease and salt, and
is included within one of the following species:
   Hedge maple (Acer campestre)
   Ironwood (Ostrya virginiana)
   Little leaf linden (Tilia cordata)
   Pin oak (Quercus palustris)
   Red maple (Acer rubrum)
   Red oak (Quercus rubra)
   Seedless green ash (Fraxinus pennsylvanica "Marshall seedless")
   Silver linden (Tilia tomentosa)
   Sugar maple (Acer saccharum)
   Thornless honey locust (Gleditsia triacanthos "inermis")
   White ash (Fraxinus americana)
   Willow oak (Quercus phellos)
STRUCTURAL CHANGE OR ALTERATION: Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial
change in the roof or the exterior walls.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed, erected or located on or above the ground, or
anything specifically enumerated herein, the use of which requires permanent
location of which, though movable, is used for a purpose which usually and
customarily involves permanent location on or above the ground including, but
without limiting the generality of the foregoing, advertising signs,
billboards, fences, parking spaces, driveways, sidewalks, tennis courts,
pergolas, swimming pools, playground equipment, tree houses and structures for
the housing of animals or fowl. Regulation mailboxes shall not be considered
"structures" as herein defined.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY: An unstaffed facility consisting of an equipment
building, shelter or cabinet, accessory equipment and an existing or new
structure to support communication antennas.
   Antenna, Communication: Any device that transmits and/or receives radio
waves for voice, data or video communications purposes including, but not
limited to, VHF and UHF television, FM or AM radio, two-way radio, paging,
enhanced specialized mobile radio (ESMR), cellular telephone, personal
communications services (PCS) or other wireless telephony, fixed point
microwave, low power television, or other similar wireless communications and
common carriers. This definition does not include small satellite dish antenna
that only receive a signal, any other receive only antenna including a
satellite earth station, any receive only home television antenna, or any
accessory antenna as herein defined which does not exceed fifty feet (50') in
height.
   Co-Use: The location of two (2) or more communication antennas and/or other
telecommunication devices at a single, preexisting telecommunications facility.
   Disguised Support Structure: Any freestanding manmade structure designed
solely or primarily for the support of communication antennas, the presence of
which is camouflaged or concealed as an architectural or natural feature within
the context of its immediate surroundings. Such structures may include, but are
not limited to, clock towers, campaniles, observation towers, pylon signs,
water towers, light standards, flagpoles and artificial trees.
   Freestanding: A telecommunications facility that consists of a stand alone
support structure (typically a guyed tower, self- support tower or a monopole),
antennas and associated equipment storage shelter.
   Stealth: A telecommunications facility that incorporates antennas and other
telecommunication devices upon existing buildings and/or structures, does not
extend more than twenty feet (20') above the maximum existing structure height,
and are appropriately painted and screened so as to harmonize with the existing
building and/or structure.
TOTAL SYSTEM HEIGHT: The total height of the tower and the wind turbine
measured from the average grade at the base of the system to the top of the
blade or rotor.
TRACT: A lot.
USED CAR SALES: A lot or premises where two (2) or more used vehicles are
offered for sale concurrently or where three (3) or more used vehicles are
offered for sale over a period of one year.
VARIANCE: A relaxation by the board of appeals of the dimensional regulations
of this zoning ordinance where such action will not be contrary to the public
interest and where, owing to conditions extraordinary to the property and not
the result of actions or the situation of the applicant, a literal enforcement
of the code would result in practical difficulties or undue hardship.
WALL: When referring to fences and walls, a wall is a "fence", as defined in
this section, that is typically constructed of masonry, stone, or similar
material and situated in a yard, but not including a retaining wall or wing
wall.
WING WALL: An extension of an exterior wall of a house constructed of the same
material of such exterior wall which is primarily decorative in nature but
which may also serve as a barrier.
YARD: An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot line
unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground
upward, except as otherwise provided in section
11-3-4 of this title.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending across the full width of a lot between any
building and the front lot line, and measured perpendicular to the building at
the closest point to the front lot line. On corner lots the front yard shall be
considered as parallel to the street upon which the lot has its least
dimension.
YARD, REAR: A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
principal building and the rear lot line, and measured perpendicular to the
building to the closest point of the rear lot line.
YARD, REQUIRED: The minimum setback distance for each yard established by the
minimum yard dimensions in the zoning district requirements.
YARD, SIDE: A yard extending from the front yard to the rear lot line between
the principal building and the side lot line measured perpendicular from the
side lot line to the closest point of the principal building, or a yard which
is not a front or rear yard.
YARD, STREET SIDE: On corner lots, the yard extending across the full depth of
a lot between any building and the street, and measured perpendicular to the
building at the closest point to the street lot line. The street lot line shall
be the property line along the street which the lot has its maximum dimension.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The zoning administrator, or his/her duly authorized
representative, appointed by the mayor, who shall administer certain provisions
of this zoning ordinance.
ZONING DISTRICT MAP: A graphic depiction showing the districts deemed by the
city council to be best suited to carry out the purposes of this zoning
ordinance; and within such districts are regulations for the erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration or use of buildings, structures, or
land. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7358, 7-24-2013; Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013;
Ord. 7379, 11-26-2013; Ord. 7538, 9-28-2016; Ord. 7755, 4-23-2020; Ord. 7879,
4-12-2023; Ord. 7894, 7-26-2023; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023; Ord. 7926, 1- -2024)
11-2-3: YARD LOCATIONS AND YARD SETBACK LINES ON A TYPICAL LOT:
As a supplement to the definitions contained in this chapter and to facilitate
a better understanding thereof, and of yards, required yards and yard setback
lines in general, a diagram entitled "diagram showing yard locations and yard
setback lines of a typical lot" is hereby annexed to this zoning ordinance and
made a part hereof with the same force and effect as though fully set forth
herein. Should there be any conflict between the text of this zoning ordinance
and the information displayed in the diagram, the text of this zoning ordinance
shall prevail. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Administering And Interpreting
11-3-2: Height Exceptions And Limitations
11-3-3: Rules For Determining Yards
11-3-4: Yard Encroachments
11-3-5: Parking Of Commercial Vehicles In Residential Areas
11-3-6: Parking Or Storage Of Vehicles
11-3-7: Accessory Uses And Structures
11-3-8: Fences, Walls And Hedges
11-3-9: Nonconformities
11-3-10: Corner Visibility
11-3-11: Swimming Pools
11-3-12: Garage Sales
11-3-1: ADMINISTERING AND INTERPRETING:
This chapter provides supplementary regulations to be used in administering and
interpreting the intent of this zoning ordinance. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-3-2: HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS AND LIMITATIONS:
   A.   Height Exceptions: The building height limitations stipulated in the
applicable zoning districts shall not apply to the following, provided that no
such structure would be an obstruction to air navigation as established in
federal aviation regulations:
      Accessory antennas may be erected to a height not exceeding fifty feet
(50') above ground level;
      Air conditioning units;
      Chimneys;
      Church steeples;
      Communication towers;
      Cupolas;
      Elevator towers;
      Grain elevators;
      Obelisks and similar monuments;
      Parapet walls;
      Schools, public buildings and places of worship may be erected to a
height not exceeding eighty five feet (85') in any district provided that front
and rear yards are increased in width by one foot (1') for each foot of height
that the building exceeds the height limit of the district in which it is
located;
      Silos;
      Smokestacks;
      Utility transmission towers;
      Windmills; and
      Similar structures and mechanical appurtenances.
   B.   Height Limitations: In addition to the height limitations specified in
each zoning district, no structure shall be erected to a height that would
encroach into or through any established public or private airport approach
plan, prepared in accordance with the criteria established by the federal
aviation administration. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-3-3: RULES FOR DETERMINING YARDS:
   A.   An interior lot with four (4) sides shall have a front yard along the
street line, a rear yard opposite the front yard and side yards located between
the front and rear yards.
   B.   On corner lots, the front yard shall be considered as parallel to the
street upon which the lot has its least dimension.
   C.   On corner lots, the street side yard shall be considered as parallel to
the street upon which the lot has its maximum dimension.
   D.   On double frontage lots, a front yard shall be provided along the
street providing access to the lot and the opposite yard shall be the rear
yard.
   E.   Interior lots with five (5) or more sides shall have one front yard and
all yards opposite the front yard shall be considered rear yards.
   F.   As a supplement to the rules contained in this section and to
facilitate a better understanding thereof, and of yards in general, a diagram,
contained in figure 2, entitled "rules for determining yards" is attached to
ordinance 6734 and made a part hereof with the same force and effect as though
fully set forth herein. Should there be any conflict between the text of this
title and the information displayed in the diagram, the text of this title
shall prevail. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-3-4: YARD ENCROACHMENTS:
Every part of a required yard shall be open and unobstructed from the ground to
the sky, except as herein provided or as otherwise permitted in this zoning
ordinance.
   A.   All Required Yards: The following may encroach into any required yard:
      1.   Fences And Walls: Fences and walls are allowed within required
yards, subject to the provisions of section
11-3-8 of this chapter.
      2.   Fire Escapes, Outside Stairways, Balconies, Chimneys, Etc.: Open or
enclosed fire escapes, outside stairways, balconies and chimneys and flues may
project up to four feet (4') into any required yard, provided such projections
shall not unduly obstruct light and ventilation.
      3.   Parking Areas And Driveways: Off street parking areas and driveways
may encroach into the required front yard, the required street side yard, and
required side yards. Parking pads may be located in required side and rear
yards provided such pads are set back at least one foot (1') from every side
and rear property line.
      4.   Satellite Dish Antennas: Satellite dish antennas that are one meter
(1 m) or less in diameter may encroach into any required yard.
      5.   Sills And Belt Courses: Sills, belt courses, cornices and similar
ornamental features may extend up to twelve inches (12") into any required
yard.
      6.   Structural Overhangs: Awnings, eaves, gutters or other similar
structural overhangs at least seven feet (7') above grade, may extend up to two
feet (2') into any required yard.
      7.   Trellises, Lights And Mailboxes: Trellises and trelliswork, wires,
lights, mailboxes, ornamental entry columns and gates are allowed within
required yards.
   B.   Required Front Yards: The following may encroach into any required
front yard:
      1.   Balconies, Unenclosed Porches And Vestibules: An enclosed balcony or
unenclosed porch may project into the required front yard for a distance not to
exceed ten feet (10'). An enclosed vestibule containing not more than forty
(40) square feet of floor area may project into a required front yard for a
distance not to exceed four feet (4').
      2.   Gasoline Pumps And Islands: Gasoline pumps and pump islands,
associated with either a service station or as an accessory facility, may be
located within any required front yard, provided they are located no closer
than fifteen feet (15') to any public right of way line.
      3.   Satellite Dish Antennas: In industrial (M) districts, satellite dish
antennas larger than one meter (1 m) in diameter may be allowed to encroach
into required front yards.
   C.   Required Street Side Yards: The following may encroach into any
required street side yard:
      1.   Balconies, Unenclosed Porches And Vestibules: An enclosed balcony or
unenclosed porch may project into the required street side yard for a distance
not to exceed five feet (5'). An enclosed vestibule containing not more than
forty (40) square feet of floor area may project into a required front yard for
a distance not to exceed four feet (4').
      2.   Gasoline Pumps And Islands: Gasoline pumps and pump islands,
associated with either a service station or as an accessory facility, may be
located within any required street side yard, provided they are located no
closer than fifteen feet (15') to any public right of way line.
      3.   Satellite Dish Antennas: In industrial (M) districts, satellite dish
antennas larger than one meter (1 m) in diameter may be allowed to encroach
into required street side yards.
   D.   Required Side And Rear Yards: The following may encroach into any
required side or required rear yard:
      1.   Accessory Antennas: Accessory antennas, not exceeding forty feet
(40') in height are allowed within required side and rear yards.
      2.   Accessory Buildings: Accessory buildings in residential (R)
districts may be located within a required side or rear yard, provided a
minimum of two feet (2') is maintained from the side and rear property lines,
roof overhangs are set back at least six inches (6") from all property lines, a
minimum of five feet (5') is maintained from any alley line, and the building
is outside of any easements.
      3.   Air Conditioners And Similar Mechanical Equipment: Air conditioning
equipment, sprinkler system controls and similar mechanical (including
utility's pad mounted equipment) may project into any required side or rear
yard provided that the equipment is mounted in a manner contiguous to the
building.
      4.   Play Equipment, Clotheslines, Etc.: Play equipment, clotheslines,
outdoor furniture and outdoor equipment may encroach into a required side or
rear yard.
      5.   Satellite Dish Antennas: Satellite dish antennas that are larger
than one meter (1 m) in diameter may encroach into required side and rear
yards.
      6.   Swimming Pools And Related Structures: Swimming pools may be located
in a required side or rear yard provided they are no closer than ten feet (10')
to any property line, or five feet (5') to any easement, whichever distance is
greater. Decks or patios constructed in conjunction with any swimming pool may
be located within a required rear yard provided that they are not located
within an easement or closer than five feet (5') to the rear property line.
      7.   Unenclosed Porches, Steps And Paved Terraces: An unroofed porch,
steps or paved terrace area may project into a required side or rear yard
provided that it be at least two feet (2') from any adjacent side or rear lot
line. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-3-5: PARKING OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS:
No commercial vehicle which is used for hauling explosives, gasoline, liquified
petroleum products, or any other hazardous material shall be permitted to be
parked in a residential area except for short periods of time (less than 1
hour). No commercial vehicles shall be parked on any residentially used lot, in
the street abutting such lot, or on residentially zoned land, except:
   A.   Commercial vehicles not exceeding one ton rated capacity used by the
resident of the premises, limited to one per premises and parked off street in
a garage, carport or driveway.
   B.   Commercial vehicles temporarily parked on a lot for the purpose of
providing construction, transportation, or other services specifically for the
location where such vehicles are parked. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-3-6: PARKING OR STORAGE OF VEHICLES:
No junk vehicle shall be parked, and no motor vehicle frame, vehicle body, or
vehicle body part shall be stored, on residentially zoned property except when
parked or stored in a completely enclosed garage or building.
A maximum of three (3) vehicles may be parked in an unenclosed area on a
single-family zoned lot with a home. Except, however, that if there are more
than three (3) licensed drivers permanently residing on the premises, there may
be one vehicle for each licensed driver. This section does not preclude the
parking of automobiles by persons visiting a single-family home. No automobile
may be parked or stored in any required yard area. No vehicles may be parked on
a residentially zoned lot that does not have a dwelling. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-3-7: ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Authorization: Accessory uses are permitted in all zoning districts as
provided herein.
   B.   Use Limitations:
      1.   No accessory structure shall be built prior to the construction of
the principal structure.
      2.   No accessory structure shall be occupied or utilized unless the
principal structure to which it is accessory is occupied or utilized.
      3.   All accessory uses and structures shall comply with the use
limitations applicable in the zoning district in which located.
      4.   No accessory structure shall be used as a dwelling.
      5.   All accessory uses and structures shall comply with the height
regulations of the appropriate zoning district, except as provided in section
11-3-2 of this chapter.
   C.   Location:
      1.   If an accessory type building shares a structural wall with a
principal building, it shall be deemed to be a part of the principal building
and shall comply in all respects with the requirements of this zoning ordinance
applicable to a principal building.
      2.   If an accessory building is detached from the principal building, it
shall be located at least ten feet (10') from the principal building, unless
such accessory building has fire rated walls in which case the minimum
separation from the principal building shall be five feet (5').
      3.   No accessory use or structure shall be located in any required
corner visibility triangle as established in section
11-3-10 of this chapter.
      4.   No accessory structure, except those exempted by section
11-3-4 of this chapter, shall be located within a front yard or street side
yard. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-3-8: FENCES, WALLS AND HEDGES:
   A.   Building Permit Required: No person shall erect or construct any fence,
or any section or portion thereof, without a permit from the department of
building, housing, planning and zoning.
   B.   General Provisions:
      1.   Prohibited materials and construction:
         a.   Fences shall not be constructed or erected in whole or in part
with paper, cloth, canvas, bamboo, chicken coop wire, or other like material.
         b.   Fences shall be constructed in such a configuration that all
framing members and support posts face towards the interior of the property of
the person who erects, constructs, or causes the fence to be constructed.
      2.   Barbed wire:
         a.   Fences on any residentially zoned or residentially occupied lot
shall not be constructed in whole or part with barbed wire or any similar
material.
         b.   Fences in nonresidential zoned areas may have barbed wire six
feet above grade, except barbed wire or any similar material shall not be on
any fence adjacent to the right-of-way or easement line of any public street,
alley, sidewalk, or park.
      3.   Electric fences:
         a.   No fence shall have an electric current rnmling through it.
         b.   No wire, except electric, phone, cable television, or other
utility, shall have an electric current passing though it except as permitted
below.
         (1)   The wire is installed in strict accordance with the National
Electric Code, as adopted by the city.
         (2)   The wire is located inside an area enclosed and secure from the
public.
         (3)   The wire is set back a minimum of eighteen inches (18") from the
enclosure required in subsection (2) above.
         (4)   The wire is set back a minimum of eighteen inches (18") for any
property line. Underground wire installed within the provisions of the City
Building Code and National Electric Code shall be exempt from this regulation.
         c.   Underground wire installed within the provisions of the City
Building Code and National Electric Code shall be exempt form the regulations.
      4.   Wire fences: No fence shall be constructed solely of a single wire
or of two (2) wires between posts or supports.
   C.   Height Requirements:
      1.   Fence height shall be measured from the topmost point of the fencing
material vertically to the ground adjacent to the fence.
      2.   Fences shall not exceed six feet (6') in height, except as provided
otherwise within this article. Posts may be up to six inches (6") taller than
the fencing material.
      3.   Fences located in front of the front building line of any
residentially zoned or residentially occupied lot shall not exceed forty-eight
inches (48") in height, except as provided otherwise within this article. On
comer, through, or on any other multiple-frontage lots, this height restriction
shall apply only to the frontage upon which the house is addressed.
      4.   Fences enclosing an institution: a public park: a public playground:
an elementary, middle, or high school site; or a commercial or industrial
occupancy shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height.
   D.   Openness Requirements:
      1.   Fences located in the front of the front building line of any
residentially zoned or residentially occupied lot shall be at least fifty
percent (50%) open except as provided otherwise in this article. On comer,
through, or any other multiple-frontage lots, this openness restriction shall
apply only to the street frontage upon which the house is addressed.
      2.   Fences constructed of stone or brick which do not exceed thirty-six
inches (36") in height are exempt from the openness requirements.
      3.   Fences enclosing an institution: a public park: a public playground:
an elementary, middle, or high school site: or a commercial or industrial
occupancy or use are exempt from the openness requirements.
   E.   Fence Location:
      1.   Fences shall not be located within public right-of-way.
      2.   Fences shall not be located within twelve feet (12') of the curbline
of a public street.
      3.   Fences shall not be located within twenty feet (20') of the point of
intersection of the curb or edge of two (2) intersecting streets.
      4.   Fences shall not be located within one foot (1') of a public right-
of-way, a public walkway, or a public sidewalk.
      5.   Fences may be located on property lines if not otherwise prohibited
by the above subsections or any other provision in this Code.
   F.   General Exemptions:
      1.   Public safety fences. Fences enclosing utility substations; utility
installations: bridges: bridge walkways: bridge abutments: retaining walls
along roadways: culvert openings: open drainage areas: fences installed by the
city, state, county, or public utility; and temporary construction fences are
exempt from this article.
      2.   Fences approved by special procedure. Fences specified and approved
by the Plan Commission, and/or City Council as part of a site plan review,
special use permit or other procedure are exempt from this article.
   G.   Maintenance:
      1.   Fences shall be in good repair and structurally sound.
      2.   Fences shall not have any loose fencing, panels, or other material
which moves or vibrates under normal wind conditions.
   H.   Nonconforming Fences:
      1.   Fences legally installed prior to adoption of this article and not
in conformity to this article may remain. However, such legal, nonconforming
fences shall be in good repair and shall not be structurally unsound and shall
not deteriorate to an unsightly condition.
      2.   Nonconforming fences which require fifty percent (50%) or more
replacement or repair in a one (1) year period shall become in conformity with
this article. Any replacement of fifty percent (50%) or more of any fence shall
require the fence to become in conformity with this article. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-
2003; amd. Ord. 6814, 6-9-2004; Ord. 7937, 4-10-2024)
11-3-9: NONCONFORMITIES:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: It is the purpose and intent of this section to
permit the continuation of those lots, structures, uses, characteristics of
uses, or combinations thereof which were lawful before the passage of this
zoning ordinance, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under
the terms of this zoning ordinance or future amendments. It is the further
purpose and intent of this section to allow nonconforming lots, structures,
uses, characteristics of uses, and combinations thereof to continue subject to
specific conditions or limitations.
   B.   Applicability: This section shall apply to all nonconformities except
that legal nonconforming duplexes located in the R-2 district which were
originally designed and constructed as duplexes, and legal nonconforming
multiple-family buildings in the R-3 district which were originally designed
and constructed as multiple-family buildings shall not be subject to subsection
G of this section.
   C.   Continuation Of Nonconformities: Nonconformities may be continued so
long as they remain otherwise lawful, subject to the remaining provisions of
this section.
   D.   Expansion Or Change Of Nonconformities:
      1.   No nonconformity shall be enlarged or changed to a different
nonconformity, except upon a determination by the zoning administrator that the
change results in a lessening of the degree of nonconformity.
      2.   Additions to nonconforming structures containing conforming uses
shall be permitted if the additions comply with setback and other applicable
site related regulations.
      3.   Additions to structures on a nonconforming lot may be permitted
provided that such addition is in conformance with all applicable laws and
ordinances of the city and does not create a nonconforming use or structure or
increase the existing site related nonconformity.
   E.   Repair Or Alteration Of Nonconformities: Repairs, maintenance and
improvements of nonconformities may be carried out, provided that such work
does not increase the cubic content of the building or the floor or ground area
devoted to the nonconforming use or in any way increases or creates a site
related nonconformity. The preceding requirement does not prevent compliance
with applicable laws or requirements relative to the safety and sanitation of a
building occupied by a nonconforming use.
   F.   Reconstruction Of Nonconformities After Catastrophe: Any nonconforming
structure or use or establishment containing a site related nonconformity which
is damaged by fire, flood, explosion, collapse, wind or other catastrophe to
such an extent that the cost of repair or reconstruction will exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the building's value as shown on the tax assessment roll at
the time of the damage shall be deemed to be terminated. No repair or
reconstruction may occur except when such repair or reconstruction results in
the conversion of the previous nonconformity to a conforming structure, use
and/or site. In the event that damage to a nonconformity may be repaired by an
investment of less than fifty percent (50%) of the appraised value of the
nonconformity as shown on the tax assessment roll, or by a certified appraisal,
at the time of the damage, such repair shall be permitted and the nonconformity
may continue.
   G.   Cessation Of Nonconformities: All nonconformities shall be considered
terminated and shall not thereafter be reestablished if any nonconforming use
of land or structure ceases operation for a continuous period of nine (9)
months or more, or if a nonconforming structure is removed for a continuous
period of nine (9) months or more. Cessation of operation shall be considered
an administrative decision of the zoning administrator that the use has been
abandoned or there is an intent to abandon the use.
   H.   Certain Manufactured Homes Declared Nonconforming: On the effective
date of this zoning ordinance, all manufactured homes within the city located
on individual lots outside of a manufactured home district are declared
nonconforming uses. A manufactured home within a manufactured home district
lawfully created prior to the effective date of this zoning ordinance shall not
be considered a nonconforming use.
   I.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: Any lot which was lawfully created and
recorded prior to the enactment or amendment of this title, but does not meet
the minimum size and/or dimension requirements of the zoning district in which
it is located shall be considered a legal nonconforming lot of record. A legal
nonconforming lot of record may be used, rezoned, conveyed, or sold the same as
if it were a conforming lot. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-3-10: CORNER VISIBILITY:
On every corner lot in every zoning district except the C-1 and C-4 districts,
the triangle formed by the street lines of such lot and a line drawn between
points on such street lines which are twenty feet (20') from the intersection
thereof shall be clear of any structure or planting of such nature and
dimension as to obstruct lateral vision; provided that this requirement shall
generally not apply to the trunk of a tree (but not branches or foliage) or a
post, column or similar structure which is no greater than one foot (1') in
cross section or diameter. Lateral vision shall be maintained between a height
of thirty inches (30") and ten feet (10') above the average elevation of the
existing surface of both streets measured along the centerlines adjacent to the
visibility triangle. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-3-11: SWIMMING POOLS:
   A.   No swimming pool, whether public or private, shall be located in a
front yard or street side yard or closer than ten feet (10') to any side or
rear lot line. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
   B.   Every swimming pool, including aboveground pools, that are more than
eighteen inches (18") deep, shall be enclosed by a wall or fence at least four
feet (4') in height. Swimming pool installation shall comply with the Alton
building code. (Ord. 6814, 6-9-2004)
11-3-12: GARAGE SALES:
   A.   "Garage sale" shall mean the sale, or offering for sale, of personal
property in, at, or upon any property used or occupied for residential
purposes. Garage sales shall include, but not be limited to, any yard sale,
home sale, patio sale, or any other sale similarly conducted on any property
used or occupied for residential purposes.
   B.   Length Of Sale: It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, or
corporation within the corporate limits of the City of Alton to conduct or
maintain more than three (3) garage sales at any residence during a period of
twelve (12) consecutive months, and no sale shall be conducted for a period
longer than three (3) days.
   C.   Display Of Merchandise: Merchandise offered for sale at such garage
sale shall not be displayed any closer than ten feet (10') from the street
pavement, but in no event beyond the property line. All merchandise and
displays shall be removed from yard areas and driveways by the end of the day
following the sale.
   D.   Signage: Signage shall be in accordance with
11-10  of this title.
   E.   Permit Required: A permit issued by the Building and Zoning Department
shall be obtained by any person before selling or offering to sell any goods at
such garage sale. There shall be no charge for such permit. An application for
a permit shall be made at the Building and Zoning Office on a form to be
provided and shall contain the following information:
      1.   Name of the person, firm, group, corporation, association, or
organization conducting the garage sale.
      2.   The address at which said sale is to be conducted.
      3.   The number of days which said sale is to be conducted within the
limit prescribed. (Ord. 7903, 9-27-2023)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Establishment Of Districts
11-4-2: Official Zoning Map
11-4-3: Regulation Of Uses
11-4-4: Size, Dimension And Access Criteria
11-4-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
In order to classify, regulate and restrict the use of land, buildings and
structures; to regulate and restrict the height and bulk of buildings; to
regulate the area of yards and other open spaces about buildings; and to
regulate the intensity of land use, the incorporated area of Alton is divided
into districts as follows:
   Conservation Districts
   CR, Conservation/recreation
   Residential Districts
   R-1, Single-family residential
   R-2, Single-family residential
   R-3, Mixed single-family residential
   R-4, Multiple-family residential
   R-6, Manufactured home residential
   Institutional Districts
   HE, Higher education
   MED, Medical
   Commercial Districts
   C-1, Neighborhood commercial
   C-2, General commercial
   C-4, Downtown commercial
   C-5, Heavy commercial
   MR, Marina recreation
   Mixed Use Districts
   MUT, Mixed use transportation
   Industrial Districts
   M-1, Light industrial
   M-2, General industrial
   M-3, Mining
   M-4, Planned business park
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7333, 10-24-2012)
11-4-2: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
   A.   Boundaries: The boundaries of the various zoning districts are hereby
fixed and established as shown in the accompanying zoning map. This zoning map
is on file in the office of the city clerk of the city of Alton. This map is
hereby adopted and made a part of this zoning ordinance as if the matters and
information set forth by said map were fully described herein.
   B.   Measurement Of Boundaries: The boundaries of the various districts as
shown on the zoning map shall be determined by the boundaries as shown and
outlined thereon and when not clearly so determined, by use of the scale shown
on said map unless actual dimensions are noted. Scale and field measurements
and map dimensions shall be figured from the centerline of streets, highways,
alleys and railroad rights of way as appropriate. Where uncertainty exists as
to the exact location of said boundaries, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   Centerline As Boundary: Where district boundaries lie on or within
streets, highways, road rights of way or railroad rights of way, the district
boundaries shall be the centerline of the same.
      2.   District Boundaries Which Bisect Blocks: Where district boundary
lines approximately bisect blocks, the boundaries shall be the median lines of
such blocks between the centerline of boundary streets.
      3.   District Boundaries Dividing Parcels Of Land: In subdivided property
or where a district boundary divides a subdivided lot, the location of such
boundary, unless the same is indicated by dimensions, shall be determined by
the use of a scale appearing on the district map. Where a district boundary
divides a platted lot, the zone classification of the greater portion shall
prevail throughout the lot.
      4.   Action In Case Of Uncertainty: In case any further uncertainty
exists, the board of appeals shall interpret the intent of the zoning map as to
the location of such boundaries.
      5.   Street And Right Of Way Abandonments: Where a public road, street,
alley or other right of way is officially vacated or abandoned, the regulations
applicable to the property to which it reverted shall apply.
      6.   Excluded Areas: Unless areas are classified on or by the official
zoning map of the city of Alton, or the appropriate classification can be
established by the rules above, such areas shall be considered to be classified
as R-1, single-family residential district, until such time as the land is
rezoned by the city council.
      7.   Amendment To The Official Zoning Map: No changes or amendments to
the official zoning map shall be initiated, except in compliance and conformity
with all procedures and requirements of this zoning ordinance. It shall be
unlawful for any person to make any unauthorized change in the official zoning
map.
   C.   Annual Publication: In accordance with state law, if any changes are
made in the zoning districts or regulations during a calendar year, the city
clerk shall publish the official zoning map of the city not later than March 31
of the following year.
   D.   Zoning Of Annexed Areas: Any territory hereafter annexed to the city
shall have a zoning classification indicated in the annexation ordinance. If
such classification is not indicated in the annexation ordinance, the land
shall automatically be zoned as R-1, single-family residential district, until
duly changed by an amendment to this zoning ordinance except under the
following conditions:
      1.   The city council, with the recommendation of the plan commission,
may annex any territory as any other zoning district or districts herein
established if all legal requirements for zoning the property at the time of
the annexation are recorded.
      2.   Any existing agricultural area within Madison County of five (5)
acres or more may be annexed to the city as CR, conservation/recreation
district, without a public hearing. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-4-3: REGULATION OF USES:
It is the intent of this zoning ordinance to permit certain uses, not otherwise
illegal, to locate in specified zoning districts, either as a permitted use or
a special use. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
   A.   NAICS Manual: Most land uses are listed according to their code number
assigned by the "North American Industry Classification System" (NAICS) manual
(United States version) published by the office of management and budget. This
manual is adopted by reference and shall be consulted if there is any question
concerning whether a particular land use is allowed in a zoning district. The
land uses described in this zoning ordinance are based on descriptions,
definitions, and codes contained in the 2012 version of the NAICS manual. A
copy of the 2012 NAICS manual is on file in the office of the city clerk. (Ord.
6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014)
   B.   Permitted Uses: No structure shall be erected, constructed,
reconstructed or structurally altered, nor shall any structure or land or
combination thereof be used, unless the use to which the structure and/or land
is to be put is listed in the permitted use section of the applicable zoning
district and the use fully complies with all of the applicable district
regulations, except for nonconformities, accessory uses and special uses.
   C.   Special Uses: No special use, as designated within this zoning
ordinance, shall hereafter be established unless such use has been approved
pursuant to the provisions of chapter 11 of this title. Any existing use which
was a permitted use or granted a special use prior to the adoption of this
zoning ordinance and which is designated as a special use by this zoning
ordinance may continue as if it were approved as a special use. However, if
such use is changed to a nonconforming use by rezoning, such use must
thereafter comply with section
11-3-9 of this title.
   D.   Uses Not Specifically Listed: In the event a particular use is not
listed anywhere in this zoning ordinance, is not within the same "North
American Industry Classification System" (NAICS) code as any permitted or
special use, and such use is not an accessory use, it shall be considered to be
not allowed within the city. Questions concerning such uses may be referred to
the board of appeals. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-4-4: SIZE, DIMENSION AND ACCESS CRITERIA:
In order to carry out the purpose and intent and provisions of this zoning
ordinance, size and dimension criteria for particular zoning districts are
hereby established. Such size and dimension criteria shall be applied in
accordance with this section and other applicable provisions of this zoning
ordinance.
   A.   Lot Size Requirements:
      1.   Reduction Of Lot Size Or Yards: No lot or yard existing on the
effective date of this zoning ordinance shall thereafter be reduced in size,
dimension, or area below the minimum requirements set out herein, except by
reason of a portion being acquired for public use in any manner, including
dedication, condemnation, or purchase. Lots or yards created after the
effective date of this zoning ordinance shall meet the minimum requirements
established herein.
      2.   Applicability To All Uses: Unless otherwise specified in this zoning
ordinance, all permitted uses and all special uses shall be subject to the lot
size requirements specified for a given district, unless other minimum
requirements are specified for such uses elsewhere in this zoning ordinance.
      3.   Structure Built On Two Lots: A building constructed on a site
consisting of two (2) lots must be located either within the required setback
from the common or center lot line, or the building must be constructed on both
lots.
      4.   Lots Of Record Less Than Minimum Size: Any lot of record at the time
of the adoption of this zoning ordinance which contains less lot area or width
than required in the district in which it is located may be used for a use in
such district provided that the lot has a minimum width of thirty feet (30').
This provision shall not be construed to permit more than one dwelling unit on
a lot with less lot area per family than required for the district in which
such lot is located.
      5.   Use Of Lots In Single-Family Districts: In single-family districts,
every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be located on a
"lot" as herein defined, and in no case shall there be more than the principal
building and the customary accessory buildings on one lot or parcel of land.
   B.   Minimum Yard Requirements:
      1.   Generally: Minimum yard requirements shall be as specified for a
given zoning district. The yard requirements shall apply to all buildings and
structures, as they relate to the respective lot lines, except as otherwise
specifically provided in this zoning ordinance or as exempted in subsection B2
of this section.
      2.   Exemptions: The following structures shall be exempt from the
minimum yard requirements set forth in this zoning ordinance: underground
utility equipment, clotheslines, flagpoles, regulation mailboxes, traffic
signals, fire hydrants, light poles, or any similar structure or device (see
section
11-3-4 of this title).
      3.   Exceptions To Required Front Yard Setbacks: Whenever a new house is
proposed on a lot on a block that was developed prior to the adoption of this
title and a majority of the existing houses on the same side of the block are
set back less than the minimum required front yard setback established in this
title, the new house may be erected based on the established setback of the
existing houses. For example, if the minimum front yard set back established by
this title is twenty five feet (25'), but the majority of the houses on the
same side of the block are set back twenty feet (20'), a new house may be
erected based on the established twenty foot (20') setback. When there is no
uniform front yard set back, but the majority of the houses on the same side of
the block are set back less than the minimum established by this title, the
zoning administrator shall determine the appropriate front yard setback based
on the predominant or average setback on that side of the block.
   C.   Maximum Building Height: Maximum building height shall apply to all
structures located in the zoning district except those structures and
appurtenances excluded in section
11-3-2 of this title or special uses which have a maximum height specified in
this zoning ordinance.
   D.   Access Required: No building shall be erected on any lot unless such
lot abuts, or has permanent easement of access to, a public or private street.
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
CHAPTER 5
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-5-1: CR, Conservation/Recreation District
11-5-2: R-1, Single-Family Residential District
11-5-3: R-2, Single-Family Residential District
11-5-4: R-3, Mixed Single-Family Residential District
11-5-5: R-4, Multiple-Family Residential District
11-5-6: R-6, Manufactured Home Residential District
11-5-7: HE, Higher Education District
11-5-8: MED, Medical District
11-5-9: C-1, Neighborhood Commercial District
11-5-10: C-2, General Commercial District
11-5-11: C-4, Downtown Commercial District
11-5-12: C-5, Heavy Commercial District
11-5-13: MR, Marina Recreation District
11-5-14: MUT, Mixed Use Transportation District
11-5-15: M-1, Light Industrial District
11-5-16: M-2, General Industrial District
11-5-17: M-3, Mining District
11-5-18: M-4, Planned Business Park District
11-5-1: CR, CONSERVATION/RECREATION DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the CR, conservation/recreation district, is to
preserve open space, recreational space, places of natural beauty and places of
unusual physical characteristics and to protect those areas that are
environmentally sensitive. Appropriate uses shall be of low intensity to serve
the recreational and educational needs of the community. The CR district may be
established in areas of the city designated as parks and open space, public/
semipublic, single-family residential or urban residential on the future land
use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The CR district is designed to allow latitude in the
range of recreation and open space uses allowed. Buildings or structures may be
erected, altered or used and land may be used for one or more of the following:
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
      2.   Archery/shooting ranges (a use within NAICS code 713990).
      3.   Riding stables (a use within NAICS code 713990).
      4.   Golf driving ranges (a use within NAICS code 713990).
      5.   Golf courses and country clubs (uses within NAICS code 71391).
      6.   Parks and playgrounds.
   Cemeteries (uses within NAICS code 812220).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (co-use) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Crop production (uses within NAICS code 111).
   Fishing lakes, including fee fishing or clubs, provided that no building,
parking lot, or other intense use is located nearer than five hundred feet
(500') to any dwelling on an adjacent lot or nearby lot.
   Forestry and logging (uses within NAICS code 113).
   Poultry Compost Foraging Operations.
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      3.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      4.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
      5.   Municipal public works building.
   Public elementary and secondary schools (uses within NAICS code 6111).
   Recreational Goods Rental (NAICS 532292).
   Religious organizations (uses within NAICS code 8131).
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including substations, lift
stations, water towers and similar uses.
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the CR district.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the CR district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title.
   Air transportation (uses within NAICS code 481).
   All other amusement and recreation industries (uses within NAICS code
713990).
   Civic and social organizations (uses within NAICS code 8134).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (freestanding) (subject to the criteria
in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Correctional institutions (uses within NAICS code 922140).
   Major public and private utilities, including water treatment plants,
wastewater treatment plants, power generating facilities, transmission towers,
and similar uses excluding solar electric power generation and wind electric
power generation (uses within NAICS code 221 except NAICS codes 221114 and
221115).
   Mining activities (uses within NAICS code 2123).
   Offices of Physicians (uses within NAICS code 621111).
   Pet care services facility (uses within NAICS code 812910).
   Public fairgrounds (a use within NAICS code 711310).
   Recreational and vacation camps (uses within NAICS code 721214).
   Resorts (uses within NAICS code 721110).
   Solid waste landfill (uses within NAICS code 562213).
   Spectator sports (uses within NAICS code 7112).
   Support activities for agriculture and forestry (uses within NAICS code
115).
   Utility-scale solar systems (uses within NAICS code 221114).
   Veterinary services (uses within NAICS code 54190).
   E.   Regulation Of Agricultural Activities:
      1.   Farm equipment and commodities: Agricultural equipment and
commodities (including, but not limited to, baled crops, fertilizer, pesticides
and herbicides) shall not be stored outdoors closer than two hundred feet
(200') from any residentially zoned property. Except, however, that such
material may be stored in a building located not less than one hundred feet
(100') from any residentially zoned property.
   F.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   G.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size         3 acres
Minimum lot width        150 feet
Minimum lot depth        200 feet
Minimum front yard       25 feet
Minimum street side yard 25 feet
Minimum side yard        10 feet
Minimum rear yard        25 feet
Maximum building height  50 feet
Maximum lot coverage     20 percent
Minimum district size    5 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6948, 4-26-2006; Ord. 7721, 9-25-2019; Ord.
7373, 10-9-2013; Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014; Ord. 7736, 12-18-2019; Ord. 7776, 9-10-
2020; Ord. 7856, 9-28-2022; Ord. 7891, 6-14-2023; Ord. 7894, 7-26-2023; Ord.
7904, 9-27-2023; Ord. 7938, 4-10-2024)
11-5-2: R-1, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-1, single-family residential district, is
to provide areas for single-family residential uses of a suburban character. It
is further intended to provide for other uses which are customarily found with
and are not detrimental to single-family residences. The R-1 district is
considered consistent with and designed to implement the provisions of the
comprehensive plan for land designated as single-family residential on the
city’s future land use map. This district may also be used in areas designated
as urban residential on the city’s future land use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Buildings or structures may be erected, altered or used
for the following:
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Golf courses and country clubs (uses within NAICS code 71391).
      2.   Parks and playgrounds.
   Elementary and secondary schools with residential facilities (uses within
NAICS code 6111) are permitted when such facility is located on a tract of land
of ten (10) acres or more.
   Elementary and secondary schools without residential facilities (uses within
NAICS code 6111).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      3.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      4.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
   Religious organizations (uses within NAICS code 8131).
   Residential uses including only the following:
      1.   Single-family dwellings.
      2.   Community residence, class I.
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the R-1 district. Home
occupations are allowed based on the performance standards in subsection
11-7-2B of this title. “Type A” Short-Term Rental Units are allowed based on
the performance standards in subsection
11-7-2D of this title.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the R-1 district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Beauty salons (uses within NAICS code 812112) or barbershops (uses within
NAICS code 812111).
   Bed and breakfast inns (uses within NAICS code 721191) based on the
performance standards in subsection
11-7-3A of this title.
   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244).
   Civic and social organizations (uses within NAICS code 8134).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Community residence, class II.
   Funeral homes and funeral services (uses within NAICS code 812210).
   Libraries and archives (uses within NAICS code 519120).
   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within NAICS code
712).
   Nursing care facilities (uses within NAICS code 623110).
   “Type B” Short-Tenn Rental Units based on the performance standards in
subsection
11-7-3 G of this title.
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   E.   Planned Development Procedure: Developments may be approved based on
the planned development procedures in section
11-6-3 of this title.
   F.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   G.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size         9,000 square feet
Minimum lot width        70 feet
Minimum lot depth        100 feet
Minimum front yard       30 feet
Minimum street side yard 15 feet
Minimum side yard        7 feet
Minimum rear yard        25 feet
Maximum building height  21/2 stories or 35 feet
Maximum density          5.0 dwelling units per acre
Minimum district size    5 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6754, 8-13-2003; Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013; Ord.
7721, 9-25-2019; Ord. 7736, 12-18-2019; Ord. 7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7879, 4-12-
2023; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-3: R-2, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-2, single-family residential district, is
to provide areas for single-family residential uses of an urban character. It
is further intended to provide for other uses which are customarily found with
and are not detrimental to single-family residences. Buildings originally
designed and constructed for two-family use that were legally created prior to
the effective date of this title may also continue in existence subject to the
provisions of section
11-3-9 of this title. The R-2 district is considered consistent with and
designed to implement the provisions of the comprehensive plan for land
designated as single-family and urban residential on the city’s future land use
map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Buildings or structures may be erected, altered or used
for the following:
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Golf courses and country clubs (uses within NAICS code 71391).
      2.   Parks and playgrounds.
   Elementary and secondary schools without residential facilities (uses within
NAICS code 6111).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      3.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      4.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
   Religious organizations (uses within NAICS code 8131).
   Residential uses including only the following:
      1.   Single-family dwellings.
      2.   Community residence, class I.
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the R-2 district. Home
occupations are allowed based on the criteria in subsection
11-7-2B of this title. “Type A” Short-Term Rental Units are allowed based on
the performance standards in subsection
11-7-2D of this title.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the R-2 district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Beauty salons (uses within NAICS code 812112) or barbershops (uses within
NAICS code 812111).
   Bed and breakfast inns (uses within NAICS code 721191) based on the
performance standards in subsection
11-7-3A of this title.
   Caterers (a use within NAICS code 722320).
   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244).
   Civic and social organizations (uses within NAICS code 8134).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Community residence, class II.
   Funeral homes and funeral services (uses within NAICS code 812210).
   Libraries and archives (uses within NAICS code 519120).
   Limited service restaurants (a use within NAICS code 722513).
   Metal coating, engraving (except jewelry and silverware) and allied services
to manufacturers (uses within NAICS code 332812) including only the following:
      1.   Enameling, lacquering, and varnishing metals and metal products.
      2.   Engraving, chasing or etching metals and metal products (except
jewelry); personal goods carried on or about the person, such as compacts and
cigarette cases; precious metal products (except precious plated flatware and
other plated ware); and printing plates. Powder coating metals and metal
products.
   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within NAICS code
712).
   Nursing care facilities (uses within NAICS code 623110).
   Residential uses, including only the following:
      1.   Single-family attached dwellings provided that no such dwelling is
attached to more than one other dwelling.
      2.   Zero lot line dwellings.
   “Type B” Short-Term Rental Units based on the performance standards in
subsection
11-7-3G of this title.
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   E.   Nonconforming Duplexes: Legal nonconforming duplexes in the R-
2 district existing on the effective date of this title have special protection
as outlined in subsection
11-3-9B of this title.
   F.   Planned Development Procedure: Developments may be approved based on
the planned development procedures in section
11-6-3 of this title.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   H.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size         6,000 square feet (all uses except single- family
                         attached)
                        4,500 square feet for single-family attached only
Minimum lot width        60 feet (all uses except single-family attached)
                        45 feet for single-family attached only
Minimum lot depth        100 feet
Minimum front yard       30 feet
Minimum street side yard 15 feet
Minimum side yard        5 feet (all uses except single-family attached) for
                         single-family attached only 1 side yard is required
Minimum rear yard        25 feet
Maximum building height  21/2 stories or 35 feet
Maximum density          8.0 dwelling units per gross acre
Minimum district size    5 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013; Ord. 7484, 11-24-2015; Ord.
7509, 3-9-2016; Ord. 7721, 9-25-2019; Ord. 7736, 12-18-2019; Ord. 7776, 9-10-
2020; Ord. 7879, 4-12-2023; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-4: R-3, MIXED SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-3, mixed single-family residential
district, is to provide areas for various types of single-family attached and
detached residential uses of an urban character. It is further intended to
provide for other uses which are customarily found with and are not detrimental
to single-family residences. Buildings originally designed and constructed for
multi-family use that were legally created prior to the effective date of this
title may also continue in existence subject to the provisions of section
11-3-9 of this title. The R-3 district is considered consistent with and
designed to implement the provisions of the comprehensive plan for land
designated as urban residential on the city’s future land use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Buildings or structures may be erected, altered or used
for the following:
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Golf courses and country clubs (uses within NAICS code 71391).
      2.   Parks and playgrounds.
      3.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
   Elementary and secondary schools without residential facilities (uses within
NAICS code 6111).
   Libraries and archives (uses within NAICS code 519120).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      3.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      4.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
   Religious organizations (uses within NAICS code 8131).
   Residential uses including only the following:
      1.   Single-family detached dwellings.
      2.   Single-family attached dwellings.
      3.   Community residence, class I.
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the R-3 district. Home
occupations are allowed based on the criteria in subsection
11-7-2B of this title. “Type A” Short-Tenn Rental Units are allowed based on
the performance standards in subsection
11-7-2D of this title.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the R-3 district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title.
   Beauty salons (uses within NAICS code 812112) or barbershops (uses within
NAICS code 812111).
   Bed and breakfast inns (uses within NAICS code 721191) based on the
performance standards in subsection
11-7-3A of this title.
   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244).
   Civic and social organizations (uses within NAICS code 8134).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Community residence, class II.
   Community residence, class III.
   Duplexes.
   Funeral homes and funeral services (uses within NAICS code 812210).
   Nursing care facilities (uses within NAICS code 623110).
   “Type B” Short-Term Rental Units based on the performance standards in
subsection
11-7-3G of this title.
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   E.   Nonconforming Multi-Family Buildings: Legal nonconforming multi- family
buildings in the R-3 district existing on the effective date of this title have
special protection as outlined in subsection
11-3-9B of this title.
   F.   Planned Development Procedure: Developments may be approved based on
the planned development procedures in section
11-6-3 of this title. Through the planned development procedure, single-family
attached dwellings on smaller lots than allowed in subsection H of this
section, zero lot line dwellings, row house developments, and other similar
types of single-family dwelling developments may be allowed.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   H.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size         6,000 square feet (all uses except single- family
                         attached)
                        4,000 square feet for single-family attached only
Minimum lot width        50 feet (all uses except single-family attached)
                        40 feet for single-family attached only
Minimum lot depth        100 feet
Minimum front yard       25 feet
Minimum street side yard 15 feet
Minimum side yard        5 feet (all uses except single-family attached) for
                         single-family attached no side yard is required
Minimum rear yard        25 feet
Maximum building height  35 feet
Maximum density          12.0 dwelling units per gross acre
Minimum district size    2 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6754, 8-13-2003; Ord. 737, 10-9-2013; Ord.
7721, 9-25-2019; Ord. 7736, 12-18-2019; Ord. 7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7879, 4-12-
2023; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-5: R-4, MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-4, multiple-family residential district,
is to provide areas for multiple-family residential uses of an urban character.
It is further intended to provide for other uses which are customarily found
with and are not detrimental to multiple-family residences. The R-4 district is
considered consistent with and designed to implement the provisions of the
comprehensive plan for land designated as general residential on the city’s
future land use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Buildings or structures may be erected, altered or used
for the following:
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Golf courses and country clubs (uses within NAICS code 71391).
      2.   Golf driving ranges (a use within NAICS code 713990).
      3.   Parks and playgrounds.
      4.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
   Elementary and secondary schools (uses within NAICS code 6111).
   Employment services (uses within NAICS code 5613).
   Healthcare and social assistance including only the following:
      1.   Offices of physicians (uses within NAICS code 6211).
      2.   Offices of dentists (uses within NAICS code 6212).
      3.   Offices of other health practitioners (uses within NAICS code 6213).
   Insurance carriers and related activities (uses within NAICS code 524).
   Libraries and archives (uses within NAICS code 519120).
   Professional, scientific and technical services including only the
following:
      1.   Legal services (uses within NAICS code 5411).
      2.   Accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and payroll services (uses
within NAICS code 5412).
      3.   Architectural, engineering and related services including only the
following:
         a.   Architectural services (uses within NAICS code 541310).
         b.   Landscape architectural services (uses within NAICS code 541320).
      4.   Specialized design services (uses within NAICS code 5414).
      5.   Computer systems design and related services (uses within NAICS code
5415).
      6.   Management, scientific and technical consulting services (uses
within NAICS code 5416).
      7.   Advertising and related services (uses within NAICS code 5418).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      3.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      4.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
   Real estate (uses within NAICS code 531 except lessors of miniwarehouses and
self-storage units, equity real estate investment trusts (REITs), primarily
leasing residential buildings and dwelling a use within NAICS code 531110,
equity real estate investment trusts (REITs), primarily leasing nonresidential
buildings [except miniwarehouses] a use within NAICS code 531120, and equity
real estate investment trusts (REITs), primarily leasing real estate [except
residential buildings and dwellings, nonresidential buildings, miniwarehouses,
and self-storage units] a use within NAICS code 531190).
   Religious organizations (uses within NAICS code 8131).
   Residential uses including only the following:
      1.   Single-family dwellings.
      2.   Duplexes.
      3.   Multiple-family dwellings.
      4.   Community residence, Class I.
      5.   Community residence, Class II.
      6.   Community residence, Class III.
      7.   Assisted living facilities.
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the R-4 District. Home
occupations are allowed based on the criteria in subsection
11-7-2B of this title. “Type A” Short-Term Rental Units are allowed based on
the performance standards in subsection
11-7-2D of this title.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the R-4 District
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Beauty salons (uses within NAICS code 812112) or barbershops (uses within
NAICS code 812111).
   Bed and breakfast inns (uses within NAICS code 721191) based on the
performance standards in subsection
11-7-3A of this title.
   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244).
   Civic and social organizations (uses within NAICS code 8134).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Community residence, Class IV.
   Convenience stores (uses within NAICS code 445120).
   Delicatessens (a use within NAICS code 722211) based on the performance
standards in subsection
11-7-3C of this title.
   Funeral homes and funeral services (uses within NAICS code 812210).
   Nursing care facilities (uses within NAICS code 623110).
   Residential uses, including only the following:
      1.   Single-family attached dwellings provided that no such dwelling is
attached to more than one other dwelling.
      2.   Zero lot line dwellings.
   Rooming and boarding houses (uses within NAICS code 721310).
   “Type B” Short-Tenn Rental Units based on the performance standards in
subsection
11-7-3G of this title.
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   E.   Planned Development Procedure: Developments may be approved based on
the planned development procedures in section
11-6-3 of this title. Through the planned development procedure, single-family
attached dwellings, zero lot line dwellings, and other similar types of single-
family dwelling developments may be allowed.
   F.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   G.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size         6,000 square feet for single-family detached dwellings
                        6,000 square feet for duplexes
                        4,000 square feet for single-family attached dwellings
                        10,000 square feet for all multiple-family buildings
                         and nonresidential uses
                         Any building or multi-family development with 3 or
                        more dwellings must be located on a lot of at least
                         10,000 square feet and shall not exceed the maximum
                         density per gross acre listed in this subsection
Minimum lot width        50 feet for single-family detached dwellings
                        60 feet for duplexes
                        40 feet for single-family attached dwellings
                        100 feet for all multiple-family and nonresidential
                         uses
Minimum lot depth        100 feet
Minimum front yard       20 feet
Minimum street side yard 15 feet
Minimum side yard        5 for buildings less than 3 stories in height
                        10 feet for 3 story buildings
                        For single-family attached dwellings only 1 side yard
                         is required
Minimum rear yard        25 feet
Maximum building height  3 stories or 45 feet
Maximum density          30 dwelling units per gross acre
Minimum district size    2 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6754, 8-13-2003; Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014; Ord.
7685, 2-27-2019; Ord. 7721, 9-25-2019; Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013; Ord. 7736, 12-18-
2019; Ord. 7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7879, 4-12-2023; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-6: R-6, MANUFACTURED HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the R-6, Manufactured Home Residential
District, is to provide areas for manufactured home residential development in
appropriate areas of the City while ensuring superior design and a harmonious
blending with surrounding land uses. It is further intended to provide for
other uses which are customarily found with and are not detrimental to
manufactured homes. The R-6 District may be considered consistent with
provisions of the comprehensive plan for land designated as general residential
on the City's future land use map.
   B.   Classification Of Manufactured Home Residential Districts: The
following separate classifications shall be considered:
      1.   Existing Manufactured Home Developments: In areas of the City zoned
R-6 on the effective date of this title and developed with infrastructure and
manufactured homes, such areas may continue to be utilized as designed.
      2.   Existing Undeveloped R-6 Areas: In areas of the City zoned R-6 on
the effective date of this title but not yet developed with infrastructure and
manufactured homes, the following regulations shall apply:
         a.   All planned infrastructure improvements shall be built in
accordance to the requirements specified in title 12, "Subdivision
Regulations", of this Code. The submission of engineering plans, with fee, as
stipulated in section
12-1-7 of this Code shall be required. A public hearing shall not be required
if a plat is not required, as stipulated in section
12-2-1 of this Code.
         b.   Should a plat be required, all procedures and requirements listed
in title 12 of this Code shall be adhered to in addition to those listed in
this section.
         c.   A landscaped strip of land not less than ten feet (10') in width
shall be established and maintained within the Manufactured Home District along
its exterior boundaries.
      3.   Areas For Which R-6 Zoning Is Requested: In areas of the City not
zoned R-6 on the effective date of this title, or areas subject to possible
annexation to the City, the owner or owners of any contiguous tract of land
comprising an area of not less than twenty five (25) acres may request rezoning
to the R-6 District, based on procedures outlined in this title. If said
rezoning request is approved by the Alton City Council, the following
requirements shall also be met:
         a.   All planned infrastructure improvements shall be built in
accordance to the requirements specified in title 12, "Subdivision
Regulations", of this code. The submission of engineering plans, with fee, as
stipulated in section
12-1-7 of this code shall be required. A public hearing shall not be required
if a plat is not required, as stipulated in section
12-2-1 of this code.
         b.   Should a plat be required, all procedures and requirements listed
in title 12 of this code shall be adhered to in addition to those listed in
this section.
         c.   A landscaped strip of land not less than ten feet (10') in width
shall be established and maintained within the manufactured home district along
its exterior boundaries.
   C.   Permitted Uses: In the R-6 district, the following uses shall be
permitted:
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Parks and playgrounds.
      2.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
   Elementary and secondary schools (uses within NAICS code 6111).
   Libraries and archives (uses within NAICS code 519120).
   Residential uses.
      1.   Manufactured homes.
   D.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the R-6 district.
   E.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the R-6 district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Beauty salons (uses within NAICS code 812112) or barbershops (uses within
NAICS code 812111).
   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244).
   Civic and social organizations (uses within NAICS code 8134).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Manufactured home sales (uses within NAICS code 453930).
   RV (recreational vehicles) parks and campgrounds (NAICS 721211) excluding
therefrom the allowance of tents and tent trailers.
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   F.   Standards For Manufactured Home Parks:
      1.   Location Limitations: The installation of any new or additional
manufactured home within the city shall be limited to manufactured home parks
that have been lawfully created.
      2.   Single Ownership: In order that the purpose of this district may be
realized, the land and buildings and appurtenant facilities shall be in single
ownership, or under the management or supervision of a central authority such
as a homeowners' association, or otherwise subject to such supervisory lease of
ownership control as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
section.
      3.   Manufactured Homes Constitute Dwelling Units: All manufactured homes
constitute dwelling units and as such are subject to all inspections and
regulations as stipulated in title 9, chapter 2 of this code.
      4.   Connection To Permanent Utilities: No manufactured home shall remain
in a manufactured home district for a period exceeding fifteen (15) days
without connection to permanent utilities.
      5.   Compliance With State And Federal Regulations: All manufactured
homes moved into the city after the effective date hereof shall be constructed
in compliance with specifications set forth by the National Fire Protection
Association under the association's code of specifications for mobile homes and
travel trailers and all applicable state and federal regulations.
      6.   Dangerous Manufactured Homes Prohibited: No manufactured home
constructed prior to June 30, 1976, nor any manufactured home not constructed
in compliance with the federal "national manufactured housing construction and
safety standards act of 1974", nor any manufactured home which is deemed by the
zoning administrator to be a hazard to the public health or safety shall be
moved into, erected or installed in the city.
      7.   Installation Criteria:
         a.   Each manufactured home space shall have a stand to provide
adequate support for the placement and tie down of the manufactured home. The
stand shall extend the length of the supports of the manufactured home, and
shall consist of a four inch (4") thick reinforced concrete slab. (Ord. 6734,
6-11-2003)
         b.   Each manufactured home shall be anchored in a manner to meet or
exceed the standards prescribed by the federal department of housing and urban
development and in accordance with section
9-2-20 of this code. (Ord. 6814, 6-9-2004)
         c.   No manufactured home shall be immobilized, but anchors capable of
withstanding a vertical tension force of four thousand eight hundred (4,800)
pounds shall be installed at the corners of each stand or as otherwise
necessary for protection against high winds. Every manufactured home shall be
securely tied down to such anchors.
         d.   The minimum first floor elevation shall be at least eighteen
inches (18"), but not more than thirty six inches (36"), above the crown of the
nearest street or road.
         e.   The frame, axles, wheels, crawl space storage area and utility
connection of all manufactured homes shall be concealed from view through the
use of durable all weather materials manufactured specifically for the purpose
of covering the undercarriage area. Such skirting shall be fastened in
accordance with manufacturers instructions and shall provide for adequate
ventilation.
         f.   All manufactured home spaces shall abut upon an all weather
surface driveway of not less than twenty one feet (21') in width, which shall
have unobstructed access to a city street.
         g.   Manufactured homes may only be placed in designated and approved
manufactured home parks. Manufactured homes may not be placed in any zoning
district other than the R-6, manufactured home residential district.
         h.   To inhibit the spread of fire, no manufactured home shall be
erected or placed within ten feet (10') of another manufactured home.
   G.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   H.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot area per family             5,000 square feet (leased lot)
                                       6,000 square feet (subdivided lot)
Minimum lot or space width              50 feet (leased lot)
                                       60 feet (subdivided lot)
Minimum front yard                      20 feet (leased lot)1
                                       25 feet (subdivided lot)1
Minimum street side yard                15 feet
Minimum side yard                       5 feet
Minimum separation between manufactured 10 feet
homes
Minimum rear yard                       20 feet (leased lot)1
                                       25 feet (subdivided lot)1
Minimum setback from park property line 25 feet
Maximum lot or space coverage           60 percent
Maximum building height                 21/2 stories or 35 feet
Minimum district size                   25 acres
 
Note:
   1.   In cases where it is intended to install manufactured homes with a
length greater than that allowed due to the front and rear setback
requirements, the plan commission may grant an exception to reduce the front
and rear yard setback requirements to not less than 10 feet each.
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6754, 8-13-2003; Ord. 6814, 6-9-2004; Ord.
7111, 11-25-2008; Ord. 7373, 10-9-2003; Ord. 7721, 9-25-2019; Ord. 7736, 12-18-
2019; Ord. 7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-7: HE, HIGHER EDUCATION DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the HE, higher education district, is to
provide areas for the development of colleges, universities, and compatible
residential and institutional uses at accessible locations. The HE district is
considered consistent with and designed to implement the provisions of the
comprehensive plan for land which is designated as university on the city's
future land use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The HE district is designed to allow a broad range of
educational and compatible institutional uses provided that the uses are legal
and no outdoor storage is conducted except as otherwise provided herein.
Buildings or structures may be erected, altered or used for the following:
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Performing arts companies (uses within NAICS code 7111).
      2.   Independent artists, writers and performers (uses within NAICS code
7115).
      3.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
   Bed and breakfast inns (uses within NAICS code 721191).
   Educational services (uses within NAICS code 611).
   Healthcare and social assistance including only the following:
      1.   Individual and family services (uses within NAICS code 6241).
      2.   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Courts (uses within NAICS code 92211).
      3.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      4.   Legal counsel and prosecution (uses within NAICS code 92213).
      5.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      6.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
   Religious, grant making, civic, professional and similar organizations (uses
within NAICS code 813).
   Residential uses including only the following:
      1.   Multiple-family dwellings.
      2.   Dormitories, fraternity houses, rooming houses, sorority houses
(uses within NAICS code 721310).
   United States postal service (uses within NAICS code 491).
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the HE district. Residential
uses are allowed as an accessory use provided that they are located on the
second floor of the building or at the rear of the building.
   D.   Planned Development Procedure: Developments may be approved based on
the planned development procedures in section
11-6-3 of this title.
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   F.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size          6,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         50 feet
Minimum lot depth         100 feet
Minimum front yard        30 feet
Minimum street side yard  15 feet
Minimum side yard         5 feet
Minimum rear yard         25 feet
Maximum building height   3 stories or 45 feet
Maximum building coverage 30 percent
Minimum district size     5 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-8: MED, MEDICAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the MED, medical district, is to provide areas
for the development of hospitals, physicians' offices, compatible institutional
uses and selected retail uses at accessible locations. The MED district is
considered consistent with and designed to implement the provisions of the
comprehensive plan for land which is designated as hospital on the city's
future land use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The MED district is designed to allow a broad range of
health service and institutional uses provided that the uses are legal and no
outdoor storage is conducted except as otherwise provided herein. Buildings or
structures may be erected, altered or used for the following:
   Administrative and support services including only the following:
      1.   Office administrative services (uses within NAICS code 5611).
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
   Educational services including only the following:
      1.   Colleges, universities and professional schools (uses within NAICS
code 6113).
   Food services and drinking places including only the following:
      1.   Full service restaurants except restaurants with outdoor seating
areas (uses within NAICS code 7221 except restaurants with outdoor seating
areas).
      2.   Limited service eating places (uses within NAICS code 7222).
   Health and personal care stores (uses within NAICS code 446).
   Healthcare and social assistance including only the following:
      1.   Offices of physicians (uses within NAICS code 6211).
      2.   Offices of dentists (uses within NAICS code 6212).
      3.   Offices of other health practitioners (uses within NAICS code 6213).
      4.   Family planning centers (uses within NAICS code 62141).
      5.   Other outpatient care centers (uses within NAICS code 62149).
      6.   Medical and diagnostic laboratories (uses within NAICS code 6215).
      7.   Home healthcare services (uses within NAICS code 6216).
      8.   Other ambulatory healthcare services (uses within NAICS code 6219).
      9.   Hospitals (uses within NAICS code 622).
      10.   Nursing and residential care facilities including only the
following:
         a.   Nursing care facilities (uses within NAICS code 623110).
         b.   Continuing care retirement communities (uses within NAICS code
623311).
         c.   Assisted living facilities (a use within NAICS code 623312).
      11.   Individual and family services (uses within NAICS code 6241).
      12.   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244).
   Miscellaneous store retailers including only the following:
      1.   Florists (uses within NAICS code 4531).
      2.   Office supplies, stationery and gift stores (uses within NAICS code
4532).
   Personal and laundry services including only the following:
      1.   Permanent makeup salons (a use within NAICS code 812199).
      2.   Parking lots and garages (uses within NAICS code 81293).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Courts (uses within NAICS code 92211).
      3.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      4.   Legal counsel and prosecution (uses within NAICS code 92213).
      5.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      6.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
   Religious, grant making, civic, professional and similar organizations (uses
within NAICS code 813).
   Residential uses including only the following:
      1.   Single-family dwellings.
      2.   Dormitories (a use within NAICS code 721310).
   Sporting goods, hobby, book and music stores including only the following:
      1.   Bookstores and news dealers (all uses within NAICS code 45121).
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the MED district.
Residential uses are allowed as an accessory use provided that they are located
on the second floor or above, of the building, or at the rear of the building.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the MED district
subject to the criteria established in section
11-7-3 of this title and subject to the performance standards contained in
section
11-7-1 of this title.
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunication facility disguised support structure (subject to
the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunication facility, freestanding (subject to the criteria in
subsection
 11-7-1I of this title).
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   F.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size          10,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         100 feet
Minimum lot depth         100 feet
Minimum front yard        30 feet
Minimum street side yard  15 feet
Minimum side yard         10 feet
Minimum rear yard         25 feet
Maximum building height   100 feet
Maximum building coverage 30 percent
Minimum district size     5 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6863, 2-9-2005; Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013; Ord.
7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-9: C-1, NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-1, neighborhood commercial district, is
to provide areas for the development of offices, selected retail sales and
selected service activities at accessible locations. The C-1 district is
considered consistent with and designed to implement the provisions of the
comprehensive plan for land located outside of the downtown area which is
designated as commercial on the city’s future land use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The C-1 district is designed to allow professional
offices and a narrow range of retail and personal service uses provided that
the uses are legal and no outdoor storage is conducted except as otherwise
provided herein. Buildings or structures may be erected, altered or used for
the following:
   Administrative and support services including only the following:
      1.   Office administrative services (uses within NAICS code 5611).
      2.   Employment services (uses within NAICS code 5613).
      3.   Business support services including only the following:
         a.   Document preparation services (uses within NAICS code 561410).
         b.   Telephone answering services (uses within NAICS code 561421).
         c.   Business service centers (uses within NAICS code 56143).
         d.   Court reporting and stenotype services (uses within NAICS code
561492).
      4.   Travel arrangement and reservation services (uses within NAICS code
5615).
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Performing arts companies (uses within NAICS code 7111).
      2.   Promoters of performing arts, sports and similar events (uses within
NAICS code 7113).
      3.   Agents and managers for artists, athletes, entertainers and other
public figures (uses within NAICS code 7114).
      4.   Independent artists, writers and performers (uses within NAICS code
7115).
      5.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
      6.   Parks and playgrounds.
   Building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers including only
the following:
      1.   Paint and wallpaper stores (uses within NAICS code 44412).
      2.   Hardware stores (uses within NAICS code 44413).
   Clothing and clothing accessories stores (uses within NAICS code 448).
   Couriers and messengers (uses within NAICS code 492).
   Credit intermediation and related activities including only the following:
      1.   Depository credit intermediation including only the following:
         a.   Commercial banking (uses within NAICS code 522110).
         b.   Savings institutions (uses within NAICS code 522120).
         c.   Credit unions (uses within NAICS code 522130).
         d.   Freestanding automated teller machines.
   Educational services (uses within NAICS code 611 except flight training and
truck driving schools).
   Electronics and appliance stores (uses within NAICS code 443).
   Food and beverage stores, including only the following:
      1.   Convenience store (uses within NAICS code 445120).
      2.   Meat markets (uses within NAICS code 445210).
      3.   Fish and seafood markets (uses within NAICS code 445220).
      4.   Fruit and vegetable markets (uses within NAICS code 445230).
      5.   Other specialty food stores (uses within NAICS code 44529).
   Food services and drinking places including only the following:
      1.   Full service restaurants (uses within NAICS code 7221 except
restaurants with outdoor seating areas, restaurants with drive-up service, or
restaurants with drive-through service).
      2.   Limited service eating places (except limited service eating places
with drive-up service or drive-through service) including only the following:
         a.   Delicatessen restaurants (a use within NAICS code 722211).
         b.   Family restaurants (a use within NAICS code 722211).
         c.   Pizza delivery shops (a use within NAICS code 72221).
         d.   Takeout eating places (a use within NAICS code 72221).
         e.   Takeout sandwich shops (a use within NAICS code 72221).
         f.   Cafeterias (uses within NAICS code 722212).
         g.   Snack and nonalcoholic beverage bars (uses within NAICS code
722213).
      3.   Special food services including only the following:
         a.   Caterers (uses within NAICS code 722320).
   Health and personal care stores (uses within NAICS code 446).
   Healthcare and social assistance including only the following:
      1.   Offices of physicians (uses within NAICS code 6211).
      2.   Offices of dentists (uses within NAICS code 6212).
      3.   Offices of other health practitioners (uses within NAICS code 6213).
   Information services and data processing services (uses within NAICS code
514).
   Insurance carriers and related activities (uses within NAICS code 524).
   Miscellaneous store retailers including only the following:
      1.   Florists (uses within NAICS code 4531).
      2.   Office supplies, stationery and gift stores (uses within NAICS code
4532).
      3.   Tobacco stores (uses within NAICS code 453991).
      4.   All other miscellaneous store retailers including only the
following:
         a.   Art supply stores (a use in NAICS code 453998).
         b.   Candle supply stores (a use in NAICS code 453998).
         c.   Collector’s items (e.g., autograph, coin, card, stamp) shops (a
use in NAICS code 453998).
         d.   Flower shops, artificial or dried (a use in NAICS code 453998).
         e.   Trophy (e.g., awards and plaques) shops (a use in NAICS code
453998).
   Personal and laundry services including only the following:
      1.   Barbershops (uses within NAICS code 812111).
      2.   Beauty salons (uses within NAICS code 812112).
      3.   Nail salons (uses within NAICS code 812113).
      4.   Tanning salons (a use within NAICS code 812199).
      5.   Coin operated laundries and dry cleaners (uses within NAICS code
812310).
      6.   Dry cleaning and laundry services (uses within NAICS code 81232).
      7.   Photofinishing (uses within NAICS code 81292).
      8.   Parking lots and garages (uses within NAICS code 812930).
   Professional, scientific and technical services including only the
following:
      1.   Legal services (uses within NAICS code 5411).
      2.   Accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and payroll services (uses
within NAICS code 5412).
      3.   Architectural, engineering and related services including only the
following:
         a.   Architectural services (uses within NAICS code 541310).
         b.   Landscape architectural services (uses within NAICS code 541320).
      4.   Specialized design services (uses within NAICS code 5414).
      5.   Computer systems design and related services (uses within NAICS code
5415).
      6.   Management, scientific and technical consulting services (uses
within NAICS code 5416).
      7.   Advertising and related services (uses within NAICS code 5418).
      8.   Photographic services (uses within NAICS code 54192).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Courts (uses within NAICS code 92211).
      3.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      4.   Legal counsel and prosecution (uses within NAICS code 92213).
      5.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      6.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
   Real estate (uses within NAICS code 531 except lessors of miniwarehouses and
self-storage units, equity real estate investment trusts (REITs), primarily
leasing residential buildings and dwelling a use within NAICS code 531110,
equity real estate investment trusts (REITs), primarily leasing nonresidential
buildings [except miniwarehouses] a use within NAICS code 531120, and equity
real estate investment trusts (REITs), primarily leasing real estate [except
residential buildings and dwellings, nonresidential buildings, miniwarehouses,
and self-storage units] a use within NAICS code 531190).
   Religious, grant making, civic, professional and similar organizations (uses
within NAICS code 813).
   Rental and leasing services including only the following:
      1.   Formalwear and costume rental (uses within NAICS code 53222).
      2.   Videotape and disk rental (uses within NAICS code 53223).
      3.   Office machinery and equipment rental and leasing (uses within NAICS
code 53242).
   Repair and maintenance including only the following:
      1.   Footwear and leather goods repair (uses within NAICS code 81143).
   Securities, commodity contracts, and other financial investments and related
activities (uses within NAICS code 523).
   Sporting goods, hobby, book and music stores (uses within NAICS code 451).
   Telecommunications including only the following:
      1.   Telephone exchange (a use within NAICS code 517110).
      2.   Telephone transmission equipment structure (a use within NAICS code
517110).
      3.   Repeater stations (a use within NAICS code 51721).
   Transportation and warehousing including only the following:
      1.   Taxi stands (a use within NAICS code 485310).
   Traveler accommodations including only the following:
      1.   Bed and breakfast inns (uses within NAICS code 721191).
   United States Postal Service (uses within NAICS code 491).
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use maybe allowed within the C-l district unless such
accessory use is specifically listed as a special use in subsection D of this
section. Residential uses are allowed provided that they are located on the
second floor or above, of the building, or at the rear of the building. “Type
A” and “Type B” Short-Term Rental Units are allowed based on the performance
standards in section
11-7-2 of this title. Within the C-l district, there shall be no outdoor
storage of materials and supplies except as specifically allowed by a provision
of this title.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the C-1 District
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following: Fitness
center (uses within NAICS code 713940).
   Beer, wine and liquor stores (uses within NAICS code 445310).
   Car washes (uses within NAICS code 811192).
   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244).
   Drinking places (alcoholic beverages) (uses within NAICS code 7224).
   Full service restaurants (uses within NAICS code 7221) with outdoor seating
areas, with drive-up service, or with drive-through service.
   Gasoline stations (uses within NAICS code 447).
   Landscaping services (a use within NAICS code 561730).
   Limited service eating places (uses within NAICS code 7222) with drive-up
service or with drive-through service.
   Other individual and family services (uses within NAICS code 624190).
   Repair and maintenance including only the following:
      1.   Automotive repair and maintenance (uses within NAICS code 8111).
      2.   Electronic and precision equipment repair and maintenance (uses
within NAICS code 8112).
      3.   Personal and household goods repair and maintenance (uses within
NAICS code 8114).
   Supermarkets and other grocery (except convenience) stores (uses within
NAICS code 445110).
   Telecommunications facilities:
      1.   Disguised support structure (subject to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Stealth (subject to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      3.   Microwave tower.
      4.   Telecommunication co-use.
   Tire dealers (uses within NAICS code 441320).
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   F.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size          5,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         50 feet
Minimum lot depth         100 feet
Minimum front yard        None
Minimum street side yard  None
                          None, unless the side of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum side yard         Residential in which case there shall be a side yard
                          of at least 10 feet. If a side yard is not required
                          but is provided, it shall be at least 5 feet in width
Minimum rear yard         10 feet
Maximum building height   21/2 stories or 35 feet
Maximum building coverage 90 percent
Minimum district size     2 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6972, 10-25-2006; Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013; Ord.
7438, 12-17-2014; Ord. 7506, 1-27-2016; Ord. 7692, 3-27-2019; Ord. 7776, 9-10-
2020; Ord. 7879, 4-12-2023; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-10: C-2, GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-2, General Commercial District is to
permit selected retail sales and various service activities in appropriate
areas. The C-2 District is considered consistent with and designed to implement
the provisions of the comprehensive plan for land designated as commercial on
the City’s future land use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Buildings or structures may be erected, altered or used
for the following:
   Administrative and support services including only the following:
      1.   Office administrative services (uses within NAICS code 5611).
      2.   Employment services (uses within NAICS code 5613).
      3.   Business support services (uses within NAICS code 5614).
      4.   Travel agencies (uses within NAICS code 561510).
      5.   Convention and visitors bureaus (uses within NAICS code 561591).
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Performing arts companies (uses within NAICS code 7111).
      2.   Promoters of performing arts, sports and similar events (uses within
NAICS code 7113).
      3.   Agents and managers for artists, athletes, entertainers and other
public figures (uses within NAICS code 7114).
      4.   Independent artists, writers and performers (uses within NAICS code
7115).
      5.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
      6.   Fitness center (uses within NAICS code 713940).
      7.   Parks and playgrounds.
   Broadcasting and telecommunications including only the following:
      1.   Radio and television broadcasting (uses within NAICS code 5131).
      2.   Cable networks and program distribution (uses within NAICS code
5132).
   Building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers (uses within
NAICS code 444).
   Clothing and clothing accessories stores (uses within NAICS code 448).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunication facility (co-use) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Couriers and messengers (uses within NAICS code 492).
   Credit intermediation and related activities including only the following:
      1.   Depository credit intermediation (uses within NAICS code 5221)
including freestanding automated teller machines.
      2.   Nondepository credit intermediation, including only the following:
         a.   Credit card issuing (uses within NAICS code 52221).
         b.   Sales financing (uses within NAICS code 52222).
         c.   Other nondepository credit intermediation (uses within NAICS code
52229 except pawnshops).
   Educational services (uses within NAICS code 611 except flight training and
truck driving schools).
   Electronics and appliance stores (uses within NAICS code 443).
   Food and beverage stores (uses within NAICS code 445).
   Food services and drinking places including only the following:
      1.   Full service restaurants (uses within NAICS code 7221), including
drive-through facilities.
      2.   Limited service eating places (uses within NAICS code 7222),
including drive-through facilities.
      3.   Special food services (uses within NAICS code 7223).
      4.   Drinking places (alcoholic beverages) (uses within NAICS code 7224).
   Furniture and home furnishings stores (uses within NAICS code 442).
   Gasoline stations (uses within NAICS code 447).
   General merchandise stores including only the following:
      1.   Department stores (uses within NAICS code 4521).
      2.   Other general merchandise stores (uses within NAICS code 4529).
   Health and personal care stores (uses within NAICS code 446).
   Healthcare and social assistance including only the following:
      1.   Offices of physicians (uses within NAICS code 6211).
      2.   Offices of dentists (uses within NAICS code 6212).
      3.   Offices of other health practitioners (uses within NAICS code 6213).
      4.   Medical and diagnostic laboratories (uses within NAICS code 62151).
      5.   Nursing and residential care facilities including only the
following:
         a.   Nursing care facilities (uses within NAICS code 623110).
         b.   Continuing care retirement communities (uses within NAICS code
623311).
      6.   Individual and family services (uses within NAICS code 6241).
      7.   Vocational rehabilitation services (uses within NAICS code 6243).
      8.   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244).
   Information services and data processing services (uses within NAICS code
514).
   Insurance carriers and related activities (uses within NAICS code 524).
   Internet publishing and broadcasting and web search portals (uses within
NAICS code 519130).
   Kidney dialysis centers (uses within NAICS code 621492).
   Local messengers and local delivery (uses within NAICS code 4922).
   Management of companies and enterprises (uses within NAICS code 551).
   Miscellaneous store retailers (uses within NAICS code 453).
   Motion picture theaters (except drive-ins) (uses within NAICS code 512131).
   Motor vehicle and parts dealers (uses within NAICS code 441 except used car
dealers [NAICS code 44112] and aircraft dealers [a use within NAICS code
441229]).
   Motor vehicle towing (uses within NAICS code 48841).
   Personal and laundry services including only the following:
      1.   Personal care services (all uses within NAICS code 8121 except
massage parlors and steam or Turkish baths).
      2.   Funeral homes and funeral services (uses within NAICS code 812210).
      3.   Coin operated laundries and dry cleaners (uses within NAICS code
81231).
      4.   Dry cleaning and laundry services (except coin operated) (uses
within NAICS code 81232).
      5.   Photofinishing (uses within NAICS code 81292).
      6.   Parking lots and garages (uses within NAICS code 81293).
   Professional, scientific and technical services including only the
following:
      1.   Legal services (uses within NAICS code 5411).
      2.   Accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and payroll services (uses
within NAICS code 5412).
      3.   Architectural, engineering and related services (uses within NAICS
code 5413).
      4.   Specialized design services (uses within NAICS code 5414).
      5.   Computer systems design and related services (uses within NAICS code
5415).
      6.   Management, scientific and technical consulting services (uses
within NAICS code 5416).
      7.   Advertising and related services (uses within NAICS code 5418).
      8.   Marketing research and public opinion polling (uses within NAICS
code 54191).
      9.   Photographic services (uses within NAICS code 54192).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Courts (uses within NAICS code 92211).
      3.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      4.   Legal counsel and prosecution (uses within NAICS code 92213).
      5.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      6.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
   Publishing industries (uses within NAICS code 511).
   Real estate including only the following:
      1.   Lessors of residential buildings and dwellings (uses within NAICS
code 53111 except equity real estate investment trusts (REITs), primarily
leasing residential buildings and dwelling a use within NAICS code 531110).
      2.   Lessors of nonresidential buildings (except miniwarehouses) (uses
within NAICS code 53112 except equity real estate investment trusts (REITs),
primarily leasing nonresidential buildings [except miniwarehouses] a use within
NAICS code 531120).
      3.   Offices of real estate agents and brokers (uses within NAICS code
5312).
      4.   Activities related to real estate (uses within NAICS code 5313).
   Religious, grant making, civic, professional and similar organizations (uses
within NAICS code 813).
   Rental and leasing services including only the following:
      1.   Passenger car rental and leasing (uses within NAICS code 53211).
      2.   Formalwear and costume rental (uses within NAICS code 53222).
      3.   Videotape and disk rental (uses within NAICS code 53223).
      4.   Office machinery and equipment rental and leasing (uses within NAICS
code 53242).
   Repair and maintenance including only the following:
      1.   Automotive repair and maintenance (uses within NAICS code 8111).
      2.   Electronic and precision equipment repair and maintenance (uses
within NAICS code 8112).
      3.   Personal and household goods repair and maintenance (uses within
NAICS code 8114).
   Residential building construction (uses within NAICS code 2361), provided
that there is no outdoor storage on the site.
   Securities, commodity contracts, and other financial investments and related
activities (uses within NAICS code 523).
   Sporting goods, hobby, book and music stores (uses within NAICS code 451).
   Traveler accommodation including only the following:
      1.   Hotels (except casino hotels) and motels (uses within NAICS code
72111).
      2.   Bed and breakfast inns (uses within NAICS code 721191).
   United States postal service (uses within NAICS code 491).
   Urban transit systems (uses within NAICS code 4851).
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   Veterinary clinic (uses within NAICS code 541940).
   All other telecommunications including only the following:
      1.   Dial up internet service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      2.   Internet service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
(a use within NAICS code 517919).
      3.   Online access service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      4.   VoIP service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the C-2 District unless such
accessory use is specifically listed as a special use in subsection D of this
section. Residential uses are allowed provided that they are located on the
second floor or above, of the building, or at the rear of the building. “Type
A” and “Type B” Short-Term Rental Units are allowed based on the performance
standards in section
11-7-2 of this title. Within the C-2 District, there shall be no outdoor
storage of materials and supplies except as specifically allowed by a provision
of this title.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the C-2 District
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (freestanding) (subject to the criteria
in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Community counseling center (uses within NAICS code 621420).
   Computer and electronics recycling facility.
   Crane rental with operator (uses within NAICS code 238910).
   Landscaping services (a use within NAICS code 561730).
   Lessors of miniwarehouses and self-storage units except equity real estate
investment trusts (REITs), primarily leasing miniwarehouses and self-storage
units (uses within NAICS code 53113) (subject to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1J of this title).
   Microbreweries (uses with NAICS code 312120 which produces up to 465,000
gallons [15,000 barrels] of beer per year and which is operated by a craft
brewer).
   Motion picture and sound recording industries including only the following:
      1.   Motion picture and video production (uses within NAICS code 51211).
      2.   Motion picture and video distribution (uses within NAICS code
51212).
      3.   Postproduction services and other motion picture and video
industries (uses within NAICS code 51219).
      4.   Sound recording industries (uses within NAICS code 5122).
   Pet care services (uses within NAICS code 812910).
   Residential uses including only the following:
      1.   Community residence, Class III.
      2.   Community residence, Class IV.
   Taxi and limousine services (uses within NAICS code 4853).
   Truck and trailer sharing (truck, utility trailer rental and leasing NAICS
code 532120).
   Used car dealers (uses within NAICS code 44112).
   Warehousing and storage (uses within NAICS code 493).
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   F.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size          10,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         50 feet
Minimum lot depth         100 feet
Minimum front yard        25 feet
Minimum street side yard  15 feet
                          None, unless the side of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum side yard         Residential in which case there shall be a side yard
                          of at least 10 feet. If a side yard is not required
                          but is provided, it shall be at least 5 feet in width
                          5 feet, unless the rear of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum rear yard         Residential in which case there shall be a rear yard
                          of at least 25 feet
                          Gasoline pumps must be set back 15 feet from any
Gasoline station pumps    street line; 25 feet from any side or rear lot line;
                          and 50 feet from any residentially zoned land
Maximum building height   4 stories or 48 feet
Maximum building coverage 30 percent
Minimum district size     2 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6814, 6-9-2004; Ord. 6867, 3-9-2005; Ord.
6895, 8-24-2005; Ord. 7012, 6-27-2007; Ord. 7266, 8-10-2011; Ord. 7368, 9-11-
2013; Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013; Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014; Ord. 7473, 9-9-2015; Ord.
7523, 5-25-2016; Ord. 7655, 7-25-2018; Ord. 7656, 8-8-2018; Ord. 7692, 3-27-
2019; Ord. 7743, 2-12-2020; Ord. 7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7852, 9-28-2022; Ord.
7879, 4-12-2023; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-11: C-4, DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-4, downtown commercial district is to
protect the character of downtown by permitting selected retail sales and
service activities in the downtown area and regulating the bulk standards
accordingly. The C-4 district is considered consistent with and designed to
implement the provisions of the comprehensive plan for land in the downtown
area which is designated as downtown on the city’s future land use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Buildings or structures may be erected, altered or used
for the following:
      Administrative and support services including only the following:
         1.   Office administrative services (uses within NAICS code 5611).
         2.   Employment services (uses within NAICS code 5613).
         3.   Business support services (uses within NAICS code 5614).
         4.   Travel agencies (uses within NAICS code 561510).
         5.   Convention and visitors bureaus (uses within NAICS code 561591).
      Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
         1.   Performing arts companies (uses within NAICS code 7111).
         2.   Promoters of performing arts, sports and similar events (uses
within NAICS code 7113).
         3.   Agents and managers for artists, athletes, entertainers and other
public figures (uses within NAICS code 7114).
         4.   Independent artists, writers and performers (uses within NAICS
code 7115).
         5.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
         6.   Parks and playgrounds.
      Broadcasting and telecommunications including only the following:
         1.   Radio and television broadcasting (uses within NAICS code 5131).
         2.   Cable networks and program distribution (uses within NAICS code
5132).
      Building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers including
only the following:
         1.   Paint and wallpaper stores (uses within NAICS code 44412).
         2.   Hardware stores (uses within NAICS code 44413).
      Clothing and clothing accessories stores (uses within NAICS code 448).
      Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
         1.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      Credit intermediation and related activities including only the
following:
         1.   Depository credit intermediation (uses within NAICS code 5221)
including freestanding automated teller machines.
         2.   Nondepository credit intermediation, including only the
following:
            a.   Credit card issuing (uses within NAICS code 52221).
            b.   Sales financing (uses within NAICS code 52222).
            c.   Other nondepository credit intermediation (uses within NAICS
code 52229 except pawnshops).
      Educational services (uses within NAICS code 611 except flight training
and truck driving schools).
      Electronics and appliance stores (uses within NAICS code 443).
      Food and beverage stores (uses within NAICS code 445).
      Food services and drinking places including only the following:
         1.   Full service restaurants (uses within NAICS code 7221), including
drive-through facilities.
         2.   Limited service eating places (uses within NAICS code 7222),
including drive-through facilities.
         3.   Special food services (uses within NAICS code 7223).
         4.   Drinking places (alcoholic beverages) (uses within NAICS code
7224).
      Furniture and home furnishings stores (uses within NAICS code 442).
      General merchandise stores including only the following:
         1.   Department stores (uses within NAICS code 4521).
         2.   All other general merchandise stores (uses within NAICS code
45299).
      Health and personal care stores (uses within NAICS code 446).
      Healthcare and social assistance including only the following:
         1.   Offices of physicians (uses within NAICS code 6211).
         2.   Offices of dentists (uses within NAICS code 6212).
         3.   Offices of other health practitioners (uses within NAICS code
6213).
         4.   Individual and family services (uses within NAICS code 6241).
         5.   Vocational rehabilitation services (uses within NAICS code 6243).
         6.   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244).
      Information services and data processing services (uses within NAICS code
514).
      Insurance carriers and related activities (uses within NAICS code 524).
      Internet publishing and broadcasting and web search portals (uses within
NAICS code 519130).
      Local messengers and local delivery (uses within NAICS code 4922).
      Management of companies and enterprises (uses within NAICS code 551).
      Miscellaneous store retailers including only the following:
         1.   Florists (uses within NAICS code 4531).
         2.   Office supplies, stationery and gift stores (uses within NAICS
code 4532).
         3.   Used merchandise stores (uses within NAICS code 45331).
         4.   Art dealers (uses within NAICS code 45392).
         5.   Tobacco stores (uses within NAICS code 453991).
         6.   All other miscellaneous store retailers including only the
following:
            a.   Art supply stores (a use in NAICS code 453998).
            b.   Candle supply stores (a use in NAICS code 453998).
            c.   Collector’s items (e.g., autograph, coin, card, stamp) shops
(a use in NAICS code 453998).
            d.   Flower shops, artificial or dried (a use in NAICS code
453998).
            e.   Home security equipment stores (a use in NAICS code 453998).
            f.   Trophy (e.g., awards and plaques) shops (a use in NAICS code
453998).
            g.   Pet and pet supplies stores (uses within NAICS code 453910).
      Motion picture theaters (except drive-ins) (uses within NAICS code
512131).
      Motor vehicle and parts dealers including only the following:
         1.   New car dealers (uses within NAICS code 441110).
         2.   Motorcycle, boat, and other motor vehicle dealers (uses within
NAICS code 44122 except aircraft dealers [a use within NAICS code 441229]).
         3.   Automotive parts, accessories and tire stores (uses within NAICS
code 4413).
      Personal and laundry services including only the following:
         1.   Barbershops (uses within NAICS code 812111).
         2.   Beauty salons (uses within NAICS code 812112).
         3.   Nail salons (uses within NAICS code 812113).
         4.   Diet and weight reducing centers (uses within NAICS code 812191).
         5.   Ear piercing services (uses within NAICS code 812199).
         6.   Electrolysis salons (uses within NAICS code 812199).
         7.   Hair replacement (uses within NAICS code 812199).
         8.   Permanent makeup salons (uses within NAICS code 812199).
         9.   Tanning salons (uses within NAICS code 812199).
         10.   Funeral homes and funeral services (uses within NAICS code
812210).
         11.   Coin operated laundries and dry cleaners (uses within NAICS code
81231).
         12.   Dry cleaning and laundry services (except coin operated) (uses
within NAICS code 81232).
         13.   Photofinishing (uses within NAICS code 81292).
         14.   Parking lots and garages (uses within NAICS code 81293).
      Professional, scientific and technical services including only the
following:
         1.   Legal services (uses within NAICS code 5411).
         2.   Accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and payroll services
(uses within NAICS code 5412).
         3.   Architectural, engineering and related services (uses within
NAICS code 5413).
         4.   Specialized design services (uses within NAICS code 5414).
         5.   Computer systems design and related services (uses within NAICS
code 5415).
         6.   Management, scientific and technical consulting services (uses
within NAICS code 5416).
         7.   Advertising and related services (uses within NAICS code 5418).
         8.   Marketing research and public opinion polling (uses within NAICS
code 54191).
         9.   Photographic services (uses within NAICS code 54192).
      Public administration including only the following:
         1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
         2.   Courts (uses within NAICS code 92211).
         3.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
         4.   Legal counsel and prosecution (uses within NAICS code 92213).
         5.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
         6.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within
NAICS code 92219).
      Real estate including only the following:
         1.   Lessors of residential buildings and dwellings (uses within NAICS
code 53111 except equity real estate investment trusts (REITs), primarily
leasing residential buildings and dwelling a use within NAICS code 531110).
         2.   Lessors of nonresidential buildings (except miniwarehouses) (uses
within NAICS code 53112 except equity real estate investment trusts (REITs),
primarily leasing nonresidential buildings [except miniwarehouses] a use within
NAICS code 531120).
         3.   Offices of real estate agents and brokers (uses within NAICS code
5312).
         4.   Activities related to real estate (uses within NAICS code 5313).
      Recreational Goods Rental (NAICS 532292).
      Religious, grant making, civic, professional and similar organizations
(uses within NAICS code 813).
      Rental and leasing services including only the following:
         1.   Passenger car rental and leasing (uses within NAICS code 53211).
         2.   Formalwear and costume rental (uses within NAICS code 53222).
         3.   Videotape and disk rental (uses within NAICS code 53223).
         4.   Office machinery and equipment rental and leasing (uses within
NAICS code 53242).
      Repair and maintenance including only the following:
         1.   Electronic and precision equipment repair and maintenance (uses
within NAICS code 8112).
         2.   Personal and household goods repair and maintenance (uses within
NAICS code 8114).
      Securities, commodity contracts, and other financial investments and
related activities (uses within NAICS code 523).
      Sporting goods, hobby, book and music stores (uses within NAICS code
451).
      Traveler accommodation including only the following:
         1.   Hotels and motels (uses within NAICS code 72111).
         2.   Casino hotels (uses within NAICS code 72112).
         3.   Bed and breakfast inns (uses within NAICS code 721191).
      United States postal service (uses within NAICS code 491).
      Urban transit systems (uses within NAICS code 4851).
      Utility uses including only the following:
         1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
      All other telecommunications including only the following:
         1.   Dial up internet service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
         2.   Internet service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications (a use within NAICS code 517919).
         3.   Online access service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications (a use within NAICS code 517919).
         4.   VoIP service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the C-4 district unless such
accessory use is specifically listed as a special use in subsection D of this
section. Residential uses are allowed provided that they are located on the
second floor or above, of the building, or at the rear of the building. “Type
A” and “Type B” Short-Term Rental Units are allowed based on the performance
standards in section 11-7-2 of this title. Within the C-4 district, there shall
be no outdoor storage of materials and supplies except as specifically allowed
by a provision of this title.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the C-4 district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
      Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
         1.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure)
(subject to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
         2.   Telecommunications facility (freestanding) (subject to the
criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      Gasoline stations (uses within NAICS code 447).
      Microbreweries (uses within NAICS code 312120 which produce up to 465,000
gallons [15,000 barrels] of beer per year which are operated by a craft
brewer).
      Personal and laundry services, including only the following:
         Tattoo parlors (a use within NAICS code 812199). A maximum of one
tattoo parlor shall be allowed within this zoning classification.
      Plate work manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 332313).
      Restaurants with outdoor seating areas (uses within NAICS code 7221).
      Taxi and limousine services (uses within NAICS code 4853).
      Warehousing and storage (uses within NAICS code 493).
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading facilities are not required in the C-4 district.
   F.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size          2,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         20 feet
Minimum lot depth         100 feet
Minimum front yard        None
Minimum street side yard  None
                          None, unless the side of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum side yard         residential in which case there shall be a side yard
                          of at least 5 feet. If a side yard is not required
                          but is provided, it shall be at least 5 feet in width
Minimum rear yard         None
                          Gasoline pumps must be set back 15 feet from any
Gasoline station pumps    street line; 25 feet from any side or rear lot line;
                          and 50 feet from any residentially zoned land
Maximum building height   7 stories or 90 feet
Maximum building coverage No limitation
Minimum district size     3 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6862, 12-15-2004; Ord. 6867, 3-9-2005; Ord.
6895, 8-24-2005; Ord. 7325, 10-10-2012; Ord. 7358, 7-24-2013; Ord. 7373, 10-9-
2013; Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014; Ord. 7462, 6-10-2015; Ord. 7743, 2-12-2020; Ord.
7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7852, 9-28-2022; Ord. 7879, 4-12-2023; Ord. 7904, 9-27-
2023; Ord. 7938, 4-10-2024)
11-5-12: C-5, HEAVY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the C-5, heavy commercial district is to permit
selected retail sales and various service activities in appropriate areas. The
C-5 district is considered consistent with and designed to implement the
provisions of the comprehensive plan for land in the East Broadway corridor and
designated as commercial on the city's future land use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Buildings or structures may be erected, altered or used
for the following:
   Administrative and support services including only the following:
      1.   Office administrative services (uses within NAICS code 5611).
      2.   Employment services (uses within NAICS code 5613).
      3.   Business support services (uses within NAICS code 5614).
      4.   Convention and visitors bureaus (uses within NAICS code 561591).
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
      2.   Parks and playgrounds.
   Broadcasting and telecommunications including only the following:
      1.   Radio and television broadcasting (uses within NAICS code 5131).
      2.   Cable networks and program distribution (uses within NAICS code
5132).
   Building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers (uses within
NAICS code 444).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Construction (uses within NAICS code 23).
   Couriers and messengers (uses within NAICS code 492).
   Credit intermediation and related activities including only the following:
      1.   Depository credit intermediation (uses within NAICS code 5221)
including freestanding automated teller machines.
      2.   Nondepository credit intermediation, including only the following:
         a.   Credit card issuing (uses within NAICS code 52221).
         b.   Sales financing (uses within NAICS code 52222).
         c.   Other nondepository credit intermediation (uses within NAICS code
52229 except pawnshops).
   Educational services including only the following:
      1.   Business schools and computer and management training (uses within
NAICS code 6114).
      2.   Cosmetology and barber schools (uses within NAICS code 611511).
      3.   Other technical and trade schools (uses within NAICS code 611519).
      4.   Other schools and instruction (uses within NAICS code 6116).
   Electronics and appliance stores (uses within NAICS code 443).
   Food and beverage stores (uses within NAICS code 445).
   Food services and drinking places including only the following:
      1.   Limited service eating places (uses within NAICS code 7222),
including drive-through facilities.
      2.   Special food services (uses within NAICS code 7223).
      3.   Drinking places (alcoholic beverages) (uses within NAICS code 7224).
   Furniture and home furnishings stores (uses within NAICS code 442).
   Furniture and related product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 337).
   Gasoline stations (uses within NAICS code 447).
   General merchandise stores including only the following:
      1.   Department stores (uses within NAICS code 4521).
      2.   Other general merchandise stores (uses within NAICS code 4529).
   Hair, nail and skin care services (uses within NAICS code 81211).
   Healthcare and social assistance including only the following:
      1.   Individual and family services (uses within NAICS code 6241).
      2.   Vocational rehabilitation services (uses within NAICS code 6243).
   Information services and data processing services (uses within NAICS code
514).
   Insurance carriers and related activities (uses within NAICS code 524).
   Internet publishing and broadcasting and web search portals (uses within
NAICS code 519130).
   Local messengers and local delivery (uses within NAICS code 4922).
   Management of companies and enterprises (uses within NAICS code 551).
   Metalworking machinery manufacturing including only the following:
      1.   Special die and tool, die set, jig, and fixture manufacturing (uses
within NAICS code 333514).
   Motor vehicle and parts dealers (all uses within NAICS code 441 except used
car dealers [NAICS code 44112] and aircraft dealers [a use within NAICS code
441229]).
   Motor vehicle towing (uses within NAICS code 48841).
   Personal and laundry services including only the following:
      1.   Dry cleaning and laundry services (uses within NAICS code 8123).
      2.   Parking lots and garages (uses within NAICS code 812930).
   Pet and pet supplies store (NAICS code 4539190).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Courts (uses within NAICS code 92211).
      3.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      4.   Legal counsel and prosecution (uses within NAICS code 92213).
      5.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      6.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
   Publishing industries (uses within NAICS code 511).
   Real estate including only the following:
      1.   Lessors of residential buildings and dwellings (uses within NAICS
code 53111 except equity real estate investment trusts (REITs), primarily
leasing residential buildings and dwelling a use within NAICS code 531110).
      2.   Lessors of nonresidential buildings (except miniwarehouses) (uses
within NAICS code 53112 except equity real estate investment trusts (REITs),
primarily leasing nonresidential buildings [except miniwarehouses] a use within
NAICS code 531120).
      3.   Offices of real estate agents and brokers (uses within NAICS code
5312).
      4.   Activities related to real estate (uses within NAICS code 5313).
   Religious, grant making, civic, professional and similar organizations (uses
within NAICS code 813).
   Rental and leasing services including only the following:
      1.   Passenger car rental and leasing (uses within NAICS code 53211).
      2.   Office machinery and equipment rental and leasing (uses within NAICS
code 53242).
   Repair and maintenance including only the following:
      1.   Automotive repair and maintenance (uses within NAICS code 8111).
      2.   Electronic and precision equipment repair and maintenance (uses
within NAICS code 8112).
      3.   Commercial and industrial machinery and equipment (except automotive
and electronic) repair and maintenance (uses within NAICS code 8113).
      4.   Personal and household goods repair and maintenance (uses within
NAICS code 8114).
   United States postal service (uses within NAICS code 491).
   Urban transit systems (uses within NAICS code 4851).
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   Veterinary services (uses within NAICS code 54190).
   Warehousing and storage (uses within NAICS code 493).
   Wholesale trade including only the following:
      1.   Motor vehicle and motor vehicle parts and supplies merchant
wholesalers (uses with NAICS code 4231).
      2.   Furniture and home furnishing merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4232).
      3.   Lumber and other construction materials merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 4233).
      4.   Professional commercial equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
(uses within NAICS code 4234).
      5.   Metal and mineral (except petroleum) merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 4235).
      6.   Electrical and electronic goods merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4236).
      7.   Hardware, and plumbing and heating equipment and supplies merchant
wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 4237).
      8.   Machinery, equipment, and supplies merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4238).
      9.   Miscellaneous durable goods merchant wholesalers including only the
following:
         a.   Sporting and recreational goods and supplies merchant wholesalers
(uses within NAICS code 42391).
         b.   Toy and hobby goods and supplies merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 42392).
         c.   Jewelry, watch, precious stone, and precious metal merchant
wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 42394).
         d.   Other miscellaneous durable goods merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 42399).
      10.   Women's, children's and infant's clothing and accessories merchant
wholesalers (NAICS code 424330).
      11.   Footwear merchant wholesalers (NAICS code 424340).
   All other telecommunications including only the following:
      1.   Dial up internet service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      2.   Internet service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
(a use within NAICS code 517919).
      3.   Online access service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      4.   VoIP service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the C-5 District unless such
accessory use is specifically listed as a special use in subsection D of this
section. Residential uses are allowed provided that they are located on the
second floor of the building or at the rear of the building. “Type A” and “Type
B” Short-Term Rental Units are allowed based on the performance standards in
section
11-7-2 of this title. Within the C-5 District, there shall be no outdoor
storage of materials and supplies except as specifically allowed by a provision
of this title.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the C-5 District
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Arts, entertainment, and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Firearm shooting ranges (a use within NAICS code 713990).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (freestanding) (subject to the criteria
in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Landscaping services (a use within NAICS code 561730).
   Pet care services (uses within NAICS code 812910).
   Sporting goods, hobby, book, and music stores including only the following:
      1.   Gun shops (a use within NAICS code 451110).
   Tobacco Stores (uses with NAICS Code 453991)
   Used car dealers (uses within NAICS code 44112).
   Used merchandise stores (uses within NAICS code 45331).
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   F.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size          20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         100 feet
Minimum lot depth         100 feet
Minimum front yard        25 feet
Minimum street side yard  25 feet
Minimum side yard         10 feet
                          25 feet, unless the rear of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum rear yard         Residential in which case there shall be a rear yard
                          of at least 35 feet
                          Gasoline pumps must be set back 15 feet from any
Gasoline station pumps    street line; 25 feet from any side or rear lot line;
                          and 50 feet from any residentially zoned land
Maximum building height   3 stories or 45 feet
Maximum building coverage 40 percent
Minimum district size     3 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6853, 11-23-2004; Ord. 6946, 4-26-2006; Ord.
7373, 10-9-2013; Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014; Ord. 7540, 9-14-2016; Ord. 7547, 11-22-
2016; Ord. 7658, 8-8-2018; Ord. 7692, 3-27-2019; Ord. 7743, 2-12-2020; Ord.
7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7796, 2-11-2021; Ord. 7852, 9-28-2022; Ord. 7879, 4-12-
2023; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-13: MR, MARINA RECREATION DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the MR, Marina Recreation District, is to
permit selected retail sales, various service activities, and recreational uses
in appropriate areas. The MR District is considered consistent with and
designed to implement provisions of the comprehensive plan for lands in close
proximity to the Mississippi River that are designated as parks and open space,
public/semipublic and commercial on the City's future land use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Buildings or structures may be erected, altered or used
for the following:
   Administrative and support services including only the following:
      1.   Office administrative services (uses within NAICS Code 5611).
      2.   Employment services (uses within NAICS Code 5613).
      3.   Business support services (uses within NAICS Code 5614).
      4.   Convention and visitors bureaus (uses within NAICS Code 561591).
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
      2.   Golf courses and country clubs (uses within NAICS code 71391).
      3.   Marinas (uses within NAICS code 71393).
      4.   Fitness and recreation sports centers (uses within NAICS code
713940).
      5.   Parks and playgrounds.
   Bait sales (a use within NAICS code 424990).
   Boat dealers (uses within NAICS code 441222).
   Building material and supplies dealers (uses within NAICS code 4441).
   Clothing and clothing accessories stores (uses within NAICS code 448).
   Credit intermediation and related activities including only the following:
      1.   Depository credit intermediation (uses within NAICS code 5221)
including freestanding automated teller machines.
   Educational services including only the following:
      1.   Business schools and computer and management training (uses within
NAICS code 6114).
      2.   Cosmetology and barber schools (uses within NAICS code 611511).
      3.   Other technical and trade schools (uses within NAICS code 611519
except truck driving schools).
      4.   Other schools and instruction (uses within NAICS code 6116).
   Food and beverage stores (uses within NAICS code 445).
   Food services and drinking places including only the following:
      1.   Full service restaurants (uses within NAICS code 7221), including
drive-through facilities.
      2.   Limited service eating places (uses within NAICS code 7222),
including drive-through facilities.
      3.   Catering services (uses within NAICS code 722320).
      4.   Drinking places (alcoholic beverages) (uses within NAICS code 7224).
   Gasoline stations with convenience stores (uses within NAICS code 447110).
   General merchandise stores including only the following:
      1.   Other general merchandise stores (uses within NAICS code 4529).
   Health and personal care stores (uses within NAICS code 446).
   Healthcare and social assistance including only the following:
      1.   Offices of physicians (uses within NAICS code 6211).
      2.   Offices of dentists (uses within NAICS code 6212).
      3.   Offices of other health practitioners (uses within NAICS code 6213).
      4.   Nursing and residential care facilities including only the
following:
         a.   Assisted living facilities (a use within NAICS code 623312).
      5.   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244).
   Information services and data processing services (uses within NAICS code
514).
   Insurance carriers and related activities (uses within NAICS code 524).
   Management of companies and enterprises (uses within NAICS code 551).
   Miscellaneous store retailers (uses within NAICS code 453).
   Motion picture theaters (except drive-ins) (uses within NAICS code 512131).
   Newspaper publishers (uses within NAICS code 511110).
   Ophthalmic goods manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 339114).
   Personal and laundry services including only the following:
      1.   Barbershops (uses within NAICS code 812111).
      2.   Beauty salons (uses within NAICS code 812112).
      3.   Nail salons (uses within NAICS code 812113).
      4.   Tanning salons (a use within NAICS code 812199).
      5.   Parking lots and garages (uses within NAICS code 812930).
   Professional, scientific and technical services including only the
following:
      1.   Legal services (uses within NAICS code 5411).
      2.   Accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and payroll services (uses
within NAICS code 5412).
      3.   Architectural, engineering and related services (uses within NAICS
code 5413).
      4.   Specialized design services (uses within NAICS code 5414).
      5.   Computer systems design and related services (uses within NAICS code
5415).
      6.   Management, scientific and technical consulting services (uses
within NAICS code 5416).
      7.   Advertising and related services (uses within NAICS code 5418).
      8.   Marketing research and public opinion polling (uses within NAICS
code 54191).
      9.   Photographic services (uses within NAICS code 54192).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Courts (uses within NAICS code 92211).
      3.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      4.   Legal counsel and prosecution (uses within NAICS code 92213).
      5.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      6.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
   Rail transportation including only the following:
      1.   Passenger terminals (a use within NAICS code 482111).
      2.   Rail yards (a use within NAICS codes 482111, 482112).
   Real estate including only the following:
      1.   Lessors of residential buildings and dwellings (uses within NAICS
code 53111 except equity real estate investment trusts (REITs), primarily
leasing residential buildings and dwelling a use within NAICS code 531110).
      2.   Lessors of nonresidential buildings (except miniwarehouses) (uses
within NAICS code 53112 except equity real estate investment trusts (REITs),
primarily leasing nonresidential buildings [except miniwarehouses] a use within
NAICS code 531120).
      3.   Offices of real estate agents and brokers (uses within NAICS code
5312).
      4.   Activities related to real estate (uses within NAICS code 5313).
   Religious, grant making, civic, professional and similar organizations (uses
within NAICS code 813).
   Securities, commodity contracts, and other financial investments and related
activities (uses within NAICS code 523).
   Sporting goods, hobby, book and music stores (uses within NAICS code 451).
   Traveler accommodation including only the following:
      1.   Hotels and motels (uses within NAICS code 72111).
      2.   Casino hotels (uses within NAICS code 72112).
      3.   Bed and breakfast inns (uses within NAICS code 721191).
   United States postal service (uses within NAICS code 491).
   Urban transit systems (uses within NAICS code 4851).
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the MR district unless such
accessory use is specifically listed as a special use in subsection D of this
section. Residential uses are allowed provided that they are located on the
second floor of the building or at the rear of the building. “Type A” and “Type
B” Short-Term Rental Units are allowed based on the performance standards in
section
11-7-2 of this title.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the MR district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Boat servicing and repair (a use within NAICS code 811490).
   Circus/carnival grounds (a use within NAICS code 711310).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Festivals and seasonal events.
   Gun shops (uses within NAICS code 451110).
   Heliport (a use within NAICS code 481211 and 487990).
   Microbreweries (uses within NAICS code 312120) which produce up to four
hundred sixty five thousand (465,000) gallons (15,000 barrels of beer per year
and which are operated by a craft brewer).
   Miniature golf course (a use within NAICS code 713990).
   Motion picture and sound recording industries including only the following:
      1.   Motion picture and video production (uses within NAICS code 51211).
      2.   Motion picture and video distribution (uses within NAICS code
51212).
      3.   Postproduction services and other motion picture and video
industries (uses within NAICS code 51219).
      4.   Sound recording industries (uses within NAICS code 5122).
   Other amusement and recreational activities (uses within NAICS code 713990).
   Public fairgrounds (a use within NAICS code 711310).
   Residential uses, including only the following: duplexes.
   Telecommunication call center (uses within NAICS code 561422).
   Warehousing and storage (uses within NAICS code 493).
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   F.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size          2,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         20 feet
Minimum lot depth         100 feet
Minimum front yard        25 feet
Minimum street side yard  None
Minimum side yard         None
Minimum rear yard         None
                          Gasoline pumps must be set back 15 feet from any
Gasoline station pumps    street line; 25 feet from any side or rear lot line;
                          and 50 feet from any residentially zoned land
Maximum building height   5 stories or 75 feet
Maximum building coverage 70 percent
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6895, 8-24-2005; Ord. 7335, 11-14-2012; Ord.
7373, 10-9-2013; Ord. 7407, 5-28-2014; Ord. 7413, 6-25-2014; Ord. 7438, 12-17-
2014; Ord. 7518, 4-27-2016; Ord. 7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7879, 4-12-2023; Ord.
7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-14: MUT, MIXED USE TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the MUT, mixed use transportation district is
to permit mixed use activities in association with mixed mode transportation
systems, including high speed rail, light rail, bus transit, and other
intercity or commuter transportation systems, in appropriate areas. The MUT
district is considered consistent with and designed to implement the provisions
of the comprehensive plan for land designated as mixed use transportation on
the city's future land use map.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Buildings, structures, or land may be erected or used
for the following:
   Civic, cultural and community facilities (uses within NAICS code 712).
   Daycare facilities (uses within NAICS code 624410).
   Dry cleaners stores with cleaning facilities located outside the mixed use
transportation district (uses within NAICS code 81232).
   Educational facilities (uses within NAICS code 611310).
   Financial institutions, including:
      1.   Commercial banking (uses within NAICS code 522110).
      2.   Savings institutions (uses within NAICS code 522120).
      3.   Credit unions (uses within NAICS code 522130).
   Government office and service oriented buildings (uses within NAICS code
921190).
   Hotels (uses within NAICS code 72111).
   Mixed mode transit systems (uses within NAICS code 485111).
   Mixed use buildings with ground floor retail, personal services and/or
service oriented offices and residential on upper floors.
   Nonservice oriented office uses on upper floors only, including:
      1.   Architectural, engineering and related services (uses within NAICS
code 5413).
      2.   Employment services (uses within NAICS code 5613).
      3.   Management, scientific, and technical consulting services (uses
within NAICS code 5416).
      4.   Office administrative services (uses within NAICS code 5611).
   Residential single-family attached at two (2) units (e.g., townhomes).
   Residential single-family detached.
   Restaurants, except drive-through establishments which may only be
authorized by special permit (uses within NAICS code 722511).
   Retail use buildings under fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet, including:
      1.   Department stores (uses within NAICS code 4522).
      2.   Miscellaneous store retailers (uses within NAICS code 453998) except
tobacco stores and marijuana stores.
      3.   Other general merchandise stores (uses within NAICS code 452319).
      4.   Pharmacies and drug stores (446110).
   Service oriented office uses, including:
      1.   Accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping, and payroll services (uses
within NAICS code 5412).
      2.   Business support services (uses within NAICS code 5614).
      3.   Legal services (uses within NAICS code 5411).
      4.   Offices of physicians (uses within NAICS code 6211).
      5.   Offices of dentists (uses within NAICS code 6212).
      6.   Offices of other health practitioners (uses within NAICS code 6213).
      7.   Office of real estate agents and brokers (uses within NAICS code
5312).
      8.   Travel agencies (uses within NAICS code 561510).
   Support activities for rail transportation (NAICS 488210).
   Theaters, except drive-ins (uses within NAICS code 512131).
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the MUT district. Type A”
and “Type B” Short-Term Rental Units are allowed based on the performance
standards in section
11-7-2 of this title. Within the MUT district, there shall be no outdoor
storage of materials and supplies except as specifically allowed by a provision
of this zoning ordinance.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the MUT district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Commercial surface parking lots or parking structures (uses within NAICS
code 81293).
   Drive-through restaurants and fast food establishments (uses within NAICS
code 722511).
   Grocery stores over fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet (uses within NAICS
code 445110).
   Laboratories (uses within NAICS code 541380).
   Large solar energy systems.
   Research facilities (uses within NAICS code 541712).
   Retail use buildings over fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet (uses within
NAICS code 452111).
   Small wind energy systems.
   Stadiums and sports facilities (uses within NAICS code 711211).
   E.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size          No limitation
Minimum lot width         0
Minimum lot depth         0
Minimum front yard        None
                          15 feet, unless a courtyard, plaza, or seating area
Maximum front yard        is provided in which case there may be a front yard
                          of up to 25 feet
Minimum street side yard  None
                          None, unless the side of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum side yard         residential in which case there shall be a side yard
                          of at least 5 feet. If a side yard is not required
                          but is provided, it shall be at least 5 feet in width
                          15 feet, including for side yards facing a street,
Maximum side yard         unless a side yard is required to accommodate two-way
                          traffic to rear parking and loading areas in which
                          case the side yard maximum shall be 30 feet
                          None, unless the rear of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum rear yard         residential in which case there shall be a rear yard
                          of at least 25 feet. If a rear yard is not required
                          but is provided, it shall be at least 5 feet in width
                          4 stories or 60 feet, except when the lot is located
Maximum building height   within 120 feet of land zoned residential district in
                          which case it shall be 2 stories or 35 feet
Minimum building coverage No limitation
Maximum building coverage No limitation
Minimum district size     50 acres
 
   F.   Commercial Building Design Standards:
      1.   All buildings must provide a main entrance on the facade of the
building facing the principal street.
      2.   Facades over fifty feet (50') in length shall be divided into
shorter segments by means of facade modulation, repeating window patterns,
changes in materials, canopies or awnings, varying roof lines, and/or other
architectural treatments.
      3.   All ground level retail, service, and trade uses that face a public
space, including streets, shall have clear glass on at least sixty percent
(60%) of their facades between three (3) and eight feet (8') above grade.
   G.   Parking Regulations:
      1.   Surface parking lots must be to the rear of buildings.
      2.   The number of parking spaces shall be the required number of off
street parking spaces contained in chapter 9 of this title.
      3.   Reduction in the number of required parking spaces may be permitted
by a special permit granted by the city plan commission after a finding by the
commission that the development will be adequately served by users of public
transportation.
      4.   Shared parking is strongly encouraged. On lots serving more than one
use, the total number of spaces required may be reduced, provided that the
applicant submits credible evidence to the satisfaction of the city plan
commission that the peak parking demand of the uses do not coincide, and that
the accumulated parking demand at any one time shall not exceed the total
capacity of the facility. Such evidence must take into account the parking
demand of residents, employees, customers, visitors, and any other users of the
lot. It must also take into account parking demand on both weekends and
weekdays, and both during the daytime and overnight.
      5.   Where feasible, ingress and egress from parking shall be from side
streets or alleys.
      6.   Surface parking lots shall provide pedestrian walkways and
connections to the sidewalk system.
      7.   On street parking is permitted and encouraged.
      8.   Parking structures shall have well designed and marked pedestrian
walkways and connections to the sidewalk system.
      9.   Parking structures must include ground level retail, office, or
other permitted uses along all the streets and sidewalks.
      10.   Parking structures shall be designed to be compatible with adjacent
buildings and architecture.
      11.   See landscaping subsections K and L of this section for
requirements of green space and landscape requirements within a parking lot.
   H.   Bicycle Parking:
      1.   Residential; multi-unit:
         a.   Provide at least one secure, enclosed bicycle storage space per
occupant for thirty percent (30%) of the planned occupancy but no fewer than
one per unit. Provide secure visitor bicycle racks on site, with at least one
bicycle space per ten (10) dwelling units but no fewer than four (4) spaces per
project site.
      2.   Retail:
         a.   Provide at least one secure, enclosed bicycle storage space per
new retail worker for ten percent (10%) of retail workers planned occupancy.
Provide visitor or customer bicycle racks on site, with at least one bicycle
space per five thousand (5,000) square feet of retail space, but no fewer than
one bicycle space per business or four bicycle spaces per project site,
whichever is greater.
      3.   Nonresidential other than retail:
         a.   Provide at least one secure, enclosed bicycle storage space per
new occupant for ten percent (10%) of planned occupancy. Provide visitor
bicycle racks on site with at least one bicycle space per ten thousand (10,000)
square feet of new commercial nonretail space but not fewer than four (4)
bicycle spaces per building.
      4.   Visitors' and customers' bicycle racks must be clearly visible from
a main entry, located within fifty feet (50') of the door, served with night
lighting, and protected from damage from nearby vehicles. If the building has
multiple main entries, bicycle racks must be proportionally dispersed within
fifty feet (50') of each.
   I.   Outdoor Lighting:
      1.   Purpose: The purpose of this subsection is to provide reasonable
regulations to direct the location, design, illumination level and use of
outdoor lighting to minimize its undesirable effects. Specifically, this
subsection is intended to promote the public health, safety and general welfare
by:
         a.   Maintaining safe nighttime driver performance on public streets
by minimizing both brightly lit surfaces and lighting glare.
         b.   Promoting lighting that provides security but protects the
privacy of adjacent properties.
         c.   Allowing lighting that is not unduly intrusive or a nuisance to
nearby residents, property occupants, and drivers.
         d.   Eliminating intrusive artificial light and lighting that
unnecessarily contributes to "sky glow" and energy consumption.
      2.   Lighting Plan: The following information shall be included for all
city plan commission reviews:
         a.   A site plan drawn to a scale of one inch equaling no more than
thirty feet (1" = 30') showing the buildings, landscaping, parking and service
areas, and location and type of all proposed outdoor lighting.
         b.   A photometric grid overlaid on the proposed site plan.
         c.   Analyses showing that the proposed installation conforms to the
lighting level standards in this section. A photometric plan shall indicate
lighting levels at ground level based on no greater than a twenty five foot
(25') on center grid and shall project twenty five feet (25') onto adjacent
properties or to the setback limit line, whichever is greater. Illumination
levels shall also be measured for all surrounding streets at the public right
of way.
         d.   Specifications for all proposed lighting fixtures including
mounting heights, photometric data, designation as Illuminations Engineering
Society Of North America (IESNA) "cutoff" fixtures, color rendering index (CRI)
of all lamps (bulbs), and other descriptive information on the fixtures. All
lighting shall have the intensities and uniformity ratio consistent with the
"Lighting Handbook" of the IESNA.
      3.   Type: All outdoor lighting, including freestanding, canopy, pole,
and building mounted, shall be fully shielded and directed downward to prevent
off site glare and illumination.
      4.   Intensity; General: The intensity of light within a site shall not
exceed ten (10) foot-candles within any part of the site and one foot-candle at
any lot line, except where it abuts or faces a residential use, a maximum of
0.5 foot-candles is permitted. In all public areas, install automatic controls
that turn off exterior lighting when sufficient daylight is available.
      5.   Uniformity Ratios: In order to maintain uniformity in light levels
across a development and prevent or minimize dark areas, the ratio of maximum
to minimum lighting levels on a given lot is measured in foot-candles at ground
level, and shall not exceed a ratio of fifteen to one (15:1). Parking lots
shall maintain the same uniformity ratios as the main building or principal use
served.
      6.   Height: Except as otherwise required, the mounting height of
fixtures that are located in a residential area or within one hundred twenty
feet (120') of such area shall not exceed the following light source to ground
level height limits, except as permitted by the city plan commission:
         a.   Twenty two and one-half feet (22.5'), including a 2.5 foot base,
for parking lots.
         b.   Twenty feet (20') for sidewalks and pathways.
      7.   Fixtures:
         a.   All outdoor fixtures, including building mounted fixtures, shall
be full cutoff, shielded fixtures as defined by IESNA.
         b.   High intensity discharge (HID) fixtures shall be used in an
effort to prevent "sky glow". High pressure sodium fixtures shall be
prohibited.
         c.   The city plan commission may approve decorative light fixtures as
an alternative to shielded fixtures when it can be proven that there shall be
no off site glare or illumination and the proposed fixtures will improve the
appearance of the site.
      8.   Security Lighting:
         a.   The need for security lighting (e.g., the lighting for safety of
persons and property) shall be demonstrated. To the extent that an area is
illuminated for other purposes, independent security lighting shall not be
allowed.
         b.   All security fixtures shall be shielded and aimed so that
illumination is directed only to designated areas. In no case shall lighting be
directed above a horizontal plane through the top of the lighting fixture, and
the fixture shall include full cutoff shields that prevent the light source or
lens from being visible on adjacent lots and streets.
         c.   The use of general floodlighting fixtures shall not be allowed.
      9.   Architectural Lighting: When buildings and structures are to be
illuminated, the city plan commission shall approve a design for the
illumination using the following standards:
         a.   Direction Of Lights: Lighting fixtures shall be carefully
located, aimed and shielded so that light is directed only onto the building
facade. Lighting fixtures shall not be directed toward adjacent streets, or
properties, and light shall not trespass onto surrounding properties.
         b.   Facade Lighting: Lighting fixtures mounted on the building and
designed to "wash" the facade with light are permitted.
         c.   Accent Lighting: Luminous tube (neon), LED or fluorescent
lighting shall be allowed as an architectural detail on the exterior of any
structure, provided however that exposed bulbs shall be shielded. The city plan
commission may approve internally illuminated architectural bands or similar
shielded accents as part of a review, upon determining that such accents would
not cause off site glare or light pollution and such lighting is not used to
the extent that it constitutes a sign.
         d.   Landscape Lighting: The illumination of landscaping shall not
generate excessive light levels, cause glare, or direct light beyond the
landscaping.
      10.   Other Lighting:
         a.   Electrical feeds to lighting standards shall run underground, not
overhead.
         b.   The use of a laser light source, search lights or any similar
high intensity light for outdoor advertisement or entertainment is prohibited.
         c.   Lighting shall not consist of or have the appearance of movement
or flashing components.
      11.   Public Street Lighting: The cost of installing and operating
approved street lighting on any public street shall be through a financial
method approved by the city or Illinois department of transportation. The costs
of all other lighting systems shall be borne by the developer/property owner.
      12.   Exemptions: The following outdoor light fixtures are exempt from
the provisions of this subsection:
         a.   Lighting necessary for street or utility construction or
emergencies.
   J.   Landscaping; Buffers:
      1.   Applicability: Landscape buffers shall be required to separate all
uses, except single-family residential (detached or attached), from adjacent
residential zoning districts in order to eliminate or minimize potential
nuisances such as dirt, noise, glare of lights, signs, building bulk, parking
areas, or to provide spacing to reduce adverse impacts of the above, or danger
from fires or explosions.
      2.   Location: Where required by this subsection landscape buffers shall
be located on the outer perimeter of the lot or site, extending to the lot or
site boundary line. Landscape buffers shall not be located on any portion of an
existing or dedicated public or private street or right of way.
      3.   Landscape Buffer Credit: If a landscape screen, consisting of
different plants than required below, is already in place, the city plan
commission may substitute the existing buffer yard screen for the table of
plant units required below.
      4.   Minimum Landscape Buffer Standards: Minimum width of the landscape
buffer shall be twenty five feet (25').
         a.   One tree per fifteen (15) linear feet of landscape buffer.
         b.   One shrub per five (5) linear feet of landscape buffer.
      5.   Trees: Trees shall be made up of the following:
         a.   Thirty percent (30%) evergreen species. Minimum size for
evergreens shall be six feet (6') in height.
         b.   Thirty percent (30%) deciduous species (understory). Understory
trees generally defined as species such as redbud, dogwood, serviceberry, etc.,
that are considered understory. Minimum size for understory, deciduous trees
shall be 1.5 inch caliper.
         c.   Forty percent (40%) deciduous species (canopy). Canopy trees
generally defined as species such as oaks, maples, ash, etc., that are
considered canopy. Minimum size for canopy, deciduous trees shall be 2.5 inch
caliper.
      6.   Shrubs: Shrubs shall be made up of the following:
         a.   Thirty percent (30%) evergreen species.
         b.   Seventy percent (70%) deciduous species.
         c.   Shrub species shall be chosen that can reasonably be expected to
create an opaque visual screen at least six feet (6') high within five (5)
growing seasons.
      7.   Solid Wall Or Fence: The installation of a six foot (6') high solid
wall or fence within the landscape buffer shall reduce the requirement of the
landscape buffer to:
         a.   Minimum width: Fifteen feet (15').
         b.   One tree per fifty (50) linear feet of landscape buffer.
         c.   One shrub per ten (10) linear feet of landscape buffer.
      8.   Placement Of Plants: The exact placement of required plants and
structures shall be the decision of each user except that the following
requirements shall be satisfied:
         a.   All buffer yard areas shall be seeded with lawn, ground cover or
prairie grass unless a natural ground cover is already established.
      9.   Permitted Uses In Landscape Buffer: The following items shall be
permitted within the landscape buffer, provided that the total width of the
landscape buffer is maintained, no plant material is eliminated, and all other
regulations of this chapter are met:
         a.   Sidewalks, trails and bike paths; and
         b.   Stormwater management facilities provided they do not interfere
with the performance and maintenance of the buffer area.
In no event, however, shall any other structure be permitted in buffer yards,
except: fences or walls as provided for in this subsection; signs as provided
for in this section; and driveway or street serving as access to a site or lot
as approved by the city plan commission, provided that the access does not
unreasonably encroach on the width of the buffer yard, and is not located
within seventy feet (70') of a street intersection or of another drive, and no
pavement serving as access be located closer than ten feet (10') to an adjacent
property line.
   K.   Landscaping; Interior Of Parking Lots:
      1.   A minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of impervious interior of parking
lot area to be dedicated to green space.
      2.   A minimum of one tree shall be provided per twenty five (25) parking
spaces, with each parking space to be within fifty feet (50') of a tree. Each
tree shall have a minimum of one hundred sixty (160) square feet of landscaped
area.
      3.   Stormwater best management practices (BMP) are encouraged to be
placed between parking aisles, at the end of drive aisles, or around the
perimeter of the parking lot. Landscape islands with notched curbs (to allow
stormwater) which contain native plants or deep rooted perennial plants are
preferred.
   L.   Landscaping/Screening; Perimeter Of Parking Lots:
      1.   Any side of a parking lot or loading area which abuts a public right
of way or public walkway shall be screened by one of the architectural and/or
landscape elements described in this subsection. Any of the following screening
methods may be used singly or in combination, provided clear vision areas are
maintained:
         a.   Type I; Architectural Screen: Walls used as a screening device
shall be constructed of permanent, low maintenance materials such as concrete,
brick, or architectural block. Such screens shall have minimum eighty percent
(80%) opacity. Wire or chainlink fencing, painted or stained wood screens and
unpatterned or unpainted concrete or concrete block shall not be permitted.
Architectural screens shall not be less than thirty six inches (36") nor
greater than forty eight inches (48") in height. An architectural screen may be
placed at the lot line. A two foot (2') minimum buffer shall be provided
between the architectural screen and the parking or loading area to accommodate
the overhang of cars and protect the wall wherever cars are likely to park
adjacent to the wall.
         b.   Type II; Landscape Buffer: A minimum five foot (5') wide
landscape buffer shall be provided. The buffer shall have a minimum height of
three feet (3') when planted, and shall be maintained to form a minimum visual
screen of a maximum of four feet (4') in height with eighty percent (80%)
summer opacity within three (3) years after planting. The buffer shall be
planted with a minimum of one canopy tree per thirty five (35) linear feet and
one shrub per five (5) linear feet of lot frontage, or fraction thereof.
   M.   Landscaping; General:
      1.   At least seventy percent (70%) of new plantings shall be species
native (or cultivars of natives) to Illinois, including those plantings within
landscape buffers and parking lots.
      2.   Managed stands of native plants, ornamental grasses, or shrubs,
including plants that function in a stormwater BMP, exceeding twelve inches
(12") in height are permitted provided they are maintained free of turf weeds,
noxious weeds, invasive plants, and nuisance plants, are kept at least four
feet (4') from a property line, and do not impair sight distance, or constitute
a public nuisance to the public or residents and occupants of the immediate
vicinity.
   N.   Existing Tree Protection And Replacement:
      1.   The applicant shall identify all existing trees in a tree protection
plan. The plan shall include:
         a.   Identify the location, size and species of all existing trees or
groups of trees over three inch (3") caliper. Trees shall be identified by
botanical/common names and applicable size.
         b.   Trees to be removed or altered in any way shall be marked in the
field and matched on the tree plan. Number of trees, species, and sizes
(diameter breast height - dbh) shall be identified on the plan.
         c.   Delineation of all construction zone limits.
         d.   Provide a protection program defining construction methods that
will be incorporated to protect trees during and after construction. Methods
should include, but not be limited to, barriers, signs, soil stabilization, and
contractor notices.
         e.   Identify the size and number of replacement plantings.
Replacement plantings shall be calculated with the following:
            (1)   One replacement tree for every tree removed larger than three
inch (3") caliper, with an additional one replacement tree for every nine
inches (9") of total caliper of trees removed larger than three inch (3")
caliper. Replacement trees shall be a minimum of 1.5 inch caliper for
understory trees and 2.5 inch caliper for canopy trees. Tree replacements can
be used in required landscape buffers and parking lots as required elsewhere in
this section.
         f.   Provide plans for supervising and/or monitoring implementation of
any required tree protection or replacement measures.
         g.   The name and qualifications of the person responsible for
preparing the tree plan.
   O.   Signs: The signage provisions of the mixed use transportation district
supplement the sign regulations of chapter 10 of this title. Within the mixed
use transportation district, signs permitted in nonresidential zoning districts
(subsection
11-10-3B of this title) shall be permitted in the nonresidential areas of the
district under the following conditions and upon obtaining all proper permits:
      1.   On Premises Signs: On premises signs provided that:
         a.   On premises signs shall not exceed the sum of two (2) square feet
for each linear foot of sign frontage, with the maximum square footage of all
on premises signs on a lot not exceeding three hundred (300) square feet.
         b.   The maximum square footage of individual freestanding on premises
signs shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
         c.   Freestanding signs must be monument style with a base affixed to
the ground.
         d.   The maximum height of a freestanding on premises sign shall not
exceed fifteen feet (15') or the height of the ground story, whichever is less.
         e.   No portion of a freestanding sign shall extend beyond the
property line of the zone lot upon which it is located.
         f.   The maximum number of freestanding on premises signs shall not
exceed two (2) per lot.
         g.   The maximum square footage of individual building on premises
signs shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
         h.   The maximum number of building on premises signs shall not exceed
five (5) per lot.
      2.   Off Premises Signs: Off premises signs (billboards), containing a
commercial message, shall not be permitted within the mixed use transportation
district.
      3.   Design: All signs within the mixed use transportation district shall
be complementary in their use of color, shape, and material.
   P.   Stormwater: The stormwater provisions of the mixed use transportation
district supplement the stormwater control regulations of title 6, chapter 14
of this code.
      1.   Replicating Predevelopment Hydrology: Stormwater management designs
shall preserve the natural hydrologic functions, stream channel
characteristics, and groundwater recharge of the predeveloped site, to the
extent practical. This shall be accomplished by treating runoff at the source,
disconnecting impervious surfaces, preserving or enhancing natural flow paths
and natural cover, preserving or enhancing natural open spaces and riparian
areas, and other measures that replicate predevelopment hydrologic conditions.
      2.   Water Quality Criteria:
         a.   Postdevelopment runoff that is not permanently removed through
the application of the runoff reduction criterion shall be captured and treated
in a water quality BMP to prevent or minimize water quality impacts from land
development. The design and selection of these BMPs shall comply with the
"Maryland Stormwater Design Manual", volumes I and II (October 2000; effective
date July 1, 2001) or other approved design manual.
         b.   The applicant shall comply with the following criteria:
            Water Quality Volume Standard: Structural and nonstructural
practices shall be designed to capture and treat the site's water quality
volume (WQv). The WQv shall be computed as follows, unless another volume is
specified elsewhere in this section.
               WQv = [P x Rv x A]/12, where:
            P = Rainfall depth generated by the 90 percent storm event (inches)
            Rv = Site runoff coefficient
            Where:
            Rv = 0.05 + 0.009(I) where I is percent impervious cover
            A = Area draining to stormwater BMP (acres)
      3.   Maintenance Plan: Prior to approval of a stormwater management
design plan, the applicant shall submit a maintenance agreement and maintenance
plan in accordance with the following:
         a.   Designate Responsible Party: Designate for the land development
the owner, governmental agency, or other legally established entity
(responsible party) which shall be permanently responsible for maintenance of
the structural or nonstructural measures required by the plan.
         b.   Pass Responsibility To Successors: Pass the responsibility for
such maintenance to successors in title.
         c.   Right Of Entry For Stormwater Authority: Grant the right of entry
for the purposes of inspecting all stormwater BMPs at reasonable times and in a
reasonable manner. This includes the right to enter a property when there is a
reasonable basis to believe that a violation of this section is occurring or
has occurred and to enter when necessary for abatement of a public nuisance or
correction of a violation of this section.
         d.   Maintenance Plan: Ensure the continued performance of the
maintenance obligations required by the plan and this section through a
maintenance plan (which may be an attachment to the actual maintenance
agreement). The plan shall include a list of inspection and maintenance tasks,
a schedule for routine inspection and maintenance, and actions to be taken when
maintenance is required.
   Q.   Development Area Plan: The preparation of a development area plan, or
area plan, by interested persons or the city, and adoption by the city plan
commission and city council shall be required before any development may
commence in the mixed use transportation zoning district. The purpose of the
area plan is to supplement the regulations in this zoning district by adopting
and adhering to a more detailed plan for all or a portion of the district prior
to development. The area plan is intended to incorporate a mix of related uses,
and provide for appropriate site, building, circulation, parking, lighting,
streetscaping, landscaping, signage, and stormwater design standards,
consistent with the intent of the city's comprehensive plan and the spirit and
intent of this zoning ordinance.
      1.   Preparation And Adoption Of The Development Area Plan:
         a.   The city plan commission shall cause to be prepared a development
area plan for the mixed use transportation district with input and
participation from city residents, stakeholders, and other interested persons.
         b.   The city plan commission shall hold a public hearing on the area
plan. Notice and publication of such public hearing shall conform to the
procedure for hearings on amendments prescribed in section
11-14-4 of this title. When the city plan commission has taken official action
to approve the area plan, it shall then be submitted to the city council for
their consideration and action. The city plan commission's approval and
recommendations shall be accompanied by a report stating the reasons for
approval and that the area plan meets the requirements of the mixed use
transportation district as set forth in this section.
      2.   Amendments To The Development Area Plan:
         a.   The city council may, by zoning ordinance, amend the development
area plan at any time.
         b.   Amendment of the area plan also may be initiated by the owner or
owners of record or the contract purchasers by an application with the proposed
area plan, accompanied by the required fee, and filed with the zoning
administrator. The application must be filed at least twenty (20) days prior to
the city plan commission meeting at which it is to be first considered.
         c.   Amendment of the area plan shall be referred to the city plan
commission for study and report and for public hearing. Notice and publication
of such public hearing shall conform to the procedure for hearings on
amendments prescribed in section
11-14-4 of this title. When the city plan commission has taken official action
to approve or disapprove the plan amendment, it shall then be submitted to the
city council for their consideration and action. The city plan commission's
approval or disapproval shall be accompanied by a report stating the reasons
for approval or disapproval and that the application either meets or does not
meet the requirements of the mixed use transportation district as set forth in
this section.
      3.   Development Area Plan And Amendment Submittal Requirements:
         a.   Development area plans shall be prepared at a scale no smaller
than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100').
         b.   The plans shall include the following:
            (1)   The name of the proposed development area plan development.
            (2)   Scale, north arrow and the date drawn.
            (3)   Proposed uses and development of the development area.
            (4)   Boundaries, dimensions, and area of the development area.
            (5)   Location of the development area in relation to the
surrounding uses, buildings and zoning.
            (6)   Location of the development area in relation to major
thoroughfares, and any roadways or drives connecting the development area to
those major thoroughfares.
            (7)   Names of adjacent subdivisions, layout of streets (with names
and rights of way widths), connections with adjoining platted streets, location
and widths of adjoining alleys, easements and public sidewalks, and location
and dimensions of all existing sanitary sewer, storm sewer, and supply
facilities within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the development area.
            (8)   Existing conditions in the development area showing all
easements, streets, drives or alleys, bridges, and existing structures.
            (9)   Existing topography (at least 5 foot contour intervals). All
topographic data shall directly relate to USGS data.
            (10)   Boundary lines of school districts, fire districts, and
municipal limits must be identified on the plan where applicable.
            (11)   General plan layout of the development area showing proposed
land uses, streets, parking areas, open space areas, sidewalks and highways or
other major improvements planned by public authorities for future construction,
with significant dimensions indicated where appropriate to clarify the plan.
            (12)   All areas must be clearly labeled as to the proposed use and
all parcels of lands to be dedicated or reserved for public use or for use in
common by property owners in the development area shall be indicated on the
plan dedication or reservation.
            (13)   Proposed stages of development.
            (14)   Site plan data, if required by the city plan commission,
shall include the items below:
               (A)   The total gross land area of the development area in
acres.
               (B)   The breakdown of total gross land area by land use type,
such as detached residential homes, attached residential townhomes, retail,
offices, and mixed use buildings, open space, civic uses such as government,
churches and schools, etc.
               (C)   Residential data:
                  i.   The estimated total residential units by type of unit.
                  ii.   The average square feet of residential lots per each
type of residential unit.
                  iii.   The amount of nonresidential land area by type of use.
                  iv.   The total parking for residential use and the parking
ratio per dwelling unit for each type of residential unit.
               (D)   Commercial/mixed use data:
                  i.   The estimated total building square footage by type of
commercial use.
                  ii.   The percentage of lot building coverage by type of
commercial use.
                  iii.   The total parking for commercial use and the parking
ratio per floor area for each type of use.
            (15)   Any additional information deemed necessary by the zoning
administrator to adequately illustrate the planned development.
      4.   Building Design Submittal Requirements:
         a.   Building Architecture: The development area plan shall identify
architectural standards for the development area utilizing text and appropriate
graphics to define architectural treatments.
         b.   Commercial/Mixed Use And Civic Buildings: For commercial/mixed
use and civic buildings, the architectural standards shall include definitions
of the architectural treatment for the following:
            (1)   Four-sided design.
            (2)   Signage and design elements.
            (3)   Building height and transition.
            (4)   Building materials.
            (5)   Use of brick and stone.
            (6)   Building color.
            (7)   Building modulation and articulation.
            (8)   Building scale.
            (9)   Parapets and cornices.
            (10)   Pitched roofs and eaves.
            (11)   Gutters, downspouts, and scuppers.
            (12)   Customer and public entrances.
            (13)   Windows.
            (14)   Glazing.
            (15)   Awnings.
            (16)   Canopy lighting.
            (17)   Building mounted lighting.
         c.   Residential Buildings: For residential buildings, the
architectural standards shall include definitions of the architectural
treatment for the following:
            (1)   Building variety.
            (2)   Building character.
            (3)   Four-sided design.
            (4)   Building height and transition.
            (5)   Building length.
            (6)   Building materials.
            (7)   Roof materials.
            (8)   Use of brick and stone.
            (9)   Building modulation.
            (10)   Building articulation.
            (11)   Parapets and cornices.
            (12)   Pitched roofs.
            (13)   Building fronts and entries.
            (14)   Windows.
            (15)   Garage doors.
            (16)   Accessory structures.
      5.   Parking Submittal Requirements:
         a.   A parking demand study shall be included as part of the
development area plan. The parking demand study shall include:
            (1)   Location of parking spaces, loading spaces, stacking areas,
and parking structures, as well as on site circulation for automobiles,
pedestrians, and bicycles.
            (2)   Demonstration of how the plan complies with, or varies from,
applicable standards of this section, and how any variations from this section
either to reduce the number of required parking spaces or exceed the required
parking were calculated and upon what assumptions such calculations were based.
            (3)   All entrances and exits for any structured parking and the
relationship between parking lots or structures and the circulation.
            (4)   Use, number, location, and typical dimensions of parking and
loading for various vehicle types including passenger vehicles, trucks,
vehicles for mobility impaired persons, motorcycles, buses, other transit
vehicles, and bicycles.
            (5)   Phasing plan for the construction of parking facilities and
any interim facilities planned.
            (6)   Such other information as determined by the zoning
administrator to be necessary to process the parking demand study.
      6.   Streetscaping Submittal Requirements:
         a.   Streetscape standards shall include for all proposed streets
within the development area plan the following:
            (1)   Various street type standards with widths of traffic lanes,
parking lanes, bike lanes, sidewalks, trees and furniture zones.
            (2)   Maximum street tree spacing and recommended species.
            (3)   Spacing and architectural style of light fixtures.
            (4)   Special paving styles.
            (5)   Architectural styles of waste receptacles, benches, and other
streetscape furniture elements.
      7.   Landscaping/Open Space Submittal Requirements:
         a.   An overall concept landscape plan shall be developed showing
general location, quantity, and species of landscape planting including
buffers, interior parking lot, parking lot perimeter, streetscape, and overall
plantings.
      8.   Signage Submittal Requirements:
         a.   Design guidelines for all signage shall include definitions for
materials, colors, size, and locations. (Ord. 7333, 10-24-2012; amd. Ord. 7373,
10-9-2013; Ord. 7743, 2-12-2020; Ord. 7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7879, 4-12-2023;
Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-15: M-1, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the M-1, light industrial district is to
encourage the development and redevelopment of those areas which are designated
as industrial on the city's future land use map. The M-1 district is further
intended to allow for light industrial and selected intensive industrial uses.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The M-1 district is designed to allow a wide range of
light manufacturing, storage and wholesale uses. Buildings or structures may be
erected, altered or used for the following:
   Administrative and support services including only the following:
      1.   Business support services (uses within NAICS code 5614).
      2.   Investigation and security services (uses within NAICS code 5616).
      3.   Services to buildings and dwellings (uses within NAICS code 5617).
      4.   Other support services (uses within NAICS code 5619).
   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor.
   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter.
   Ambulance services (uses within NAICS code 621910).
   Apparel manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 315).
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
      2.   Golf courses and country clubs (uses within NAICS code 71391).
      3.   Marinas (uses within NAICS code 71393).
      4.   Fitness and recreation sports centers (uses within NAICS code
713940).
      5.   Parks.
   Beverage and tobacco product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 312).
   Building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers (uses within
NAICS code 444).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (co-use) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      3.   Telephone exchange.
      4.   Telephone transmission equipment structure.
   Computer and electronic product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 334).
   Construction (uses within NAICS code 23).
   Converted paper product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3222).
   Credit intermediation and related activities including only the following:
      1.   Depository credit intermediation (uses within NAICS code 5221)
including freestanding automated teller machines.
      2.   Nondepository credit intermediation, including only the following:
         a.   Credit card issuing (uses within NAICS code 52221).
         b.   Sales financing (uses within NAICS code 52222).
         c.   Other nondepository credit intermediation (uses within NAICS code
52229 except pawnshops).
   Electrical equipment, appliance and component manufacturing (uses within
NAICS code 335).
   Employment services (uses within NAICS code 5613).
   Fabricated metal product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 332).
   Food manufacturing including only the following:
      1.   Animal food manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3111).
      2.   Grain and oilseed milling (uses within NAICS code 3112).
      3.   Sugar and confectionery product manufacturing (uses within NAICS
code 3113).
      4.   Fruit and vegetable preserving and specialty food manufacturing
(uses within NAICS code 3114).
      5.   Dairy product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3115).
      6.   Bakeries and tortilla manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3118).
      7.   Other food manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3119).
   Food services and drinking places including only the following:
      1.   Full service restaurants (uses within NAICS code 7221), including
drive-through facilities.
      2.   Limited service eating places (uses within NAICS code 7222),
including drive-through facilities.
      3.   Special food services (uses within NAICS code 7223).
   Furniture and home furnishings stores (uses within NAICS code 442).
   Furniture and related product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 337).
   Gasoline stations (uses within NAICS code 447).
   Greenhouse, nursery, and floriculture production (uses within NAICS code
1114).
   Internet publishing and broadcasting and web search portals (uses within
NAICS code 519130).
   Leather and allied product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 316).
   Lessors of miniwarehouses and self-storage units except equity real estate
investment trusts (REITs), primarily leasing miniwarehouses and self-storage
units (uses within NAICS code 53113).
   Machinery manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 333).
   Marijuana stores, medical or recreational (uses within NAICS code 453998).
   Medical and diagnostic laboratories (uses within NAICS code 6215).
   Miscellaneous manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 339).
   Miscellaneous store retailers including only the following:
      1.   Manufactured (mobile) home dealers (uses within NAICS code 45393).
      2.   All other miscellaneous store retailers (uses within NAICS code
45399).
   Motion picture and sound recording industries including only the following:
      1.   Motion picture and video production (uses within NAICS code 51211).
      2.   Motion picture and video distribution (uses within NAICS code
51212).
      3.   Postproduction services and other motion picture and video
industries (uses within NAICS code 51219).
      4.   Sound recording industries (uses within NAICS code 5122).
   Motor vehicle and parts dealers including only the following:
      1.   Used car dealers (uses within NAICS code 441120).
      2.   Boat dealers (uses within NAICS code 441222).
      3.   Tire dealers (uses within NAICS code 441320).
   Nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing including only the following:
      1.   Clay product and refractory manufacturing (uses within NAICS code
3271).
      2.   Glass and glass product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3272).
   Nonstore retailers (uses within NAICS code 454).
   Personal and laundry services:
      1.   Dry cleaning and laundry services (uses within NAICS code 8123).
      2.   Parking lots and garages (uses within NAICS code 812930).
   Printing and related support activities (uses within NAICS code 323).
   Professional, scientific and technical services including only the
following:
      1.   Architectural, engineering and related services (uses within NAICS
code 5413).
      2.   Specialized design services (uses within NAICS code 5414).
      3.   Computer systems design and related services (uses within NAICS code
5415).
      4.   Management, scientific and technical consulting services (uses
within NAICS code 5416).
      5.   Scientific research and development services (uses within NAICS code
5417).
      6.   All other professional, scientific and technical services (uses
within NAICS code 5419).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      3.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
   Publishing industries (uses within NAICS code 511).
   Religious, grant making, civic, professional and similar organizations (uses
within NAICS code 813).
   Rental and leasing services including only the following:
      1.   General rental center (uses within NAICS code 5323).
      2.   Commercial and industrial machinery and equipment rental and leasing
(uses within NAICS code 5324).
   Repair and maintenance including only the following:
      1.   Automotive repair and maintenance (uses within NAICS code 8111).
      2.   Electronic and precision equipment repair and maintenance (uses
within NAICS code 8112).
      3.   Commercial and industrial machinery and equipment (except automotive
and electronic) repair and maintenance (uses within NAICS code 8113).
      4.   Personal and household goods repair and maintenance (uses within
NAICS code 8114).
   Roadside produce stand (a use within NAICS code 445230).
   Technical and trade schools (uses within NAICS code 6115).
   Transportation and warehousing (uses within NAICS codes 48 and 49) (except
stockyards [a use within NAICS code 488999] and air transportation [uses within
NAICS code 481]).
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
      2.   Water treatment plants.
   Wholesale trade including only the following:
      1.   Motor vehicle and motor vehicle parts and supplies merchant
wholesalers (uses with NAICS code 4231).
      2.   Furniture and home furnishing merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4232).
      3.   Lumber and other construction materials merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 4233).
      4.   Professional commercial equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
(uses within NAICS code 4234).
      5.   Metal and mineral (except petroleum) merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 4235).
      6.   Electrical and electronic goods merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4236).
      7.   Hardware, and plumbing and heating equipment and supplies merchant
wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 4237).
      8.   Machinery, equipment, and supplies merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4238).
      9.   Miscellaneous durable goods merchant wholesalers including only the
following:
         a.   Sporting and recreational goods and supplies merchant wholesalers
(uses within NAICS code 42391).
         b.   Toy and hobby goods and supplies merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 42392).
         c.   Jewelry, watch, precious stone, and precious metal merchant
wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 42394).
         d.   Other miscellaneous durable goods merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 42399).
   Wood product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 321).
   All other telecommunications including only the following:
      1.   Dial up internet service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      2.   Internet service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
(a use within NAICS code 517919).
      3.   Online access service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      4.   VoIP service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the M-1 district.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the M-1 district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Microwave tower.
      2.   Radio/television tower.
      3.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      4.   Telecommunications facility (freestanding) (subject to the criteria
in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Concrete pipe, brick, and block manufacturing (uses within NAICS code
32733).
   Kennels (a use within NAICS code 812910).
   Major public and private utilities, including power generating facilities,
transmission towers, and similar uses (uses within NAICS code 221).
   Mining (uses within NAICS code 21).
   Pharmaceutical and medicine manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3254).
   Ready mix concrete manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 327230).
   Recyclable material merchant wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 42393)
based on the criteria in subsection
11-7-1H of this title.
   Small wind energy systems.
   Used car dealers (uses within NAICS code 44112).
   Waste collection (uses within NAICS code 5621).
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   F.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size          20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         100 feet
Minimum lot depth         100 feet
Minimum front yard        25 feet
Minimum street side yard  15 feet
                          None, unless the side of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum side yard         residential in which case there shall be a side yard
                          of at least 25 feet
                          5 feet, unless the rear of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum rear yard         residential in which case there shall be a rear yard
                          of at least 25 feet
                          Any tract of land adjacent to a residential zoning
                          district or adjacent to a street shall provide
                          screening along the lot line that abuts the adjacent
                          residentially zoned lot or street. The screening
Screening required        shall be in the form of evergreen plant material and/
                          or a decorative wall with a minimum height of 4 feet.
                          Such screening shall be reviewed and approved by the
                          plan commission who may require the screen to be up
                          to 6 feet high between any industrially zoned lot and
                          an adjacent residentially zoned lot
                          Gasoline pumps must be set back 15 feet from any
Gasoline station pumps    street line; 25 feet from any side or rear lot line;
                          and 50 feet from any residentially zoned land
Maximum building height   3 stories or 45 feet
Maximum building coverage 60 percent
Minimum district size     5 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7333, 10-24-2012; Ord. 7373, 10-9- 2013; Ord.
7438, 12-17-2014; Ord. 7743, 2-12-2020; Ord. 7755, 4-23-2020; Ord. 7776, 9-10-
2020; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-16: M-2, GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the M-2, general industrial district is to
encourage the development and redevelopment of selected areas that are
designated as industrial on the city's future land use map. The M-2 district is
further intended to allow for light industrial and selected intensive
industrial uses.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The M-2 district is designed to allow a wide range of
light manufacturing, wholesale and medium intensity industrial uses. Buildings
or structures may be erected, altered or used for the following:
   Administrative and support services including only the following:
      1.   Business support services (uses within NAICS code 5614).
      2.   Investigation and security services (uses within NAICS code 5616).
      3.   Services to buildings and dwellings (uses within NAICS code 5617).
      4.   Other support services (uses within NAICS code 5619).
   Apparel manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 315).
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
      2.   Marinas (uses within NAICS code 71393).
      3.   Parks.
   Beverage and tobacco product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 312).
   Building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers (uses within
NAICS code 444).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (co-use) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      3.   Telephone exchange.
      4.   Telephone transmission equipment structure.
   Computer and electronic product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 334).
   Construction (uses within NAICS code 23).
   Converted paper product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3222).
   Dry cleaning and laundry services (uses within NAICS code 8123).
   Electrical equipment, appliance and component manufacturing (uses within
NAICS code 335).
   Employment services (uses within NAICS code 5613).
   Fabricated metal product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 332).
   Food manufacturing including only the following:
      1.   Animal food manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3111).
      2.   Grain and oilseed milling (uses within NAICS code 3112).
      3.   Sugar and confectionery product manufacturing (uses within NAICS
code 3113).
      4.   Fruit and vegetable preserving and specialty food manufacturing
(uses within NAICS code 3114).
      5.   Dairy product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3115).
      6.   Bakeries and tortilla manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3118).
      7.   Other food manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3119).
   Furniture and home furnishings stores (uses within NAICS code 442).
   Furniture and related product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 337).
   Gasoline stations (uses within NAICS code 447).
   Greenhouse, nursery, and floriculture production (uses within NAICS code
1114).
   Internet publishing and broadcasting and web search portals (uses within
NAICS code 519130).
   Leather and allied product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 316).
   Lessors of miniwarehouses and self-storage units except equity real estate
investment trusts (REITs), primarily leasing miniwarehouses and self-storage
units (uses within NAICS code 53113).
   Machinery manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 333).
   Medical and diagnostic laboratories (uses within NAICS code 6215).
   Miscellaneous manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 339).
   Miscellaneous store retailers including only the following:
      1.   Manufactured (mobile) home dealers (uses within NAICS code 45393).
      2.   All other miscellaneous store retailers (uses within NAICS code
45399).
   Motion picture and sound recording industries including only the following:
      1.   Motion picture and video production (uses within NAICS code 51211).
      2.   Motion picture and video distribution (uses within NAICS code
51212).
      3.   Postproduction services and other motion picture and video
industries (uses within NAICS code 51219).
      4.   Sound recording industries (uses within NAICS code 5122).
   Motor vehicle parts (used) wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 421140) and
recyclable material wholesalers (NAICS code 421930) based on the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1H of this title.
   Nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing including only the following:
      1.   Clay product and refractory manufacturing (uses within NAICS code
3271).
      2.   Glass and glass product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3272).
   Nonstore retailers (uses within NAICS code 454).
   Paper manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 322).
   Personal and laundry services.
      1.   Dry cleaning and laundry services (uses within NAICS code 8123).
      2.   Parking lots and garages (uses within NAICS code 812930).
   Pharmaceutical and medicine manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3254).
   Plastics and rubber products manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 326).
   Primary metal manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 331).
   Printing and related support activities (uses within NAICS code 323).
   Professional, scientific and technical services including only the
following:
      1.   Architectural, engineering and related services (uses within NAICS
code 5413).
      2.   Specialized design services (uses within NAICS code 5414).
      3.   Computer systems design and related services (uses within NAICS code
5415).
      4.   Management, scientific and technical consulting services (uses
within NAICS code 5416).
      5.   Scientific research and development services (uses within NAICS code
5417).
      6.   All other professional, scientific and technical services (uses
within NAICS code 5419).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      3.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
   Publishing industries (uses within NAICS code 511).
   Rental and leasing services including only the following:
      1.   General rental center (uses within NAICS code 5323).
      2.   Commercial and industrial machinery and equipment rental and leasing
(uses within NAICS code 5324).
   Repair and maintenance including only the following:
      1.   Automotive repair and maintenance (uses within NAICS code 8111).
      2.   Electronic and precision equipment repair and maintenance (uses
within NAICS code 8112).
      3.   Commercial and industrial machinery and equipment (except automotive
and electronic) repair and maintenance (uses within NAICS code 8113).
   Technical and trade schools (uses within NAICS code 6115).
   Textile mills (uses within NAICS code 313).
   Textile product mills (uses within NAICS code 314).
   Transportation and warehousing (uses within NAICS codes 48 and 49) (except
stockyards [a use within NAICS code 488999] and air transportation [uses within
NAICS code 481]).
   Transportation equipment manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 336).
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
      2.   Major public and private utilities, including water treatment
plants, wastewater treatment plants, power generating facilities, transmission
towers, and similar uses excluding solar electric power generation and wind
electric power generation which shall be special uses within this zoning
district (uses within NAICS code 221 except NAICS codes 221115).
   Waste collection (uses within NAICS code 5621).
   Wholesale trade including only the following:
      1.   Motor vehicle and motor vehicle parts and supplies merchant
wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 4231).
      2.   Furniture and home furnishing merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4232).
      3.   Lumber and other construction materials merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 4233).
      4.   Professional commercial equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
(uses within NAICS code 4234).
      5.   Metal and mineral (except petroleum) merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 4235).
      6.   Electrical and electronic goods merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4236).
      7.   Hardware, and plumbing and heating equipment and supplies merchant
wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 4237).
      8.   Machinery, equipment, and supplies merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4238).
      9.   Miscellaneous durable goods merchant wholesalers including only the
following:
         a.   Sporting and recreational goods and supplies merchant wholesalers
(uses within NAICS code 42391).
         b.   Toy and hobby goods and supplies merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 42392).
         c.   Jewelry, watch, precious stone, and precious metal merchant
wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 42394).
         d.   Other miscellaneous durable goods merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 42399).
   Wood product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 321).
   All other telecommunications including only the following:
      1.   Dial up internet service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      2.   Internet service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
(a use within NAICS code 517919).
      3.   Online access service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      4.   VoIP service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the M-2 district.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the M-2 district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Air transportation (uses within NAICS code 481).
   Aircraft dealers (a use within NAICS code 441229).
   An adult oriented business as defined in title 4, chapter 16 of this code.
   Animal slaughtering and processing (uses within NAICS code 3116).
   Cement and concrete product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3273).
   Chemical manufacturing (all uses within NAICS code 325 except those uses in
3254).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Microwave tower.
      2.   Radio/television tower.
      3.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      4.   Telecommunications facility (freestanding) (subject to the criteria
in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Lime and gypsum product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3274).
   Mining (uses within NAICS code 21).
   Other activities related to credit intermediation including only:
      1.   Payday loan companies (a use within NAICS code 52239) (subject to
the criteria in subsection
11-7-3D of this title).
      2.   Check cashing establishments (a use within NAICS code 52239)
(subject to the criteria in subsection
11-7-3D of this title).
      3.   Title loan companies (a use within NAICS code 52239) (subject to the
criteria in subsection
11-7-3D of this title).
   Other nondepository credit intermediation including only:
   Pawnshops and similar uses within NAICS code 52229 (subject to the criteria
in subsection
11-7-3D of this title).
   Other nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code
3279).
   Petroleum and coal products manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 324).
   Small wind energy systems.
   Solid waste landfill (uses within NAICS code 5622).
   Stockyards (a use within NAICS code 488999).
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   F.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size          40,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         150 feet
Minimum lot depth         150 feet
Minimum front yard        25 feet
Minimum street side yard  15 feet
                          None, unless the side of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum side yard         residential in which case there shall be a side yard
                          of at least 25 feet
                          5 feet, unless the rear of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum rear yard         residential in which case there shall be a rear yard
                          of at least 25 feet
                          Any tract of land adjacent to a residential zoning
                          district or adjacent to a street shall provide
                          screening along the lot line that abuts the adjacent
                          residentially zoned lot or street. The screening
Screening required        shall be in the form of evergreen plant material and/
                          or a decorative wall with a minimum height of 4 feet.
                          Such screening shall be reviewed and approved by the
                          plan commission who may require the screen to be up
                          to 6 feet high between any industrially zoned lot and
                          an adjacent residentially zoned lot
                          Gasoline pumps must be set back 15 feet from any
Gasoline station pumps    street line; 25 feet from any side or rear lot line;
                          and 50 feet from any residentially zoned land
Maximum building height   6 stories or 90 feet
Maximum building coverage 50 percent
Minimum district size     10 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7333, 10-24-2012; Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013; Ord.
7438, 12-17-2014; Ord. 7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-17: M-3, MINING DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of the M-3, mining district is to encourage the
continued use of selected areas that are designated as industrial on the city's
future land use map and have historically been used for mining purposes.
   B.   Permitted Uses: The M-3 district is designed to allow for selected
mining activities and closely associated uses. Buildings, structures and land
may be erected, altered or used for the following:
   Cement and concrete product manufacturing including only the following:
      1.   Ready mix concrete manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 327230).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (co-use) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      3.   Telephone exchange.
      4.   Telephone transmission equipment structure.
   Internet publishing and broadcasting and web search portals (uses within
NAICS code 519130).
   Lime and gypsum product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3274).
   Nonmetallic mineral mining and quarrying (uses within NAICS code 2123).
   Nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing including only the following:
      1.   Clay product and refractory manufacturing (uses within NAICS code
3271).
      2.   Glass and glass product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3272).
   Pesticide, fertilizer, and other agricultural chemical manufacturing (uses
within NAICS code 3253).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      3.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
   Support activities for mining (uses within NAICS code 213).
   Transportation and warehousing (uses within NAICS codes 48 and 49) (except
stockyards [a use within NAICS code 488999] and air transportation [uses within
NAICS code 481]).
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   All other telecommunications including only the following:
      1.   Dial up internet service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      2.   Internet service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
(a use within NAICS code 517919).
      3.   Online access service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      4.   VoIP service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
   C.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the M-3 district.
   D.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the M-3 district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Coal mining (uses within NAICS code 2121).
   Major public and private utilities, including water treatment plants,
wastewater treatment plants, power generating facilities, transmission towers,
and similar uses (uses within NAICS code 221).
   Metal ore mining (uses within NAICS code 2122).
   Oil and gas extraction (uses within NAICS code 211).
   Other nonmetallic mineral product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code
3279).
   Small wind energy systems.
   E.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   F.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size          40,000 square feet
Minimum lot width         200 feet
Minimum lot depth         200 feet
Minimum front yard        50 feet
Minimum street side yard  50 feet
                          50 feet, unless the side of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum side yard         residential in which case there shall be a side yard
                          of at least 100 feet
                          50 feet, unless the side of the lot abuts land zoned
Minimum rear yard         residential in which case there shall be a side yard
                          of at least 100 feet
                          Any tract of land adjacent to a residential zoning
                          district shall provide screening along the lot line
                          that abuts the adjacent residentially zoned lot or
                          street. The screening shall be in the form of
Screening required        evergreen plant material and/or a decorative wall
                          with a minimum height of 4 feet. Such screening shall
                          be reviewed and approved by the plan commission who
                          may require the screen to be up to 8 feet high
                          between any industrially zoned lot and an adjacent
                          residentially zoned lot
Maximum building height   6 stories or 90 feet
Maximum building coverage 40 percent
Minimum district size     40 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7333, 10-24-2012; Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013; Ord.
7438, 12-17-2014; Ord. 7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
11-5-18: M-4, PLANNED BUSINESS PARK DISTRICT:
   A.   Purpose: The M-4, planned business park district is intended to render
portions of the city suitable for modern business park facilities of integrated
design in appropriate locations to serve mixed commercial/office/industrial
land uses without creating deleterious impacts upon land within and adjoining
said district. This district shall be considered consistent with the business
land use designation on the city's future land use map.
   B.   Procedure: The following procedure shall be used for approving an M-
4 district:
      1.   The owner or owners of any contiguous tract of land comprising an
area of not less than one hundred (100) acres may submit to the city council a
plan for the use and development of all or part of such tract for the purposes
of and meeting the requirements set forth in this section. The plan shall be
referred to the city plan commission for study and report and for public
hearing. Notice and publication of such public hearing shall conform to the
procedure for hearings on amendments prescribed in section
11-14-4 of this title. If the city plan commission approves the plans, they
shall then be submitted to the city council for their consideration and action.
The city plan commission's approval and recommendations shall be accompanied by
a report stating the reasons for approval and that the application meets the
requirements of the M-4 district as set forth in this code.
      2.   In order that the purpose of this district may be realized, the land
and buildings and appurtenant facilities shall be in single ownership, or under
the management or supervision of a central authority, or otherwise subject to
such supervisory lease or ownership control as may be necessary to carry out
the provisions of this section.
      3.   Within the M-4 district, the business park shall be designed as a
whole, unified project in compliance with the following requirements, and if
built in stages, each stage shall conform with the approved plan and the
following:
         a.   A landscaping plan shall be submitted with the request for M-
4 zoning. Said landscaping plan shall detail all planned open space, common
areas and landscaping schemes. Furthermore, a description of the covenants or
other legal guarantees to be used for maintenance of nonpublic areas shall be
provided. Efforts shall be made to assure the proper buffering of uses, both
within the M-4 district as well as for contiguous property, through the use of
landscaping and the integration of natural features.
         b.   All planned infrastructure improvements shall be built in
accordance to the requirements specified in title 12, "Subdivision
Regulations", of this code. Furthermore, the submission of engineering plans
and a fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be required with the M-
4 district classification request, regardless of whether a plat needs to be
filed as stipulated in section
12-2-1 of this code.
   C.   Permitted Uses: The M-4 district is designed to allow for selected
commercial and industrial activities and closely associated uses. Buildings,
structures and land may be erected, altered or used for the following:
   Administrative and support services including only the following:
      1.   Office administrative services (uses within NAICS code 5611).
      2.   Employment services (uses within NAICS code 5613).
      3.   Business support services (uses within NAICS code 5614).
      4.   Travel agencies (uses within NAICS code 561510).
      5.   Investigation and security services (uses within NAICS code 5616).
      6.   Services to buildings and dwellings (uses within NAICS code 5617).
      7.   Other support services (uses within NAICS code 5619).
   Apparel manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 315).
   Arts, entertainment and recreation including only the following:
      1.   Performing arts companies (uses within NAICS code 7111).
      2.   Promoters of performing arts, sports and similar events (uses within
NAICS code 7113).
      3.   Agents and managers for artists, athletes, entertainers and other
public figures (uses within NAICS code 7114).
      4.   Independent artists, writers and performers (uses within NAICS code
7115).
      5.   Museums, historical sites and similar institutions (uses within
NAICS code 712).
      6.   Fitness center (uses within NAICS code 713940).
      7.   Parks and playgrounds.
   Broadcasting and telecommunications including only the following:
      1.   Radio and television broadcasting (uses within NAICS code 5131).
      2.   Cable networks and program distribution (uses within NAICS code
5132).
   Building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers (uses within
NAICS code 444).
   Clothing and clothing accessories stores (uses within NAICS code 448).
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Telecommunications facility (co-use) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      2.   Telecommunications facility (stealth) (subject to the criteria in
subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      3.   Telephone exchange.
      4.   Telephone transmission equipment structure.
   Computer and electronic product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 334).
   Construction (uses within NAICS code 23).
   Converted paper product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3222).
   Couriers and messengers (uses within NAICS code 492).
   Credit intermediation and related activities including only the following:
      1.   Depository credit intermediation (uses within NAICS code 5221)
including freestanding automated teller machines.
      2.   Nondepository credit intermediation, including only the following:
         a.   Credit card issuing (uses within NAICS code 52221).
         b.   Sales financing (uses within NAICS code 52222).
         c.   Other nondepository credit intermediation (uses within NAICS code
52229 except pawnshops).
   Educational services (uses within NAICS code 611 except flight training
schools).
   Electrical equipment, appliance and component manufacturing (uses within
NAICS code 335).
   Electronics and appliance stores (uses within NAICS code 443).
   Fabricated metal product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 332).
   Food and beverage stores (uses within NAICS code 445).
   Food manufacturing including only the following:
      1.   Grain and oilseed milling (uses within NAICS code 3112).
      2.   Sugar and confectionery product manufacturing (uses within NAICS
code 3113).
      3.   Fruit and vegetable preserving and specialty food manufacturing
(uses within NAICS code 3114).
      4.   Dairy product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3115).
      5.   Bakeries and tortilla manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3118).
      6.   Other food manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 3119).
   Food services and drinking places including only the following:
      1.   Full service restaurants, including drive-through facilities, except
restaurants with outdoor seating areas (uses within NAICS code 7221 except
restaurants with outdoor seating areas).
      2.   Limited service eating places (uses within NAICS code 7222),
including drive-through facilities.
      3.   Special food services (uses within NAICS code 7223).
      4.   Drinking places (alcoholic beverages) (uses within NAICS code 7224).
   Furniture and home furnishings stores (uses within NAICS code 442).
   Furniture and related product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 337).
   Gasoline stations (uses within NAICS code 447).
   General merchandise stores including only the following:
      1.   Department stores (uses within NAICS code 4521).
      2.   Other general merchandise stores (uses within NAICS code 4529).
   Health and personal care stores (uses within NAICS code 446).
   Healthcare and social assistance including only the following:
      1.   Medical and diagnostic laboratories (uses within NAICS code 6215).
      2.   Ambulance services (uses within NAICS code 621910).
      3.   Individual and family services (uses within NAICS code 6241).
      4.   Vocational rehabilitation services (uses within NAICS code 6243).
   Information services and data processing services (uses within NAICS code
514).
   Insurance carriers and related activities (uses within NAICS code 524).
   Internet publishing and broadcasting and web search portals (uses within
NAICS code 519130).
   Leather and allied product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 316).
   Local messengers and local delivery (uses within NAICS code 4922).
   Machinery manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 333).
   Management of companies and enterprises (uses within NAICS code 551).
   Miscellaneous store retailers (uses within NAICS code 453).
   Motion picture theaters (except drive-ins) (uses within NAICS code 512131).
   Motor vehicle and parts dealers (uses within NAICS code 441 except used car
dealers [NAICS code 44112] and aircraft dealers [a use within NAICS code
441229]).
   Motor vehicle towing (uses within NAICS code 48841).
   Personal and laundry services including only the following:
      1.   Personal care services (all uses within NAICS code 8121 except
massage parlors and steam or Turkish baths).
      2.   Funeral homes and funeral services (uses within NAICS code 812210).
      3.   Coin operated laundries and dry cleaners (uses within NAICS code
81231).
      4.   Dry cleaning and laundry services (except coin operated) (uses
within NAICS code 81232).
      5.   Photofinishing (uses within NAICS code 81292).
      6.   Parking lots and garages (uses within NAICS code 81293).
   Printing and related support activities (uses within NAICS code 323).
   Professional, scientific and technical services including only the
following:
      1.   Legal services (uses within NAICS code 5411).
      2.   Accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping and payroll services (uses
within NAICS code 5412).
      3.   Architectural, engineering and related services (uses within NAICS
code 5413).
      4.   Specialized design services (uses within NAICS code 5414).
      5.   Computer systems design and related services (uses within NAICS code
5415).
      6.   Management, scientific and technical consulting services (uses
within NAICS code 5416).
      7.   Advertising and related services (uses within NAICS code 5418).
      8.   Marketing research and public opinion polling (uses within NAICS
code 54191).
      9.   Photographic services (uses within NAICS code 54192).
   Public administration including only the following:
      1.   Executive, legislative and other general government support (uses
within NAICS code 921).
      2.   Courts (uses within NAICS code 92211).
      3.   Police protection (uses within NAICS code 92212).
      4.   Legal counsel and prosecution (uses within NAICS code 92213).
      5.   Fire protection (uses within NAICS code 92216).
      6.   Other justice, public order and safety activities (uses within NAICS
code 92219).
   Publishing industries (uses within NAICS code 511).
   Real estate including only the following:
      1.   Lessors of residential buildings and dwellings (uses within NAICS
code 53111 except equity real estate investment trusts (REITs), primarily
leasing residential buildings and dwelling a use within NAICS code 531110).
      2.   Lessors of nonresidential buildings (except miniwarehouses) (uses
within NAICS code 53112 except equity real estate investment trusts (REITs),
primarily leasing nonresidential buildings [except miniwarehouses] a use within
NAICS code 531120).
      3.   Offices of real estate agents and brokers (uses within NAICS code
5312).
      4.   Activities related to real estate (uses within NAICS code 5313).
   Religious, grant making, civic, professional and similar organizations (uses
within NAICS code 813).
   Rental and leasing services including only the following:
      1.   Passenger car rental and leasing (uses within NAICS code 53211).
      2.   Formalwear and costume rental (uses within NAICS code 53222).
      3.   Videotape and disk rental (uses within NAICS code 53223).
      4.   Office machinery and equipment rental and leasing (uses within NAICS
code 53242).
   Securities, commodity contracts, and other financial investments and related
activities (uses within NAICS code 523).
   Sporting goods, hobby, book and music stores (uses within NAICS code 451).
   Transportation and warehousing (uses within NAICS codes 48 and 49) (except
stockyards [a use within NAICS code 488999] and air transportation [uses within
NAICS code 481]).
   Utility uses including only the following:
      1.   Minor public and private utilities, including electrical
substations, lift stations, water towers and similar uses.
   Wholesale trade including only the following:
      1.   Motor vehicle and motor vehicle parts and supplies merchant
wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 4231).
      2.   Furniture and home furnishing merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4232).
      3.   Lumber and other construction materials merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 4233).
      4.   Professional commercial equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
(uses within NAICS code 4234).
      5.   Metal and mineral (except petroleum) merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 4235).
      6.   Electrical and electronic goods merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4236).
      7.   Hardware, and plumbing and heating equipment and supplies merchant
wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 4237).
      8.   Machinery, equipment, and supplies merchant wholesalers (uses within
NAICS code 4238).
      9.   Miscellaneous durable goods merchant wholesalers including only the
following:
         a.   Sporting and recreational goods and supplies merchant wholesalers
(uses within NAICS code 42391).
         b.   Toy and hobby goods and supplies merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 42392).
         c.   Jewelry, watch, precious stone, and precious metal merchant
wholesalers (uses within NAICS code 42394).
         d.   Other miscellaneous durable goods merchant wholesalers (uses
within NAICS code 42399).
   Wood product manufacturing (uses within NAICS code 321).
   All other telecommunications including only the following:
      1.   Dial up internet service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      2.   Internet service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
(a use within NAICS code 517919).
      3.   Online access service providers, using client supplied
telecommunications (a use within NAICS code 517919).
      4.   VoIP service providers, using client supplied telecommunications
connections (a use within NAICS code 517919).
   D.   Accessory Uses And Structures: Uses and structures customarily
accessory to a permitted use may be allowed within the M-4 district.
   E.   Special Uses: The following uses may be allowed within the M-4 district
subject to the criteria established in chapter 11 of this title and the
performance standards contained in sections
11-7-1 and
11-7-3 of this title:
   Communication (uses within NAICS code 5133) including only the following:
      1.   Microwave tower.
      2.   Radio/television tower.
      3.   Telecommunications facility (disguised support structure) (subject
to the criteria in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
      4.   Telecommunications facility (freestanding) (subject to the criteria
in subsection
11-7-1I of this title).
   Major public and private utilities, including wastewater treatment plants,
power generating facilities, transmission towers, and similar uses (uses within
NAICS code 221).
   Small wind energy systems.
   F.   Off Street Parking And Loading Requirements: Off street parking and
loading requirements are specified in chapter 9 of this title.
   G.   Dimensional Regulations:
Minimum lot size         No requirement
Minimum lot width        No requirement
Minimum lot depth        No requirement
Minimum front yard       0
Minimum street side yard 0
Minimum side yard        0
Minimum rear yard        0
                         Gasoline pumps must be set back 15 feet from any
Gasoline station pumps   street line; 25 feet from any side or rear lot line;
                         and 50 feet from any residentially zoned land
Maximum building height  7 stories or 90 feet
Minimum district size    100 acres
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7333, 10-24-2012; Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013; Ord.
7438, 12-17-2014; Ord. 7776, 9-10-2020; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
CHAPTER 6
OVERLAY DISTRICTS AND SPECIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Purpose
11-6-2: Clark Bridge/U.S. 67 Overlay District (CB)
11-6-3: Planned Development Procedure (PDP)
11-6-1: PURPOSE:
Overlay zones are designed to provide additional regulations for certain areas
of the city which require special protection during development, or which
receive consideration for a modification in the strict interpretation of
district regulations. These areas include areas which have or will be
designated as planned developments based on the procedures in section
11-6-3  of this chapter. Once established, an overlay zone will appear on the
city’s official zoning map. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7927, 1- -2024)
11-6-2: CLARK BRIDGE/U.S. 67 OVERLAY DISTRICT (CB):
This district is superimposed upon, and supplements the existing underlying
zoning districts and regulations as per ordinance 2911 and ordinance 5476.
   A.   Within the Clark Bridge/U.S. 67 overlay district, signs shall be
permitted under the following conditions and upon obtaining all proper permits:
      1.   On premises signs provided that:
         a.   On premises signs shall not exceed the sum of two (2) square feet
for each lineal foot of sign frontage, with the maximum square footage of all
on premises signs on a lot not exceeding three hundred (300) square feet.
         b.   The maximum square footage of individual freestanding on premises
signs shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
         c.   The maximum height of a freestanding on premises sign shall not
exceed thirty feet (30').
         d.   No portion of a freestanding sign shall extend beyond the
property line of the zone lot upon which it is located.
         e.   The maximum number of freestanding on premises signs shall not
exceed two (2) per lot.
         f.   The maximum square footage of individual building on premises
signs shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
         g.   The maximum number of building on premises signs shall not exceed
five (5) per lot.
      2.   Off premises signs (billboards), containing a commercial message,
shall not be permitted within the Clark Bridge/U.S. 67 overlay district. All
such existing off premises signs, at the effective date of this subsection A2,
shall be considered as a legal nonconforming sign.
      3.   Off premises signs (billboards), containing a noncommercial message,
shall be permitted within the Clark Bridge/U.S. 67 overlay district, under the
following conditions:
         a.   The maximum number of off premises signs, whether a freestanding
or building sign, shall not exceed one per lot.
         b.   The maximum square footage of said off premises signs shall not
exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet.
         c.   All other regulations contained in subsection A1 of this section
shall be applicable for such signs.
      4.   The following characteristics shall regulate all signs within the
Clark Bridge/U.S. 67 overlay district:
         a.   Signs may be animated, have changeable copy, be internally
illuminated, be externally illuminated or be illuminated by means of exposed
bulbs or neon, so long as not to create any hazards for vehicular traffic,
provided that no such sign is listed as a prohibited sign in section
11-10-4 of this zoning ordinance.
      5.   For parcels that are zoned either residential (R) or conservation
(CR) within the Clark Bridge/U.S. 67 overlay district, the sign regulations
stipulated in subsections
11-10-2C and
11-10-3A of this title shall be applicable. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-6-3: PLANNED DEVELOPMENT PROCEDURE (PDP):
   A.   Purpose And Intent: The planned development procedure, or PDP, is
intended to provide for development incorporating a single type or a variety of
related uses which are planned and developed as a unit. A planned development
may consist of conventionally subdivided lots or provide for nontraditional
techniques of development which are consistent with the intent of the city’s
comprehensive plan and meet the spirit and intent of this zoning ordinance. The
further purpose of the PDP is to permit advance one or more of the following
objectives:
      1.   A maximum choice in the type of environment available to the public
by allowing a development that would not be possible under the strict
application of the provisions of this zoning ordinance.
      2.   Permanent preservation of common open space and recreation areas and
facilities.
      3.   A pattern of development to preserve natural vegetation, topographic
and geologic features.
      4.   A creative approach to the use of land and related physical
facilities that results in better development and design and the construction
of aesthetic amenities, or the provision of complementary land uses.
      5.   An efficient use of the land resulting in more economic networks of
utilities, streets, schools, services, public grounds and buildings, and other
facilities.
      6.   A land use which promotes the public health, safety, comfort,
morals, and welfare.
      7.   Innovations in residential, commercial, and recreational development
so that growing demands of population may be met by greater variety in type,
design, and layout of buildings and by the conservation and efficient use of
open space ancillary to said buildings.
   B.   PDP Size And Density Controls:
      1.   The minimum size of any PDP shall be one (1) acre.
      2.   The maximum residential density of any PDP shall be controlled by
the underlying zoning district(s) and the maximum floor area ratios listed in
subsection F8 of this section; however said requirements may be modified
subject to review by the Plan Commission and approval by the city council.
   C.   Application Procedure And Area Plan:
      1.   Procedure: The designation of a portion of the city as a planned
development must be initiated by an application with the proposed area site
plan, accompanied by the required fee and filed with the zoning administrator.
The application must be verified by the owner or owners of record or the
contract purchasers.
      2.   Applications: The application must include the following
information. The city may require that this information be included on or filed
with designated forms:
         a.   The name of the proposed PDP development.
         b.   Names, addresses and phone numbers of the owner(s) of record, and
engineer, surveyor or designer responsible for the planning, engineering,
survey and design.
         c.   Total area within the entire planned development.
         d.   Legal description of the planned development.
         e.   Proposed deed restrictions, protective covenants, and homeowners’
association articles of incorporation and bylaws where applicable.
         f.   Signature(s) of applicant(s) and owner(s) certifying the accuracy
of the requested information.
         g.   Payment of the required application fee.
         h.   A recent certificate of title or recorded deed to the property
showing ownership.
         i.   Any additional information deemed necessary by the zoning
administrator.
      3.   Site Plans: The application must be accompanied by the proposed site
plan. The scale for all plans shall be no smaller than one inch equals fifty
feet (1" = 50'), and the plans shall include the following:
         a.   The name of the proposed PDP development.
         b.   Scale, north arrow and the date drawn.
         c.   Proposed use and development of the planned development.
         d.   Boundaries, dimensions and area of the planned development.
         e.   Location of the planned development in relation to the
surrounding uses, buildings and zoning.
         f.   Location of the planned development in relation to major
thoroughfares, and any roadways or drives connecting the planned development to
those major thoroughfares.
         g.   Names of adjacent subdivisions, layout of streets (with names and
rights of way widths), connections with adjoining platted streets, location and
widths and of adjoining alleys, easements and public sidewalks, and location
and dimensions of all existing sanitary sewer, storm sewer, and supply
facilities within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the planned development if
required by the zoning administrator.
         h.   Existing conditions in the planned development area showing all
easements, streets, drives or alleys, bridges, and existing structures.
         i.   Existing topography (at least 5 foot contour intervals) if deemed
necessary by the zoning administrator. All topographic data shall directly
relate to USGS data.
         j.   Boundary lines of school districts, fire districts, and municipal
limits must be identified on the plan where applicable.
         k.   Plan layout of the entire planned development showing proposed
land uses, building improvements, streets, parking areas, open space areas,
sidewalks and highways or other major infrastructure improvements planned by
public authorities for future construction, with significant dimensions
indicated where appropriate to clarify the plan.
         l.   All planned use areas must be clearly labeled as to the proposed
use and all land to be dedicated or reserved for public use or for use in
common by property owners in the planned development shall be indicated on the
plan.
         m.   Proposed stages of development where applicable.
         n.   Subsurface conditions on the tract, if required by the zoning
administrator, including the location and results of tests made to ascertain
subsurface soil, rock, and ground water conditions; depth to ground water
unless test pits are dry at a depth of five feet (5'); location and results of
soil percolation tests if individual sewage disposal systems are proposed.
         o.   The breakdown of total gross land area and building square
footage by land use type.
         p.   Percentage of building coverage by land use type and floor area
ratio.
         q.   Parking Plan to include the total parking provision by land use
type and parking ratio per floor area.
         r.   Lighting plan.
         s.   Landscape plan.
         t.   Architectural renderings.
         u.   Any additional information deemed necessary by the zoning
administrator to adequately illustrate the planned development.
   D.   Review Of Application And Site Plan:
      1.   The proposed plan shall be referred to the plan commission for
study, a public hearing thereon, and recommendation and report to the city
council.
      2.   The plan commission shall not act on any proposed plan before
holding a public hearing thereon and, prior to holding a public hearing on any
proposed plan, at least fifteen (15) days’ written notice thereof shall be
given to all property owners within two hundred fifty feet (250') of the
boundary of the premises under consideration and at least fifteen (15) days’
written notice thereof shall be given in a newspaper of general circulation.
      3.   After holding a public hearing on any proposed plan, the plan
commission shall submit its report of such action to the city council for
consideration and action. Said report shall include all documents comprising
the proposed plan referred to the plan commission, the recommendation of the
plan commission with respect to such proposed plan, and the reasons for
approval or disapproval of such proposed plan.
      4.   If no report is transmitted by the plan commission within sixty five
(65) days from the date that the application is first reviewed by the plan
commission at a regular meeting, the city council may take action on such
proposed plan even though the plan commission has not submitted its report to
the city council. If the plan commission fails to hold the public hearing
required by subsection D2 of this section, the city council may assume that
responsibility and hold such a hearing after providing the requisite notice.
      5.   Upon receipt of the plan commission’s recommendation, the city
council shall either approve the application by adopting an ordinance amending
the official zoning map and authorizing the PDP development in accordance with
the site plan, or deny the application. If the application is approved, the
matter shall be returned to the plan commission for consideration of a final
development plan.
      6.   Minor, technical and mechanical changes to the area plan may be
approved by the zoning administrator without review by the plan commission or
the city council so long as the changes do not materially affect the PDP
development as approved by the city council. Within seven (7) days of such
approval, the zoning administrator will advise the chairman of the plan
commission of any such change.
   E.   Final Development Plan And Section Plans for Developments Involving
Major Infrastructure Improvements:
      1.   Requirements for final development plans and section plans shall be
as follows:
         a.   Final development plans must include, in addition to specific
information required by the ordinance authorizing the PDP development, the
following general information:
            (1)   An out boundary plat and legal description of the property.
            (2)   The location of all roadways adjacent to the property and
general location, size, and pavement widths of all interior roadways.
            (3)   The general design of the PDP development including unit
types (i.e., single-family detached, single-family attached, apartment), number
of each unit type proposed, location of units, minimum and maximum size of
single-family lots, approximate size of multiple-family structures, and
location and size of common areas and recreation facilities.
            (4)   The location and size of any commercial uses, types of uses
proposed, and general parking layout.
            (5)   Any floodplain boundaries.
            (6)   The density calculations.
            (7)   Concept landscape plan.
         b.   The plan commission must determine if the final development plan
complies with the conditions of the ordinance authorizing the PDP development.
The plan commission’s recommendation of the final development plan shall also
be based upon whether the plan is consistent with good general planning
practice, consistent with good site planning, can be constructed and operated
in a manner that is not detrimental to the permitted uses in the district,
would be visually compatible with the uses in the surrounding area, and is
deemed desirable to promote the general welfare of the city of Alton. The plan
commission must also consider architectural, landscape, and other relationships
which may exist between the proposed PDP development and the character of the
surrounding neighborhood and must prescribe or require such physical treatment
or other limitations as will, in its opinion, enhance the neighborhood
character.
         c.   A section plan for each plat or phase of the area plan must be
submitted to the plan commission for review and approval. The section plan must
contain such information as is required by the ordinance establishing the
planned development, in addition to such other information required on a
preliminary plat by the subdivision regulations contained in title 12 of this
code.
         d.   The plan commission shall submit its recommendation on each final
development plan and section plan to the city council. If the plan commission
does not approve or disapprove a final development plan or a section plan
within thirty five (35) days from the date that the plan is first reviewed by
the plan commission at a regular meeting, the city council may approve or
disapprove such plan even though the plan commission has taken no action.
         e.   All plans shall be retained on file by the city clerk. Final
development plans may also require submittal of a preliminary plat for purposes
of the subdivision ordinance. No building permits or authorization for
improvement or development for any use authorized under provisions of the
ordinance governing the tract shall be issued prior to approval of such plans.
         f.   Where elements within the designated planned development boundary
are necessary to the support of a given section, but not included within the
section boundary, these elements shall be included on a site plan accompanying,
or a part of, the section plan.
         g.   If a final development plan includes all the information required
for section plans, the section plan requirements may be waived.
   F.   Site Design Requirements:
      1.   Maintenance Of Area; Responsibility: All paved and landscaped areas
shall, at all times, be kept in good repair and in excellent condition, in
accordance with this title and other ordinances. The continuous maintenance of
said areas is to be the responsibility of the owners and lessees of the
property.
      2.   Landscaping: All landscaping plant materials shall be kept alive and
in excellent condition.
      3.   Lighting: All lighting shall be served with underground cable. All
parking areas and walkways shall be illuminated so as to produce a uniform
illumination of two (2) foot-candles within said areas. All exterior lighting
shall be shielded and/or otherwise designed to direct light downward and within
the confines of the site area so as to prevent or minimize glare or spillover
to other areas.
      4.   Access Requirements: All developed parcels, except those developed
for single-family, shall be provided interior drives with a minimum width of
pavement of twenty four feet (24'). Driveway openings shall be limited to not
more than thirty six feet (36') in width and shall be limited to one drive per
one hundred feet (100') of lot width. All roads and drives shall be paved with
concrete or asphaltic concrete material as specified by the zoning
administrator. Concrete curbs shall be provided along all drives that do not
abut parking spaces. All parking areas shall be edged with concrete curbs.
Surface or underground storm drainage facilities shall be provided for all
roads, drives, and parking areas as approved by the zoning administrator. All
storm drainage will be directed into established surface or underground storm
drainage facilities.
      5.   Underground Utilities: Telephone, electric power, cable television,
and all other utilities, except surface storm water facilities, shall be
located underground. Except, however, that the following shall be excluded from
this requirement:
         a.   Poles used exclusively for street lighting.
         b.   Antennas, associated equipment and supporting structures, used by
a utility for furnishing communication services.
         c.   Equipment appurtenant to underground facilities, such as surface
mounted transformers, pedestal mounted terminal boxes and meter cabinets, and
concealed ducts.
         d.   Temporary poles, overhead wires and associated overhead
structures used for a period not to exceed six (6) months which are necessary
to provide utility service until the permanent service is completed.
         e.   Poles, wires and controller cabinets necessary for the operation
of traffic signals.
         f.   Poles, overhead wires and associated overhead structures used for
the transmission of electric energy at nominal voltages in excess of 34,500
volts.
      6.   Ownership And Size: The site of the planned development must be
under single ownership and/or unified control.
      7.   Setback Requirements: Building setback requirements within a planned
development may deviate from the minimums required in the underlying zoning
district.
      8.   Floor Area Ratios: Floor area ratios shall be observed as maximum
density controls for the following uses:
 
Duplexes                         0.4
Multiple-family buildings        0.6
Single-family attached dwellings 0.4
 
   G.   Criteria For Reviewing Applications: In considering whether or not such
application for a planned development should be granted, it shall be the duty
of the plan commission and the city council to give consideration to the effect
of the requested use on the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
residents of the area in the vicinity of the property in question and the
residents of the city generally. In considering the planned use or uses, the
plan commission and the city council should consider the following:
      1.   The appropriateness of the proposed use or uses for the site in
terms of land patterns in the entire city and the city’s comprehensive plan.
      2.   The compatibility with surrounding uses and the surrounding
neighborhood.
      3.   The comparative size, floor area, mass, and general appearance of
the proposed structures in relationship to adjacent structures and buildings in
the surrounding properties and neighborhood.
      4.   The amount of traffic generated by the proposed use or uses and the
relationship to the amount of traffic on abutting streets and on minor streets
in the surrounding neighborhood in terms of the street’s capacity to absorb the
additional traffic and any significant increase in hourly or daily traffic
levels.
   H.   Performance And Maintenance Guarantees for Developments Involving Major
Infrastructure Improvements:
      1.   All public facilities and improvements made necessary as a result of
the planned development shall be either constructed in advance of the approval
of the final plan or, at the discretion of the city, escrow deposits,
irrevocable letters of credit in a form approved by the city attorney, or
performance bonds shall be delivered to guarantee construction of the required
improvements. Any such guarantee shall be one hundred ten percent (110%) of the
estimate approved by the zoning administrator of the cost to construct said
improvements.
      2.   In addition to the deposit provided for in subsection H1 of this
section, a deposit shall be made to the city in cash, irrevocable letters of
credit in a form approved by the city attorney, or maintenance bonds equal to
fifteen percent (15%) of the estimated cost of public facility installations.
This deposit shall be a guarantee of satisfactory performance of the facilities
constructed within the planned development and shall be held by the city for a
period of eighteen (18) months after acceptance of such facilities by the city.
After such eighteen (18) months, the deposit shall be refunded if no defects
have developed. If any defects have developed, then the balance of such deposit
shall be refunded after reimbursements for amounts expended in correcting
defective facilities. The deposit under this subsection H2 shall be made
immediately upon completion and approval of the construction of said public
facilities, and the performance guarantee for the public facilities shall
thereupon be released. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7927, 1- -2024)
CHAPTER 7
STANDARDS FOR USES
SECTION:
11-7-1: Performance Standards For All Uses
11-7-2: Accessory Use Standards
11-7-3: Special Use Standards
11-7-1: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS FOR ALL USES:
   A.   General: Every use, activity, process or operation located or occurring
within the city of Alton shall comply with the performance standards prescribed
in this section, and no such existing use, activity, process or operation shall
hereafter be altered or modified so as to conflict with, or further conflict
with, these performance standards. If, as of the date of adoption of this
zoning ordinance, the operations of any lawful existing use violates these
performance standards, such operations shall not be varied or changed in any
way as to increase the degree of such violation. The operation of any existing
conforming use in violation of these performance standards shall not in itself
make such use subject to the nonconforming use provisions of this zoning
ordinance.
   B.   Toxic Matter: No use shall discharge or store beyond its lot or site
boundaries any toxic matter in such concentrations as to be detrimental to or
endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare or cause injury or
damage to property or business.
   C.   Glare: Any operation producing glare or heat shall be performed within
a completely enclosed building in such manner as not to create a public
nuisance or hazard beyond the boundaries of the lot on which such building is
located.
   D.   Noise: Sound levels and impulsive type noises shall comply with Madison
County noise standards as established and enforced by the Madison County
department of health.
   E.   Smoke And Hazardous Material:
      1.   The release of radioactive gases and particulate matter shall not
exceed the maximum allowable concentration permitted the general population in
applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations when measured at or
beyond the lot lines at ground level or habitable elevation.
      2.   No activity involving radiation hazards shall be permitted which
causes exposure to persons at or beyond the lot lines in excess of the maximum
allowable concentration permitted the general population in applicable federal,
state and local laws and regulations.
   F.   Fire And Explosion Hazards:
      1.   The storage or utilization of solid materials ranging from
incombustible to moderate burning is permitted in accordance with this section
so long as it is consistent with all other sections and requirements of this
code.
      2.   The storage or utilization of solid materials ranging from free or
active burning to intense burning is permitted provided the following
conditions are met:
         a.   The materials shall be stored or utilized within completely
enclosed buildings or structures having incombustible exterior walls and
handled in accordance with the standards and regulations of the fire department
and the National Fire Protection Association or its successors.
         b.   All such buildings shall be protected throughout by an automatic
fire extinguishing system installed in accordance with the standards and
regulations of the fire department and the National Fire Protection Association
or its successors.
         c.   Such materials, if stored outdoors, shall be no closer than one
hundred fifty feet (150') to the nearest lot line or in conformance with the
standards and regulations of the fire department and National Fire Protection
Association or its successors.
      3.   The storage or utilization of flammable liquids or materials which
produce flammable or explosive vapors shall be permitted in accordance with the
following limitations, exclusive of storage in underground tanks, and storage
of finished products in original sealed containers:
         a.   Such materials or products shall be stored or utilized within
completely enclosed buildings having incombustible exterior walls and handled
in accordance with the standards and regulations of the fire department and the
National Fire Protection Association or its successors, and, in addition, all
such buildings shall be protected throughout by an automatic fire extinguishing
system installed in accordance with the standards and regulations of the fire
department and the National Fire Protection Association or its successors.
         b.   The aboveground storage of flammable liquids is prohibited,
except as allowed by regulations of the fire department and the National Fire
Protection Association or its successors.
         c.   The total of all flammable liquids permitted on any tract shall
not exceed five thousand (5,000) gallons unless approved by the fire department
and the zoning administrator.
   G.   Performance Standards For Automotive Related Uses 1 :
      1.   Applicability: This subsection G shall apply to any business engaged
in any one or any combination of the following activities:
         a.   Automotive parts, accessories, and tire stores (uses within NAICS
code 4413).
         b.   Automotive repair and maintenance (uses within NAICS code 8111)
(including auto body repair).
         c.   Gasoline stations (uses within NAICS code 447).
         d.   Motor vehicle towing (uses within NAICS code 48841).
         e.   Used car sales (uses within NAICS code 44112).
         f.   Sale of petroleum products.
         g.   Service/repair of motor vehicles.
      2.   Performance Standards – All Automotive Related Uses: Any business
engaged in an automotive related use as specified in subsection G1 of this
section, shall comply with the following standards:
         a.   Front Yard Storage Prohibited: Due to the unsightliness of
visibly damaged and visibly inoperable automobiles, used auto parts and other
miscellaneous materials, no outdoor storage shall be allowed in any part of a
front yard.
         b.   Street Side Yard, Side Yard And Rear Yard Storage: Due to the
unsightliness of visibly damaged and visibly inoperable automobiles, used auto
parts and other miscellaneous materials, outdoor storage in any part of a side
yard, street side yard or rear yard shall be within an area screened from the
view of the street and surrounding properties by landscaping, fencing or a
combination of materials that provides an opaque screen at least six feet (6')
in height.
         c.   Outdoor Activities Prohibited: All work on automobiles shall be
conducted inside a building. No outdoor facilities shall be utilized for
automotive services, repair and/or maintenance work, except for minor repairs,
that do not require dismantling a vehicle. Major repairs shall include, but not
be limited to, removing or replacing engines, transmissions, or vehicle drive
trains.
         d.   Storage Of Inoperable Vehicles: No automotive related business,
except a salvage yard licensed by the city of Alton, shall have any inoperable
vehicle outside for a period exceeding twenty one (21) continuous calendar
days. A vehicle may be parked outside longer than twenty one (21) days and
before an ordinance violation complaint is filed if:
            (1)   The owner/operator of the automotive related business
declares to the city, in writing, that the vehicle has been abandoned; and
            (2)   The owner/operator of the automotive related business states
to the city, in writing, that a mechanics lien is actively being pursued. If
the above criteria is met, the vehicle may be stored up to ninety (90) days.
         e.   Number Of Vehicles Limited: The number of vehicles parked and/or
stored on the premises of any automotive related business engaged in automotive
service, repairs and/or maintenance shall be limited to five (5) per service
bay, exclusive of owners' and employees' vehicles that are driven to and from
the lot each day and as determined between the hours of five o'clock (5:00)
P.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. any given day. All vehicles parked or stored
should be parked neatly, placed parallel to one another, and should include
entrance and exit aisles. Stacking vehicles vertically on top of one another is
prohibited. Automotive repair businesses that are permitted to engage in
vehicle sales must designate a specific location upon their premises for the
display or storage of vehicles offered for sale and the total number of
vehicles offered for sale shall not exceed five (5) vehicles at any one time.
      3.   Separate License: A separate city business license must be applied
for and obtained for each separate business activity as defined in subsection
G1 of this section. Only one fee shall apply for all automotive related
licenses.
   H.   Standards For Motor Vehicle Parts (Used) Wholesalers And Recyclable
Material Wholesalers: Motor vehicle parts (used) wholesalers (uses within NAICS
code 421140) and recyclable material wholesalers (NAICS code 421930) are
allowed as a permitted use in the M-2 district based on meeting the following
performance standards:
      1.   Shall be located on a site of at least forty thousand (40,000)
square feet.
      2.   All wreckage shall be stored inside a building or within an area
screened from the view of the street and surrounding properties by landscaping,
fencing or a combination of materials that provides an opaque screen at least
six feet (6') in height.
      3.   Additional criteria necessary to protect the public health, safety
and welfare as determined by the city council.
   I.   Standards For Telecommunications Facilities: The following additional
standards and regulations shall be applied to all telecommunication facilities:
      1.   All new telecommunication facilities greater than eighty feet (80')
in height shall be constructed of sufficient strength to accommodate the co-use
of at least three (3) providers.
      2.   Co-use is preferred and shall be encouraged by the city. Therefore,
no two (2) telecommunication facilities requiring a special use permit shall be
allowed within one-half (1/2) mile of each other unless the applicant provides
documentation that a co-use or a stealth facility is not possible. The city
reserves the right, at the expense of the applicant, to hire an independent
consulting engineer to verify any findings alleging that a co-use facility is
not possible.
      3.   Applicants for a telecommunications facility must supply the
department of public affairs with five (5) copies of the site plan. These will
be distributed to appropriate public agencies. Public safety co-use shall be
provided at no cost on the tower or on the ground.
      4.   The current applicant for the telecommunications facility shall be
required to notify the department of public affairs in their application of
those entities contracted for co-use of the facility. Furthermore, any entity
contacted for co-use after issuance of the special use permit shall be reported
to the department of public affairs within ninety (90) days of the signing of
the contract. Failure to file the notice of co-users within said ninety (90)
days shall automatically void the special use permit.
      5.   The special use permit holder shall report to the department of
public affairs any written requests for co-use of space and the special use
permit holder's response. Failure to do so within ninety (90) days of said
written request shall automatically void the special use permit.
      6.   Any telecommunications facility that is no longer in use for a
communications purpose permitted under this title shall be removed at the
owner's expense. All obsolete and abandoned telecommunication facilities shall
be removed within one year of the cessation of use.
   J.   Lessors Of Miniwarehouses And Self-Storage Units:
      1.   Lessors of miniwarehouses and self-storage units (uses within NAICS
code 53113) are allowed in the C-2 district as a special use and are allowed in
the M-1 and M-2 districts as permitted uses based on meeting the following
performance standards:
         a.   There shall be a minimum of one parking space for each employee.
         b.   No gasolines, flammables, explosives or other dangerous materials
and no motor vehicles may be stored inside a storage building.
         c.   Such facility may contain a surfaced lot for the outside storage
of motor vehicles, trailers and watercraft as an accessory use. Motor vehicles,
trailers and watercraft include boats, boat trailers, camping trailers,
materials trailers and recreational vehicles, and automobiles and light trucks
of less than ten thousand (10,000) pounds' gross weight. All such vehicles
shall be registered and in operating condition, and shall be screened from the
view of adjoining properties. No derelict vehicles shall be allowed. No repair,
maintenance and/or upgrading of motor vehicles, trailers or watercraft shall be
permitted on site.
         d.   All storage facilities shall be separated by walls and ceilings.
         e.   There shall be a minimum of twenty four feet (24') between
buildings for purposes of ingress and egress to storage facilities.
         f.   Each individual storage facility shall not exceed a width of
twelve feet (12'), a length of thirty feet (30') and a height of nine feet
(9').
         g.   The storage facilities shall be screened from streets and
surrounding residentially zoned properties.
         h.   Additional reasonable requirements including, but not limited to,
accessways, billing locations, hours of operation, and on site resident manager
may be imposed for the protection of adjoining landowners.
   K.   Standards for Poultry Compost Foraging Operations: Poultry Compost
Foraging Operations are allowed in. the CR Conservation/ Recreation district
based on meeting the following performance standards:
      1.   Operation shall comply with all local, state, and federal
regulations.
      2.   Siting. The operation shall be located on a site of at least forty
(40) contiguous acres. All buildings, structures, and activity areas shall be
located at minimum:
         a.   Five hundred feet (500') from all residences not owned by the
operator.
         b.   Three hundred feet (300') from all public buildings.
         c.   One hundred feet (100') feet from all property lines.
         d.   Three hundred feet (300') from the nearest public or private
water supplies not owned by the applicant.
      3.   Food residuals shall be incorporated into the compost mix the same
day the residuals arrive at the facility; or food residuals shall be in a
sealed container, or immediately covered with finished compost or untreated
wood, and incorporated in the compost mix within seventy-two (72) hours of the
residuals arrival at the facility.
      4.   The operation shall be conducted in accordance with accepted
composting practices and shall be kept free of nuisance conditions including
objectionable odors, noise, and vectors. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6814,
6-9-2004; Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014; Ord. 7894, 7-26-2023)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  11-1-8 of this title for effective date of this subsection.
11-7-2: ACCESSORY USE STANDARDS:
   A.   Customary Accessory Uses:
      1.   Size Of Accessory Buildings In Residential Districts: In residential
(R) zoning districts, accessory buildings may not exceed the size of the
principal building on any lot or parcel.
   B.   Home Occupations:
      1.   Applicability: In residential (R) zoning districts, home occupations
shall be limited to those uses listed as permitted home occupations or which
receive approval as a conditional home occupation.
      2.   Permitted Home Occupations: Home occupations are permitted in any
dwelling unit subject to the requirements of this section and the respective
zoning district regulations. Authorized home occupations shall include the
following:
         a.   Artists and sculptors;
         b.   Authors and composers;
         c.   Childcare for not more than three (3) children not related to the
occupant of the home;
         d.   Data entry and similar computer work;
         e.   Dressmakers, seamstresses and tailors;
         f.   Home crafts, such as model making, rug weaving, lapidary work,
and ceramics;
         g.   Home kitchen operations;
         h.   Office facility of a minister, priest or other similar person
associated with a religious organization;
         i.   Office facility of a salesman, sales representative, or
manufacturer’s representative, provided no retail or wholesale transactions are
made on the premises;
         j.   Telephone sales and similar telephone related uses; and
         k.   Similar uses which do not involve retail or wholesale sales
transactions on the premises, employment of persons other than occupants of the
dwelling, any greater assembly, processing, or fabrication operations.
      3.   Home Occupation Standards: Any proposed home occupation must meet
the following criteria:
         a.   The home occupation shall be conducted within the dwelling which
is the bona fide residence of the principal practitioner or in any building
accessory thereto which is normally associated with a residential use.
         b.   No stock in trade shall be displayed or sold on the premises
except home kitchen operations may sell their products on the premises.
         c.   No alterations to the exterior appearance of the principal
residential building or premises shall be made which changes the character
thereof as a residence.
         d.   No outside display of goods or outside storage of equipment or
materials used in the home occupation shall be permitted.
         e.   No persons other than a member of the immediate household
occupying such dwelling shall be employed on the premises.
         f.   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and shall under no circumstances change the residential character
thereof.
         g.   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be met
off the street, except for brief periods.
         h.   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation
which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses off the premises. In the case of electrical
interference, no equipment or process shall be used which creates visual or
audible interference in any radio or television receivers off the premises.
         i.   No signs accessory to such home occupation shall be displayed
except for a single identification sign not more than one square foot in size.
         j.   A home occupation shall be subject to all applicable city
occupational licenses and permits.
   C.   Temporary Structure:
      1.   Manufactured or modular temporary structures may be permitted as
accessory uses within the C-5 and all industrial zoning districts for a maximum
of six (6) consecutive months, but only upon the condition that reasonable
proof exists that a principal structure will be permanently erected upon the
subject premises prior to the expiration of the duration of the accessory use.
   D.   “Type A” Short-Term Rental Units:
      1.   “Type A” Short-Term Rental Units are a permitted accessory use in R-
1 R-2, R-3, R-4, C-1, C-2, C-4, C-5, MR, and MUT zoning districts subject to
the following provisions:
         a.   The owner of the dwelling shall maintain the Short-Term Rental as
their permanent residence and shall reside on the premises at the time that
Short-Term Rental guests are present,
         b.   No more than one (1) unit in any dwelling may be rented at the
same time as a Short-Term Rental.
         c.   Only one group of patrons in a 24-hour period shall be allowed in
a “Type A” Short-Term Rental Unit.
         d.   “Type-A” Short-Term Rental Units shall be subject to and shall
comply with all requirements of the city and state building, fire, safety, and
occupancy codes and limits.
         e.   In C-1, C-2, C-4, C-5, and MR Districts, “Type A” Short-Term
Rental Units shall be located above the first floor of the building or at the
rear of the building,
         f.   With the exception of the C-4 downtown commercial district and
the MR marina recreation district, there shall be no off-site parking
associated with the Short-Term Rental Unit.
   E.   “Type B” Short-Term Rental Units:
      1.   “Type B” Short-Term Rental Units are a permitted accessory use in C-
1, C-2, C-4, C-5, MR, and MUT zoning districts subject to the following
provisions:
         a.   The owner of the dwelling is not present on site during the
Short-Term Rental.
         b.   No more than one (1) unit in any dwelling may be rented at the
same time as a Short-Term Rental.
         c.   Only one group of patrons in a 24-hour period shall be allowed in
a “Type B” Short-Term Rental Unit.
         d.   “Type-B” Short-term rental units shall be subject to and shall
comply with all requirement of the city and state building, fire, safety, and
occupancy codes and limits.
         e.   “Type B” Short-Term Rental Units shall be located above the first
floor of the building or at the rear of the building.
         f.   With the exception of the C-4 downtown commercial district and
the MR marina recreation district, there shall be no off-site parking
associated with the Short-Term Rental Unit.
         g.   In “Type B” Short-Term Rentals where the owner is not present,
upon any notification that any transient, occupant, or guest of the Short-Term
Rental Unit property has created unreasonable noise or disturbances, engaged in
disorderly conduct or committed violation of any applicable law, rule, or
regulations pertaining to the use and occupancy of the Short-Term Rental Unit
property, the owner shall respond in a timely and appropriate manner to
immediately halt or prevent reoccurrence of such conduct. Failure of the owner
to respond to such calls or complaints regarding the condition, operation, or
conduct of the occupants and/or guests of a Short-Term Rental Unit in a timely
and appropriate manner shall be grounds for revocation of the special use
permit as prescribed in section
11-11-4 and/or revocation of the Short-Term Rental license as prescribed in
section
4-22-10 and shall subject the owner to all administrative, legal, and equitable
remedies available to the City.
   F.   Electric Vehicle Charging Stations:
      1.   Designation of electric vehicle charging stations. Electric vehicle
charging stations shall be differentiated as follows:
         a.   Level 1 is considered slow charging and operates on a 15 to 20
amp breaker on a 120 volt AC circuit. Level 1 chargers are mounted inside or
outside of a structure and are used for charging for the homeowners' personal
vehicles only.
         b.   Level 2 is considered medium charging and operated on a 40 to 100
amp breaker on a 208 or 240 volt AC circuit.
         c.   Level 3 is considered fast or rapid charging and operated on a 60
amp or higher breaker on a 480 volt or higher three phase circuit with special
grounding equipment. Level 3 stations are typically referred to rapid charging
stations and typically use DC power and industrial grade electrical outlets
that allow for faster recharging of electric vehicles.
      2.   Locations permitted.
         a.   Level 1 and Level 2 electric vehicle charging stations are
permitted in all zoning districts. In residential zoning districts, Level l and
Level 2 chargers shall be installed for personal use only, accessory to the to
the principal residential use. Parking lots for the purpose of electric vehicle
charging stations are not permitted in residentially zoned area.
         b.   Level 3 electric vehicle charging stations are permitted in all
zoning districts except R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, and R-6 districts.
      3.   Standards for electric vehicle charging stations. Electric vehicle
charging stations utilizing parking stalls located in a public or private
parking lot or public or private parking garage shall comply with the following
standards. Due to rapidly changing technology and anticipated changes to
charging stations, batteries, and electric vehicles, the zoning administrator
and public works director may authorize variations from this section, so long
as the requirements of subsection (2) (Locations permitted) are met.
         a.   Electric vehicle charging only. Except when located in
conjunction with single-family residences, electric vehicle charging stations
shall be reserved for parking and charging of electric vehicles only. No person
shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle in areas designated for electric vehicle
charging for any purpose except charging of an electric vehicle.
         b.   Signage. Each electric vehicle charging station shall be posted
with signage indicating the space is only for electric vehicle charging
purposes. Signage shall include items contained in subsection (f) of this
section.
         c.   Accessibility. When electric vehicle charging stations are
provided, accessible charging stations must be provided as follows. In addition
to these standards, all state and federal requirements shall apply.
            (1)   For every fifty (50) (or portion thereof) charging stations
provided, one accessible charging station shall be provided.
            (2)   Accessible charging stations shall be located in proximity to
the buildings or facility entrances and shall be connected to a barrier-free
accessible route of travel.
            (3)   All accessible charging stations shall meet the requirements
of standard ADA parking spaces. Bollards, wheel stops, or curbs shall be used
to protect the charging station, but must not obstruct use of the station.
         d.   Lighting. Lighting shall be provided in accordance with typical
parking lot lighting, regulated by section
11-9-4-E of this code.
         e.   Equipment. Equipment for electric vehicle charging stations shall
comply with the following standards:
            (1)   Charging station outlets and connector shall be no less than
thirty-six (36) inches or no higher than forty-eight (48) inches from the top
of the surface where mounted and shall contain a retraction device or a place
to hang cords and connectors above the ground surface.
            (2)   Equipment shall be protected by wheel stops or bollards.
            (3)   Electric vehicle charging stations shall not be placed in an
easement.
            (4)   All charging stations must be setback five feet from the
nearest property line.
         f.   Notification. The following information shall be posted at all
electric vehicle charging stations:
            (1)   Voltage and amperage levels;
            (2)   Hour of operations, time limits, and tow-away provisions;
            (3)   Safety information;
            (4)   Contact information for reporting equipment malfunction or
other problems.
         g.   Licensing, A vending machine license shall be required in
accordance with Title 4, Chapter 5 of the City Code of Ordinances for electric
vehicle charging stations except when located in conjunction with a single-
family residence.
   G.   Small Solar Energy Systems:
      1.   Purpose: The provisions of this subsection are intended to establish
zoning parameters by which small solar energy systems may be installed in the
City of Alton.
      2.   Illumination: Illumination of a small solar energy system shall be
prohibited, except to accommodate coinstallation of parking lot lighting
luminaires or as required by the federal aviation administration (FAA) or other
state or federal agency of competent jurisdiction.
      3.   Commercial Signage: No commercial signage or attention getting
device is permitted on any renewable energy system.
      4.   Height:
         a.   A building mounted small solar energy system in a commercially or
industrially zoned area may have a maximum height of five feet (5') as measured
from the roof surface on which the system is mounted to the highest edge of the
system provided, however, that the system shall not exceed five feet (5') above
the pealc roof height or five feet (5') above the maximum permitted height of
the district, whichever is less.
         b.   A building mounted small solar energy system in a residentially
zoned area may have solar panels installed coplanar to the roof not to exceed
six inches (6") from the roof surface.
         c.   The maximum height of a freestanding small solar energy system
shall be twelve feet (12') as measured from the average grade at the base of
the pole to the highest edge of the system.
      5.   Location And Setbacks:
         a.   A small freestanding solar energy system is only permitted in the
back yard and shall not be located in any utility, water, sewer, or other type
of public easement.
         b.   All parts of any small freestanding solar energy system shall be
set back at least five feet (5') from the interior side and rear property
lines.
      6.   Maintenance And Removal Of Renewable Energy Systems:
         a.   Renewable energy systems must be maintained in good repair and
operable condition at all times, including compliance with all standards in
applicable Building and Technical Codes to ensure structural and technical
integrity of such facilities, except for maintenance and repair outages. If a
system becomes inoperable or damaged, operations must cease and be promptly
remedied.
         b.   If the City determines that a renewable energy system fails to
comply with the applicable provisions of this Code, the City shall provide
written notification to the property owner. The property owner shall have a
period of one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of notification to either
restore the renewable energy system to operation or remove the system.
         c.   In the event such renewable energy system is not brought into
compliance with this Code within the specified time period, the City may remove
or cause the removal of said facility at the property owner's expense.
         d.   The City may pursue any and all available legal remedies to
ensure that a renewable energy system which fails to comply with this Code or
which constitutes a danger to persons or property is brought into compliance or
removed.
         e.   Any delay by the City in taking enforcement action against the
owner of a renewable energy system and the owner of the property if such owner
is different from the owner of such facility, shall not waive the City's right
to take any action at a later time.
         f.   The City may seek to have the renewable energy system removed
regardless of the owner's or operator's intent to said facility, and regardless
of any permits that may have been issued or granted.
         g.   After the renewable energy system is removed, the owner of the
subject property shall promptly restore the subject property to a condition
consistent with the property's condition prior to the installation of the
system.
      7.   Any small solar energy system that does not meet the use standards
put forth in the section shall require a special use permit in accordance with
the provisions set forth in
chapter 11 of this title.
   H.   Residential Composting:
      1.   Regulations. Residential composting practices are permitted as an
accessory use within residentially-zoned areas of the city subject to the
following regulations:
         a.   All residential composting shall be contained within a bin
enclosure consisting of at least three (3) sides. No open piles are permitted.
         b.   Compost bins shall be no taller than five feet and no larger in
area than 150 square feet.
         c.   All compost activity shall be conducted in a manner to prevent
the attraction or harborage of rodents and pests.
         d.   All compost activity shall be conducted in a manner that prevents
unpleasant, rotten-egg-like, putrefactive, or pungent odors,
         e.   No compost bin shall be located less than five feet from the rear
or side property line.
         f.   Compost piles shall not be located in any natural or man-made
drainage swale or creek or in any location where it will impede free flow of
stormwater drainage,
         g.   Compost bins shall be subject to the accessory use and structure
requirements outlined in
Chapter 3 of this title, except where the provisions of section
11-7-2-H of this title conflict or are stricter, in which case the provisions
of section
11-7-2- H shall take precedence.
      2.   Materials. Materials that shall be excluded from composting activity
include but are not limited to:
         a.   Fish, fowl, meat, dairy products, or other animal products
(excluding egg shells).
         b.   Fatty foods (cheese, cooking oils, etc.);
         c.   Manure and animal feces except for manure produced by hens as
permitted under Title
7-1-9 Chickens of the City Code of Ordinances.
         d.   Animal carcasses.
         e.   Items not normally composted.
         f.   Nonorganic waste.
         g.   Demolition debris.
         h.   Pressure treated, painted, or preserved lumber.
         i.   Large branches.
   4.   Private use only. Compost shall be for private use only. There shall be
no commercial provision (such as sale, purchase, barter) of material to be
composted or of the humus resulting from the composting. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003;
amd. Ord. 6784, 12-10-2003; Ord. 7538, 9-28-2016; Ord. 7879, 4-12-2023; Ord.
7895, 7-26-2023; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023; Ord. 7926, 1- -2024)
11-7-3: SPECIAL USE STANDARDS:
   A.   Bed And Breakfast Inns:
      1.   Bed and breakfast inns may be allowed as a special use in the R-1,
R-2, R-3, and R-4 zoning districts based on meeting the following performance
standards:
         a.   The inn shall be a private owner occupied residence.
         b.   The inn shall be subordinate and incidental to the residential
use of the building.
         c.   The inn shall not have more than five (5) guestrooms.
         d.   No guest shall remain in a bed and breakfast inn for more than
fourteen (14) consecutive days.
         e.   Meals shall be served only to overnight guests.
         f.   No food preparation or storage facilities shall be provided in
guestrooms.
         g.   No bed and breakfast inn shall be located within five hundred
feet (500') of any other bed and breakfast inn.
   B.   “Type B” Short-Term Rentals:
      1.   “Type B” short-term rentals may be allowed as a special use in R-1,
R-2, R-3, and R-4 zoning districts based on meeting the following performance
standards:
         a.   The owner of the dwelling is not present on site during the
short-term rental.
         b.   No more than one (1) unit in any dwelling may be rented at the
same time as a short-term rental unit.
         c.   Only one group of patrons in a 24-hour period shall be allowed in
a “Type B” short-term rental unit.
         d.   “Type B” Short-Term Rental Units shall be subject to and shall
comply with all requirements of the city and state building, fire, safety, and
occupancy codes and limits.
         e.   Any “Type B” Short-Term Rental Unit special use permit issued
under this subsection shall be non-transferrable.
         f.   With the exception of the C-4 downtown commercial district and
the MR marina recreation district, there shall be no off-site parking
associated with the Short-Term Rental Unit.
         g.   In “Type B” Short-Term Rentals where the licensed operator is not
present, upon any notification that any transient, occupant, or guest of the
Short-Term Rental Unit property has created unreasonable noise or disturbances,
engaged in disorderly conduct or committed violation of any applicable law,
rule, or regulations pertaining to the use and occupancy of the Short-Term
Rental Unit property, the licensed operator shall respond in a timely and
appropriate manner to immediately halt or prevent reoccurrence of such conduct.
Failure of the owner to respond to such calls or complaints regarding the
condition, operation, or conduct of the occupants and/or guests of a Short-Term
Rental Unit in a timely and appropriate manner shall be grounds for revocation
of the special use permit as prescribed in section
11-11-4 and/or revocation of the Short-Term Rental license as prescribed in
section
4-22-10 and shall subject the owner to all administrative, legal, and equitable
remedies available to the City.
   C.   Delicatessens:
      1.   Delicatessens may be allowed as a special use in the R-4 zoning
district based on meeting the following performance standards:
         a.   Only food and nonalcoholic beverages may be served.
         b.   Food and beverages will primarily be served to persons seated
within the building.
         c.   The hours of operation are limited to six o’clock (6:00) A.M. to
seven o’clock (7:00) P.M.
         d.   The maximum seating capacity in the delicatessen is limited to
sixty (60) people.
   D.   Payday Loan Companies, Check Cashing Establishments, Title Loan
Companies, Pawnshops And Similar Uses:
      1.   Payday loan companies (a use within NAICS code 52239), check cashing
establishments (a use within NAICS code 52239), title loan companies (a use
within NAICS code 52239), pawnshops (a use within NAICS code 52229), and
similar uses within NAICS code 52229 may be allowed as a special use in the M-
2 district based on meeting the following performance standards:
         a.   Shall be on a site of at least twenty thousand (20,000) square
feet.
         b.   All property lines of the lot on which the business is located
shall be at least three hundred feet (300') from the nearest property line of
any church or similar place of worship, school, or any residentially zoned
property.
         c.   All property lines of the lot on which the business is located
shall be at least one thousand feet (1,000') from the nearest property line of
any other use classified within NAICS code 5222, including such businesses
located outside of the Alton city limits.
         d.   All property lines of the lot on which the business is located
shall be at least one thousand feet (1,000') from the nearest property line of
any establishment that serves liquor by the drink or any casino or parking lot
for any casino.
         e.   The establishment shall not be open for business between the
hours of eight o’clock (8:00) P.M. and seven o’clock (7:00) A.M.
         f.   The establishment shall have an interior space for patrons to
transact business and shall not have a drive-up or walk-up window or any type
of drive-through arrangements.
         g.   No bars, heavy mesh screens or similar material shall be allowed
on the exterior of the building and no such material located on the interior of
the building shall be visible from outside the building.
   E.   Beauty Salons Or Barbershops:
      1.   Beauty salons or barbershops may be allowed as a special use in the
R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4, and R-6 zoning districts based on meeting the following
performance standards:
         a.   The beauty salon or barbershop shall have no more than two (2)
persons involved in the operation at any point in time; and
         b.   All such persons involved in the operation shall actually reside
on the premises.
   F.   Renewable Energy Systems:
      1.   Purpose: The provisions of this subsection are intended to establish
zoning parameters by which utility scale solar and small wind energy systems
may be installed in the city of Alton. Large wind energy systems are not
permitted in any zoning district of the City of Alton. Additional forms of
renewable energy not addressed explicitly herein may be authorized subject to
compliance with the applicable codes and standards of the city of Alton.
      2.   Illumination: Illumination of a renewable energy system shall be
prohibited, except to accommodate coinstallation of parking lot lighting
luminaires or as required by the federal aviation administration (FAA) or other
state or federal agency of competent jurisdiction.
      3.   Commercial Signage: No commercial signage or attention getting
device is permitted on any renewable energy system.
         a.   A sign of a plain white background with black lettering not
exceeding four (4) square feet in size shall be provided on each small wind
energy system which indicates the emergency contact information of the property
owner or operator.
      4.   Height:
         a.   The maximum height of a freestanding solar energy system shall be
twelve feet (12') as measured from the average grade at the base of the pole to
the highest edge of the system.
      5.   Location And Setbacks:
         a.   A freestanding small wind energy system, including all
appurtenances and anchoring equipment, shall not be located within the required
front yard or street side yard or in any utility, water, sewer, or other type
of public easement.
         b.   A freestanding small wind energy system shall be set back a
distance equal to one point one (1.1) times the system height, from the base to
all property lines, third party transmission lines, freestanding wind energy
systems, overhead electric distribution systems, and communication towers.
      6.   Noise: Measured at the property line, a small wind energy system
shall not make noise in excess of fifty five (55) dBa in residential districts
or sixty (60) dBa in nonresidential districts except during such short term
events as utility outage or a severe windstorm. The City may, at its
discretion, require a professional sound measurement by a third party expert at
the expense of the property owner, to confirm performance of a small wind
energy system in accordance with the performance standards as measured from the
ground level at the nearest property line.
      7.   Color: Small wind energy systems shall be monochromatic in color,
finished with a neutral and nonreflective coating, such as white or light gray.
Ground equipment, such as cabinets and associated facilities, shall be factory
finished to match or complement the color of other structures on the lot.
      8.   Unauthorized Access: Freestanding wind energy systems and all
components thereof shall be protected against unauthorized access by the
public. No climbing ladder, foot pegs or rungs shall be permanently attached
below a height of twelve feet (12') above grade.
      9.   Maintenance And Removal Of Renewable Energy Systems:
         a.   Renewable energy systems must be maintained in good repair and
operable condition at all times, including compliance with all standards in
applicable Building and Technical Codes to ensure structural and technical
integrity of such facilities, except for maintenance and repair outages. If a
system becomes inoperable or damaged, operations must cease and be promptly
remedied.
         b.   If the City determines that a renewable energy system fails to
comply with the applicable provisions of this Code, the City shall provide
written notification to the property owner. The property owner shall have a
period of one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of notification to either
restore the renewable energy system to operation or remove the system.
         c.   In the event such renewable energy system is not brought into
compliance with this Code within the specified time period, the City may remove
or cause the removal of said facility at the property owner’s expense.
         d.   The City may pursue any and all available legal remedies to
ensure that a renewable energy system which fails to comply with this Code or
which constitutes a danger to persons or property is brought into compliance or
removed.
         e.   Any delay by the City in taking enforcement action against the
owner of a renewable energy system and the owner of the property if such owner
is different from the owner of such facility, shall not waive the City’s right
to take any action at a later time.
         f.   The City may seek to have the renewable energy system removed
regardless of the owner’s or operator’s intent to said facility, and regardless
of any permits that may have been issued or granted.
         g.   After the renewable energy system is removed, the owner of the
subject property shall promptly restore the subject property to a condition
consistent with the property’s condition prior to the installation of the
system.
   G.   Offices of Physicians:
      1.   Offices of Physicians {'{'}NAICS 621111) may be allowed as a special
use in the R-2 zoning district based on meeting the following performance
standards:
         a.   The property on which the office is located shall be adjacent to
a major street as defined in
6-1-2-A of this Code.
         b.   Off-street parking shall be required in accordance with
11-9-5 C.9.c. of this Code.
         c.   Off-street parking areas shall be screened from adjacent
residential uses with a six (6)-foot tall sight-proof fence and or a landscape
buffer as approved by the Plan Commission.
         d.   Hours of operation shall be limited to six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to
seven o'clock (7:00)P.M. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. 6754, 8-13-2003; Ord.
7144, 5-27-2009; Ord. 7373, 10-9-2013; Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014; Ord. 7664, 8-22-
2018; Ord. 7795, 12-17-2020; Ord. 7870, 1-11-2023; Ord. 7879, 4-12-2023; Ord.
7891, 6-14-2023; Ord. 7904, 9-27-2023)
CHAPTER 8
RESOURCE PROTECTION STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-8-1: Floodplain Protection
11-8-1: FLOODPLAIN PROTECTION:
   A.   Development Prohibited Within Floodway: No buildings shall be
constructed within the designated floodway portion of any 100-year floodplain.
   B.   Development In Flood Fringe: Areas located in a 100-year floodplain and
designated as part of the flood fringe may be developed provided that buildings
are constructed at least one foot (1') above the minimum flood elevation.
   C.   Development Pursuant To Flood Hazard Regulations: All development shall
meet standards set forth in title 9, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-
2003)
CHAPTER 9
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING
SECTION:
11-9-1: Purpose And Intent
11-9-2: Parking Demand
11-9-3: General Provisions
11-9-4: Design And Maintenance Standards
11-9-5: Required Off Street Parking Spaces
11-9-6: Handicapped Parking Requirements
11-9-7: Off Street Loading Requirements
11-9-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to ensure that an adequate, safe and convenient
arrangement of off street parking and loading spaces are provided on every
site. Such off street parking and loading facilities shall be designed as an
integral part of an overall site design, shall be properly related to existing
and proposed buildings and shall have appropriate landscaping. Parking
facilities shall be landscaped and screened to the extent necessary to
eliminate unsightliness and monotony of large concentrations of parked cars.
Parking facilities shall be designed with careful regard to orderly
arrangement, landscaping, ease of access and shall be developed as an integral
part of an overall site design. Any aboveground loading facility shall be
screened from public view to the extent necessary to eliminate unsightliness.
Off street parking spaces shall be required for all uses in all zoning
districts except the C-4, downtown commercial district, and MR, marina
recreation district where off street parking facilities shall not be required.
Off street loading facilities shall be provided as required by section
11-9-7 of this chapter. Within this chapter, references to parking facilities
include parking lots and parking garages. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-9-2: PARKING DEMAND:
   A.   Increased Parking Demand: Whenever a building or use constructed or
established after the effective date of this zoning ordinance is changed or
enlarged in floor area, number of employees, number of dwelling units, seating
capacity or otherwise, parking spaces shall be provided on the basis of the
change or enlargement. Whenever a building or use existing prior to the
effective date of this zoning ordinance is reconstructed or enlarged to the
extent of twenty percent (20%) or more of floor area, said building or use in
its entirety shall then and thereafter comply with the parking requirements set
forth herein. Any change or enlargement in use of less than twenty percent
(20%) of the gross floor area shall be provided with parking based on the
change or enlargement.
   B.   Decreased Parking Demand: When a building, structure or site undergoes
a decrease in floor area, number of dwelling units, seating capacity or other
unit of measurement specified hereinafter as a means for determining required
off street parking and loading facilities, or when the application of the
standards herein would result in a requirement for fewer total off street
parking and/or loading spaces than are provided on the subject site, the
available off street parking and/or loading facilities may be reduced
accordingly provided that existing off street parking and loading remaining
would equal or exceed the off street parking and loading requirements resulting
from application of the provisions of these standards to the entire building,
structure or site as modified. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-9-3: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Prohibition Of Repair, Service Or Sales Use Of Parking Facilities: No
required off street parking or loading facilities shall be utilized for motor
vehicle repair work, service, display or sales of any kind, except as expressly
permitted elsewhere in this zoning ordinance.
   B.   Prohibition Of Use Of Required Parking As Commercial Or Public Lot: No
area designated as a required parking area in connection with any designated
building, structure, site or use shall be operated as a commercial or public
parking facility providing parking spaces for the general public.
   C.   Entries And Exits: The number of entrances and exits shall be limited
to one entrance and one exit or one combined entrance and exit per three
hundred (300) linear feet of street frontage unless additional entrances and/or
exits are deemed necessary by the city staff. Except for single-family
residential dwellings and duplexes, all parking access shall be designed to
prevent the need to back directly onto a public road or right of way.
   D.   Location Of Parking Or Loading Space: All required off street parking
or loading spaces shall be provided on the same parcel of land occupied by the
use or building to which it is appurtenant; provided, however, that where there
are, in the judgment of the city staff, practical difficulties in satisfying
the requirement for parking space and/or if the public safety or convenience
would be better served by another location, the city staff may authorize an
alternative location for any portion of the required parking for a
nonresidential use which will adequately serve the public interest, subject to
the following conditions:
      1.   Required accessory off street parking facilities may be provided
elsewhere than on the lot on which the principal use served is located and
shall not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the total parking required, provided
that the property occupied as parking is in the same possession, either by
deed, by easement, or by long term lease which has a term equal to or exceeding
the projected life of the facility occupied by the principal use, and further
provided that the owner shall be bound by covenants filed on record with the
Madison County recorder of deeds, requiring the owner and his or her heirs and
assigns, as well as subsequent owners, heirs or assigns, to maintain the
required number of off street parking spaces during the existence of such
principal use.
      2.   Accessory off street parking shall be available within a walking
distance of not more than five hundred feet (500') measured from the nearest
property line of the premises to the nearest part of the accessory parking
area.
      3.   Such separated parking space shall be usable without causing
unreasonable traffic congestion, detriment to any residential neighborhood, or
hazard to pedestrians or vehicular traffic.
   E.   Zoning Of Accessory Parking Areas: All accessory off site parking
facilities, whether provided in fulfillment of or in excess of the requirements
of this chapter, and whether located on the same or on a different lot from the
principal use as provided in the preceding subsection, shall be located on
nonresidentially zoned property.
   F.   Joint Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities for different
buildings, structures or uses, or for mixed uses, may be provided and used
collectively or jointly in any zoning district in which separate off street
parking facilities for each constituent use would be permitted, subject to the
following provisions:
      1.   The total number of spaces so located together is not less than the
sum of the separate requirements for each use except as provided by subsections
F3 and F4 of this section and subsection
11-9-5C12b of this chapter.
      2.   A legally sufficient written agreement assuring the perpetual joint
usage of said common parking for the combination of uses or buildings is
properly drawn and executed by the parties concerned, approved as to form and
execution by the city attorney, and filed with and made part of the application
for a building permit.
      3.   Up to fifty percent (50%) of the parking spaces required for a
theater (unless the theater's required parking spaces are based on the
provisions of subsection
11-9-5C12b of this chapter) or other place of evening entertainment, or for a
church, may be provided and used jointly by banks, offices, retail stores,
repair shops, service establishments and similar uses not normally open, used
or operated during evening hours if specifically approved by the city staff;
and provided, however, that written agreement assuring the retention for such
purpose shall be properly drawn and executed by the parties concerned, approved
as to form and execution by the city attorney, and shall be filed and made part
of the application for a building permit. Such approval may, with fifteen (15)
days' prior written notice, be rescinded by the city council and additional
parking shall be obtained by the owners in the event that the city council
determines that such joint use is resulting in a public nuisance or is
otherwise adversely affecting the public health, safety or welfare.
      4.   Land uses which do not meet the criteria of subsection F3 of this
section, but which can clearly demonstrate the ability to successfully provide
joint parking facilities to the satisfaction of the city staff, may be
permitted to share up to fifty percent (50%) of their required parking spaces
provided that written agreement assuring the retention for such purpose shall
be properly drawn and executed by the parties concerned, approved as to form
and execution by the city attorney, and shall be filed and made part of the
application for a building permit. Such approval may, with fifteen (15) days'
prior written notice, be rescinded by the city council and additional parking
shall be obtained by the owners in the event that the city council determines
that such joint use is resulting in a public nuisance or is otherwise adversely
affecting the public health, safety or welfare. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-9-4: DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   A.   Size Of Parking Spaces: Typical parking spaces in parking lots shall be
a minimum of nine feet (9') wide by nineteen feet (19') long. Parallel parking
spaces shall have minimum dimensions of eight feet (8') wide by twenty three
feet (23') long. Each parking space shall provide seven feet (7') of vertical
clearance. Drive aisles providing access to parking spaces shall be twenty four
feet (24') wide for two-way traffic and at least fourteen feet (14') wide for
one-way traffic.
   B.   Reduction In Space Size: The city staff may approve the use of
continuous concrete curbs as wheel stops and thus measure the size of parking
spaces to be two feet (2') less in length than otherwise required. In such
instances the parking layout should allow for the vehicle to overhang the curb
by two feet (2') and such overhang area must be clear of all obstructions
(signs, trees, etc.) and may not be regarded as required landscape area.
   C.   Parking Surface And Drainage: All open off street parking areas, except
those accessory to one- or two-family dwellings, shall be improved with a
compacted select rock base surfaced with an all weather, dustless material
suitably designed for the intended use to a standard approved by the city. Such
material shall not include oil and chip. Parking and loading facilities shall
be provided with adequate stormwater drainage facilities to prevent damage or
inconvenience to abutting property and/or public streets and alleys. (Ord.
6734, 6-11-2003)
   D.   Pavement Marking: All parking spaces shall be marked by durable painted
lines at least four inches (4") wide and extending the length of the space or
by curbs or other means to indicate individual spaces. Handicapped parking
spaces shall be identified through the use of yellow painted lines (see section
11-9-6 of this chapter). Signs or markers located on the surface within a
parking facility shall be used as necessary to ensure efficient and safe
traffic operation of the facility. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7464, 6-10-
2015)
   E.   Lighting: Any off street parking or loading area used between six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. shall contain a system of
lighting to provide an adequate standard of at least one foot-candle of
illumination over the area of the parking area to be used. All lighting shall
be arranged to deflect, shade and focus lights away from adjacent properties
and shall be designed so as not to create more than one foot-candle of
illumination at any property boundary abutting a residential zoning district.
Any land use which utilizes an off street parking or loading area between six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. an average of less than four
(4) days per month may be exempted from this requirement by the city staff.
   F.   Reserved.
   G.   Maintenance: All signs, markers or any other methods used to indicate
direction of traffic movement and location of parking spaces shall be
maintained in a neat and legible condition. Likewise any walls, landscaping
including trees and shrubbery, as well as surfacing and curbing of the parking
facility, shall be maintained in good condition throughout its use for parking
purposes.
   H.   Recreational Vehicles: With the exception of travel trailer parks and
commercial establishments engaged in the sale of recreational vehicles,
recreational vehicles shall comply with the following regulations:
      1.   Not more than one recreational vehicle shall be parked on any lot.
      2.   No recreational vehicle shall be used as a dwelling.
      3.   No recreational vehicle shall be used as an office or for any other
commercial purposes.
      4.   No recreational vehicle shall be parked on a regular basis in front
of any existing residences or in the front yard or driveway on any lot in any
single-family residential zoning district.
   I.   Paving Of Residential Parking Spaces: The required off street parking
spaces for any residential use shall be paved with concrete, asphaltic concrete
or brick. Any parking space constructed or designated after the effective date
of this zoning ordinance and the driveways between such spaces and the street
right of way line shall be similarly paved. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-9-5: REQUIRED OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
   A.   Rules For Computing Parking Spaces: In computing the number of required
off street parking spaces, the following rules shall apply:
      1.   "Floor area" shall mean the gross area of the entire building of the
specific use, excluding any floor or portion thereof used for parking.
      2.   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall be
the next greater whole number.
      3.   In the case of mixed uses, the parking spaces required shall be
computed separately for each use except as provided in subsections
11-9-3F3 and F4 of this chapter and subsection C12b of this section.
      4.   All required parking shall be available at all times for the use for
which the parking is required except as specifically provided by this chapter.
      5.   In the case of bench seating, such as pews in a place of worship,
twenty one (21) lineal inches of bench seating shall equate to one seat.
      6.   For residential uses, off street parking requirements can be met
through the use of a garage and/or paved parking spaces located outside of any
right of way.
      7.   If a specific land use is not included in the list of uses for which
parking space requirements are specifically listed, then the required parking
for that use shall be determined by using the required parking for the most
similar use in its "North American Industry Classification System" (NAICS)
code.
   B.   General Parking Requirements:
      1.   Residential Uses: For single-family dwellings, duplexes, and
multiple-family dwellings two (2) parking spaces per dwelling unit. For
manufactured homes, two (2) parking spaces per manufactured home.
      2.   Public Assembly: Churches, other places of worship, public
buildings, auditoriums, and other places of public assembly: One parking space
for each four (4) seats.
      3.   Office Buildings: General offices including professional,
governmental or institutional, except as specifically enumerated in this
chapter: For buildings less than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet, one
parking space per two hundred fifty (250) square feet of floor area. For
buildings greater than fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet, one parking space
per three hundred (300) square feet.
      4.   Shopping Centers: Shopping centers designed for retail uses and
personal service establishments shall provide five (5) parking spaces per one
thousand (1,000) square feet of floor area unless the proposed mix of land uses
in the shopping center require a higher number in which case the higher number
shall be required.
   C.   Parking Requirements For Specific Uses:
      1.   Accommodation and food service (uses within NAICS code 72).
         a.   Bed and breakfast inns (uses within NAICS code 721191): Two (2)
parking spaces, plus one parking space for each room offered for overnight
accommodations.
         c.   Hotels, motels and similar lodging facilities (uses within NAICS
code 72111): One and one-tenth (1.1) parking spaces per rentable room, plus one
parking space for each three (3) seats in the restaurant and lounge, plus one
parking space per five hundred (500) square feet of conference rooms.
         d.   Restaurants and bars (uses within NAICS code 722): One parking
space per one hundred (100) square feet of floor area, plus one parking space
per each four (4) seats in an outdoor seating area.
      2.   Agriculture, forestry and fishing (uses within NAICS code 11): One
parking space per five hundred (500) square feet of floor area.
      3.   Arts, entertainment and recreation (uses within NAICS code 71):
         a.   Amusement game parlors, pool halls, and other similar
recreational buildings: One parking space per two hundred (200) square feet of
floor area.
         b.   Bowling centers (uses within NAICS code 71395): Five (5) parking
spaces per lane.
         c.   Dance studios, schools and halls (including martial arts and
similar schools) (uses within NAICS code 71399): One parking space per two
hundred (200) square feet of floor area.
         d.   Golf courses (uses within NAICS code 71391): Four (4) parking
spaces per hole.
         e.   Museums, art galleries, botanical and zoological gardens (uses
within NAICS code 712): One parking space per three hundred (300) square feet
of floor area, plus one parking space per two thousand five hundred (2,500)
square feet of outdoor display area.
         f.   Public or private commercially operated recreational complexes
and associated structures: Five (5) parking spaces per gross acre, plus one
parking space per one hundred (100) square feet of floor area for associated
support buildings.
      4.   Broadcasting and telecommunications (uses within NAICS code 513).
         a.   Cable networks and program distribution (uses within NAICS code
5132): One parking space for every three hundred (300) square feet of floor
area.
         b.   Radio and television broadcasting (uses within NAICS code 5131):
One parking space for every three hundred (300) square feet of floor area.
         c.   Telecommunications (uses within NAICS code 5133): One parking
space for every four hundred (400) square feet of floor area.
      5.   Business services (uses within NAICS code 54):
         a.   Legal services (uses within NAICS code 5411): One parking space
per two hundred fifty (250) square feet of floor area.
         b.   Veterinary services (uses within NAICS code 541940): One parking
space per two hundred fifty (250) square feet of floor area.
         c.   All other business services: One parking space per three hundred
(300) square feet of floor area.
      6.   Construction (uses within NAICS code 23): One parking space per five
hundred (500) square feet of floor area, plus one parking space per three
thousand (3,000) square feet of outdoor storage area.
      7.   Educational services (uses within NAICS code 611):
         a.   Elementary and secondary schools (uses within NAICS code 6111):
            (1)   High schools: One parking space for every four (4) students
based on the maximum design capacity of the school, plus one parking space for
every employee.
            (2)   Junior high and elementary schools: Two (2) parking spaces
per classroom.
         b.   Colleges and universities: One parking space for every five (5)
students based on the maximum enrollment of the school.
         c.   Business schools and technical/vocational schools (uses within
NAICS codes 6112-6115): One parking space for every two (2) students based on
the maximum design capacity of the school, plus one parking space for every
employee.
         d.   Other educational services: One parking space per three hundred
(300) square feet of floor area.
      8.   Finance, insurance and real estate (uses within NAICS codes 52-53):
         a.   Banks and savings and loans (uses within NAICS codes 521-522):
            (1)   For buildings up to five thousand (5,000) square feet in
size: One parking space per one hundred sixty five (165) square feet of floor
area.
            (2)   For buildings greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet,
but not more than ten thousand (10,000) square feet in size: Thirty (30)
parking spaces, plus one parking space per two hundred (200) square feet of
floor area over five thousand (5,000) square feet.
            (3)   For buildings greater than ten thousand (10,000) square feet
in size: Fifty (50) parking spaces, plus one parking space per two hundred
fifty (250) square feet of space over ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
         b.   All other finance (credit agencies, securities and commodities
services), insurance and real estate offices: One parking space per two hundred
fifty (250) square feet of floor area.
      9.   Healthcare and social assistance (uses within NAICS code 62):
         a.   Childcare centers (uses within NAICS code 6244): One and one-half
(11/2) parking spaces per staff person required for the licensed capacity of
the facility. In addition, daycare facilities shall provide safe drop off areas
near the main entrance to the facility.
         b.   Hospitals (uses within NAICS code 622): One and three-tenths
(1.3) parking spaces per patient bed.
         c.   Medical and dental offices and outpatient care centers (uses
within NAICS codes 6211-6214):
            (1)   Buildings under ten thousand (10,000) square feet: One
parking space per one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor area.
            (2)   Buildings greater than ten thousand (10,000) square feet:
Sixty seven (67) parking spaces, plus one parking space per two hundred (200)
square feet of floor area over ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
         d.   Nursing and personal care facilities (uses within NAICS code
623): One parking space per two (2) patient beds.
         e.   All other health services: One parking space per two hundred
fifty (250) square feet of floor area.
         f.   All other social service uses: One parking space per three
hundred (300) square feet of floor area.
      10.   Manufacturing (uses within NAICS codes 31-33):
         a.   Research and development facility: One parking space per four
hundred (400) square feet of floor area.
         b.   All other manufacturing: One parking space for every five hundred
(500) square feet of floor area.
      11.   Membership organizations (uses within NAICS codes 8132-8134, 8139):
One parking space per two hundred (200) square feet of floor area.
      12.   Motion pictures (uses within NAICS code 5121):
         a.   Single motion picture theaters: One parking space per three (3)
seats.
         b.   Multi-plex motion picture theaters: One parking space per four
(4) seats. Except, however, that such theaters may have their parking modified
by the provisions of subsection
11-9-3F3 of this chapter or multi-plex theaters located within shopping centers
containing over twenty five thousand (25,000) square feet of floor area which
provide at least six (6) parking spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of
floor area or multi-plex theaters located within shopping centers over fifty
thousand (50,000) square feet of floor area which provide at least five (5)
parking spaces per one thousand (1,000) square feet of floor area may provide
parking according to the following standards:
 
Gross Retail Area              Parking Standard
25,000 - 49,999                1 space per 5 seats
50,000 - 79,999                1 space per 6 seats
80,000 - 99,999                1 space per 7 seats
100,000 square feet and larger 1 space per 8 seats
 
         c.   Videotape rental (uses within NAICS code 53223): One parking
space per two hundred (200) square feet of floor area.
         d.   All other motion picture uses: One parking space per three
hundred (300) square feet of floor area.
      13.   Personal services (uses within NAICS code 812):
         a.   Barbershops, beauty shops, nail salons and tanning salons (uses
within NAICS code 8121): Two (2) parking spaces per barber, beautician and/or
manicurist station or one parking space per one hundred (100) square feet of
floor area, whichever is greater.
         b.   Funeral homes and funeral services (uses within NAICS code
812210): One parking space per one hundred (100) square feet of floor space
devoted to parlors, individual funeral service rooms and similar areas, plus
one parking space for each funeral vehicle kept on the premises, plus one
parking space per employee.
         c.   Laundry, cleaning and garment services (uses within NAICS code
8123):
            (1)   Dry cleaning pick up establishments: One parking space per
one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor area for the pick up area, plus
one parking space per three hundred (300) square feet of floor area for
clothing storage and other areas.
            (2)   All other uses: One parking space per three hundred (300)
square feet of floor area.
         d.   All other personal service establishments: One space per two
hundred (200) square feet of floor area.
      14.   Repair and maintenance (uses within NAICS code 811):
         a.   Automobile repair and services (uses within NAICS code 8111): One
parking space per three hundred (300) square feet of floor area, plus one space
per service bay.
         b.   Miscellaneous repair services (uses within NAICS codes 8112-
8114): One parking space per three hundred (300) square feet of floor area.
      15.   Transportation and warehousing (uses within NAICS codes 48-49):
         a.   Transportation (uses within NAICS codes 48, 491-492): One parking
space for every four hundred (400) square feet of floor area.
         b.   Warehousing and storage businesses (uses within NAICS code 493)
shall have their parking requirements based on the following:
 
Building Size                   Parking Spaces
Less than 5,000 square feet     1 space per 1,000 square feet
5,000 to 15,000 square feet     1 space per 1,500 square feet
15,001 to 40,000 square feet    1 space per 2,000 square feet
Greater than 40,001 square feet 1 space per 2,500 square feet
or 1 space per employee on the largest shift, whichever is greater.
 
      16.   Utility uses (uses within NAICS code 221): One parking space for
every five hundred (500) square feet of floor area.
      17.   Wholesale and retail trade (uses within NAICS codes 42, 44-45):
         a.   Automotive (uses within NAICS codes 441, 447) (not including
automobile repair (uses within NAICS code 8111)):
            (1)   Automobile, boat or other motor vehicle dealers (uses within
NAICS codes 4411, 4412): One parking space per two hundred fifty (250) square
feet of showroom floor area, plus two (2) parking spaces per service bay.
Parking spaces typically occupied by new or used automobiles for sale shall not
be counted towards the required off street parking requirements. Such parking
spaces occupied by automobiles for sale do not have to meet the minimum parking
space requirements specified in this zoning ordinance.
            (2)   Auto parts stores (uses within NAICS code 4413): One parking
space per three hundred (300) square feet of floor area.
            (3)   Gasoline stations (uses within NAICS code 447): One parking
space per two hundred (200) square feet of floor area, plus three (3) parking
spaces for every service bay.
            (4)   All other automotive uses: One parking space per three
hundred (300) square feet of floor area.
         b.   Building materials and garden supplies (uses within NAICS code
444): One parking space per three hundred (300) square feet of floor area, plus
one parking space per one thousand (1,000) square feet of outdoor display area.
         c.   Furniture and home furnishings stores (including carpeting and
major appliances) (uses within NAICS code 442): One parking space per three
hundred (300) square feet of floor area.
         d.   General retail establishments (food, health and personal care,
apparel and accessories, general merchandise, and miscellaneous retail stores)
(uses within NAICS codes 445-446, 448, 451-453): Five (5) parking spaces per
one thousand (1,000) square feet of floor area.
         e.   Wholesaling businesses (uses within NAICS code 42) shall have
their parking requirements based on the following:
 
Building Size                   Parking Spaces
Less than 5,000 square feet     1 space per 1,000 square feet
5,000 to 15,000 square feet     1 space per 1,500 square feet
15,001 to 40,000 square feet    1 space per 2,000 square feet
Greater than 40,001 square feet 1 space per 2,500 square feet
or 1 space per employee on the largest shift, whichever is greater
 
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7879, 4-12-2023)
11-9-6: HANDICAPPED PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   General: All applicants should be aware of the requirements of the
Americans with disabilities act (ADA) of 1990, including provisions of the act
which were effective as of January 26, 1992. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
   B.   Handicapped Parking Spaces: Handicapped parking spaces shall be a
minimum of eight feet (8') in width and each space shall have access to a five
foot (5') wide access aisle. In addition, at least one of the handicapped
parking spaces must be capable of accommodating a wheelchair van which shall be
provided a parking space of eight feet (8') wide plus an eight foot (8') wide
discharge area. All handicapped parking spaces shall be identified by yellow
lines and a handicapped symbol painted on the pavement, and by a handicapped
parking space sign for each space. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7464, 6-10-
2015)
11-9-7: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Purpose And Intent: It is the city's intent to require sufficient off
street loading areas and to ensure that such areas are located in a convenient
location out of sight of the general public to the extent feasible. Such off
street loading areas shall be located at the rear of building whenever
practical.
Off street loading areas shall be provided for every use identified in
subsection C of this section. Loading areas which are utilized for the location
of trash collection or compaction units shall be provided for and shall be in
addition to the loading space requirements provided in subsection C of this
section.
   B.   Dimensions Of Spaces: Loading spaces shall have minimum dimensions of
twelve feet (12') width by thirty five feet (35') length with a vertical
clearance of at least fourteen feet (14'). In addition, some uses may be
required to provide loading zones of at least sixty feet (60') in length to
accommodate large tractor trailers.
   C.   Schedule Of Off Street Loading Spaces:
      1.   Residential Uses: Any building or project containing more than fifty
(50) apartment dwelling units shall provide one loading space for each two
hundred (200) dwelling units or fraction thereof.
      2.   Offices And Personal Or Community Service Establishments: One
loading space shall be provided for each such use, including schools, medical
or dental clinics, auditoriums or clubs, and similar use, having greater than
six thousand (6,000) square feet of gross floor space.
      3.   Buildings Over Three Thousand Square Feet: Every building consisting
of over three thousand (3,000) square feet of floor area designed or adaptable
for retail, warehouse, wholesale or manufacturing use shall be provided with
loading spaces and zones as follows:
 
Building Size                       Number Of Spaces   Number Of Zones 1
In Square Feet
3,000 - 14,999                      1                  0
15,000 - 39,999                     1                  1
40,000 - 100,000                    1                  2
Each additional 100,000 square foot 1 additional space 1 additional zone
 
   Note:
      1.    Retail uses existing on the effective date of this zoning ordinance
may be allowed to substitute 1 off street loading space per required off street
loading area if they can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city staff that
off street loading areas are not necessary for their business.
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
CHAPTER 10
SIGN REGULATIONS
SECTION:
11-10-1: Purpose And Intent
11-10-2: General Provisions
11-10-3: Permitted Signs
11-10-4: Prohibited Signs
11-10-5: Design, Construction, Maintenance And Inspection
11-10-6: Compliance And Amortization
11-10-7: Sign Permits
11-10-8: Enforcement And Sign Removal
11-10-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to provide reasonable regulations for the
erection and display of signs. These regulations are intended to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare through a comprehensive set of
reasonable standards and requirements which preserve the appearance of the
city.
These regulations are not intended to prohibit the erection or display of a
sign with a religious or political message, or any sign allowed or required by
state or federal law provided that any such sign conforms to the size
requirements and other reasonable requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 6734, 6-
11-2003)
11-10-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this zoning ordinance shall apply to signs in both
residential and nonresidential zoning districts of the city, unless a sign is
specifically exempted by subsection A of this section. Every sign shall comply
with all other applicable ordinances of the city. In case of a conflict between
the provisions of this zoning ordinance and other applicable provisions, the
more restrictive provision shall govern.
   A.   Exempt Signs: With the exception of section
11-10-5 of this chapter concerning design, construction, maintenance, and
inspection, the provisions and regulations of this zoning ordinance shall not
apply to the following signs:
      1.   Governmental and official signs including, but not limited to, the
following:
         a.   Public notices and official notices posted or authorized by
government officials in the performance of their duties.
         b.   Signs for the control or direction of traffic and other
appropriate public purposes.
      2.   "No parking", "no trespassing" and "no hunting" signs that are no
larger than one square foot in gross sign area and have a sign height of six
feet (6') or less. In nonresidential zones, no trespassing and no hunting signs
may be increased to three (3) square feet in size.
      3.   Driveway signs including the following:
         a.   Signs at driveway entrances provided that such signs do not
exceed one square foot in gross sign area and have a sign height of three feet
(3') or less.
         b.   Residential address number located on a sign not larger than one
square foot in gross sign area. If such information is contained on a
freestanding sign, such sign shall be limited to a height of three feet (3').
      4.   Illuminated or nonilluminated bulletin board signs (as defined in
section
11-2-2 of this title) erected by the city of Alton, a place of worship, or a
school provided that such signs do not exceed twenty four (24) square feet in
gross sign area and the sign height does not exceed eight feet (8').
      5.   Residential garage, patio or estate sale signs not exceeding six (6)
square feet per sign face with not more than two (2) sign faces which are
erected not more than three (3) days prior to such sale and removed the day
following the sale.
      6.   Incidental signs as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title.
   B.   Rules For Measuring Sign Frontage: In determining the maximum amount of
signage allowed on a nonresidential premises, sign frontage shall be the
primary method of measurement. Every premises has "sign frontage" as defined in
section
11-2-2 of this title. Application of sign measurement shall be as follows:
      1.   If a premises has sign frontage on one street, the total sign
frontage shall be the lineal distance along the right of way line of the
street.
      2.   If a premises has sign frontage on two (2) or more streets, the
total sign frontage shall be the sum of the lineal distance measured along the
right of way line of not more than two (2) streets provided that the two (2)
streets intersect.
      3.   If a premises has sign frontage on the parking lot of an office
building or shopping center only, the total sign frontage shall be the lineal
distance of the building space that adjoins the parking lot.
      4.   If a premises has sign frontage on one street and on the parking lot
of an office building or shopping center, the total sign frontage shall be the
sum of the lineal distance measured along the street right of way and the
lineal distance measured along the building space that adjoins the parking lot.
      5.   If a premises has sign frontage on two (2) parallel or roughly
parallel streets, the sign frontage shall be the lineal distance along the
right of way of one of the streets.
      6.   Any building or use specifically allowed signage on more than one
sign frontage shall be limited to displaying or erecting signage on only two
(2) sign frontages. The third and any subsequent frontage shall be devoid of
any on premises permanent signs except for a rear entrance sign of not more
than two (2) square feet in size. Moreover, when a sign is erected at the
street intersection corner of a parcel or at the intersection of a building
front, and is situated at an angle so as to be visible from both streets or
both frontages, the sign shall not exceed the maximum area allowed for the
longest front footage of building occupancy or street frontage. (Ord. 6734, 6-
11-2003)
   C.   Illuminated Signs In Residentially Zoned Areas:
      1.   In residentially zoned areas, no illuminated signs shall be
permitted except permanent signs for places of worship, schools, or government
owned and operated buildings, and except for signs associated with a
preexisting nonconforming use.
      2.   Within the R-4 zoning district, any structure with five (5) or more
stories, presently in existence at the time of adoption of this subsection C,
is allowed one on premises illuminated sign mounted to the principal structure
with a square footage not to exceed two hundred (200) square feet and not in
excess of five percent (5%) of the square footage of the proposed surface area
of the principal structure. In no case shall an illuminated sign be directed
towards a residential district. (Ord. 6785, 12-10-2003)
   D.   Miscellaneous Requirements:
      1.   Flags: Flags shall be permitted in any zoning district without a
permit. Each lot or parcel of land in the city shall be limited to the display
of not more than five (5) flags. Parcels of land in excess of five (5) acres in
size, however, may display additional flags provided that there is not more
than one flag displayed per acre of land area. No flag shall exceed ninety six
(96) square feet in size. Flagpoles may be up to thirty five feet (35') in
height in residential districts. In other districts they shall be subject to
the maximum building height limitations.
      2.   Sign Height: Freestanding signs shall not exceed the heights
specified in this zoning ordinance. If no height limit is specified in the
regulations for a specific freestanding sign, such sign shall not exceed six
feet (6') in height. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-10-3: PERMITTED SIGNS:
   A.   Signs Permitted In All Zoning Districts: The following signs are
permitted in all zoning districts subject to all of the limitations and
provisions stated in this zoning ordinance:
      1.   Residential development identification signs which are permanent
signs designating a multiple-family development, subdivision or neighborhood.
Such signs shall be limited to thirty two (32) square feet per sign face with a
maximum of two (2) sign faces. Each such development shall be limited to no
more than two (2) sign structures per entrance. A permit is required for a
residential development identification sign. In addition, directional signs
internal to a multiple-family development may also be approved by the zoning
administrator or the zoning administrator's designee provided that such signs
are not more than three (3) square feet in size. A permit is required for such
signs.
      2.   A residential sign provided, however, that there shall be only one
such sign on any lot or parcel of land. Such sign may contain a religious or
political message, but may not contain a commercial message. A residential sign
shall have a maximum gross sign area of six (6) square feet per sign face and a
maximum of two (2) sign faces. No permit shall be required for such a sign
provided that the sign is erected by the owner or with the owner's permission.
Election signs are regulated in subsection A6 of this section.
      3.   A real estate sign may advertise the property for sale, lease or
rent, but is limited to six (6) square feet per sign face and a maximum of two
(2) sign faces. Real estate signs shall be removed from the premises ten (10)
days after the premises is sold, leased or rented. No permit is required for a
real estate sign.
      4.   In addition to a real estate sign allowed in subsection A3 of this
section, two (2) temporary open house signs shall also be allowed. One such
sign shall be allowed on site and one is allowed off site. Open house signs
shall be limited to a maximum gross sign area of six (6) square feet per sign
face and a maximum of two (2) sign faces shall be permitted for up to three (3)
consecutive days and shall be removed no later than one day after the open
house. A minimum of four (4) days shall transpire prior to posting any open
house sign on the same lot or parcel for a second or subsequent time. No permit
shall be required for such a sign.
      5.   Institutional signs concerning institutional uses such as schools,
country clubs, monasteries, convents and places of worship. Such institutions
shall be allowed one permanent wall sign and one permanent freestanding sign.
In addition, a place of worship having a significant accessory use and/or a
special use may have one additional freestanding sign. No permanent sign shall
contain a sign face with an area exceeding thirty two (32) square feet in size,
and no freestanding sign shall have more than two (2) sign faces. One of the
permanent signs may be a bulletin board sign with changeable copy. In addition,
such institutions shall be permitted one temporary sign which may be a single
or double faced sign although no single sign face shall exceed six (6) square
feet and the total gross area of any such sign shall not exceed twelve (12)
square feet. Display of such sign shall be limited to a period of sixty (60)
days. Institutional signs in nonresidential zoning districts may compute
allowable signage based on the on premises permanent sign size allowances in
subsection B2 of this section in lieu of the requirements specified in this
subsection. Permits are required for all signs allowed by this subsection A5.
      6.   Election signs may be erected within a period extending sixty (60)
days prior to and ten (10) days after any election held within Madison County,
with the property owner's permission. Such signs shall be in addition to the
signage permitted by other provisions of this zoning ordinance on any lot or
parcel of land in the city. Each lot or parcel of land shall be permitted one
or more single or double faced signs although no single sign face shall exceed
six (6) square feet and the total gross area of any such sign shall not exceed
twelve (12) square feet. No permits are required for election signs.
      7.   For subdivisions under development, a "subdivision information
sign", as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title, may be permitted for each entrance to the subdivision.
The size of these signs shall be limited to thirty six (36) square feet each.
In addition, an identification sign not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet in
area may be permitted for each model home in the subdivision. Permits shall be
required for subdivision identification signs and for signs for model homes.
      8.   Special event balloons and/or banners may be allowed by the zoning
administrator or the zoning administrator's designee for significant events or
grand openings. A permit is required for special event balloons. Such balloons
shall not be allowed to exceed a height of forty five feet (45') above ground
level, shall be displayed for not more than four (4) continuous days on any
site and shall not be displayed for more than twenty (20) days total on any
site during any calendar year.
   B.   Signs Permitted In Nonresidential Zoning Districts:
      1.   Types Of Signs: In addition to the signs allowed by subsection A of
this section, other signs are allowed in nonresidential zoning districts which
are necessary to identify and promote business, industry and institutions.
These signs include the following:
         a.   On premises permanent signs including wall signs, canopy signs,
window signs, projecting signs and freestanding signs.
         b.   Special purpose signs.
         c.   Temporary signs.
         d.   Billboards (see subsection C of this section).
      2.   On Premises Permanent Signs: On premises permanent signs include
wall signs, canopy signs, window signs, projecting signs and freestanding
signs. The total square footage of all on premises permanent signs on a site
shall be based on the allowances in table 1 of this section. When calculating
the total square footage of on premises permanent signs, only one sign face of
a double faced sign shall be counted. Additional regulations are as follows:
         a.   The total gross sign area of all signs located on any wall of a
building (including wall signs, canopy signs and permanent window signs) shall
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the area of such wall nor six hundred fifty
(650) square feet, whichever is the lesser. In addition, no individual wall,
canopy or window sign shall exceed four hundred fifty (450) square feet in
size. Projecting signs shall not exceed one square foot of sign area per linear
foot of sign frontage. A wall sign or a projecting sign may include automated
time and temperature information provided that no other part of the sign moves
or appears to move. Sign permits shall be required for all wall signs, canopy
signs and permanent window signs.
         b.   Freestanding signs shall be allowed based on the amount of sign
frontage. Sign permits are required for all freestanding signs. Freestanding
signs are limited to twenty feet (20') in height in the HE, MED, and C-
1 districts and thirty five feet (35') in all other nonresidential districts.
         c.   The total gross sign area of all permanent window signage,
striping, incidental signs and paper/temporary window signs shall not exceed
twenty five percent (25%) of the total clear glass area along the portion of
the storefront on which the signs are located. Sign permits shall not be
required for incidental window signs that do not exceed one square foot in
gross sign area or temporary window signs that do not exceed six (6) square
feet in gross sign area.
   Table 1
   Allowable Gross Sign Area By Zoning District
 
Zoning Districts             Allowable Sign Area
HE, MED, C-1                 1 square foot per linear foot of sign frontage
C-4, MR                      3 square feet per linear foot of sign frontage
M-1, M-2, M-3, M-4, C-2, C-5 4 square feet per linear foot of sign frontage
 
      3.   Special Purpose Signs: Signs authorized in this subsection B3 are
not to be included in calculating the allowable gross sign area for on premises
permanent signs. Sign permits are required for all special purpose signs.
         a.   Parking Direction Signs: One freestanding parking direction sign
per direction, which may be internally illuminated, shall be permitted for each
driveway, provided the sign does not exceed three (3) square feet in gross sign
area per face, the sign height does not exceed three feet (3'), and no portion
of the sign shall extend into the public right of way. If the sign is located
at a private driveway, the sign may contain the address of the business or
institution on the premises.
         b.   Parking Regulation Signs: One nonilluminated parking regulation
sign (such as "no parking", "parking reserved for" and similar signs), not
exceeding five (5) square feet in gross sign area and not exceeding ten feet
(10') in sign height, shall be permitted for each commercial or public parking
lot. Parking lots with more than twenty (20) parking spaces shall be permitted
one such sign for each twenty (20) parking spaces. In addition, a handicapped,
van accessible or similar sign shall be allowed for each handicapped parking
space. The size and height of such sign shall be no larger or higher than
required to be in compliance with the Illinois accessibility code.
         c.   Covered Walkway Signs: A sign not exceeding two (2) square feet
in gross sign area, may be hung from the ceiling of a covered walkway that is
attached to the front of a commercial establishment. Such a sign shall not
exceed eighteen inches (18") in drop from the bottom of the said sign to the
ceiling surface of the covered walkway, nor shall the bottom of said sign be
less than seven feet (7') above the sidewalk surface it is hanging over. Only
one covered walkway sign per business shall be allowed. Such a sign shall be
hung perpendicular to the retail storefront so as to be beneficial to
pedestrian traffic.
         d.   Menu Boards: Menu boards at drive-in restaurants or drive-through
windows at restaurants may be allowed provided the written message on such menu
board is not legible off the premises.
         e.   Sandwich Signs: Sandwich signs may be displayed on commercial
properties during business hours provided that they do not interfere with
pedestrian traffic. No sign face on a sandwich sign shall exceed fifteen (15)
square feet in size. Only one sandwich sign per business shall be allowed.
         f.   Light Pole Artwork Banners: Temporary or permanent light pole
artwork banners may be permitted on light poles and other similar utility poles
in surface parking lots and in or adjacent to street rights of way. The bottom
of such banner shall not be lower than seven feet (7') from the base of the
light pole. The gross sign area of each light pole artwork banner shall not
exceed eighteen (18) square feet with a maximum of two (2) banners per light
pole. No part of this banner shall project more than three feet (3') beyond the
vertical centerline of the light pole. These banners shall be attached to the
light pole in such a manner so as to minimize any banner movement. Any torn,
frayed, or faded light pole artwork banner must be repaired, replaced, or
removed entirely within ten (10) days of mailing of written notification from
the city.
      4.   Temporary Signs: Temporary signs allowed in nonresidential zoning
districts include on site construction signs, temporary advertising signs, real
estate signs, election signs, and special event signs.
         a.   On Site Construction Sign: Only one such sign per entire
development denoting the owner, architect, engineer, consultant, developer,
lender and/or contractor, not to exceed ten feet (10') in height from top of
sign to top of grade or two feet (2') in height from bottom of sign to top of
grade, shall be permitted. Such a sign shall be erected out of the public right
of way and shall be removed ten (10) days after the receipt of an occupancy
permit for the building or development. The size of such sign shall be based on
the formula in subsection B4g of this section.
         b.   Temporary Advertising Signs: The zoning administrator or the
zoning administrator's designee may issue a permit for one temporary sign
advertising a special promotion or grand opening for a period not exceeding
thirty (30) consecutive days. The advertisement contained on the temporary sign
shall pertain only to the business, industry, or pursuit conducted on or within
the premises on which such sign is erected. The temporary advertising sign may
be a sign or banner affixed on poles, wires, ropes, or may be streamers, wind
operated device, an A-frame sign or a similar device. The size of such sign
shall be based on the formula in subsection B4g of this section. Temporary
signs as authorized herein may be displayed on a premises for a maximum of
ninety (90) days per calendar year provided that no individual temporary
advertising sign is displayed for a period exceeding thirty (30) consecutive
days, there is a minimum of thirty (30) days between the display of temporary
advertising signs on a premises, and no premises shall be issued more than six
(6) permits for temporary advertising signs during any calendar year.
         c.   Real Estate Signs: In lieu of the real estate signs allowed by
subsection A3 of this section, a real estate sign in a nonresidential zoning
district may exceed six (6) square feet per sign face based on the formula in
subsection B4g of this section provided that the sign is limited to advertising
the premises on which it is located. Real estate signs shall be removed from
the premises ten (10) days after the premises is sold, leased or rented. No
permit shall be required for such signs.
         d.   Election Signs: In lieu of the election sign size limitation
allowed by subsection A6 of this section, temporary election signs in
nonresidential zoning districts may exceed six (6) square feet per sign face
based on the formula in subsection B4g of this section. All other requirements
of subsection A6 of this section apply to election signs in nonresidential
districts. No permit shall be required for election signs.
         e.   Special Event Signs: Signs or banners promoting or announcing a
special event sponsored by a governmental or nonprofit agency may be approved
by the zoning administrator or the zoning administrator's designee. Such signs
shall not be erected more than forty five (45) days prior to the event and
shall be removed within ten (10) days following the event. The size of such
sign shall be based on the formula in subsection B4g of this section. A permit
shall be required for such signs.
         f.   Subdivision Direction Signs: Subdivision direction signs, as
defined in section
11-2-2 of this title, are permitted in the CR, HE, MED, C-1, C-2, C-4, C-5, MR,
M-1, M-2, and M-3 districts based on the criteria in this subsection. A permit
shall be required for such signs. The size of such sign shall be based on the
formula in subsection B4g of this section. These are considered off premises
signs and only one subdivision direction sign shall be allowed per lot or
parcel of land. Such signs shall be removed within ten (10) days after the
subdivision is completed. Such signs shall be permitted for one year and, at
the end of the year, the permit may be renewed for six (6) month increments of
time.
         g.   Size Limitations: All temporary signs in nonresidential zoning
districts shall be limited to the size limitations enumerated in this
subsection. The maximum size of temporary signs shall be based on the sign
frontage of the lot or building space (if the business is located within a
shopping center). In the case of corner lots, only one sign frontage shall be
used in calculating the allowable size of the sign.
Sign Frontage  Maximum Size Of Sign Per Sign Face
Sign Frontage              Maximum Size Of Sign Per Sign Face
                          
   Less than 25 feet   6 square feet
   25 - 50 feet        12 square feet
   51 - 100 feet       18 square feet
   101 - 150 feet      24 square feet
   151 - 200 feet      30 square feet
   Greater than 200 fe 36 square feet
 
         h.   Temporary Window Signs: A temporary window sign not exceeding six
(6) square feet in size may be placed in the window of a commercial
establishment without a permit provided that the total square footage of all
signs placed on or in the windows of the establishment do not exceed twenty
five percent (25%) of the total window area. No permit shall be required for
such temporary window signs.
   C.   Billboards:
      1.   Billboards Limited: Billboards must meet the following requirements:
         a.   It must be located within six hundred sixty feet (660') of the
nearest edge of the right of way of a primary highway.
         b.   A billboard may only be placed on lands zoned C-2, C-5, M-1 and
M-2.
         c.   The billboard must comply with all provisions of subsections C2,
C3, C4 and C5 of this section.
      2.   Size, Height And Mounting Of Billboards: The size, height and
mounting of billboards shall be regulated by the following:
         a.   The gross sign area for any one billboard shall be two hundred
(200) square feet with a maximum vertical dimension of fifteen feet (15') and a
maximum horizontal dimension of twenty feet (20'), inclusive of border and trim
but excluding the base or apron, supports, and other structural members.
         b.   The maximum height of a billboard shall not exceed thirty five
feet (35') above the natural grade where the sign is installed.
         c.   No sign shall be located on the roof of a building or on a
nonsign structure.
         d.   Billboards may not be stacked such that a billboard sign face is
placed immediately above or below another billboard sign face.
         e.   No billboard shall have blinking, flashing or fluttering lights,
or other illuminating device of variable light intensity, brightness or color.
         f.   No billboard shall be allowed more than two (2) sign faces. Where
a billboard has two (2) sign faces, the area of all faces of the sign shall be
included in determining the gross sign area unless the two (2) sign faces join
back to back, are parallel to each other and not more than fourteen inches
(14") apart, or form a V-angle of forty five degrees (45°) or less.
      3.   Separation Requirements: No billboard or any part of the billboard
structure shall be erected:
         a.   Within two hundred feet (200') of any residentially zoned
property.
         b.   Within fifty feet (50') of any existing building, unless the
building is owned, maintained and actually utilized in the operation of an
outdoor advertising business license (class C 3064) issued by the city of
Alton. When the building is no longer owned, maintained and actually utilized
in the operation of an outdoor advertising business license (class C 3064)
issued by the city of Alton the signage, and its structure shall be removed.
         c.   Within two hundred feet (200') of any park, playground, school,
library or place of worship.
         d.   Within fifty feet (50') of an overhead power line.
         e.   Within three hundred feet (300') of another billboard.
      4.   Permits Required: A permit from the city is required to erect a
billboard.
      5.   Inspection Reports: Whenever a billboard is erected or maintained
within the city, the owner of such billboard shall cause an inspection of it at
least every five (5) years and a photocopy of the inspection report shall be
submitted to the zoning administrator.
   D.   Animated Signs: Animated signs and similar moving or message boards may
be allowed in commercial (C) districts. Review and approval of the signs shall
be based on the length of time that the sign copy is displayed and the ability
of the sign to display the changeable copy without adversely disrupting traffic
or causing safety problems. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 6898, 8-24-2005;
Ord. 7727, 11-13-2019; Ord. 7379, 11-26-2013; Ord. 7902, 9-27-2023)
11-10-4: PROHIBITED SIGNS:
The following types of signs are specifically prohibited in the city:
   A.   Signs visible from a public right of way that imitate, blend or
conflict with, or that may be confused with traffic signals and signs. Such
signs shall include, but not be limited to, signs that are imitations of
"stop", "go", "caution", "danger" or "warning".
   B.   Signs that are of a size, location, movement or illumination as may be
confused with or construed as a traffic control device or which might obstruct
from view any traffic or street sign or signal.
   C.   Signs on public land or public right of way, except those erected at
the direction of, or with the permission of, an appropriate public authority.
   D.   Strips or strings of lights used to call attention to a use or
occupancy by outlining property lines, rooflines, doors, windows, wall edges or
other architectural features of a building site, or which are suspended from or
attached to poles or similar structures. Exempted from this provision are
holiday lighting displayed from November 21 through January 15.
   E.   Moving signs, including those of which all or any part of the sign
moves or appears to move. This prohibition against moving signs shall extend to
devices including strings of light bulbs and rotating signs, whether part of
any signs are maintained as an independent feature, but does not include an
automated time and temperature sign, stock market sign or similar message sign.
   F.   Commercial message signs in residential zoning districts. The only
exceptions are for real estate signs described in subsection
11-10-3A3 of this chapter and a sign that is used in connection with a
preexisting nonconforming use as defined by this zoning ordinance. A sign of
that type shall be subject to subsection
11-10-2C of this chapter so long as the nonconforming use continues.
   G.   Snipe signs as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title.
   H.   Unkempt or unsightly signs as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title.
   I.   Roof signs as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title.
   J.   Any sign structure which no longer supports a sign. Exempted from this
section is a sign structure which is temporarily void of a sign due to a
permitted alteration or repair. A sign permit or an application for a sign
permit for this alteration or repair must be on file with the city and said
alteration or repair must be completed within thirty (30) days of the issuance
of the approved sign permit.
   K.   Permanent or temporary window signs above the ceiling of the second
floor including lettering painted or applied to glass.
   L.   Portable signs as defined in section
11-2-2 of this title, except for sandwich boards displayed on premises during
business hours.
   M.   Inflatable signs and tethered balloons, except for special event
balloons.
   N.   Signs extending over a roadway except those approved by the zoning
administrator.
   O.   Signs that advertise an activity or business no longer conducted on the
premises upon which the sign is located. Such signs shall be removed within six
(6) months after such activity or business ceases operation. The zoning
administrator or the zoning administrator's designee may grant one extension of
not more than six (6) months for this removal.
   P.   Signs erected in a way that would impair the view of motorists at
intersections or along public streets.
   Q.   Any sign not permitted by section
11-10-3 of this chapter or exempted by subsection
11-10-2A of this chapter is prohibited. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-10-5: DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION:
All signs shall comply with the following general requirements for design,
construction, maintenance and inspection:
   A.   Sign Faces: When a sign is allowed two (2) sign faces, the sign faces
shall be parallel to one another and not more than fourteen inches (14") apart
unless specifically authorized to deviate from this requirement by an
applicable portion of this zoning ordinance.
   B.   Projections: No sign shall project beyond a property line or into a
public right of way, except traffic control signs and permitted projecting
signs.
   C.   Compliance With Building Codes: Erection, construction, installation or
placement of any sign requiring a sign permit shall comply with all applicable
building codes. The zoning administrator or the zoning administrator's designee
may deny approval of the erection, construction, installation or placement of
any sign which does not meet all minimum standards as set forth in the building
codes of the city.
   D.   Wind Loads: All signs, except those attached flat against the wall of a
building, shall be constructed to withstand wind loads of thirty (30) pounds
per square foot of sign area.
   E.   Inspection Of Wall Signs: All wall signs shall be inspected by the city
prior to being installed on a wall to ensure compliance with this zoning
ordinance.
   F.   Maintenance Of Signs: All signs and related structures shall be
maintained in good repair, free of rust, peeling, flaking, fading, broken or
cracked surfaces, and broken or missing letters.
   G.   Unsafe Signs: All signs and related structures shall be maintained in a
safe, clean and attractive condition. Whenever the zoning administrator or the
zoning administrator's designee determines that a sign has become structurally
unsafe or endangers life or property or is not being maintained in good repair,
a notice shall be sent to the owner or person in charge of the sign that the
sign be made safe, repaired or removed. The owner or person in charge of the
sign shall have ten (10) days from receipt of such notice in which to comply
based on the provisions in subsection
11-10-8B of this chapter. Failure to comply shall be a violation of this zoning
ordinance subject to section
11-10-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-10-6: COMPLIANCE AND AMORTIZATION:
Signs are required to be in compliance with this zoning ordinance as follows:
   A.   New Signs: No new sign may be constructed or erected after the
effective date of this zoning ordinance, unless the sign conforms to all the
provisions of this zoning ordinance and any required sign permit has been
issued by the zoning administrator or the zoning administrator's designee.
Nothing in this section shall relieve the owner or user of a nonconforming sign
from the provisions of this zoning ordinance regarding safety, maintenance, and
repair of signs specified in section
11-10-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Repair Or Replacement Of Damaged Nonconforming Signs: Any existing
nonconforming sign that is destroyed, deteriorated or damaged to the extent of
fifty percent (50%) or more of its replacement cost, exclusive of the
foundation, after the effective date of this zoning ordinance, shall not be
rebuilt, repaired or replaced unless in conformity with the provisions of this
zoning ordinance. Repair of such sign shall not affect provisions of any of the
other subsections of this section.
   C.   Amortization Of Signs Erected Without A Permit: Any sign that was
erected without a permit prior to the effective date of this zoning ordinance
shall be removed or brought into conformance with this zoning ordinance within
six (6) months of such effective date except that signs used in connection with
a preexisting nonconforming use shall be subject to this section.
   D.   Alterations To Nonconforming Signs: No existing nonconforming sign may
be altered in structure, relocated or replaced after the effective date of this
zoning ordinance. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-10-7: SIGN PERMITS:
No sign permitted under section
11-10-3 of this chapter which is required to have a sign permit shall be
erected, constructed, painted or placed upon any building or premises within
the city until a permit therefor has been issued by the zoning administrator or
the zoning administrator's designee. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-10-8: ENFORCEMENT AND SIGN REMOVAL:
   A.   Inspection Of Signs: All signs may be inspected by the zoning
administrator or the zoning administrator's designee to determine if the sign
is insecure, in danger of falling or otherwise unsafe. Signs may also be
inspected to ensure compliance with all provisions of this zoning ordinance.
   B.   Notice To Remove Unsafe Sign: When any sign becomes insecure, in danger
of falling or otherwise unsafe, or if any sign exists or is installed or
maintained in violation of the provisions of this zoning ordinance with respect
to construction or safety, the owner, person or firm maintaining such sign
shall correct the deficiencies or violation or remove the sign within ten (10)
days after receiving notice from the zoning administrator or the zoning
administrator's designee; provided, however, that if such sign constitutes an
immediate danger to the public health, safety or welfare, the zoning
administrator or the zoning administrator's designee shall order immediate
correction or removal of such sign.
   C.   Removal Of Nonconforming Signs: Any sign which is not erected,
constructed or maintained in accordance with the provisions of this zoning
ordinance shall be removed by the owner within fifteen (15) days of notice by
the city. If the owner fails to act after fifteen (15) days' notice to the
owner of the property such sign may be removed by the city and the cost thereof
charged to the owner of, or person maintaining, such sign. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-
2003)
CHAPTER 11
SPECIAL USE PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-11-1: Permit
11-11-2: Application And Fee
11-11-3: Criteria For Reviewing Applications
11-11-4: Revocation Of Special Use Permit
11-11-5: Limitation On Initiating Special Use Action
11-11-1: PERMIT:
The city council by special use permit after public hearing, and subject to
such protective restrictions as it deems necessary, may authorize the location,
extension, or structural alteration of any one of the buildings or uses listed
in each district as a special use. Special use permits shall be issued to
tenants and operators. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-11-2: APPLICATION AND FEE:
   A.   Applications: Applications for special permits for new construction,
extensions or alterations of existing uses and uses previously authorized by
this title, with site plan and necessary descriptive material relating to the
intensity and extent of use, shall be made to the city council who shall
forthwith refer the application to the city plan commission to investigate and
report as to the effect of such building or use upon the comprehensive plan,
traffic and fire hazards, the character of the neighborhood and the general
welfare of the community. A public hearing shall be held in relation to said
plan before the city plan commission, notice and publication of the time and
place for which shall conform to the procedure prescribed in section
11-14-4 of this title. A report and recommendation shall be filed with the city
council within sixty (60) days of the day of reference to said plan commission.
If no report is transmitted by the city plan commission within sixty (60) days
of referral, the city council may take action without further awaiting such
report. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
   B.   Fee: Persons applying for special permits shall deposit with the city
clerk the sum of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) to cover the approximate
cost of this procedure and under no condition shall said sum or any part
thereof be refunded for failure of such proposed application to be granted.
Applications, fees and other pertinent materials shall be submitted to the city
clerk simultaneously. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014)
11-11-3: CRITERIA FOR REVIEWING APPLICATIONS:
In considering whether or not such application for a special use permit should
be granted, it shall be the duty of the plan commission and the city council to
give consideration to the effect of the requested use on the following:
   A.   Whether the proposed special use is consistent with the city's
comprehensive plan, and will not impede normal, orderly development of the
neighborhood.
   B.   The compatibility with surrounding uses and compatibility with the
surrounding neighborhood, including any substantial impact on property values.
   C.   The comparative size, floor area, mass, and general appearance of the
proposed structure in relationship to adjacent structures and buildings in the
surrounding properties and neighborhood.
   D.   The amount of traffic movements generated by the proposed use and the
relationship to the amount of traffic on abutting streets and on minor streets
in the surrounding neighborhood in terms of the street's capacity to absorb the
additional traffic and any significant increase in hourly or daily traffic
levels.
   E.   The added noise level created by activities associated with the
proposed use and the impact of the ambient noise level of the surrounding area
and neighborhood.
   F.   The impact of night lighting in terms of intensity, duration, and
frequency of use as it impacts adjacent properties and in terms of presence in
the neighborhood.
   G.   The impact of the landscaping of the proposed use in terms of
landscaped areas, buffers, and screens.
   H.   The potential for the proposed use to remain in existence for a
reasonable period of time and not become vacant or unused. Consideration should
also be given to unusual single purpose structures or components of a more
temporary nature.
   I.   Whether there are any facilities near the proposed use (such as schools
or hospitals) that require special protection.
   J.   The effect of the requested use on the health, safety, morals, and
general welfare of the residents of the area in the vicinity of the property in
question and the residents of the city generally. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-11-4: REVOCATION OF SPECIAL USE PERMIT:
   A.   The city council may institute a rezoning or an extension (all or any
part) of a special use permit if any approved special use permit granted by the
city council is not exercised and put into use within twelve (12) months of the
date of approval.
   B.   The city council, after a public hearing, may revoke a special use
permit for failure of compliance with the regulations and restrictions of this
zoning ordinance or the requirements of the special use permit. (Ord. 6734, 6-
11-2003)
11-11-5: LIMITATION ON INITIATING SPECIAL USE ACTION:
A party shall not initiate the same action for a special use affecting the same
land more often than once every eighteen (18) months. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
CHAPTER 12
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-12-1: Scope Of Provisions
11-12-2: Zoning Administrator Responsibilities
11-12-3: Occupancy Permits And Change Of Use
11-12-4: Entry And Inspection Of Land And Buildings
11-12-5: Violations And Penalties
11-12-1: SCOPE OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter contains the regulations pertaining to administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this zoning ordinance, issuance of permits and
certifications, inspection of property, issuance of stop work and stop use
orders, and enforcement of violations of the provisions of this zoning
ordinance. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-12-2: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR RESPONSIBILITIES:
This zoning ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the zoning
administrator, who shall have the following duties with respect to this zoning
ordinance:
   A.   Shall enforce the provisions of this zoning ordinance. In addition, the
zoning administrator shall enforce all regulations and conditions governing
development of any and all projects as permitted by this zoning ordinance,
following approval by the plan commission, city council, mayor, or board of
appeals.
   B.   May determine the actual location of a boundary line between zoning
districts, where such line does not coincide with a property line or district
boundary line. Such determination shall be subject to appeal before the board
of appeals.
   C.   Shall approve appropriate permits.
   D.   Shall examine premises for which permits have been issued. The zoning
administrator shall also investigate matters referred to in this zoning
ordinance and render written or oral reports.
   E.   May cause the cessation of any erection, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, conversion, maintenance or use in violation of this zoning
ordinance by issuing a stop work or stop use order.
   F.   May refer any violation of this zoning ordinance to the city attorney
for prosecution or other appropriate action when deemed necessary.
   G.   May adopt such administrative policies, in cooperation with the city
council, deemed necessary to the execution of his enforcement responsibilities.
   H.   The zoning administrator shall keep careful and comprehensive records
of applications, of permits issued, of certificates issued, of inspections
made, of reports rendered, and of notices or orders issued. All papers in
connection with building work shall be retained on file so long as any part of
the building or structure to which they relate may be in existence. Such
records shall be open to public inspection at reasonable hours, but shall not
be removed from a permanent place designated by the zoning administrator.
   I.   Shall perform such other related duties as the city council may from
time to time prescribe. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-12-3: OCCUPANCY PERMITS AND CHANGE OF USE:
   A.   Applicability Of Section: Every dwelling and every dwelling unit within
the corporate limits of Alton shall conform to the requirements of this
section, irrespective of the zoning classification of such building and
irrespective of when such building may have been constructed, altered or
repaired, except as hereinafter provided.
   B.   Transfer Of Ownership/Occupancy:
      1.   Except as otherwise provided herein, it shall be unlawful for the
owner of any dwelling or dwelling unit to sell, lease, rent, or otherwise
transfer possession thereof to another until he has first secured an occupancy
permit, authorizing such occupancy by the buyer, lessee, renter, or transferee,
as the case may be, and has delivered the said permit to such purchaser,
transferee or lessee.
      2.   If there are violations of this chapter which must be abated before
an occupancy permit is issued, it shall be the responsibility of the owner,
seller, lessor or transferor to abate such violations; provided however, that
if the owner, seller, lessor or transferor first provides a true and correct
copy of all such violation notices to the purchaser, transferee or lessee and
thereafter obtains the purchaser's, transferee's or lessee's written
undertaking to abate such violations, upon filing a copy of the said written
undertaking, signed by the party to be so bound, with the zoning administrator,
the obligation to abate such violations shall then be the responsibility of the
said purchaser, transferee or lessee, who shall be bound thereby without
further notice.
      3.   This section shall not apply to transfers of real estate wherein the
transferee notifies the zoning administrator, in writing, of his/her intent to
demolish any buildings located thereon within ninety (90) days of the transfer
of such real estate and does so demolish the buildings within the said period
of time. The zoning administrator may, for good cause shown, extend the said
period of time for one additional period of ninety (90) days.
   C.   Occupancy Permit Required:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
hereinafter occupy, or for any owner or agent thereof to permit the occupancy
of any dwelling, dwelling unit, or addition thereto, or part thereof, except an
owner occupied dwelling or dwelling unit, for any purpose until an occupancy
permit has been issued by the zoning administrator. The occupancy permit shall
be issued when the occupancy complies with all the provisions of this section.
      2.   This section shall not apply to any occupancy in existence at the
time of the adoption of this chapter, nor shall a family be considered in
violation of this section by reason of births or deaths within a family or by
reason of the return of a family member.
      3.   The occupancy permit must be applied and paid for by the owner,
lessor, or seller; said occupancy permit will not be issued until such time as
there is an actual change of occupancy, but occupant must furnish such
additional information as is required by the issuing authority.
      4.   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly make any false
statement in his application for an occupancy permit including the names, ages,
relationships, or number of occupants who will occupy the premises.
      5.   In the event a person desires to continue to receive a utility
service, such as water, electricity, etc., to a dwelling or a dwelling unit
during a period of time that the dwelling or dwelling unit actually has no
occupants, then upon application and without fee, the zoning administrator may
issue a retention of utility services permit. A retention of utility services
permit shall be valid only so long as the dwelling or dwelling unit has no
occupants.
      6.   In the event a property owner desires to restore a utility service,
such as water, electricity, etc., to a dwelling or a dwelling unit where no
utilities are currently being provided, then upon application and without fee,
the zoning administrator may issue a restoration of utility services permit.
Said permit shall be valid for a period of time not to exceed sixty (60) days.
If upon the conclusion of the sixty (60) days the property owner has not
obtained the necessary permits leading to the legal occupancy of said dwelling
or dwelling unit, or the property owner is using said dwelling or dwelling unit
contrary to the provisions of this code, the city shall have the right to order
the person(s) providing utility service(s) to discontinue utilities to the
dwelling or dwelling unit in question.
      7.   No occupancy permit shall be issued by the zoning administrator
until such time as all sewer service fines, fees or levies issued against the
property in question are paid in full. The zoning administrator shall be
responsible for checking with all appropriate departments to determine if such
sewer service fees, fines or levies have been paid.
   D.   Utilities:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person that provides a utility service,
such as water, electricity, etc., to provide its service to any building, or
addition thereto, or part thereof, that is to be used as a dwelling or dwelling
unit until an occupancy permit or retention of utility services permit has been
issued by the zoning administrator concerning the dwelling or dwelling unit to
be served by said utility and until said occupancy permit or retention of
utility services permit is presented to said utility service. The owner of a
dwelling can, however, contact the appropriate electric company to have the
utilities changed over to his or her name in the event that the tenants move
out without sufficient notice. In the event that the utilities are placed back
in the owner's name, the owner has seven (7) days to obtain a retention of
services permit from the office of the zoning administrator.
      2.   If no attempt has been made by the property owner to get a retention
of services permit at the end of the seven (7) consecutive days, then the
utility company shall discontinue their services. This section shall not apply
to any occupancy in existence at the time of adoption of this chapter.
   E.   Change Of Use: Any change in use of any building or premises shall be
approved by the zoning administrator prior to issuance of an occupancy permit.
The purpose of this approval is to ensure that adequate parking is provided on
site, that the new use is permitted in the zoning district, and that there are
no violations of this zoning ordinance. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-12-4: ENTRY AND INSPECTION OF LAND AND BUILDINGS:
   A.   Authorized Representatives: Members of the plan commission, members of
the board of appeals, the zoning administrator, or other authorized personnel
of the city of Alton are hereby empowered in the performance of their
functions, to enter upon any land in the city for the purpose of making
inspection, examinations and surveys, or to place and maintain thereon
monuments, markers, notices, signs or placards effecting the provisions of this
zoning ordinance. The above authorized persons shall present proper
identification upon demand when entering upon any land or structure for the
purpose of this zoning ordinance.
   B.   Zoning Administrator: The zoning administrator is authorized to inspect
or cause to be inspected any building or other structure or any land on which
work is in progress. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-12-5: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   Violation Of Zoning Ordinance: In case any building or structure is
erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted or maintained, or any
building, structure or land is used in violation of this zoning ordinance or
other regulation made under authority conferred hereby, the proper local
authorities of the municipality (including city council, plan commission, board
of appeals, city attorney, zoning administrator, or any other officer appointed
by the city council), in addition to other remedies, may institute any
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, conversion, maintenance or use, to
restrain, correct, or abate such violation, to prevent the occupancy of said
building, structure, or land, or to prevent any illegal act, conduct, business,
or use in or about such premises. Such regulations shall be enforced by the
zoning administrator, who is empowered to cause any building, structure, place
or premises to be inspected and examined, and to order in writing the remedying
of any condition found to exist therein or thereat in violation of any
provision of the regulations made under authority of this zoning ordinance.
   B.   Penalty: The owner, general agent, lessee or tenant of a building or
premises or part of a building or premises where a violation of any provision
of said regulations has been committed or shall exist, or the general agent,
architect, builder, contractor or any other person who commits, takes part or
assists in any such violation or who maintains any building or premises in
which any such violation shall exist shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) and not
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each week the violation
remains uncorrected shall constitute a separate offense.
   C.   Other Remedies: In addition to the penalties hereinabove authorized and
established, the city attorney shall take such other actions at law or in
equity as may be required to halt, terminate, remove, or otherwise eliminate
any violations of this zoning ordinance. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
CHAPTER 13
BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
11-13-1: Composition And Terms
11-13-2: Public Hearings/Meetings
11-13-3: Appeals
11-13-4: Powers
11-13-5: Permits Issued By The Board
11-13-6: Appeals From Action Of The Board
11-13-1: COMPOSITION AND TERMS:
   A.   Membership: There shall be a board of appeals consisting of seven (7)
members appointed by the mayor and confirmed by the city council.
   B.   Terms: The members of said board shall serve respectively for the
following terms, or until their respective successors are appointed and
qualified: one member for one year, one member for two (2) years, one member
for three (3) years, one member for four (4) years, one member for five (5)
years, one member for six (6) years and one member for seven (7) years. The
successor of each member so appointed shall serve for a term of five (5) years.
   C.   Chairperson: The mayor shall designate one member as the chairperson of
the board of appeals. Said designee shall remain chairperson until his
successor is appointed. The chairperson, or in his absence the acting
chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
   D.   Removal Or Vacancies: The appointing authority shall have the power to
remove any member of said board of appeals for cause and after public hearing.
Vacancies upon said board shall be filled for the unexpired term of the member
whose place has become vacant in the manner herein provided for the appointment
of such member. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-13-2: PUBLIC HEARINGS/MEETINGS:
   A.   Meetings: All meetings of the board of appeals shall be held at the
call of the chairperson and at such other times as the board may determine. All
hearings conducted by said board shall be open to the public and conducted
according to the following procedures;
   B.   Public Hearing: The board shall make no recommendation except in a
specific case and after a public hearing conducted by the board. A notice of
the time and place of such public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city at least once, not more than thirty (30) nor
less than fifteen (15) days previous to the hearing. Such notice, shall contain
the particular address or location of the property for which the variation or
the ruling by the board is sought, as well as a brief description of the nature
of the appeal, and of what the proposed variance consists;
   C.   Minutes: The board shall keep minutes of its proceeding showing the
vote of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall also keep records of its hearings and other
official actions;
   D.   Findings Of Fact: Findings of fact shall be included in the minutes of
each case of a requested variation, and the reasons for recommending or denying
such variation shall be specified;
   E.   Filing Of Decisions: Every rule or regulation, every amendment or
repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision or determination of the
board shall be filed immediately in the office of the city planner and shall be
a public record;
   F.   Rules Of Procedure: The board shall adopt its own rules of procedure
not in conflict with this title or with the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord.
6734, 6-11-2003)
11-13-3: APPEALS:
   A.   An appeal may be taken to the board of appeals by any person or by any
officer, department, board or bureau of the city affected by a decision of the
building inspector. Such appeal shall be taken within such time as shall be
prescribed by the board of appeals by filing with the building inspector and
with the board of appeals a notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof.
The building inspector shall forthwith transmit to the board all the papers
constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken. A fee of one
hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall accompany all notices of appeal. The fee
shall not be charged to appeals initiated by the city council, the city plan
commission, the city planner, the director of the department of public works,
the corporation counselor or the city attorney. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003; amd.
Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014)
   B.   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the building inspector certifies to the board of appeals
after the notice of appeal has been filed with him that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the board of
appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the building
inspector and on due cause shown.
   C.   The board shall fix a reasonable time and place for the hearing of the
appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a decision
on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and testify at
the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney. (Ord.
6734, 6-11-2003)
11-13-4: POWERS:
The powers of the board of appeals shall be limited to the following:
   A.   To Interpret This Title:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the building
inspector in the enforcement of this title; and
      2.   To interpret the provisions of this title in such a way as to carry
out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the map fixing the
several districts accompanying and made a part of this title where the street
layout on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map
aforesaid.
   B.   To Permit The Following Exceptions:
      1.   Use of premises for public utility and railroad purposes; and
      2.   Reconstruction of a nonconforming building that would otherwise be
prohibited by subsection
11-3-9F of this title where it is not detrimental to the public welfare.
   C.   To Permit The Following Variations:
      1.   Vary the yard regulations where there is an exceptional or unusual
physical condition of a lot, which condition is not generally prevalent in the
neighborhood and which condition when related to the yard regulations of this
title would prevent a reasonable or sensible arrangement of buildings on the
lot; and
      2.   Vary the parking regulations where an applicant demonstrates
conclusively that the specific use of a building would make unnecessary the
parking spaces required by this title but providing that such a reduction not
be more than fifty percent (50%) of the usual requirement.
   D.   Limitation On Powers: The board has no other powers than those
specified in subsections A, B, and C of this section. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-13-5: PERMITS ISSUED BY THE BOARD:
   A.   No order of the board permitting the erection or alteration of a
building shall be valid for a period longer than six (6) months, unless a
building permit for such erection or alteration is obtained within such period
and such erection or alteration is started and proceeds to completion in
accordance with the terms of such permit.
   B.   No order of the board permitting a use of a building or premises shall
be valid for a period longer than six (6) months, unless such use is
established within such period, provided however, that where such use permitted
is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, such order shall
continue in force and effect if a building permit for such erection or
alteration is obtained within such period and such erection or alteration is
started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms of such permit.
(Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-13-6: APPEALS FROM ACTION OF THE BOARD:
All final administrative decisions of the board of appeals shall be subject to
judicial review pursuant to the provisions of the administrative review act,
and all amendments and modifications thereof, and the rules adopted pursuant
thereto. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
CHAPTER 14
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
11-14-1: Authority
11-14-2: Application Procedures
11-14-3: City Council Referral To Plan Commission
11-14-4: Public Hearing
11-14-5: City Council Vote
11-14-6: Limitation On Initiating Amendment Action
11-14-1: AUTHORITY:
The city council may from time to time, on its own motion or on petition,
amend, supplement, change, modify, or repeal by ordinance the boundaries of
districts or regulations, or restrictions herein established. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-
2003)
11-14-2: APPLICATION PROCEDURES:
The city council may from time to time amend, supplement, change or repeal, by
ordinance, the boundaries of the districts or the regulations herein
established. The amendment process may be initiated by the city council, the
city plan commission, the board of appeals, the city planner, the corporation
counselor, the city attorney or petitioned for by any interested person when
the amendment involves the revision of text. If the proposed amendment involves
the reclassification of property, then the amendment process may only be
initiated by the city council, the city plan commission, the board of appeals,
the city planner or petitioned for by the owners of more than fifty percent
(50%) of the property to be reclassified. In addition, the following procedures
shall be adhered to: (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
   A.   Fee: Except in the case where the amendment process is initiated by the
city council, the city plan commission, the board of appeals, the city planner,
the corporation counselor or the city attorney, a fee of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) shall be deposited with the city clerk in conjunction with a
completed application. Under no condition shall said fee or any part thereof be
refunded for failure of such proposed amendment to be enacted into law. (Ord.
6734, 6-11-2003; amd. Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014)
   B.   Additional Materials And Information: In addition to the aforementioned
fee and completed application, applicant must submit other pertinent materials
and information as procedurally determined by the city plan commission and the
city planner.
   C.   Planning Department: Upon submission of the fee, completed application,
materials and information, the city clerk shall refer the applicant to the
planning department for consultation. At the discretion of the city planner a
meeting may be arranged, prior to the public hearing, to review the proposed
amendment in greater detail. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-14-3: CITY COUNCIL REFERRAL TO PLAN COMMISSION:
Before taking action on any proposed amendment, supplement, change or repeal,
the city council shall refer the same to the city plan commission for its
recommendation and report. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-14-4: PUBLIC HEARING:
A public hearing shall be held by the city plan commission before recommending
any proposed amendment, supplement, change or repeal. Notice shall be given
stating the time and place of such hearing, not more than thirty (30) nor less
than fifteen (15) days before the hearing, by publication at least once in a
newspaper of general circulation within the corporate limits of the city. In
addition, the following shall be adhered to:
   A.   The public hearing shall be held according to the procedures
established by the city plan commission. Any person may appear and speak in
person, or by agent or attorney.
   B.   The presence of a majority of the members of the plan commission shall
constitute a quorum. No action shall be taken by the plan commission unless a
quorum is present.
   C.   Upon conclusion of the public hearing, the city plan commission may
take action upon any proposed amendment before it in the form of a positive or
negative recommendation. Said recommendation shall be forwarded to the city
council within a reasonable period of time.
   D.   The city plan commission may postpone, continue or adjourn from time to
time any public hearing upon a majority vote of the members. In such a case,
additional information will be received by the plan commission, for review,
seven (7) days after such action is taken. Additionally, no further publication
of such action need be made. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-14-5: CITY COUNCIL VOTE:
It shall take a favorable vote of five (5) members of the city council to
amend, supplement, change or repeal, by ordinance, the boundaries of the
districts or the regulations herein established in either of the following
instances: (Ord. 6817, 6-9-2004)
   A.   In the event the city plan commission recommends a negative vote on a
proposed amendment to any portion of this title.
   B.   In case of a written protest against any proposed change in the
classification of land, signed by the owners of forty percent (40%) of the lots
proposed to be rezoned, or signed by the owners of forty percent (40%) of the
lots any part of which are included within the area defined by a line extended
two hundred fifty feet (250') outward in all directions from the perimeter of
the land sought to be rezoned, filed with the city clerk of Alton prior to the
commencement of the city council meeting in which a vote on the proposed
rezoning is taken. The protest document need not be acknowledged, but shall
bear the signatures and common street addresses of those signing such document,
and identify the property which each signatory owns. For purposes of this
section, the perimeter of the subject lot shall be considered to be the
property line of the lot of land, excluding any land within a public dedicated
right of way, and excluding any land lying within a railroad right of way; the
owner of property shall be considered to be any of the following: the record
owner of the fee title, the contract seller and the contract buyer of such
property. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)
11-14-6: LIMITATION ON INITIATING AMENDMENT ACTION:
A party shall not initiate the same action for a zoning amendment affecting the
same land more often than once every eighteen (18) months. (Ord. 6734, 6-11-
2003)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Purpose
12-1-3: Definitions
12-1-4: Severability
12-1-5: Waivers
12-1-6: Enforcement, Violations And Penalties
12-1-7: Fees
12-1-1: TITLE:
This Title shall be known, referred to and cited as the LAND SUBDIVISION
ORDINANCE of the City of Alton. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-1-2: PURPOSE:
This Title is hereby made a part of the official plan. These regulations
control the subdivision and future development of land in order to assist in
achieving the following objectives:
   A.   To protect, provide and promote the public health, safety and general
welfare of the City and its citizens;
   B.   To guide the future growth and development of the City, in accordance
with the official plan, as amended;
   C.   To provide for adequate light, air and privacy, to secure safety from
fire, flood and other danger and to prevent overcrowding of the land and undue
congestion of population;
   D.   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the City and to encourage the orderly and beneficial development of
all parts of the community;
   E.   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the City and the
value of buildings and improvements upon the land, and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
   F.   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the City, having
particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and highways,
and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses of land
and buildings, and to provide for the proper location and width of streets and
building setback lines;
   G.   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
development within subdivisions, in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land, and to ensure proper legal description and monumenting of developed
land;
   H.   To ensure the proper installation and maintenance of adequate water
mains, sanitary sewers, storm water sewers and other utilities and services so
that they are readily available and of sufficient capacity to meet the present
and future needs. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Title certain words, phrases and terms shall be
construed as set out in this Section:
CITY: The City of Alton, Illinois.
CITY CLERK: The City Clerk of the City of Alton.
CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Alton.
COMMISSION: The City Plan Commission of the City of Alton.
FINAL PLAT: The drawings and documents described in Chapter 2 of this Title.
MAJOR STREET: Major street is a street shown on the major street plan, a part
of the official plan, and further defined in subsection
 6-1-2B of this Code.
MINOR STREET (LOCAL): Minor street is a street used, or intended to be used,
primarily for access to abutting properties, and further defined in subsection
6-1-2B of this Code.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: The drawings and documents described in Chapter 2 of this
Title.
SUBDIVIDER: Any person, firm, corporation, etc., engaged in developing or
improving a tract of land which meets the definition of a subdivision as
defined in this Title.
SUBDIVISION OF LAND: Subdivision of land is: a) the division of land into two
(2) or more lots, parcels or tracts of five (5) acres or less in area; or b)
the dedication of streets, ways or other areas for the use of the public. Any
sale of a division of land shall constitute a subdivision of land and require,
prior to any sale and before the delivery of a deed, the submission of a plat
as required by law; provided, however, that the sale or exchange of parcels of
land to or between adjoining property owners, where such sale or exchange does
not create additional lots, shall not be considered as a subdivision of land,
and provided further, that a contract of sale requiring conformity with this
Title may be entered into. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-1-4: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, provision or portion of this Title is adjudged unconstitutional
or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction the remainder of this Title
shall not be affected thereby and will remain in full force and effect. (Ord.
6104, 12-18-1996)
12-1-5: WAIVERS:
It is the intent of this Section, when appropriate and when a specific case of
hardship is shown, to allow a waiver from the strict compliance with the
provisions of this Title. It is recognized that restrictions governing the
subdivision of land may not, under some specific circumstances, be fairly and
equally applied to unusual or abnormal subdivision conditions. Further it is
the intent of this Section to establish weighting criteria to determine the
validity of a specific hardship upon which requests for waivers can be
considered. Waivers are not intended to be used as a means of circumventing or
evading the purposes of this Title or any other requirement which regulates the
subdivision of land.
   A.   Criteria: Where, upon the recommendation of the Plan Commission, if the
City Council finds that all the conditions set forth below justify the granting
of a waiver from strict compliance with this Title's provisions, and where the
purpose of these regulations to foster growth and to protect the public's
essential interest is served thereby, the City Council may approve such
waivers, if:
      1.   Due to existing conditions, there are site specific difficulties in
complying with these regulations. This change shall only apply to existing
conditions which are not generally applicable to other properties; and
      2.   The granting of any waiver will not cause significant adverse
effects on the public health, safety and welfare; and
      3.   Sufficient evidence is shown to both the Plan Commission and City
Council that the waiver will benefit the public health, safety and welfare. The
City Council must make a finding that due to physical surroundings, vegetation,
parcel shape or topographical conditions of the specific property involved, an
alternative proposal will better serve the public's interest; and
      4.   The proposed waiver supports and fosters implementation of the
goals, objectives and policies represented in the official plan, as amended,
for the City; and
      5.   The proposed waiver is the minimum deviation from the requirements
that will alleviate the difficulties; and
      6.   The plight of the applicant is due to peculiar circumstances not of
the applicant's own making.
   B.   Granting Of Waivers: Waivers shall be granted only as to the provisions
of Chapters 3, 4 and 5 of this Title. Furthermore, no waiver is available to a
subdivision as a matter of right. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-1-6: ENFORCEMENT, VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the city of Alton's department of public
affairs, department of public works and law department to enforce the
regulations contained in this title.
   B.   Any person who fails to comply with, or violates, any of these
regulations shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day any violation of this title continues shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-1-7: FEES:
The following fees, to be submitted to the city clerk at the time of
submission, shall be established for the filing of plats and plans:
 
Preliminary plat  $250.00
Engineering plans 250.00
Final plat        250.00
 
(Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996; amd. Ord. 7438, 12-17-2014)
CHAPTER 2
PROCEDURES AND PLAT REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Plat, When Required
12-2-2: Preapplication Process
12-2-3: Preliminary Plat, Where Filed, Exception
12-2-4: Preliminary Plat Requirements
12-2-5: Preliminary Plat Approval
12-2-6: Limitation On Preliminary Plat Approval
12-2-7: Final Plat; Where Filed
12-2-8: Final Plat Requirements
12-2-9: Final Plat Approval
12-2-10: Approved Plat Filed
12-2-11: Limitation On Final Plat Approval
12-2-1: PLAT, WHEN REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner, agent or person having control of any land
within the corporate limits of the City or within one and one-half (11/2) miles
of its corporate limits, to subdivide or lay out such land into lots, blocks,
streets, avenue, alleys, public ways or grounds, unless by plat in accordance
with the laws of the State and the provisions of this Title; provided, however,
that the provisions of this Title shall not be applicable in any of the
following instances:
   A.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five (5)
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
   B.   The division of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   C.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land;
   D.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use a right
of way for railroads or other public utility facilities which does not involve
any new streets or easements of access;
   E.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   F.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purposes or grants
or conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   G.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
   H.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two (2) parts of a particular parcel or tract of
land existing on July 17, 1959, and not involving any new streets or easements
of access;
   I.   The sale of a single lot of less than five (5) acres from a larger
tract when a survey is made by an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor; provided,
that this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the
same larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of
the larger tract on October 1, 1973, and provided also that the exemption does
not invalidate any local requirements applicable to the subdivision of land.
(Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-2-2: PREAPPLICATION PROCESS:
   A.   Prior to the submission of a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall
request the Department of Public Affairs to schedule a preapplication
conference with all applicable City departments. The preapplication conference
shall be scheduled within fifteen (15) working days of said request unless a
later date is acceptable to the subdivider. The purpose of said conference is
to familiarize the subdivider with applicable subdivision requirements and
standards while assisting the City in coordinating separate land developments,
street and drainage plans, etc.
   B.   The subdivider shall submit a subdivision sketch plan at the
preapplication conference which shall be drawn reasonably to scale. The
following information shall be included in the sketch plan:
      1.   The location of the tract in relation to the surrounding area,
including a north arrow, graphic scale and contour lines.
      2.   Any adjacent and contiguous parcels of land in which the subdivider
has an ownership, monetary or beneficial interest, including full or partial
ownership and beneficial interest in a land trust.
      3.   Existing zoning of the property and of all land within one hundred
feet (100') of the property boundary.
      4.   Placement and availability of existing and proposed gas, water,
electricity and telecommunication lines; existing and proposed storm and
sanitary sewage systems; and pavement and right-of-way widths of existing and
proposed streets and alleys.
      5.   Discussion and/or graphic presentation of proposed methods of
handling stormwater drainage and sanitary sewage.
      6.   Proposed site plan showing lots and blocks with numbers.
   C.   At said preapplication conference, the City shall take minutes of the
proceedings documenting issues addressed. Upon approval of the minutes by City
staff, same shall be forwarded to the subdivider to aid in the preparation of
additionally required plats and documents. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-2-3: PRELIMINARY PLAT, WHERE FILED, EXCEPTION:
Upon review of the subdivision sketch plan by the City, the subdivider shall
file an original and three (3) copies of a preliminary plan of such proposed
plat, and all supporting documents, with the City Clerk. In addition, the
subdivider shall submit an electronic copy of the preliminary plat and all
supporting documents in portable document format (PDF), or other format
approved by the City of Alton, to an e-mail address provided to the subdivider.
Such proposal shall be referred by the City Council to the Plan Commission. The
Plan Commission shall consider the same upon the scheduling of a public hearing
by the Department of Planning and Development. Furthermore, the preliminary
plat shall be forwarded to all appropriate City departments for their review
and comment prior to the public hearing. Plats containing three (3) lots or
less and not more than one acre may be exempted from the provisions of this
section, upon application to the commission; provided, however, that the
platting of a street is not involved. (Ord. 7463, 6-10-2015; amd. Ord. 7664, 8-
22-2018)
The City staff shall notify all property owners within two hundred fifty feet
(250') of any land proposed to be included in a subdivision, as shown by the
preliminary plat filed in connection therewith, advising said property owners
that the proposed preliminary plat will be considered for approval by the Plan
Commission, notifying said property owners of the time and place for said
consideration by the Plan Commission at least five (5) days prior thereto.
(Ord. 6276, 5-13-1998)
12-2-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The full sized plat original shall be drawn in ink on dimensionally
stable translucent drafting material, not to exceed twenty four inches by
thirty six inches (24" x 36") and presented in a scale not larger than one inch
to one hundred feet (1" = 100'), except as the City otherwise approves.
   B.   The preliminary plat must contain the following information on the face
of the plat, or in the supporting documents as appropriate or required:
      1.   The location of the present property lines, section lines, streets,
buildings, watercourses and other existing features within the area to be
subdivided and similar information regarding land immediately adjacent thereto.
      2.   Names of adjoining subdivisions or owners of record of adjoining
tracts which if not subdivided shall be marked "not subdivided".
      3.   The proposed location and width of streets, alleys, sidewalks, lots,
building and setback lines and easements. Lot sizes, measured in square feet,
shall be provided for every proposed lot. Additionally, the total acreage of
the preliminary plat shall be provided.
      4.   Existing sanitary and storm sewers, water mains, culverts, and other
underground structures within the tract or on streets immediately abutting
thereto; the location and size of the nearest water main and sewer outlet.
      5.   The title under which the proposed subdivision is to be recorded and
the name of the engineer, the registered land surveyor, and the subdivider
platting the tract.
      6.   Contours at not more than five feet (5') intervals with reference to
mean sea level datum as established by U.S. Geological Survey made in this
area. Furthermore, the location of all flood hazard boundaries shall be
depicted.
      7.   The north point, placed at the top of the page, scale and date and a
small key map showing the location of the plan area in relation to existing
development in the vicinity.
      8.   Plans or written and signed statements setting out the grades or
profiles of the streets, the proposed grades and facilities for all required
improvements and the subdivider's proposal to the City for accomplishing their
installation in accordance with chapter 5 of this title.
      9.   Legal description of all property included in the preliminary plat,
including reference to the section, township and range.
      10.   The existing zoning of the tract and any proposed zoning of the
tract. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
      11.   A statement signed by a registered professional engineer certifying
that the property proposed to be developed as shown on the preliminary plat is
not below the base flood elevation as defined in section
9-3-4 of this Code. (Ord. 6808, 4-28-2004)
12-2-5: PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL:
If the commission shall find such proposed plan to satisfy the requirements of
this title, it shall approve same and recommend its approval to the City
Council.
If the commission shall find that such proposed plan does not satisfy the
requirements of this title, it shall specify in writing such objections as are
found to such plan and may recommend the disapproval of such proposed plan, or
recommend approval conditioned upon specified changes in the proposed plan.
Upon the vote of the City Council, the resolution either approving, approving
with conditions, or disapproving of the preliminary plat shall be forwarded to
the subdivider. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-2-6: LIMITATION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL:
Application for approval of a final plat shall be made not later than one year
after preliminary approval has been granted by the City Council. The subdivider
may request final plat approval of a part of a plat which received preliminary
approval, and may delay application for approval of other parts until a later
date with the approval of the City Council, provided all facilities required to
serve the part or parts for which final approval is sought have been or are to
be provided. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-2-7: FINAL PLAT; WHERE FILED:
   A.   Upon meeting the conditions of chapter 3 of this title, the subdivider
shall file an original and three (3) copies of the final plat of the proposed
subdivision, and all supporting documents, with the City Clerk. In addition,
the subdivider shall submit an electronic copy of the final plat and all
supporting documents in portable document format (PDF), or other format
approved by the City of Alton, to an e-mail address provided to the subdivider.
Such final plat shall be referred by the City Council to the Plan Commission.
The Plan Commission shall consider the same upon the scheduling of a public
hearing by the Department of Planning and Development. Furthermore, the final
plat shall be forwarded to all appropriate City departments for their review
and comment prior to the public hearing. (Ord. 7463, 6-10-2015; amd. Ord. 7664,
8-22-2018)
   B.   In addition, the following supporting documentation shall be submitted
simultaneously to the Clerk:
      1.   A certificate from the County Clerk of Madison County certifying
that there are no delinquent general taxes, unpaid current general taxes,
delinquent special assessments or unpaid current special assessments against
the tract of land to be subdivided. An accurate legal description needs to be
included in the certificate.
      2.   A construction bond, if required.
      3.   The perpetual maintenance of any common areas shall be provided for
by a declarant legal entity. Prior to final approval of the subdivision, the
Plan Commission must approve the subdivider's selected method of perpetual
maintenance. The subdivider shall make no change in the approved method unless
the Plan Commission and City Council approve. If a homeowners' association is
to be formed, the articles of incorporation must minimally contain the
following provisions:
         a.   Legal description which geographically defines the area owned and
controlled by the homeowners' association.
         b.   That all owners of property within the development shall
automatically become members of the homeowners' association and shall be
required to incur all costs necessary to maintain any facility or common
facility of the association. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-2-8: FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   The full sized plat original shall be drawn in ink on dimensionally
stable translucent drafting material, not to exceed twenty four inches by
thirty six inches (24" x 36") and presented in a scale not larger than one inch
to one hundred feet (1" = 100'), except as the city otherwise approves.
   B.   The final plat must contain the following information on the face of
the plat:
      1.   The boundary lines of the area being subdivided with sufficient
reference thereon to identify the legal boundaries of the property as shown in
the chain of conveyances to the owner. The certificate shall either contain
description of the land as previously conveyed before subdivision or reference
to the deed of record showing such description.
      2.   The lines of all proposed streets and alleys with their widths and
names.
      3.   The accurate outline of any portions of the property intended to be
dedicated or granted for public use.
      4.   The line of departure of one street from another.
      5.   The lines of all adjoining property and the lines of adjoining
streets and alleys with their widths and names.
      6.   All lots designated by numbers or letters and streets, avenues and
other grounds by names, letters or numbers.
      7.   The location of all easements provided for public use, services or
utilities.
      8.   All dimensions, both linear and angular, necessary for locating the
boundaries of the subdivision, lots, streets, alleys, easements and other areas
for public or private use. Linear dimensions are to be given to the nearest
one-one hundredth of a foot (0.01').
      9.   The radii, arc or chords, points of tangency and center angles for
all curvilinear streets and radii for rounded corners.
      10.   The location of all survey monuments and their descriptions.
      11.   The name of the subdivision and the scale of the plat, north point
of the compass, the name of owner or owners or subdividers.
      12.   Calculations by the engineer or surveyor on accompanying sheet,
showing the error of linear closure, which error shall in no case be greater
than one in five thousand (1/5,000).
      13.   Certificate of approval by the council for endorsement by the city
clerk.
      14.   Such plat shall be signed and acknowledged by the owner or owners
of the land subdivided in the same manner and form as the acknowledgment of a
deed conveying real estate, before same officer authorized to take the
acknowledgments of deeds, and shall contain a dedication of the streets, alleys
and public grounds therein to the use and benefit of the public.
      15.   The plat shall be certified to by a registered Illinois land
surveyor, that he has accurately surveyed such subdivision and attested to the
accuracy of the survey and the correct location of all monuments shown, and
that the lots, blocks, streets, avenues, alleys, public ways and grounds, and
other grounds are well and accurately staked off and marked. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-
1996)
12-2-9: FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
When the final plat conforms to the approved preliminary plat and when the
requirements of chapter 3 of this title have been complied with, the city plan
commission shall approve said plan and recommend its approval to the city
council. If the commission shall find that such final plan does not conform to
the approved preliminary plat or the requirements of chapter 3 of this title,
it shall specify in writing such objections as are found to such plat and may
recommend its disapproval of such plat to the council. The council shall have
the right to approve or disapprove any final plat regardless of the city plan
commission's recommendation by a simple majority vote. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-2-10: APPROVED PLAT FILED:
When such map or plat is so prepared, acknowledged and certified, and has been
approved by the council, within sixty (60) days of such approval, the same
shall be filed and recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds of Madison
County, Illinois, and thereupon such plat shall be equivalent to and operate as
a deed in fee simple to the public from the owner of all streets, avenues,
alleys, public ways and grounds and of such portions of land as therein are set
apart from public and city use. Three (3) copies of the recorded final plat
shall be filed with the city clerk within fifteen (15) days from the date of
recording, along with a digital copy of said plat in a GIS compatible format.
Acceptable formats include: ArcView 3.2 (or higher) .shp files, ArcGIS .mxd or
.lyr files, and Auto CAD .dwg files georeferenced to NAD 1983 and/or including
geographic coordinates for spatial referencing. Failure to do so shall be
considered a violation of this title. (Ord. 6809, 4-28-2004)
12-2-11: LIMITATION ON FINAL PLAT APPROVAL:
The city or county shall not issue a building permit until the final plat is
recorded. If the final plat has not been recorded within the time stipulated in
section
12-2-10 of this chapter, final plat approval shall become void. (Ord. 6104, 12-
18-1996)
CHAPTER 3
ENGINEERING PLANS, CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS, BONDS
SECTION:
12-3-1: Engineering Plans
12-3-2: Construction Of Required Improvements
12-3-3: Inspection Of Improvements
12-3-4: Approval Of Improvements
12-3-5: Construction Bonds
12-3-6: Maintenance Bonds
12-3-1: ENGINEERING PLANS:
Subsequent to the approval of the preliminary plat, but prior to submission of
the final plat, the subdivider shall cause engineering plans and specifications
to be prepared for all improvements required to complete the development of the
subdivision in accordance with the provisions of this Title. Said improvements
shall be designed to conform at least to the minimum standards set forth in
this Title and shall also conform at least to the minimum standards and
requirements of other local, State, and Federal authorities which have
jurisdiction over the subdivision. Engineering plans and specifications shall
be prepared under the supervision of an engineer licensed pursuant to the laws
of the State of Illinois and shall bear the engineer's seal and signature.
Furthermore, the following provisions shall be followed:
   A.   Three (3) copies of the engineering plans and specifications shall be
provided to the City Clerk who shall immediately forward the same to the
Department of Public Works. Plan sheet dimensions shall be twenty four inches
by thirty six inches (24" x 36"), unless variations are approved by the
Department of Public Works prior to submission.
   B.   Upon receipt of said engineering plans and specifications, the
Department of Public Works or its duly authorized representative, shall review
the same and prepare a written report approving, conditionally approving or
disapproving. Included in the report shall be all findings discovered as a
result of the review. The Department of Public Works shall have thirty (30)
days to complete the written report. One copy of the written report shall be
forwarded to the subdivider and one copy shall be forwarded to the Department
of Public Affairs.
   C.   Construction of required improvements shall not commence until the
Department of Public Works or its duly authorized representative has approved
the engineering plans and specifications. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-3-2: CONSTRUCTION OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS:
Improvements required and/or regulated by this Title shall be constructed in
substantial accordance with approved engineering plans and specifications, the
standards, requirements and regulations set forth in this Title, and other
applicable ordinances of the City. Furthermore:
   A.   During construction, if the subdivider wishes to modify the size, type,
quantity and/or locations of any or all of the required improvements, the
subdivider's engineer shall submit a written change request to the Department
of Public Works for review and obtain written approval prior to proceeding with
installation of the modified improvement.
   B.   The subdivider or the subdivider's engineer shall notify the Department
of Public Works of the commencement, suspension, or resumption of work at least
one day prior to the commencement, suspension, or resumption of such work. This
requirement shall not apply to work suspended due to adverse weather
conditions. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-3-3: INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Actual construction of all required improvements, except water, gas and
electric, shall be inspected by competent and qualified personnel employed by
and under the direction of the subdivider's engineer and shall follow the
procedures specified in Section
12- 3-2 of this Chapter. Said inspection shall be complete to assure that all
work complies with the approved engineering plans and specifications and these
regulations.
   A.   Inspection: Actual construction shall also be subject to inspection by
the Department of Public Works, or its duly authorized representative, with
access being provided to allow for a complete and detailed inspection. Any
deficiencies observed during such an inspection shall be forwarded to the
subdivider in writing.
   B.   Engineering Tests: Either an independent testing laboratory, the
subdivider's engineer or qualified personnel employed by the subdivider's
engineer shall perform the required tests of this Title at the subdivider's
expense. The subdivider shall direct the testing agent to mail or deliver
results of required tests to the Department of Public Works immediately on
completion of the test and no test results are to be withheld from the
Department of Public Works. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-3-4: APPROVAL OF IMPROVEMENTS:
Upon completion of construction of required improvements, the subdivider's
engineer shall deliver to the Department of Public Works:
   A.   Required Test Data: All required test data not previously forwarded to
the Department of Public Works in accordance with subsection
12-3-3B of this Chapter.
   B.   Engineer's Certificate: The following signed and sealed engineer's
certificate:
   ENGINEER'S CERTIFICATE
   STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
   COUNTY OF MADISON   )
I,                       , being a registered professional engineer in the
State of Illinois, registration number           , do hereby certify that the
public improvements required for      (the project)       were constructed in
substantial compliance with the approved engineering plans and specifications
and change orders approved by the Department of Public Works, City of Alton,
Madison County, Illinois.
I further certify that all construction operations were inspected by me or
someone under my supervision.
Signed and sealed this      day of                 ,     .
                              
   Signature
   (Seal)
With approval of the Department of Public Works, said certificate may certify
to the completion of a portion of the improvements with specifically stated
exceptions for which a bond shall be filed or retained in accordance with
Section
12-3-5 of this Chapter.
   C.   Maintenance Bond: Unless this Title otherwise provides, the subdivider
shall submit a maintenance bond as provided in Section
12-3-6 of this Chapter upon completion of all improvements.
   D.   Field Inspection: Within two (2) weeks, weather permitting, of receipt
of all documentation required in this Section, the Department of Public Works
shall conduct a final inspection of the required improvements and shall approve
and certify in writing all improvements which conform to the approved
engineering plans and specifications and the requirements of this Title. The
Department of Public Works shall give written notification of said approval to
the subdivider, the Department of Public Affairs and the City Clerk. In the
event that a construction bond was filed in accordance with Section
12-3-5 of this Chapter, the Department of Public Works shall notify the City
Clerk of the percent of improvements approved and/or the amount of the bond
which may be released upon City Council approval in accordance with subsection
12-3-5F or G of this Chapter or the amount of the maintenance bond which should
be filed in accordance with Section
12-3-6 of this Chapter.
   E.   Failure To Conform: The Department of Public Works is authorized to
reject any construction which fails to conform to the approved plans and
specifications.
   F.   Notification Of Defects; Repairs: In the event that there are defects
in the construction of the improvements as determined from the final inspection
by the Department of Public Works, same shall give written notification to the
subdivider of those defects and repairs to be made. If there is a disagreement
about the defects then an independent engineer agreeable to the subdivider and
the City shall be selected. The independent engineer shall inspect the
improvements and prepare a report outlining the defects, if any, their probable
cause, and the proposed method of repair. The reported findings of the
independent engineer shall be binding to the subdivider and the City. Payment
to the independent engineer for their services shall be paid one-half (1/2) by
the subdivider and one-half (1/2) by the City. Upon completion of the repairs,
the construction bond shall be released or reduced in accordance with Section
12- 3-5 of this Chapter.
   G.   Submission Of "As-Built" Plans: Following the Department of Public
Works final inspection, two (2) complete sets of prints of the "as-built"
plans, each sheet of which is clearly marked "As-Built", shall be submitted to
the Department of Public Works. "As-built" plans shall depict actual
construction completed on the date of submittal of said plans and each sheet
shall be so dated. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-3-5: CONSTRUCTION BONDS:
   A.   Approval: The following procedures for approval of construction bonds
shall apply:
      1.   The development shall have all improvements completed and accepted
or construction bond approved prior to the approval of the final plat.
      2.   The developer shall submit a request for approval of a construction
bond simultaneously with the submission of the final plat.
      3.   If the City Council finds the bond to be in conformance with this
Section they shall approve that bond simultaneously with the final plat.
   B.   Construction Deadline: The condition of the construction bond shall be
that the developer shall, within two (2) years from the date of the City's
acceptance of the bond or within any City Council approved extension, complete
or cause to be completed all bonded improvements in accordance with the
approved plans and specifications, and in accordance with applicable
ordinances, resolutions, and codes of the City. The form of the bond shall be
in accordance with subsection E of this Section.
   C.   Failure To Meet Deadline: Failure of the subdivider to complete
improvements within two (2) years after the City acceptance of the construction
bond will cause the City to complete all necessary work. All costs of such
improvements shall be paid for by the proceeds of the bond. The balance of the
proceeds of the bond, if any, shall be returned to the subdivider.
   D.   Construction Bond Amount: The construction bond shall be in the amount
of one hundred five percent (105%) of an estimated cost of construction which
the subdivider's engineer prepares and the Department of Public Works approves.
(Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
   E.   Construction Security: The subdivider shall provide a bond valid for a
period of three (3) years from final approval of the subdivision by the City to
ensure the construction of improvements which are a part of the subdivision.
The bond shall be in a form satisfactory to the City's Corporation Counselor
and shall be secured by one of the following methods or a combination of the
following methods:
      1.   Cash.
      2.   Corporate surety bond by a company licensed and authorized to do
business in the State as a surety.
      3.   Certificates of deposit payable to the City.
      4.   United States Government savings bond payable to the City.
      5.   Irrevocable letters of credit in a form approved by the Law
Department.
      6.   Alternative form of security otherwise satisfactory to the
Corporation Counselor and the City Council. (Ord. 6389, 5-26-1999)
   F.   Security Release: The City Council shall release construction bonds and
any accrued interest and the surety therein upon satisfaction of all of the
following:
      1.   The subdivider's engineer shall furnish to the Department of Public
Works two (2) complete sets of prints of the "as-built" plans with each set of
prints clearly marked "As Built" showing all changes which were necessitated
due to field conditions and were approved by the Department of Public Works.
      2.   The Department of Public Works, or its duly authorized
representative, shall certify that the improvements have been constructed in
substantial compliance with the plans and specifications.
      3.   Satisfaction of the conditions of the bond itself.
      4.   Receipt of a maintenance bond in accordance with Section
12-3- 6 of this Chapter.
   G.   Partial Security Release: In the event that the said improvements are
constructed in part, upon the recommendation of the Department of Public Works,
the City Council may release a bond posted under this Section upon the filing
of an identical bond in a lesser amount, but not less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) or ten percent (10%) of the original bond amount, whichever is
greater. However, a substitute bond may be for a shorter or longer period of
time if the City Council so determines. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-3-6: MAINTENANCE BONDS:
   A.   Bond Time Limit: Upon approval of required improvements, a maintenance
bond shall be filed with the City Clerk guaranteeing repair of defects
appearing in the construction of said improvements for a period of two (2)
years after approval and acceptance by the City Council.
   B.   Public Works Inspection: Prior to the expiration date of the
maintenance bond, the Department of Public Works shall conduct a final
inspection of the improvements. The Department of Public Works shall notify the
subdivider and the subdivider's engineer in writing of the date, time, and
place of the final inspections. If such improvements are free of defects, the
Department of Public Works shall certify in writing that all improvements are
free of defects in construction and shall give said certification to the
subdivider, the Department of Public Affairs, and the City Clerk.
   C.   Independent Engineer: If the Department of Public Works determines
significant defects in construction, same shall give the subdivider written
notification of those defects, and repairs to be made. If there is a
disagreement between the subdivider and the Department of Public Works about
the defects, then an independent engineer, agreeable to the subdivider and
Public Works, shall be selected. The independent engineer shall inspect the
improvements and prepare a report outlining the defects, if any, their probable
cause and the proposed method of repair. The findings of the independent
engineer shall be binding upon the subdivider and the City. Payment to the
independent engineer shall be paid one-half (1/2) by the subdivider and one-
half (1/2) by the City.
   D.   Subdivider Response Deadline: Within sixty (60) days after receiving
written notification from the Department of Public Works, the subdivider shall
cause to be repaired any defects in the construction of the improvements or
agree to retain the independent engineer. The Department of Public Works may
extend the sixty (60) day limit, due to adverse weather conditions, as
necessary.
   E.   Performance Failure: Failure of the subdivider to complete the repairs
within sixty (60) days of the Department of Public Works written notification
or submission of the independent engineer's report authorizes the City to
complete the repairs. Such sixty (60) days may be extended as necessary by the
Department of Public Works due to adverse weather conditions. The proceeds of
the bond shall pay for all costs of such repairs.
   F.   Bond Amount: The maintenance bond shall be in the amount of not less
than ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or twenty five percent (25%) of the
estimated cost of construction, whichever is greater. The Department of Public
Works shall approve the subdivider's engineer's estimated bond amount.
   G.   Authorized Security: A maintenance bond shall secure the City in the
same manner as construction bonds, subsection
12-3-5E of this Chapter.
   H.   Bond Release: The City Council shall release maintenance bonds, plus
any accrued interest and the surety thereon, if any, upon certification from
the Department of Public Works that all improvements are free of defects in
construction and that the conditions of the bond have been satisfied. (Ord.
6104, 12-18-1996)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Relation To Adjoining Street System
12-4-2: Street And Alley Width
12-4-3: Easements
12-4-4: Blocks
12-4-5: Lots
12-4-6: Public Grounds
12-4-7: Sidewalks
12-4-8: Sanitary Sewers
12-4-9: Storm Water Management 1  (Rep. by Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
12-4-10: Utilities; Placement Underground
12-4-11: Water Supply
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 14 of this code.
12-4-1: RELATION TO ADJOINING STREET SYSTEM:
The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the
continuation of the existing streets in adjoining areas, or their proper
projection where adjoining land is not subdivided, insofar as may be deemed
necessary for public requirements. The width of such streets in new
subdivisions shall not be less than the minimum widths established herein. The
street and alley arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship to owners
of adjoining property in platting their own land and providing convenient
access to it. Offset streets shall be avoided. The angle of intersection
between minor streets and major streets shall be in alignment with existing
streets and shall bear the names of the existing streets.
Proposed street names that are in conflict with existing street names shall not
be approved. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-4-2: STREET AND ALLEY WIDTH:
   A.   The widths and locations of major streets shall conform to the widths
and locations designated on the major street plan.
   B.   The minimum width for minor streets shall be fifty feet (50'). Whenever
the subdivided property adjoins a half street, the remainder of the street
shall be dedicated.
   C.   Alleys are not required in a residential block.
   D.   Lots fronting on major street intersections and acute angle
intersections of less than eighty five degrees (85°) shall have a radius of
twenty feet (20') at the street corner. On business lots, a chord may be
substituted for the circular arc.
   E.   No private subdivision streets or subdivision planting strips shall be
approved unless provision is made for the continual maintenance thereof, in
accordance with subsection
12-2-7B3 of this title. Furthermore, regardless of whether a street is public
or private, it shall be constructed in accordance with the provisions of
chapter 5 of this title. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-4-3: EASEMENTS:
   A.   In general, utilities shall be placed within publicly dedicated street
or alley right of way. However, where practical difficulties exist in providing
utilities within dedicated street or alley right of way, utilities may be
placed within an easement dedicated to the city, or other appropriate entities.
Such easements shall be located adjacent to and parallel with street rights of
way, wherever possible, with side and rear yard easements being discouraged.
The width of easement dedications for utilities shall be as follows:
      1.   A ten foot (10') easement width total is required when the easement
includes telephone lines, power lines, city lights, television or
telecommunication cable, gas mains, water mains or other utilities.
      2.   A fifteen foot (15') easement width total is required when the
easement includes one sewer system with or without any of the items specified
in subsection A1 of this section.
      3.   A twenty foot (20') easement width total is required when the
easement includes both storm and sanitary sewer systems with or without any of
the items specified in subsection A1 of this section.
   B.   No person shall erect any structure, plant any tree or shrub, or place
any obstruction in any easement or within any public right of way, except at
the property owner's risk with respect to all costs for demolition, removal,
reconstruction, or replacement thereof. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-4-4: BLOCKS:
   A.   On its greatest dimension no block shall be longer than one thousand
two hundred feet (1,200') nor shorter than five hundred feet (500') between
cross streets.
   B.   Subdivisions need not follow rectangular street arrangement. Courts,
dead end streets, or other arrangements, may be provided if property access
shall not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length. All dead end streets
shall terminate in a dedicated street space having a minimum radius of fifty
feet (50'). (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-4-5: LOTS:
The lot arrangement and design shall be such that all lots will provide
satisfactory and desirable building sites, properly related to topography and
the character of surrounding development. Furthermore, the following
regulations shall apply:
   A.   All side lines of lots shall be at right angles to straight street
lines and radial to curved street lines. Lots with double frontage shall be
avoided.
   B.   No lot shall have a greater depth than three (3) times its width,
except those lots fronting on cul-de-sacs. The depth of lots fronting on cul-
de-sacs shall not, however, exceed five hundred feet (500'). No lot shall have
an area, width or setback less than that required by the Alton zoning
ordinance, when within the city, or the Madison County zoning ordinance when
outside the city.
   C.   Corner lots shall have a width sufficient to permit the establishment
of front building lines on both the adjoining streets in compliance with the
zoning title of this code. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-4-6: PUBLIC GROUNDS:
No land shall be voluntarily dedicated for parks, playgrounds, school grounds
or other public grounds, unless the public authority which is to assume the use
and maintenance of such grounds shall signify its willingness to accept the
same. No playground planting strip or other grounds shall be dedicated on the
plat for the exclusive use of the residents in the subdivision, unless adequate
provision shall be made for the maintenance thereof. Areas which are designated
in the official plan as future sites for parks, playgrounds, school grounds or
other public grounds, if not voluntarily dedicated for that purpose by the
owner, shall be offered to the appropriate public authority having jurisdiction
to acquire, develop and use land for that purpose at the time any preliminary
plan or plans is submitted for subdividing of any of the tract of which it is a
part. Such public authority shall have an opportunity for three (3) months
after submission of the offer to submit in writing to the owner notice of its
intention to acquire or purchase the desired tract. The public authority then
shall have twelve (12) months after the said three (3) months within which to
agree with the owner on a purchase of the desired tract or to institute
proceedings to condemn said land. Nothing contained herein shall forestall
approval of the submitted plan, however, the owner may not improve the area
involved which is designated in the official plan as a future site for parks,
playgrounds, school grounds or other public grounds during the above described
effective periods of time. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-4-7: SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of a street in any new
residential, commercial or industrial subdivision.
   B.   All sidewalks shall be located within dedicated street rights of way
and shall be roughly parallel to the adjacent street. However, any area being
considered for a community unit plan as provided for in title 11 of this code
or any other applicable zoning regulation may provide for sidewalks to serve
the planned development, and may be so designed and located other than along
the boundary streets. All such plans shall be approved by the plan commission
before acceptance of the final plat by the city council. Furthermore, in all
industrial and commercial developments, sidewalks, pedestrianways, courts and
courtyards may be designed to adequately accommodate expected pedestrian
movement. All such plans shall be approved by the plan commission before
acceptance of the final plat by the city council.
   C.   The minimum width of sidewalks shall be four feet (4'), except for
commercial and industrial subdivisions, where the minimum width shall be five
feet (5').
   D.   Every preliminary plat should be reviewed by the plan commission from
the standpoint of sidewalk adequacy in relation to pedestrian and vehicular
traffic generation and movement and specifically in terms of the relationship
of the subdivision to public and semipublic facilities of the community, such
as schools, recreation areas, public facilities, public buildings, etc. Based
on these considerations, the plan commission should require adequate provision
of pedestrian movement by requiring sidewalks, crosswalks, through blocks,
courtyards, etc., as deemed necessary. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-4-8: SANITARY SEWERS:
No subdivision shall be approved unless provision is made for the construction
of a sanitary sewer system that is adequate to serve the needs of the entire
subdivision when fully developed.
   A.   Sanitary sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
set forth in chapter 5 of this title.
   B.   All subdivisions shall provide functional sanitary sewer service in
accordance with the following standards:
      1.   Subdivisions of more than one hundred (100) residential dwelling
units within one thousand feet (1,000') or less of a public sanitary sewer line
from any point along the subdivision boundary line shall connect to the public
sanitary sewer.
      2.   Subdivisions of between sixty six (66) and one hundred (100)
residential units within seven hundred fifty feet (750') or less of a public
sanitary sewer line from any point along the subdivision boundary line shall
connect to the public sanitary sewer.
      3.   Subdivisions of between thirty six (36) and sixty five (65)
residential units within five hundred feet (500') or less of a public sanitary
sewer line from any point along the subdivision boundary line shall connect to
the public sanitary sewer.
      4.   Subdivisions of between eleven (11) and thirty five (35) residential
dwelling units within three hundred fifty feet (350') or less of a public
sanitary sewer line from any point along the subdivision boundary line shall
connect to the public sanitary sewer.
      5.   Subdivisions of between one and ten (10) residential dwelling units
that are within two hundred feet (200') or less of a public sanitary sewer line
from any point along the subdivision boundary line shall connect to the public
sanitary sewer.
   C.   In areas where the public sanitary system is not reasonably accessible
but where plans for the installation of said system have been approved by the
Illinois environmental protection agency, the subdivider shall install sanitary
sewer and lateral service lines which shall be capped until such time as a
public service line becomes available.
   D.   When the condition described in subsection C of this section exists, or
there are no plans for the installation of a public sanitary sewer system to
serve the area where the subdivision is located, the subdivider may utilize a
department of public health approved on site disposal septic or similar system
as permitted by Madison County.
   E.   When sanitary sewage, or potential sanitary sewer servicing needs, from
areas outside the subdivision necessitate the construction of sanitary sewers
of a larger size or depth than the subdivision needs, the city, with the
subdivider and/or adjacent benefiting property owners, may consider and
determine the terms and conditions thereof, enactment of a recapture agreement
to set forth financing and contractual repayment arrangements for the
installation of any additional size or depth of sanitary sewers; such
agreements are subject to city council approval. If the development is outside
the city limits, such reimbursement shall be made when the entire development
is annexed or other arrangements satisfactory to the city council have been
made. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-4-9: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 7050, 1-9-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 6, chapter 14 of this code.
12-4-10: UTILITIES; PLACEMENT UNDERGROUND:
Storm and sanitary sewer and utility lines for water, telephone, gas, electric
service, television or telecommunication service and streetlights shall be
placed entirely underground. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-4-11: WATER SUPPLY:
All subdivisions shall be supplied by an adequate public water supply system.
(Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIRED AND RECOMMENDED IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-5-1: General
12-5-2: Survey Monuments
12-5-3: Street And Alley Improvements
12-5-4: Sidewalks
12-5-5: Street Name Signs
12-5-6: Sanitary Sewers
12-5-7: Storm Sewers And Drainage
12-5-8: Installation Of Fire Hydrants
12-5-9: Installation Of Lighting On Public Ways
12-5-1: GENERAL:
The latest editions of the Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge
Construction, the Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction
in Illinois, the IDOT Subgrade Stability Manual and the Standard Specifications
for Traffic Control Items shall govern development and street improvements
unless otherwise provided in this Chapter. Copies of these documents are
available for public inspection at the Department of Public Works. Where
conflicts among these standards are not resolved in these regulations, the
Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction shall take precedence.
(Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-5-2: SURVEY MONUMENTS:
Survey monuments shall be set in the field and at the corners of all platted
lots in accordance with the Property Plats and Surveys Act, 765 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 201/1 et seq., as amended from time to time. (Ord. 6104, 12-
18-1996)
12-5-3: STREET AND ALLEY IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.   All streets, whether public or private, shall be improved with curb and
gutter and constructed in accordance with the specifications set forth in
Section
6-1-2 of this Code, which specifications are incorporated herein by reference,
and copies thereof remain on file in the Department of Public Works.
   B.   All alleys, whether public or private, shall be improved and
constructed in accordance with the specifications set forth in Section
6-1-3 of this Code, which specifications are incorporated herein by reference,
and copies thereof remain on file in the Department of Public Works. (Ord.
6104, 12-18-1996)
12-5-4: SIDEWALKS:
Concrete sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with applicable standard
specifications of the City or at least to the standards listed below. Location
of all sidewalks required under subsequent subsections of this Section should
be shown in final plan.
   A.   Sidewalks should be of Portland cement concrete with a minimum
thickness of four inches (4") on a four inch (4") gravel or crushed stone base
and a minimum width of four feet (4'), and the edge of walks adjacent to the
property line of the street should be placed at least one foot (1') from the
property line.
   B.   Crosswalks within the blocks should be improved with a four foot (4')
wide walk of either Portland cement concrete four inches (4") thick or asphalt
concrete two inches (2") thick on four inch (4") compacted aggregate base. The
base on an asphalt concrete walk should be extended beyond the sidewalk on
either side to a distance of at least four inches (4").
   C.   Courtyards, courts and pedestrian walks in commercial and industrial
developments may be constructed of any solid surface as long as that surface is
smooth and presents no hazard to walking and so long as the standards of
construction are no less than required above. The Department of Public Works
shall approve the construction specifications for such surfaces. (Ord. 6104,
12-18-1996)
12-5-5: STREET NAME SIGNS:
Street name signs shall be placed at all street intersections and shall be in
accordance with specifications on file in the City Engineer's office. (Ord.
6104, 12-18-1996)
12-5-6: SANITARY SEWERS:
   A.   Sanitary sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the
specification set forth in Section
6-10-5 of this Code, which specifications are incorporated herein by reference,
and copies thereof remain on file in the Department of Public Works. In no
event shall sewage collection lines be less than eight inches (8") in diameter
and all sanitary sewer facilities shall comply with the regulations of the
Illinois Department of Public Health and the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
   B.   Dewatering sufficient to maintain the water level twelve inches (12")
below the surface of the trench bottom or base of the bedding course shall be
accomplished prior to pipe laying and jointing. The dewatering operation shall
be carried out so that it does not destroy or weaken the strength of the soil
under or adjacent the trench. The normal water table shall be restored to its
natural level in such a manner as to not disturb the pipe and its foundation.
   C.   During construction, ample means and devices shall be provided to
promptly remove and properly dispose of all water entering the excavation or
other parts of the work until completed. No sanitary sewer shall be used for
disposal of trench water, unless specifically approved by the Director of
Public Works or his designee. No water containing settleable solids shall be
discharged into storm sewers. (Ord. 6104, 12-18-1996)
12-5-7: STORM SEWERS AND DRAINAGE:
Streets shall be graded to allow for appropriate surface drainage. The grades
shall not be steeper than ten percent (10%) vertical curves shall be not less
than one hundred feet (100') in length. Drainage structures shall be installed
wherever required. The size of all drainage structures shall be computed by
using Talbot's Formula for runoff. Pipes and inlets shall be constructed in
accordance with Section
6-11-5 of this Code, which specifications are incorporated herein by reference,
and copies thereof remain on file in the Department of Public Works. (Ord.
6104, 12-18-1996)
12-5-8: INSTALLATION OF FIRE HYDRANTS:
Fire hydrants shall be immediately connected and maintained in an operative
condition as soon as water mains have been installed at the construction site.
Access to all fire hydrants by fire fighting apparatus shall be provided and
maintained. Hydrants shall be located as specified by the Fire Chief. (Ord.
6104, 12-18-1996)
12-5-9: INSTALLATION OF LIGHTING ON PUBLIC WAYS:
Any owner, developer, contractor or subdivider shall provide street lights as
approved by the Plan Commission. Furthermore:
   A.   When a public street lighting system is installed, the street lighting
improvements shall consist of the complete installation of a high pressure
sodium vapor lighting system including cutoff or semi-cutoff luminaries or
approved alternate, aluminum street lighting standards or approved equivalent,
direct burial cable or cable in conduit, controls with the ground rod meters
(supplied by the power company). The system shall not consist of individual
lights connected to the electrical supply system, but shall be composed of a
reasonable number of complete circuits. In addition:
      1.   Each lighting source shall have a height of not less than sixteen
feet (16') above grade and shall have a minimum standard 6800 lumen output.
Maximum initial illumination level five feet (5') from the base of the light
source shall be no greater than three (3.0) foot-candles.
      2.   The maximum distance between light standards shall be three hundred
twenty five feet (325') on minor streets and two hundred twenty five feet
(225') on major streets.
      3.   Lighting shall be designed to avoid unnecessary illumination of
residential interiors.
   B.   Each circuit in the public street lighting system shall be equipped
with a circuit breaker, a disconnect switch and a photo-electrical cell to
automatically turn the lights on and off at dark and dawn, respectively, and
shall be mounted in an Eagle EL 250 cabinet or approved equal cabinet.
   C.   Light standards shall not be located within three feet (3') of the
street pavement and shall be located between the sidewalk and street pavement.
(Ord. 6208, 11-12-1997)
APPENDIX A -
APPROPRIATIONS
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
1201     Amendment to appropriations for fiscal year April 1, 1916   6-28-1916
         to March 31, 1917
         Appropriation to pay the interest on public debt for fiscal
1219     year April 1, 1917 to March 31, 1918; appropriation to pay  4-11-1917
         City bonds due August 1, 1917
1222     Annual appropriations for fiscal year April 1, 1917 to      4-11-1917
         March 31, 1918
         Appropriation to pay interest on public debt for fiscal
1243     year April 1, 1918 to March 31, 1919; appropriation to pay  4-10-1918
         City bonds due August 1, 1918
1244     Annual appropriations for fiscal year beginning April 1,    4-10-1918
         1918
1255     Interest appropriation ordinance                            4-28-1919
1260     Annual appropriation ordinance                              4-28-1919
12851/2  Interest and bond appropriation ordinance                   4-28-1920
1287     Corporation appropriation ordinance                         4-28-1920
1309     Interest appropriation ordinance                            4-28-1921
1310     Annual appropriation ordinance                              4-28-1921
1360     Interest appropriation                                      4-28-1922
1362     Annual appropriation ordinance                              4-28-1922
1371     Amendment to appropriation Ordinance #1362                  6-28-1922
1373     Appropriation for public benefits fund                      6-28-1922
1391     Annual appropriation ordinance                              4-28-1923
1394     Interest on public debt appropriation                       4-28-1923
1396     Amended general appropriation ordinance                     6-13-1923
1437     Firemen's pension appropriation                             4-28-1924
1439     Interest and bonds appropriation ordinance                  4-28-1924
1440     Public benefit appropriation                                4-28-1924
1441     Annual appropriation ordinance                              4-28-1924
         Appropriation to pay interest on public bonded debt and the
1490     payment of Alton City fire debt bonds for April 1, 1925 to  4-8-1925
         March 31, 1926
1491     Appropriation for paying Firemen's Pension for year April   4-8-1925
         1, 1925 to March 31, 1926
1492     Appropriation for public benefits for year April 1,         4-8-1925
         1925 to March 31, 1926
1497     Annual appropriation ordinance                              4-28-1925
1545     Municipal bond and interest appropriation ordinance         2-24-1926
1548     Public benefit appropriation ordinance                      2-24-1926
1549     Firemen's Pension appropriation ordinance                   2-24-1926
1550     Police Pension Fund appropriation ordinance                 2-24-1926
1563     Annual appropriation ordinance                              4-28-1926
1603     Appropriation for interest on public bonded debt            3-23-1927
1604     Police Pension Fund appropriation ordinance                 3-23-1927
1605     Firemen's Pension appropriation ordinance                   3-23-1927
1606     Public benefit appropriation ordinance                      3-23-1927
1611     Annual appropriations for fiscal year April 1, 1927 to      4-13-1927
         March 31, 1928
1620     Municipal band appropriation                                6-8-1927
1664     Annual appropriation ordinance                              4-25-1928
1696     Annual appropriation ordinance                              4-24-1929
1725     Annual appropriation ordinance                              4-23-1930
1742     Annual appropriation for fiscal year April 1, 1931 to March 4-22-1931
         31, 1932
1748     Amendment to appropriations for fiscal year April 1, 1931   6-10-1931
         to March 31, 1932
1767     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-27-1932
         1932 to March 31, 1933
1801     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year 1933-1934    4-26-1933
1807     Amendment to appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April  5-10-1933
         1, 1933 to March 31, 1934
1808     Amendment to appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April  5-10-1933
         1, 1933 to March 31, 1934
1825     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year 1934-1935    4-25-1934
1934     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-24-1935
         1935 to March 31, 1936
1938     Amendment to appropriation Ordinance #1934 for fiscal year  5-8-1935
         1935-1936
1949     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-8-1936
         1936 to March 31, 1937
1965     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-24-1937
         1937 to March 31, 1938
1970     Amendment to appropriation Ordinance #1965 for fiscal year  5-26-1937
         April 1, 1936 to March 31, 1937
1995     Annual appropriation ordinance                              3-23-1938
2016     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-12-1939
         1939 to March 31, 1940
2035     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-10-1940
         1940 to March 31, 1941
2052     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year 1941-1942    4-9-1941
2089     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-8-1942
         1942 to March 31, 1943
2118     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-14-1943
         1943 and ending March 31, 1944
2142     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-12-1944
         1944 to March 31, 1945
2160     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-11-1945
         1945 to March 31, 1946
2187     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-10-1946
         1946 to March 31, 1947
2226     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-9-1947
         1947 to March 31, 1948
2276     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-14-1948
         1948 to March 31, 1949
2312     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-13-1949
         1949 to March 31, 1950
2318     Amendment to Ordinance #2312, the appropriation ordinance   6-22-1949
         for fiscal year April 1, 1949 to March 31, 1950
2331     Amendment to Ordinance #2312, the appropriation ordinance   8-24-1949
         for fiscal year April 1, 1949 to March 31, 1950
2348     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-12-1950
         1950 to March 31, 1951
2366     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-11-1951
         1951 to March 31, 1952
2372     Amendment to Ordinance #2366, the appropriation ordinance   6-30-1951
         for fiscal year April 1, 1951 to March 31, 1952
2376     Additional appropriation for purpose of an emergency        9-12-1951
         restoration of heating facilities (#4 Fire House)
2383     Amendment to Ordinance #2376, pertaining to emergency       1-9-1952
         appropriation for fire house heating
2423     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-9-1952
         1952 to March 31, 1953
2452     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-13-1953
         1953 to March 31, 1954
2491     Emergency appropriation for fiscal year April 1, 1953 to    3-10-1954
         March 31, 1954
2529     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-14-1954
         1954 to March 31, 1955
2570     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-13-1955
         1955 to March 31, 1956
2607     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-11-1956
         1956 to March 31, 1957
2661     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     5-13-1957
         1957 to March 31, 1958
2667     Amendment to Ordinance #2661, the appropriation ordinance   6-26-1957
2717     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-23-1958
         1958 to March 31, 1959
2820     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     6-10-1959
         1959 to March 31, 1960
2959     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-13-1960
         1960 to March 31, 1961
         Amendment to Ordinance #2959, the appropriation ordinance.
2987     Increase appropriation for park purposes to finance         6-22-1960
         improvements in Salu Park
3079     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     6-14-1961
         1961 to March 31, 1962
3115     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     5-9-1962
         1962 to March 31, 1963
3170     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-10-1963
         1963 to March 31, 1964
3176     Amendment to Ordinance #3170, the appropriation ordinance   4-24-1963
         for fiscal year April 1, 1963 to March 31, 1964
3177     Amendment to Ordinance #3170, the appropriation ordinance   6-26-1963
         for fiscal year April 1, 1963 to March 31, 1964
3206     Additional appropriation for purchase of five new police    11-27-1963
         cars
3223     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-8-1964
         1964 to March 31, 1965
3225     Additional appropriation for purchase of one refuse         2-26-1964
         collection and disposal truck
3243     Amendment to Ordinance #3223, the appropriation ordinance   6-24-1964
         for fiscal year April 1, 1964 to March 31, 1965
         Additional appropriation for payment of a judgment entered
3256     against the City pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois 10-28-1964
         Workmen's Compensation Act
         Additional appropriation for fiscal year April 1, 1964 to
3280     meet an emergency situation existing in the refuse          1-27-1965
         collection and disposal system
3288     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     5-26-1965
         1965 to March 31, 1966
3293     Amendment to Ordinance #3288, the appropriation ordinance   6-23-1965
         for fiscal year April 1, 1965 to March 31, 1966
3347     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-27-1966
         1966 to March 31, 1967
3362     Amendment to Ordinance #3347, the appropriation ordinance   6-22-1966
         for fiscal year April 1, 1966 to March 31, 1967
3406     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-26-1967
         1967 to March 31, 1968
3433     Amendment to Ordinance #3406, the appropriation ordinance   6-28-1967
         for fiscal year April 1, 1967 to March 31, 1968
3434     Amendment to Ordinance #3406, the appropriation ordinance   6-28-1967
         for fiscal year April 1, 1967 to March 31, 1968
3435     Amendment to Ordinance #3406, the appropriation ordinance   6-28-1967
         for fiscal year April 1, 1967 to March 31, 1968
3448     Amendment to Ordinance #3406, the appropriation ordinance   9-27-1967
         for fiscal year April 1, 1967 to March 31, 1968
3476     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-17-1968
         1968 to March 31, 1969
3486     Amendment to Ordinance #3476, the appropriation ordinance   4-24-1968
         for fiscal year April 1, 1968 to March 31, 1969
3496     Amendment to Ordinance #3476, the appropriation ordinance   6-26-1968
         for fiscal year April 1, 1968 to March 31, 1969
3535     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-9-1969
         1969 to March 31, 1970
3541     Amendment to Ordinance #3535, the appropriation ordinance   4-23-1969
         for fiscal year April 1, 1969 to March 31, 1970
3549     Amendment to Ordinance #3535, the appropriation ordinance   6-25-1969
         for fiscal year April 1, 1969 to March 31, 1970
3550     Amendment to Ordinance #3535, the appropriation ordinance   6-25-1969
         for fiscal year April 1, 1969 to March 31, 1970
3587     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-8-1970
         1970 to March 31, 1971
3593     Amendment to Ordinance #3587, the appropriation ordinance   4-8-1970
         for fiscal year April 1, 1970 to March 31, 1971
3599     Amendment to Ordinance #3587, the appropriation ordinance   6-10-1970
         for fiscal year April 1, 1970 to March 31, 1971
3610     Amendment to Ordinance #3587, the appropriation ordinance   7-22-1970
         for fiscal year April 1, 1970 to March 31, 1971
3642     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,      
         1971 to March 31, 1972
3675     Amendment to Ordinance #3642, the appropriation ordinance   6-23-1971
         for fiscal year April 1, 1971 to March 31, 1972
3719     Amendment to Ordinance #3642, the appropriation ordinance   1-12-1972
         for fiscal year April 1, 1971 to March 31, 1972
3729     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-12-1972
         1972 to March 31, 1973
         Amendment to Ordinance #3729, the appropriation ordinance
3744     for fiscal year April 1, 1972 to March 31, 1973, to provide 5-24-1972
         for appropriation for Hayner Public Library
         Amendment to Ordinance #3729, the appropriation ordinance
3750     for fiscal year April 1, 1972 to March 31, 1973, to provide 6-28-1972
         for court expenses for 60 police officers
3757     Amendment to Ordinance #3729, the appropriation ordinance   6-28-1972
         for fiscal year April 1, 1972 to March 31, 1973
3791     Amendment to Ordinance #3729, the appropriation ordinance   1-24-1973
         for fiscal year April 1, 1972 to March 31, 1973
3802     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     2-1974
         1973 to March 31, 1974
3817     Amendment to Ordinance #3802, the appropriation ordinance   2-1974
         for fiscal year April 1, 1973 to March 31, 1974
3899     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     5-13-1974
         1974 to March 31, 1975
3914     Amendment to Ordinance #3899, the appropriation ordinance   5-22-1974
         for fiscal year April 1, 1974 to March 31, 1975
3965     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,      
         1975 to March 31, 1976
3976     Amendment to Ordinance #3965, the appropriation ordinance   3-26-1975
         for fiscal year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976
3977     Amendment to Ordinance #3965, the appropriation ordinance   3-26-1975
         for fiscal year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976
4001     Amendment to Ordinance #3965, the appropriation ordinance   7-9-1975
         for fiscal year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976
4074     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-24-1976
         1976 to March 31, 1977
4117     Amendment to Ordinance #4074, the appropriation ordinance   6-23-1976
         for fiscal year April 1, 1976 to March 31, 1977
4119     Amendment to Ordinance #4074, the appropriation ordinance   6-23-1976
         for fiscal year April 1, 1976 to March 31, 1977
4164     Amendment to Ordinance #4074, the appropriation ordinance   1-12-1977
         for fiscal year April 1, 1976 to March 31, 1977
4185     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,      
         1977 to March 31, 1978
4194     Amendment to Ordinance #4164, the appropriation ordinance   3-23-1977
         for fiscal year April 1, 1977 to March 31, 1978
4217     Amendment to Ordinance #4074, the appropriation ordinance   6-22-1977
         for fiscal year April 1, 1976 to March 31, 1977
4260     Amendment to Ordinance #4185, the appropriation ordinance   11-23-1977
         for fiscal year April 1, 1977 to March 31, 1978
4283     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-22-1978
         1978 to March 31, 1979
4305     Amendment to Ordinance #4283, the appropriation ordinance   4-26-1978
         for fiscal year April 1, 1978 to March 31, 1979
4317     Amendment to Ordinance #4283, the appropriation ordinance   6-14-1978
         for fiscal year April 1, 1978 to March 31, 1979
4408     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-28-1979
         1979 to March 31, 1980
4436     Amendment to Ordinance #4408, the appropriation ordinance   6-27-1979
         for fiscal year April 1, 1979 to March 31, 1980
         Amendment to Ordinance #4408, the appropriation ordinance
4484     for fiscal year April 1, 1979 to March 31, 1980 (anti-      1-24-1980
         recession funds)
4491     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-26-1980
         1980 to March 31, 1981
4510     Amendment to Ordinance #3642, the appropriation ordinance   4-23-1980
         for fiscal year April 1, 1980 to March 31, 1981
4597     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-25-1981
         1981 to March 31, 1982
4609     Amendment to Ordinance #4508, the appropriation ordinance   6-24-1981
         for fiscal year April 1, 1981 to March 31, 1982
4662     Amendment to Ordinance #4597, the appropriation ordinance   1-13-1982
         for fiscal year April 1, 1981 to March 31, 1982
4672     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-24-1982
         1982 to March 31, 1983
4690     Amendment to Ordinance #4672, the appropriation ordinance   4-28-1982
         for fiscal year April 1, 1982 to March 31, 1983
4696     Amendment to Ordinance #4672, the appropriation ordinance   6-9-1982
         for fiscal year April 1, 1982 to March 31, 1983
4746     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-23-1983
         1983 to March 31, 1984
4757     Amendment to Ordinance #4672, the appropriation ordinance   1983
         for fiscal year April 1, 1982 to March 31, 1983
4758     Amendment to Ordinance #4746, the appropriation ordinance   4-13-1984
         for fiscal year April 1, 1983 to March 31, 1984
         Supplemental appropriation affecting the Park and
4831     Recreation Departments to Ordinance #4746, the              3-28-1984
         appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1983 to
         March 31, 1984
4832     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-28-1984
         1984 to March 31, 1985
4839     Amendment to Ordinance #4832, the appropriation ordinance   4-11-1984
         for fiscal year April 1, 1984 to March 31, 1985
4907     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-27-1985
         1985 to March 31, 1986
4908     Supplemental ordinance affecting the Park and Recreation    3-27-1985
         Departments
         Amendment to Ordinance #4907, the appropriation ordinance
4921     for fiscal year April 1, 1985 to March 31, 1986.            6-26-1985
         This Ordinance amends and completely restates said
         appropriation Ordinance #4907
         Amendment to Ordinance #4907 as amended by Ordinance #4921,
4978     the appropriation ordinance retroactive for fiscal year     12-11-1985
         April 1, 1985 to March 31, 1986
4996     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-26-1986
         1986 to March 31, 1987
         Amendment to Ordinance #4996, the appropriation ordinance
5034     for fiscal year April 1, 1986 to March 31, 1987.            6-25-1986
         This Ordinance amends and completely restates said
         appropriation Ordinance #4996
5068     Ratifying Ordinance #5034, the annual appropriation         8-13-1986
         ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1986 to March 31, 1987
         Amendment to Ordinance #4996, as amended by Ordinance
5094     #5034, the appropriation ordinance retroactive for          12-10-1986
         fiscal year April 1, 1986 to March 31, 1987. This Ordinance
         amends the appropriation Ordinance #4996 as amended
5128     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     6-10-1987
         1987 to March 31, 1988
5146     Amendment to Ordinance #5128, the appropriation ordinance   6-10-1987
         for fiscal year April 1, 1987 to March 31, 1988
         Amendment to Ordinance #5128, as amended by Ordinance
5197     #5146, the appropriation ordinance retroactive for fiscal   2-10-1988
         year April 1, 1987 to March 31, 1988
5223     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     6-22-1988
         1988 to March 31, 1989
5330     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     6-28-1989
         1989 to March 31, 1990
5421     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     3-28-1990
         1990 to March 31, 1991
5519     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     6-12-1991
         1991 to March 31, 1992
5659     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     6-24-1992
         1992 to March 31, 1993
5688     Amendment to Ordinance #5659, the appropriation ordinance   8-26-1992
         for fiscal year April 1, 1992 to March 31, 1993
         Amendment to Ordinance #5659, the appropriation ordinance
5699     for fiscal year April 1, 1992 to March 31, 1993, adding a   8-26-1992
         new Public Works Building Fund section
         Comprehensive amendments to Ordinance #5659, the
5713     appropriation for fiscal year April 1, 1992 to March 31,    10-28-1992
         1993
         Amendment to Ordinance #5659, the appropriation ordinance
5747     for fiscal year April 1, 1992 to March 31, 1993, adding a   3-10-1993
         new fund, Fund 602 - Combined Sewer Overflow
5775     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     6-9-1993
         1993 to March 31, 1994
5849     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-13-1994
         1994 to March 31, 1995
5860     Supplemental appropriation for fiscal year April 1, 1993 to 3-23-1994
         March 31, 1994
5865     Supplemental appropriation for fiscal year April 1, 1993 to 3-23-1994
         March 31, 1994
         Supplemental appropriation for fiscal year April 1, 1994
5921     March 31, 1995, and establishing and funding the Special    11-9-1994
         Tax Allocation Fund, Riverfront TIF
5935     Supplemental appropriation for fiscal year April 1, 1994 to 12-14-1994
         March 31, 1995
5955     Amendment to Ordinance #5849, the appropriation ordinance   3-8-1995
         for fiscal year April 1, 1994 to March 31, 1995
5956     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     5-24-1995
         1995 to March 31, 1996
6059     Supplemental appropriation for fiscal year April 1, 1995,   3-27-1996
         to March 31, 1996
6070     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     6-12-1996
         1996, to March 31, 1997
6143     Supplemental appropriation for fiscal year April 1, 1996,   3-26-1997
         to March 31, 1997
6165     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     6-25-1997
         1997, to March 31, 1998
6251     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-22-1998
         1998, to March 31, 1999
6299     Supplemental appropriation for architectural services and   7-8-1998
         repairs to city hall
         Supplemental appropriation for Piasa park and putting
6303     restrictions on the expenditure of money from the Piasa     7-8-1998
         fund
6306     Supplemental appropriation for Mississippi Lime Co., and    7-8-1998
         Illinois-American Water Co.
6307     Supplemental appropriation for architectural services for   7-8-1998
         design and construction of the new law enforcement facility
6331     Supplemental appropriation appropriating funds from         10-14-1998
         department of transportation grant to the police department
6333     Supplemental appropriation for funds from Madison County    10-28-1998
         for repairs to Aberdeen Street and Main Street
6371     Annual appropriation ordinance for fiscal year April 1,     4-28-1999
         1999, to March 31, 2000
         Supplemental appropriation ordinance supplementing
         ordinance 6371 appropriating funds from the law enforcement
6401     construction account to be used for the purpose of the      6-23-1999
         payment of costs for the development of the law enforcement
         facility to be located at Broadway and Washington Avenues
         and for the payment of the roof of the city hall
         Annual appropriation for the city of Alton, in the county
6461     of Madison, state of Illinois, for the fiscal year          4-12-2000
         beginning April 1, 2000, and ending March 31, 2001
         Supplemental appropriation ordinance supplementing
         ordinance 6371 appropriating funds from the law enforcement
6473     construction account to the general fund for replacement of 3-22-2000
         funds expended from the general fund for preparation and
         construction of law enforcement facility
         Supplemental appropriation ordinance supplementing
6515     ordinance 6461 appropriating funds in the amount of         7-26-2000
         $75,000.00 from the excess gaming fund to be used for
         building and zoning demolitions
         Supplemental appropriation ordinance supplementing
6569     ordinance 6461 appropriating funds for the city of Alton,   3-28-2001
         Illinois
         Annual appropriation for the city of Alton, in the county
6573     of Madison, state of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-27-2001
         beginning April 1, 2001, and ending March 31, 2002
         Supplemental appropriation ordinance supplementing
6651     ordinance 6573 appropriating funds for the city of Alton,   3-27-2002
         Illinois
         Annual appropriation for the city of Alton, in the county
6656     of Madison, state of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-26-2002
         beginning April 1, 2002, and ending March 31, 2003
         Annual appropriation for the city of Alton, in the county
6739     of Madison, state of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-25-2003
         beginning April 1, 2003, and ending March 31, 2004
         Annual appropriation for the city of Alton, in the county
6812     of Madison, state of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-23-2004
         beginning April 1, 2004, and ending March 31, 2005
         Annual appropriation for the city of Alton, in the county
6880     of Madison, state of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-22-2005
         beginning April 1, 2005, and ending March 31, 2006
         Annual appropriation for the city of Alton, in the county
6945     of Madison, state of Illinois, for the fiscal year          5-24-2006
         beginning April 1, 2006, and ending March 31, 2007
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7010     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-27-2007
         beginning April 1, 2007, and ending March 31, 2008
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7058     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          3-26-2008
         beginning April 1, 2008, and ending March 31, 2009
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7146     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-24-2009
         beginning April 1, 2009 and ending March 31, 2010
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7196     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-9-2010
         beginning April 1, 2010 and ending March 31, 2011
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7254     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-22-2011
         beginning April 1, 2011 and ending March 31, 2012
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7313     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-27-2012
         beginning April 1, 2012 and ending March 31, 2013
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7357     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-26-2013
         beginning April 1, 2013 and ending March 31, 2014
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7412     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-25-2014
         beginning April 1, 2014 and ending March 31, 2015
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7459     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          9-23-2015
         beginning April 1, 2015 and ending March 31, 2016
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7520     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-22-2016
         beginning April 1, 2016, and ending March 31, 2017
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7569A    of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-28-2017
         beginning April 1, 2017, and ending March 31, 2018
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7569B    of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          9-27-2017
         beginning April 1, 2017, and ending March 31, 2018
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7644     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-27-2018
         beginning April 1, 2018, and ending March 31, 2019
         Annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in the County
7699     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal year          6-12-2019
         beginning April 1, 2019, and ending March 31, 2020
- -      First amendment to Ord. 7699                                - -
         Making an annual appropriation for the city in the County
7757     of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal years         9-24-2020
         beginning April 1, 2020, and ending March 31, 2021
         Making an annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in
7812     the County of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal    6-23-2021
         year beginning April 1, 2021, and ending March 31, 2022.
         Making an annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in
7839     the County of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal    6-22-2022
         year beginning April 1, 2022 and ending March 31, 2023.
         Making an annual appropriation for the City of Alton, in
7874     the County of Madison, State of Illinois, for the fiscal    3-22-2023
         year beginning April 1, 2023 and ending March 31, 2024.
         An ordinance appropriating for all corporate purposes of
7931     the City of Alton, Madison County, Illinois, for the fiscal 3-14-2024
         year beginning April 1, 2024 and ending March 31, 2025.
         An ordinance adopting an annual appropriation for the City
7976     of Alton, in the County of Madison, State of Illinois, for  6-25-2025
         the fiscal year commencing April 1, 2025 and ending March
         31, 2026.
                                                                    
 
APPENDIX B -
TAX LEVY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. Description                                                                  Date
No.
1196 School tax levy for fiscal year July 1, 1916 to June 30, 1917                 
     School tax levy for fiscal year July 1, 1916 to June 30, 1917 to pay bonds   6-
1197 falling due                                                                  14-
                                                                                  1916
     Amendment to Ordinance #1197, school tax levy for fiscal year July 1, 1916   7-
1204 to June 30, 1917                                                             26-
                                                                                  1916
1205 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1916 to March 31, 1917              8-9-
                                                                                  1916
     Interest tax levy to pay the interest on the public debt for fiscal year     8-9-
1207 April 1, 1916 to March 31, 1917, and to pay City bonds due June 1, 1916 and  1916
     July 1, 1916
                                                                                  6-
1230 School tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1917 to March 31, 1918              27-
                                                                                  1917
                                                                                  6-
1231 School tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1917 to March 31, 1918              27-
                                                                                  1917
     Tax levy for interest and bond purposes for fiscal year April 1, 1917 to     7-
1234 March 31, 1918                                                               25-
                                                                                  1917
                                                                                  7-
1235 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1917 to March 31, 1918              25-
                                                                                  1917
                                                                                  8-
1248 School tax levy for fiscal year July 1, 1918 to June 30, 1919                14-
                                                                                  1918
                                                                                  8-
1249 School tax levy for fiscal year July 1, 1918 to June 30, 1919                14-
                                                                                  1918
     Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1918 to March 31, 1919; and to pay  8-
1250 City bonds due August 1, 1918                                                14-
                                                                                  1918
                                                                                  8-
1252 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1918 to March 31, 1919              14-
                                                                                  1918
                                                                                  8-
1263 Interest tax levy                                                            14-
                                                                                  1918
                                                                                  8-
1264 Annual tax levy                                                              13-
                                                                                  1919
                                                                                  8-
1266 Educational tax levy                                                         13-
                                                                                  1919
                                                                                  8-
1267 School building tax levy                                                     13-
                                                                                  1919
                                                                                  7-
1290 Educational tax levy                                                         14-
                                                                                  1920
                                                                                  7-
1291 School building tax levy                                                     14-
                                                                                  1920
                                                                                  7-
1293 Interest and bond tax levy                                                   14-
                                                                                  1920
                                                                                  7-
1294 Annual tax levy                                                              14-
                                                                                  1920
                                                                                  7-
1322 Educational tax levy                                                         13-
                                                                                  1921
                                                                                  7-
1323 School building tax levy                                                     13-
                                                                                  1921
                                                                                  7-
1325 Interest tax levy                                                            13-
                                                                                  1921
                                                                                  7-
1326 Annual tax levy, streets, bridges and public benefit fund                    13-
                                                                                  1921
                                                                                  6-
1375 Interest tax levy                                                            28-
                                                                                  1922
                                                                                  7-
1381 Annual tax levy                                                              26-
                                                                                  1922
                                                                                  7-
1382 Public benefit tax levy                                                      26-
                                                                                  1922
1406 Annual tax levy                                                              8-8-
                                                                                  1923
1408 Interest tax levy                                                            8-8-
                                                                                  1923
1409 Public benefit fund tax levy                                                 8-8-
                                                                                  1923
                                                                                  7-
1458 Public benefit tax levy                                                      23-
                                                                                  1924
1463 Interest and bonds tax levy                                                  7-9-
                                                                                  1924
                                                                                  7-
1464 Annual tax levy                                                              23-
                                                                                  1924
                                                                                  7-
1466 Firemen's pension fund tax levy                                              23-
                                                                                  1924
                                                                                  5-
1505 Firemen's pension fund tax levy                                              13-
                                                                                  1925
                                                                                  6-
1514 Public benefit tax levy                                                      10-
                                                                                  1925
                                                                                  6-
1515 Interest and bonds tax levy                                                  10-
                                                                                  1925
1521 Annual tax levy                                                              7-8-
                                                                                  1925
                                                                                  7-
1524 Emergency tax levy for construction of outlet for Piasa Street sewer         22-
                                                                                  1925
                                                                                  7-
1574 Public benefits tax levy                                                     14-
                                                                                  1926
                                                                                  7-
1575 Playground and recreation tax levy                                           14-
                                                                                  1926
                                                                                  7-
1576 Firemen's pension fund tax levy                                              14-
                                                                                  1926
                                                                                  7-
1577 Annual tax levy                                                              14-
                                                                                  1926
                                                                                  7-
1582 Police tax levy                                                              14-
                                                                                  1926
                                                                                  8-
1587 City Hall tax levy                                                           25-
                                                                                  1926
                                                                                  8-
1588 Swimming pool tax levy                                                       25-
                                                                                  1926
                                                                                  8-
1589 Fire Department equipment tax levy                                           25-
                                                                                  1926
                                                                                  8-
1590 Upper Alton hose house tax levy                                              25-
                                                                                  1926
1617 Municipal Band tax levy                                                      6-8-
                                                                                  1927
                                                                                  8-
1644 Firemen's pension fund tax levy                                              10-
                                                                                  1927
                                                                                  8-
1645 Police pension fund tax levy                                                 10-
                                                                                  1927
                                                                                  8-
1647 Interest on bonded debt tax levy                                             10-
                                                                                  1927
                                                                                  8-
1648 Annual tax levy                                                              10-
                                                                                  1927
1676 Annual tax levy                                                              8-8-
                                                                                  1928
                                                                                  8-
1715 Annual tax levy                                                              24-
                                                                                  1929
                                                                                  8-
1733 Annual tax levy                                                              13-
                                                                                  1930
1749 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1931 to March 31, 1932              7-8-
                                                                                  1931
                                                                                  12-
1763 Tax levy for relief and support of poor and indigent persons                 23-
                                                                                  1931
                                                                                  7-
1774 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1932 to March 31, 1933              13-
                                                                                  1932
     Tax levy for relief and support of poor and indigent persons for fiscal year 7-
1775 April 1, 1932 to March 31, 1933                                              13-
                                                                                  1932
                                                                                  5-
1812 Annual tax levy, 1933-1934                                                   24-
                                                                                  1933
1829 Annual tax levy, 1934-1935                                                   5-9-
                                                                                  1934
                                                                                  6-
1939 Annual tax levy, 1935-1936                                                   12-
                                                                                  1935
                                                                                  4-
1952 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1936 to March 31, 1937              22-
                                                                                  1936
                                                                                  4-
1968 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1937 to March 31, 1938              14-
                                                                                  1937
                                                                                  4-
1999 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1938 to March 31, 1939              13-
                                                                                  1938
                                                                                  5-
2002 Amendment to Ordinance #1999 for tax levy                                    11-
                                                                                  1938
                                                                                  4-
2022 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1939 to March 31, 1940              26-
                                                                                  1939
                                                                                  4-
2037 Annual tax levy, 1940-1941                                                   24-
                                                                                  1940
                                                                                  1-
2048 Referendum as to tax rate for Firemen's pension fund                         22-
                                                                                  1941
                                                                                  4-
2053 Tax levy for year 1941-1942                                                  23-
                                                                                  1941
                                                                                  4-
2093 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1942 to March 31, 1943              22-
                                                                                  1942
                                                                                  4-
2120 Annual tax levy, 1943-1944                                                   28-
                                                                                  1943
     Firemen's annuity and benefit fund tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1943 to 8-
2126 March 31, 1944                                                               25-
                                                                                  1943
                                                                                  4-
2146 Annual tax levy, 1944-1945                                                   26-
                                                                                  1944
                                                                                  4-
2161 Annual tax levy, 1945-1946                                                   28-
                                                                                  1945
                                                                                  7-
2164 Amended tax levy, 1945-1946                                                  13-
                                                                                  1946
                                                                                  4-
2189 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1946 to March 31, 1947              24-
                                                                                  1946
                                                                                  8-
2200 Emergency tax levy                                                           28-
                                                                                  1946
                                                                                  4-
2228 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1947 to March 31, 1948              23-
                                                                                  1947
                                                                                  4-
2271 Theatricals and other exhibitions, shows and amusements tax levy             14-
                                                                                  1948
                                                                                  4-
2277 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1948 to March 31, 1949              28-
                                                                                  1948
     Amendment to Ordinance #2271, theatricals and other exhibitions, shows and   5-
2278 amusements tax levy                                                          26-
                                                                                  1948
                                                                                  4-
2315 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1949 to March 31, 1950              27-
                                                                                  1949
                                                                                  4-
2351 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1950 to March 31, 1951              26-
                                                                                  1950
                                                                                  4-
2367 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1951 to March 31, 1952              25-
                                                                                  1951
                                                                                  4-
2425 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1952 to March 31, 1953              22-
                                                                                  1952
                                                                                  4-
2454 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1953 to March 31, 1954              22-
                                                                                  1953
                                                                                  4-
2533 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1954 to March 31, 1955              28-
                                                                                  1954
                                                                                  4-
2571 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1955 to March 31, 1956              13-
                                                                                  1955
2619 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1956 to March 31, 1957              5-9-
                                                                                  1956
                                                                                  6-
2663 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1957 to March 31, 1958              12-
                                                                                  1957
                                                                                  5-
2732 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1958 to March 31, 1959              28-
                                                                                  1958
                                                                                  6-
2826 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1959 to March 31, 1960              24-
                                                                                  1959
     Amendment to Ordinance #2271, as amended by Ordinance #2778, theatricals and 8-
2845 other exhibitions tax levy, impose tax on drive-in theaters                  26-
                                                                                  1959
                                                                                  5-
2965 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1960 to March 31, 1961              25-
                                                                                  1960
                                                                                  6-
3081 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1961 to March 31, 1962              28-
                                                                                  1961
                                                                                  5-
3117 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1962 to March 31, 1963              23-
                                                                                  1962
                                                                                  4-
3173 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1963 to March 31, 1964              24-
                                                                                  1963
                                                                                  8-
3187 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1964 to March 31, 1965              28-
                                                                                  1963
     Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1964 to March 31, 1965. (Repeals    4-
3231 Ordinance #2451)                                                             28-
                                                                                  1964
     Amendment to Ordinance #3231, annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1964  8-
3250 to March 31, 1965                                                            26-
                                                                                  1964
3290 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1965 to March 31, 1966              6-9-
                                                                                  1965
3310 Amendment to Ordinance #3290, annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1965  9-8-
     to March 31, 1966                                                            1965
                                                                                  12-
3333 Playground and recreation tax levy increase                                  22-
                                                                                  1965
                                                                                  5-
3349 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1966 to March 31, 1967              11-
                                                                                  1966
                                                                                  8-
3365 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1966 to March 31, 1967              24-
                                                                                  1966
     Tax levy for payment of rent on property leased from Eugene K. Elfgen and    8-
3367 Dorothy H. Elfgen, pursuant to Ordinance #3356                               24-
                                                                                  1966
                                                                                  5-
3423 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1967 to March 31, 1968              10-
                                                                                  1967
                                                                                  5-
3491 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1968 to March 31, 1969              22-
                                                                                  1968
                                                                                  5-
3538 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1969 to March 31, 1970              14-
                                                                                  1969
3564 Amendment to Ordinance #3538, annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1969  9-2-
     to March 31, 1970                                                            1969
3604 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1970 to March 31, 1971              7-8-
                                                                                  1970
                                                                                  8-
3689 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1971 to March 31, 1972              25-
                                                                                  1971
3758 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1972 to March 31, 1973               
     Amendment to Ordinance #3758, annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1972  1-
3787 to March 31, 1973                                                            10-
                                                                                  1973
3822 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1974 to March 31, 1975              2-
                                                                                  1974
                                                                                  8-
3938 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1974 to March 31, 1975              28-
                                                                                  1974
                                                                                  8-
4015 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1975 to March 31, 1976              27-
                                                                                  1975
                                                                                  5-
4105 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1976 to March 31, 1977              12-
                                                                                  1976
     Amendment to Ordinance #4105, annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1976  7-
4120 to March 31, 1977                                                            14-
                                                                                  1976
                                                                                  8-
4229 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1977 to March 31, 1978              24-
                                                                                  1977
                                                                                  2-
4284 Special Service Area No. 1 tax levy                                          22-
                                                                                  1978
                                                                                  7-
4322 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1978 to March 31, 1979              12-
                                                                                  1978
                                                                                  8-
4345 Special Service Area No. 1 established                                       23-
                                                                                  1978
                                                                                  7-
4437 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1979 to March 31, 1980              25-
                                                                                  1979
4465 Amendment to Ordinance #4437, annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1979  9-5-
     to March 31, 1980                                                            1979
                                                                                  8-
4543 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1980 to March 31, 1981              27-
                                                                                  1980
                                                                                  8-
4630 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1981 to March 31, 1982              26-
                                                                                  1981
                                                                                  8-
4710 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1982 to March 31, 1983              25-
                                                                                  1982
                                                                                  8-
4778 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1983 to March 31, 1984              10-
                                                                                  1983
                                                                                  8-
4868 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1984 to March 31, 1985              22-
                                                                                  1984
                                                                                  8-
4941 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1985 to March 31, 1986              28-
                                                                                  1985
                                                                                  8-
5067 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1986 to March 31, 1987              27-
                                                                                  1986
                                                                                  7-
5152 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1987 to March 31, 1988              22-
                                                                                  1987
                                                                                  8-
5253 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1988 to March 31, 1989              10-
                                                                                  1988
                                                                                  7-
5354 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1989 to March 31, 1990              26-
                                                                                  1989
                                                                                  7-
5459 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1990 to March 31, 1991              25-
                                                                                  1990
                                                                                  7-
5540 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1991 to March 31, 1992              24-
                                                                                  1991
     Abating the direct annual real estate tax for the year 1991, levied pursuant 3-
5655 to Ordinance #4251                                                           25-
                                                                                  1992
     Abating a portion of the annual real estate tax levied for the year 1991,    5-
5661 pursuant to ordinance 5540                                                   11-
                                                                                  1992
                                                                                  11-
5718 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1992, to March 31, 1993             12-
                                                                                  1992
                                                                                  11-
5836 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1993, to March 31, 1994             24-
                                                                                  1993
                                                                                  9-
5904 Riverfront tax increment project area designated                             14-
                                                                                  1994
                                                                                  9-
5905 Adopting tax increment financing                                             14-
                                                                                  1994
     Approving the riverfront area tax increment redevelopment plan and           9-
5906 redevelopment project                                                        14-
                                                                                  1994
                                                                                  11-
5917 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1994, to March 31, 1995             9-
                                                                                  1994
                                                                                  11-
6025 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1995, to March 31, 1996             22-
                                                                                  1995
                                                                                  12-
6038 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1996, to March 31, 1997             20-
                                                                                  1995
                                                                                  11-
6116 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1997, to March 31, 1998             27-
                                                                                  1996
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1997, to pay debt service on  11-
6211 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source)                          12-
                                                                                  1997
                                                                                  12-
6227 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1997, to March 31, 1998             17-
                                                                                  1997
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1998, to pay debt service on  11-
6339 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source)                          12-
                                                                                  1998
                                                                                  12-
6353 Annual tax levy for fiscal year April 1, 1998, to March 31, 1999             16-
                                                                                  1998
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 1999, to pay debt service on  10-
6445 $4,395,000 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source)               27-
                                                                                  1999
     Annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the corporate limits of 12-
6453 the city, for the fiscal year commencing on April 1, 1999, and ending on     15-
     March 31, 2000                                                               1999
     General obligation bonds, series 2000, providing for the levy and collection 4-
6478 of a direct annual tax for the payment of the principal of and interest on   17-
     said bonds                                                                   2000
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2000, to pay debt service on  11-
6542 $4,395,000 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), series 1998  8-
                                                                                  2000
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2000, to pay debt service on  11-
6543 $8,500,000 general obligation bonds, series 2000                             8-
                                                                                  2000
     General obligation bonds, series 2000B, not to exceed $5,000,000 providing   10-
6545 for the levy and collection of a direct annual tax for the payment of the    25-
     principal of and interest on said bonds                                      2000
     Annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the corporate limits of 12-
6552 the city of Alton, for the fiscal year commencing on April 1, 2000, and      20-
     ending on March 31, 2001                                                     2000
     Abating a portion of the 2000 tax levy for $4,100,000 general obligation     4-
6575 bonds, series 2000B                                                          18-
                                                                                  2001
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2001 to pay debt service on   10-
6612 $4,395,000 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), series 1998  24-
                                                                                  2001
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2001 to pay debt service on   10-
6613 $8,500,000 general obligation bonds, series 2000                             24-
                                                                                  2001
     Abating a portion of the 2001 tax levy for $4,100,000 general obligation     12-
6624 bonds, series 2000B                                                          12-
                                                                                  2001
     Annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the corporate limits of 12-
6627 the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of Illinois, subject to   12-
     taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2001 and    2001
     ending on the 31st day of March, 2002
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2002 to pay debt service on   10-
6690 $4,395,000 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), series 1998  23-
                                                                                  2002
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2002 to pay debt service on   10-
6691 $8,500,000 general obligation bonds, series 2000                             23-
                                                                                  2002
     Abating a portion of the 2002 tax levy for $4,100,000 general obligation     10-
6692 bonds, series 2000B                                                          23-
                                                                                  2002
     Annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the corporate limits of 12-
6693 the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of Illinois, subject to   11-
     taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2002 and    2002
     ending on the 31st day of March, 2003
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2003 to pay debt service on   9-
6761 $4,395,000 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), series 1998  24-
                                                                                  2003
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2003 to pay debt service on   9-
6762 $8,500,000 general obligation bonds, series 2000                             24-
                                                                                  2003
     Abating a portion of the 2003 tax levy for $4,100,000 general obligation     9-
6763 bonds, series 2000B                                                          24-
                                                                                  2003
     Annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the corporate limits of 12-
6779 the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of Illinois, subject to   10-
     taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2003, and   2003
     ending on the 31st day of March, 2004
     Amending the Riverfront area tax increment redevelopment plan and            12-
6780 redevelopment project                                                        10-
                                                                                  2003
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2004 to pay debt service on   9-
6837 $8,500,000 general obligation bonds, series 2000                             22-
                                                                                  2004
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2004 to pay debt service on   9-
6838 $4,395,000 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), series 1998  22-
                                                                                  2004
     Abating a portion of the 2004 tax levy for $4,100,000 general obligation     11-
6852 bonds, series 2000B                                                          23-
                                                                                  2004
     Annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the corporate limits of 11-
6854 the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of Illinois, subject to   23-
     taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2004, and   2004
     ending on the 31st day of March, 2005
     An amended ordinance providing for the issuance of not to exceed $8,000,000  11-
6855 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2004                              10-
                                                                                  2004
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2004 to pay debt service on   4-
6873 $7,140,000.00 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2004                13-
                                                                                  2005
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2005 to pay debt service on   10-
6910 $4,395,000.00 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), series    12-
     1998 of the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                          2005
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2005 to pay debt service on   10-
6911 $8,500,000.00 general obligation bonds, series 2000                          12-
                                                                                  2005
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2005 to pay debt service on   10-
6912 $7,140,000.00 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2004                12-
                                                                                  2005
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
6926 corporate limits of the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of    14-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2005
     of April, 2005, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2006
     Abating a portion of the 2005 tax levy for $4,100,000.00 general obligation  12-
6927 bonds, series 2000B                                                          14-
                                                                                  2005
     Providing for the issuance of $4,315,000 general obligation refunding bonds, 3-
6942 series 2006A, of the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois, and providing  22-
     for the levy and collection of a direct annual tax for the payment of the    2006
     principal of and interest on said bonds
     Providing for the issuance of $5,675,000 general obligation bonds, series
     2006B, of the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois, and providing for the 3-
6943 levy and collection of a direct annual tax and the pledge of certain tax     22-
     increment revenues for the payment of the principal and interest on said     2006
     bonds
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2006 to pay debt service on   11-
6975 $4,395,000 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), series 1998  8-
                                                                                  2006
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2006 to pay debt service on   11-
6976 $8,500,000 general obligation bonds, series 2000                             8-
                                                                                  2006
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2006 to pay debt service on   11-
6977 $7,140,000 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2004                   8-
                                                                                  2006
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2006 to pay debt service on   11-
6978 $5,675,000 general obligation bonds, series 2006B                            8-
                                                                                  2006
     Abating a portion of the 2006 tax levy for $4,315,000 general obligation     11-
6980 bonds, series 2006A                                                          21-
                                                                                  2006
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   11-
6981 corporate limits of the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of    21-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2006
     of April, 2006, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2007
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7037 corporate limits of the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of    12-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2007
     of April 2007, and ending on the 31st day of March 2008
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2006 to pay debt service on   12-
7041 $4,395,000 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), series 1998, 12-
     of the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                               2007
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007 to pay debt service on   12-
7042 $8,500,000 general obligation bonds, series 2000, of the city of Alton,      12-
     Madison County, Illinois                                                     2007
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007 to pay debt service on   12-
7043 $7,140,000 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2004, of the city of   12-
     Alton, Madison County, Illinois                                              2007
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2007 to pay debt service on   12-
7044 $5,675,000 general obligation bonds, series 2006B, of the city of Alton,     12-
     Madison County, Illinois                                                     2007
     Abating a portion of the 2007 tax levy for $4,315,000 general obligation     12-
7045 bonds, series 2006A                                                          12-
                                                                                  2007
                                                                                  7-
7067 Rep. by Ord. 7766                                                            22-
                                                                                  2020
     Abating a portion of the 2008 tax levy for $4,315,000 general obligation     11-
7104 bonds, series 2006A                                                          25-
                                                                                  2008
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008 to pay debt service on   11-
7105 $5,675,000 general obligation bonds, series 2006B, of the city of Alton,     25-
     Madison County, Illinois                                                     2008
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008 to pay debt service on   11-
7106 $7,140,000 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2004, of the city of   25-
     Alton, Madison County, Illinois                                              2008
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008 to pay debt service on   11-
7107 $8,500,000 general obligation bonds, series 2000, of the city of Alton,      25-
     Madison County, Illinois                                                     2008
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2008 to pay debt service on   11-
7108 $4,395,000 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), series 1998, 25-
     of the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                               2008
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7116 corporate limits of the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of    17-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2008
     of April, 2008, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2009
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7163 corporate limits of the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of    9-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2009
     of April, 2009, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2010
     Abating a portion of the 2009 tax levy for $5,000,000.00 general obligation  12-
7165 bonds, series 2000B                                                          9-
                                                                                  2009
     Abating a portion of the 2009 tax levy for $4,315,000.0 0 general obligation 12-
7166 bonds, series 2006A                                                          9-
                                                                                  2009
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009 to pay debt service on   12-
7167 $4,395,000.00 general obligation bonds (alternate revenue source), series    9-
     1998, of the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                         2009
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009 to pay debt service on   12-
7168 $8,500,000.00 general obligation bonds, series 2000, of the city of Alton,   9-
     Madison County, Illinois                                                     2009
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009 to pay debt service on   12-
7169 $7,140,000.00 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2004, of the city   9-
     of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                                           2009
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2009 to pay debt service on   12-
7170 $5,675,000 general obligation bonds, series 2006B, of the city of Alton,     9-
     Madison County, Illinois                                                     2009
     Approving the tax increment redevelopment plan and project for the           1-
7176 Hunterstown redevelopment project area                                       27-
                                                                                  2010
     Adopting tax increment financing for the Hunterstown redevelopment project   1-
7178 area                                                                         27-
                                                                                  2010
     Providing for the issuance of not to exceed $2,750,000 general obligation    5-
7202 refunding bonds, series 2010, of the city of Alton, Madison County,          26-
     Illinois, and providing for the levy and collection of a direct annual tax   2010
     for the payment of the principal of and interest on said bonds
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   11-
7225 corporate limits of the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of    23-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2010
     of April, 2010, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2011
     Abating a portion of the 2010 tax levy for $4,315,000.00 general obligation  12-
7228 bonds, series 2006A                                                          8-
                                                                                  2010
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7202 for the year 2010 to pay 12-
7229 debt service on $2,750,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010 of the city 15-
     of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                                           2010
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 6943 for the year 2010 to pay 12-
7230 debt service on $5,675,000 general obligation bonds, series 2006B of the     15-
     city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                                      2010
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2010 to pay debt service on   12-
7231 $7,140,000.00 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2004, of the city   15-
     of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                                           2010
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2011 to pay debt service on   12-
7287 $7,140,000.00 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2004, as            14-
     established by ordinance 6855, of the city of Alton, Madison County,         2011
     Illinois
     Abating a portion of the 2011 tax levy as established by ordinance 6942      12-
7288 which approved the $4,315,000.00 general obligation bonds, series 2006A      14-
                                                                                  2011
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2011 to pay debt service on   12-
7289 $5,675,000 general obligation bonds, series 2006B, established by ordinance  14-
     6943, of the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                         2011
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7202 for the year 2011 to pay 12-
7290 debt service on $2,750,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, as         14-
     established by ordinance 7202, of the city of Alton, Madison County,         2011
     Illinois
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7293 corporate limits of the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of    14-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2011
     of April, 2011, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2012
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2012 to pay debt service on   11-
7338 $7,140,000.0 0 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2004, as           28-
     established by ordinance 6855, of the city of Alton, Madison County,         2012
     Illinois
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2012 to pay debt service on   11-
7339 $5,675,000 general obligation bonds, series 2006B, established by ordinance  28-
     6943, of the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                         2012
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7202 for the year 2012 to pay 11-
7340 debt service on $2,750,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, as         28-
     established by ordinance 7202, of the city of Alton, Madison County,         2012
     Illinois
     Abating a portion of the 2012 tax levy as established by ordinance 6942      11-
7341 which approved the $4,315,000.00 general obligation bonds, series 2006A of   28-
     the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                                  2012
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7343 corporate limits of the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of    12-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2012
     of April, 2012, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2013
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2013 to pay debt service on   12-
7383 $7,140,000.00 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2004, as            18-
     established by ordinance 6855, of the city of Alton, Madison County,         2013
     Illinois
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2013 to pay debt service on   12-
7384 $5,675,000 general obligation bonds, series 2006B, established by ordinance  18-
     6943, of the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                         2013
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7202 for the year 2013 to pay 12-
7385 debt service on $2,750,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, as         18-
     established by ordinance 7202, of the city of Alton, Madison County,         2013
     Illinois
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7386 corporate limits of the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of    18-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2013
     of April, 2013, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2014
     Providing for the levy and collection of a direct annual tax sufficient for  2-
7393 the payment of the principal of and interest on said bonds                   26-
                                                                                  2014
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2014 to pay debt service on   12-
7432 $5,675,000 general obligation bonds, series 2006B, established by ordinance  17-
     6943, of the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                         2014
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7202 for the year 2014 to pay 12-
7433 debt service on $2,750,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, as         17-
     established by ordinance 7202, of the city of Alton, Madison County,         2014
     Illinois
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7393 for the year 2014 to pay 12-
7434 debt service on $3,550,000 general obligation bonds, series 2014, as         17-
     established by ordinance 7393, of the city of Alton, Madison County,         2014
     Illinois
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7435 corporate limits of the city of Alton, in the county of Madison, state of    17-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2014
     of April, 2014, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2015
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7393 for the year 2015 to pay 12-
7485 debt service on $3,550,000 general obligation bonds, series 2014, as         9-
     established by ordinance 7393, of the city of Alton, Madison County,         2015
     Illinois
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7202 for the year 2015 to pay 12-
7486 debt service on $2,750,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, as         9-
     established by ordinance 7202, of the city of Alton, Madison County,         2015
     Illinois
     Abating the tax heretofore levied for the year 2015 to pay debt service on   12-
7487 $5,675,000 general obligation bonds, series 2006B, established by ordinance  9-
     6943, of the City of Alton, Madison County, Illinois                         2015
     Providing for the issuance of not to exceed $8,750,000 general obligation
     refunding bonds, series 2015, of the City of Alton, Madison County,
     Illinois, for the purpose of refunding certain outstanding bonds of said     12-
7488 City, providing for the levy and collection of a direct annual tax           9-
     sufficient to pay the principal and interest on said bonds, authorizing and  2015
     directing the execution of an escrow agreement in connection with the issue
     of said bonds, and authorizing the sale of said bonds to Bernardi
     Securities, Inc.
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7491 corporate limits of the City of Alton, in the County of Madison, State of    9-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2015
     of April, 2015, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2016
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7488 for the year 2016 to pay 12-
7551 debt service on $8,750,000 general obligation refunding bonds, series 2015,  14-
     as established by ordinance 7488, of the City of Alton, Madison County,      2016
     Illinois
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7393 for the year 2016 to pay 12-
7552 debt service on $3,550,000 general obligation bonds, series 2014, as         14-
     established by ordinance 7393, of the City of Alton, Madison County,         2016
     Illinois
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7202 for the year 2016 to pay 12-
7553 debt service on $2,750,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, as         14-
     established by ordinance 7202, of the City of Alton, Madison County,         2016
     Illinois
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7554 corporate limits of the City of Alton, in the County of Madison, State of    14-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2016
     of April, 2016, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2017
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7602 corporate limits of the City of Alton, in the County of Madison, State of    13-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2017
     of April, 2017, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2018
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7393 for the year 2017 to pay 12-
7605 debt service on $3,550,000 general obligation bonds, series 2014, as         13-
     established by ordinance 7393, of the City of Alton, Madison County,         2017
     Illinois
     Partially abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7488 for the year   12-
7606 2017 to pay debt service on $8,750,000 general obligation refunding bonds,   13-
     series 2015, as established by ordinance 7488, of the City of Alton, Madison 2017
     County, Illinois
     Abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7202 for the year 2017 to pay 12-
7607 debt service on $2,750,000 general obligation bonds, series 2010, as         13-
     established by ordinance 7202, of the City of Alton, Madison County,         2017
     Illinois
     Approving the Tax Increment Redevelopment Plan and project for the Alton     4-
7629 Square Mall redevelopment project area                                       11-
                                                                                  2018
                                                                                  4-
7630 Designating the Alton Square Mall redevelopment project area                 11-
                                                                                  2018
     Adopting tax increment financing for the Alton Square Mall redevelopment     4-
7631 project area                                                                 11-
                                                                                  2018
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7675 corporate limits of the City of Alton, in the County of Madison, State of    19-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2018
     of April, 2018, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2019
     Partially abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7488 for the year   12-
7676 2018 to pay debt service on $8,750,000 general obligation refunding bonds,   19-
     series 2016, as established by ordinance 7488, of the City of Alton, Madison 2018
     County, Illinois
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7733 corporate limits of the City of Alton, in the County of Madison, State of    18-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2019
     of April, 2019, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2020
     Partially abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance No. 7488 for the    12-
7738 year 2019 to pay debt service on $8,750,000 general obligation refunding     18-
     bonds, Series 2016, as established by ordinance No. 7488, of the City of     2019
     Alton, Madison County, Illinois
     Establishing and imposing certain business district taxes in the city Alton  7-
7764 Square Business District - 2020                                              22-
                                                                                  2020
     Rescinding Ord. 7067, imposing Certain Municipal Retailers’ Occupation and 7-
7766 Service Occupation Taxes in the Alton Square Business District.              22-
                                                                                  2020
     Abating municipal corporation real estate taxes on certain real estate       12-
7787 located in the city for the Illinois-American Water Company                  10-
                                                                                  2020
     Annual tax levy upon real estate situated within the corporate limits of the 12-
7823 City of Alton, in the County of Madison, State of Illinois, subject to       8-
     taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2021, and   2021
     ending on the 31st day of March, 2022
     Partially abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7488 for the year   12-
7824 2021 to pay debt service on $8,750,000.00 general obligation refunding       15-
     bonds, series 2016, as established by ordinance no. 7488                     2021
     Partially abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance 7488 for the year   12-
7862 2022 to pay debt service on $8,750,000 general obligation refunding bonds,   21-
     series 2016, as established by ordinance no. 7488                            2022
     Annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the corporate limits of 12-
7867 the City of Alton, in the County of Madison, State of Illinois, subject to   21-
     taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day of April, 2022, and   2022
     ending on the 31st day of March, 2023
     Establishing and imposing certain business district taxes in the City of     10-
7906 Alton Route 3 and Buckmaster Business District                               11-
                                                                                  2023
     Providing for the annual tax levy upon the real estate situated within the   12-
7963 corporate limits of the City of Alton, in the County of Madison, State of    11-
     Illinois, subject to taxation for the fiscal year commencing on the 1st day  2024
     of April, 2024, and ending on the 31st day of March, 2025
     Partially abating the tax heretofore levied by ordinance no. 7488 for the    12-
7964 year 2024 to pay debt service on $8,750,000 general obligation refunding     11-
     bonds, series 2016, as established by ordinance no. 7488, of the City of     2024
     Alton, Madison County, Illinois
                                                                                 
 
APPENDIX C -
SALARY ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
1223     Salaries and compensation of City officers                  4-11-1917
1245     Salaries and compensation of City officers                  4-27-1918
1258     Salary ordinance                                            4-28-1919
1286     Salary ordinance                                            4-28-1920
1314     Salary ordinance                                            4-28-1921
1359     Salary ordinance                                            4-28-1922
         Salary appropriation ordinance. (Vetoed by Mayor Crawford
         but new corporation declared veto void for reason that
1392     Mayor Crawford vetoed same, 38 hours after he was out of    4-28-1924
         office as Mayor, and that it became a law without his
         signature.)
1443     Salary ordinance                                            4-28-1924
1444     City Engineer's salary from special improvement fund        4-28-1924
1489     Salary ordinance                                             
1562     Salary ordinance                                            4-28-1926
1609     Salaries and expenses of Civil Service Commission           4-13-1927
1610     Salaries and compensation of City officers and employees    4-13-1927
1665     Salary ordinance                                            4-25-1928
1666     Salary of Special Assessor                                  4-25-1928
1689     Salary of the Mayor, etc.                                   4-13-1929
1697     Salary ordinance                                            4-24-1929
1726     Salary ordinance                                            4-23-1930
1743     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1931 to March 31, 4-22-1931
         1932
1768     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1932 to March 31, 4-27-1932
         1933
1803     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1933 to March 31,    4-26-1933
         1934
1806     Amendment to Ordinance #1803, salary of Assistant Registrar 4-28-1933
1809     Amendment to Ordinance #1803, salary of Building            5-10-1933
         Commissioner
1813     Amendment to Ordinance #1803, salaries of police and        6-14-1933
         firemen
1826     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1934 to March 31, 4-25-1934
         1935
1935     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1935 to March 31, 4-24-1935
         1936
1948     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1936 to March 31, 4-8-1936
         1937
1967     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1937 to March 31, 4-14-1937
         1938
2001     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1938 to March 31, 4-27-1938
         1939
2019     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1939 to March 31, 4-26-1939
         1940
2036     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1940 to March 31, 4-24-1940
         1941
2055     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1941 to March 31, 4-23-1941
         1942
2066     Amendment to Ordinance #2055, salary ordinance (Deputy City 9-10-1941
         Clerk and stenographer in City Engineer's office)
2069     Amendment to Ordinance #2055, salary ordinance (Assistant   10-22-1941
         Registrar, Assistant Treasurer and Assistant Comptroller)
2094     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1942 to March 31, 4-22-1942
         1943
2121     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1943 to March 31, 4-28-1943
         1944
2131     Amendment to Ordinance #2121, salary ordinance for fiscal   10-27-1943
         year April 1, 1943 to March 31, 1944
2145     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1944 to March 31, 4-26-1944
         1945
2150     Amendment to Ordinance #2145, salary ordinance for fiscal   6-28-1944
         year April 1, 1944 to March 31, 1945 (Clerk's City Hall)
2162     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1945 to March 31, 4-25-1945
         1946
2166     Amendment to Ordinance #2162, salary ordinance for fiscal   7-11-1945
         year April 1, 1945 to March 31, 1946
2186     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1946 to March 31, 4-10-1946
         1947
2225     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1947 to March 31, 4-9-1947
         1948
2275     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1948 to March 31, 4-14-1948
         1949
         Amendment to Ordinance #2275, salary ordinance for fiscal
2281     year April 1, 1948 to March 31, 1949, and providing for the 5-26-1948
         redistribution and transfer of surplus appropriations
2310     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1949 to March 31, 4-13-1949
         1950
2311     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1949 to March 31, 4-13-1949
         1950
2349     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1950 to March 31, 4-12-1950
         1951
2365     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1951 to March 31, 4-11-1951
         1952
2422     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1952 to March 31, 4-9-1952
         1953
2450     Salary for the clerk of the City Court of Alton             3-11-1953
2453     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1953 to March 31, 4-8-1953
         1954
2460     Amendment to Ordinance #2453, salary ordinance for fiscal   6-37-1953
         year April 1, 1953 to March 31, 1954
2464     Amendment to Ordinance #2453, salary ordinance for fiscal   4-14-1954
         year April 1, 1953 to March 31, 1954
2530     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1954 to March 31, 4-14-1954
         1955
2569     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1955 to March 31, 4-27-1955
         1956
2618     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1956 to March 31, 4-25-1956
         1957
2635     Amendment to Ordinance #2618, salary ordinance for fiscal   10-24-1956
         year April 1, 1956 to March 31, 1957
2651     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1957 to March 31, 4-24-1957
         1958
2660     Amendment to Ordinance #2551, salary ordinance for fiscal   5-13-1957
         year April 1, 1957 to March 31, 1958
2662     Amendment to Ordinance #2651, salary ordinance for fiscal   5-13-1957
         year April 1, 1957 to March 31, 1958
2705     Amendment to Ordinance #2651, salary ordinance for fiscal   1-10-1958
         year April 1, 1957 to March 31, 1958
2716     Salary ordinance for elected officers                       4-9-1958
2785     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1958 to March 31, 2-25-1959
         1959
2816     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1959 to March 31, 5-27-1959
         1960
2957     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1960 to March 31, 4-13-1960
         1961
3004     Amendment to Ordinance #2957, salary ordinance for fiscal   9-14-1960
         year April 1, 1960 to March 31, 1961
3029     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1961 to March 31, 11-9-1960
         1962
3076     Salary ordinance for fiscal year April 1, 1961 to March 31, 6-14-1961
         1962
3116     Salary ordinance                                            6-27-1962
3152     Salary ordinance                                            12-26-1962
3265     Salary ordinance for certain elected officials to be        12-9-1964
         elected at the next general municipal election held in 1965
3412     Salary ordinance for certain elected officials to be        4-12-1967
         elected at the next general municipal election held in 1967
         Amendment to Ordinance #3406, annual appropriation
3463     ordinance providing for increase in salary of the Assistant 12-13-1967
         City Engineer
3516     Mayor's salary for the term commencing in 1969              11-27-1968
3517     Salary ordinance for certain elected officials of the City  11-27-1968
         whose terms of office commence in 1969
3801     Salary ordinance of elected officials of the City whose     3-14-1973
         terms of office commence in 1973
4177     Salary ordinance for elected officials of the City whose    2-9-1977
         terms of office commence in 1977
4330     Prevailing wage rates                                       7-26-1978
4409     Salary ordinance for elected officials of the City whose    3-14-1979
         terms of office commence in 1979
4594     Salary ordinance for elected officials of the City whose    2-25-1981
         terms of office commence in 1981
4738     Salary ordinance for elected Aldermen whose terms of office 1-12-1983
         commence in 1983
4900     Salary ordinance for elected officials of the City whose    1-9-1985
         terms of office commence in April, 1985
5156     Prevailing wages for Madison County adopted                 7-22-1987
5364     Prevailing wage rates                                       7-26-1989
5455     Prevailing wage rates                                       6-13-1990
5465     Prevailing wage rates                                       7-25-1990
5551     Prevailing wage rates                                       6-12-1991
5671     Prevailing wage rates                                       7-8-1992
5735     Salary ordinance for elected officials of the City whose    1-27-1993
         terms of office commence in April 1993
5744     Prevailing wage rates                                       3-10-1993
5886     Prevailing wage rates                                       6-22-1994
         Salary ordinance pursuant to Title 1, Chapter 7, Section 1,
5942     of the Alton City Code, determining and fixing salaries and 12-21-1994
         compensation for certain unrepresented officers and
         employees
5985     Prevailing wage rates                                       6-28-1995
6077     Prevailing wage rates                                       6-26-1996
         Amendment to salary ordinance setting compensation for
6093     elected officials of the City whose terms of office         8-14-1996
         commence in April, 1997
6168     Prevailing wage rates                                       6-25-1997
6294     Prevailing wage rates                                       6-24-1998
6400     Prevailing wage rates                                       6-23-1999
6425     Amending Ordinance 5735 setting the salaries for elected    9-8-1999
         officials whose terms of office commence in April 2001
6491     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-14-2000
6583     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-27-2001
6660     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-26-2002
6749     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-25-2003
6823     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-23-2004
6836     Amending Ordinance 6425 setting the salaries for elected    9-22-2004
         officials whose terms of office commence in April 2005
6884     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-22-2005
6962     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-28-2006
7006     Prevailing rate of wages                                    5-9-2007
7082     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-11-2008
         Setting the salaries for elected officials of the City of
7099     Alton, Illinois, whose terms of office commence after April 10-22-2008
         2009
7137     Prevailing rate of wages                                    5-27-2009
7200     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-9-2010
7258     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-22-2011
7314     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-27-2012
         Setting the salaries for elected officials of the City of
7329     Alton, Illinois, whose terms of office commence after       10-24-2012
         April, 2013
7355     Prevailing rate of wages                                    5-8-2013
7406     Prevailing rate of wages                                    5-28-2014
7466     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-24-2015
7522     Prevailing rate of wages                                    5-25-2016
         Setting the salaries for elected officials of the City of
7545     Alton, Illinois, whose terms of office commence after       10-26-2016
         April, 2017
7573     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-28-2017
7642     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-27-2018
7700     Prevailing rate of wages                                    6-12-2019
 
APPENDIX D -
BONDS AND BOND ISSUES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. Description                                                                   Date
No.
                                                                                   9-
1329 City Hall bond issue of $95,000                                               14-
                                                                                   1921
                                                                                   9-
1330 River Front Park improvement bond issue of $95,000                            14-
                                                                                   1921
                                                                                   6-
1401 City Hall bond issue                                                          27-
                                                                                   1923
                                                                                   6-
1402 Playground bond issue                                                         27-
                                                                                   1923
                                                                                   7-
1578 City Hall bond issue                                                          14-
                                                                                   1926
                                                                                   7-
1579 River Front Park bond issue                                                   14-
                                                                                   1926
                                                                                   7-
1580 Fire Department bond issue                                                    14-
                                                                                   1926
                                                                                   7-
1581 Fire Department house or station (Seventh Ward) bond issue                    14-
                                                                                   1926
                                                                                   9-
2068 Fire and police past due salary bond issue of $115,000                        10-
                                                                                   1941
                                                                                   11-
2074 Fund bond issue of $89,000                                                    26-
                                                                                   1941
                                                                                   12-
2202 Street Department garage bond issue of $28,000                                26-
                                                                                   1946
                                                                                   12-
2203 Refuse disposal equipment bond issue of $18,000                               26-
                                                                                   1946
2303 Elm Street bridge construction bond issue of $62,000                          3-9-
                                                                                   1949
2304 Street Department garage bond issue of $20,000                                3-9-
                                                                                   1949
                                                                                   5-
2458 Motor vehicle parking system revenue bond issue of $275,000                   27-
                                                                                   1953
     Amendment to Ordinance #2458, motor vehicle parking system revenue bond issue 6-
2463 of $275,000                                                                   24-
                                                                                   1953
                                                                                   9-
3087 Sewer improvement bond issue of $1,625,000                                    13-
                                                                                   1961
                                                                                   12-
3096 Sewer revenue bond issue of $5,930,000                                        13-
                                                                                   1961
                                                                                   4-
3113 Sewer system improvement bond issue of $1,625,000                             18-
                                                                                   1962
                                                                                   1-
3790 Sewer system improvement bond issue of $1,000,000                             24-
                                                                                   1973
3893 Sewer revenue bond issue of $1,300,000                                         
                                                                                   3-
3908 Saint Anthony's Hospital revenue bonds of $4,000,000                          27-
                                                                                   1974
     Alton Box Board Company pollution control facilities bond issue, series 1975, 6-
3987 of $5,700,000                                                                 11-
                                                                                   1975
                                                                                   6-
3988 Alton Box Board Company industrial development revenue bond issue             11-
                                                                                   1975
     Pollution control facilities bond issue of $7,000,000; Laclede Steel Company  10-
4136 bond issue, series 1976, of $12,000,000 and to refund $5,000,000 aggregate    13-
     principal amount of pollution control revenue bonds, series A (Laclede Steel  1976
     Company project) of the City issued on December 28, 1973
     Laclede Steel Company industrial development facilities bond issue, series    10-
4137 1976, of $1,000,000                                                           13-
                                                                                   1976
     Alton Memorial Hospital revenue refunding and special obligation refunding    3-
4187 bond issue, series 1977                                                       23-
                                                                                   1977
                                                                                   10-
4251 Judgment funding bond issue of $1,360,000                                     26-
                                                                                   1977
                                                                                   2-
4284 Special Service Area #1 bond issue                                            22-
                                                                                   1977
                                                                                   4-
4303 Saint Anthony's Hospital revenue bond issue, series 1978, of $8,000,000       12-
                                                                                   1978
                                                                                   11-
4383 Special Service Area #1 bond issue $345,000                                   22-
                                                                                   1978
     Alton Memorial Hospital industrial development revenue bond issue, series     11-
4386 1978                                                                          22-
                                                                                   1978
                                                                                   4-
4425 Home ownership revenue bond issue, establishing basic procedures              25-
                                                                                   1979
                                                                                   5-
4431 Residential mortgage revenue bond issue, series 1979                          23-
                                                                                   1979
4432 Alton Memorial Hospital industrial development revenue bond issue, series     1979
     1979
     Amendment to Ordinance #4425, section 1(g) adopted April 25, 1979 (enabling   6-
4442 ordinance)                                                                    27-
                                                                                   1979
                                                                                   6-
4443 Residential mortgage revenue bond issue, series 1979, $15,400,000             27-
                                                                                   1979
                                                                                   10-
4455 St. Joseph's Hospital revenue bond issue, series 1979, of $9,995,000          24-
                                                                                   1979
4469 St Anthony's Hospital revenue bond issue, series 1979, of $4,750,000          1979
                                                                                   12-
4582 Alton Water Company project 8% industrial revenue bond issue of $975,000      10-
                                                                                   1980
     Alton Partnership, Holiday Inn economic development bond issue of not to      5-
4610 exceed $3,500,000                                                             27-
                                                                                   1981
                                                                                   12-
4666 Residential mortgage financing revenue bond issue                             23-
                                                                                   1981
     Alton Packaging Corporation economic development bond issue, series 1982, of  2-
4675 $1,000,000                                                                    24-
                                                                                   1982
                                                                                   4-
4686 Alton Water Company industrial development revenue bond issue of $4,000,000   14-
                                                                                   1982
                                                                                   5-
4765 Lewis & Clark Development Co. industrial improvement revenue bond issue       25-
                                                                                   1983
     Saint Anthony's Hospital revenue refunding bond issue, series 1985, for       1-
4846 series 1978 $8,000,000 bonds and series 1979 $4,750,000 bonds                 23-
                                                                                   1985
     Amendment to Ordinance #4686, Alton Water Company 1982 $4,000,000 industrial  3-
4915 development revenue bond issue                                                28-
                                                                                   1985
                                                                                   6-
4926 M.H.C. Development Company hospital facility bond issue of $340,000           27-
                                                                                   1985
     Alton-Ramada Inn adjustable rate annual tender bond issue, series 1985, of    8-
4942 $2,500,000                                                                    11-
                                                                                   1985
     Alton Partnership, Holiday Inn economic development refund bonds, series      9-
5074 1986A and B, of $3,650,000                                                    10-
                                                                                   1986
5323 First Supplemental Trust indenture execution and delivery                     3-8-
                                                                                   1989
5324 Taxable Collateralized Mortgage bond issue, series 1989, of not to exceed     3-8-
     $38,000,000                                                                   1989
                                                                                   4-
5329 Collateralized Mortgage bond issue, series 1989-B of not to exceed $3,500,000 12-
                                                                                   1989
     Saint Anthony's Health Center revenue bond issue, series 1989, of not to      11-
5405 exceed $20,000,000                                                            22-
                                                                                   1989
     Christian Health Services Development Corporation - Alton Memorial Hospital   6-
5563 refunding and improvement revenue bond issue, series 1991C, of not to exceed  26-
     $30,000,000                                                                   1991
                                                                                   12-
5633 General obligation refund bond issue, series 1991, of $1,575,000              20-
                                                                                   1991
     General obligation bond issue, series 1991, providing for the engagement of   12-
5634 bond counsel and financial advisor                                            20-
                                                                                   1991
5636 General obligation bond issue, series 1992, of $1,500,000                     1-8-
                                                                                   1992
5637 General obligation bond issue, series 1992, pledging certain revenues to      1-8-
     secure payment of principal of and interest                                   1992
     Retire its outstanding Judgment Funding Bonds dated November 1, 1977 through  2-
5646 a pledge of certain securities                                                26-
                                                                                   1992
     Christian Health Services Development Corporation – Alton Memorial Hospital 4-
5757 refunding revenue bond issue, series 1993C, of not to exceed $30,000,000      14-
                                                                                   1993
     Barnes-Jewish, Inc./Christian Health Services - Alton Memorial Hospital       10-
5826 revenue bond issue, series 1993B, of not to exceed $35,000,000                27-
                                                                                   1993
     Alton Partnership, Holiday Inn economic development revenue refunding bond    1-
5845 issue, series 1994, of $3,550,000                                             26-
                                                                                   1994
     Subordinated Capital Appreciation revenue bond issue, series, 1994-1, of not  7-
5894 to exceed $2,000,000                                                          13-
                                                                                   1994
                                                                                   7-
5978 Alternate revenue source bond issue, series 1995, of $5,450,000               26-
                                                                                   1995
     Saint Anthony's Health Center revenue refunding bond issue, series 1995, of   1-
6040 not to exceed $28,000,000                                                     10-
                                                                                   1996
     General obligation refunding bond issue, series 1998, of not to exceed        1-
6237 $5,000,000                                                                    28-
                                                                                   1998
     Sale of certain mortgage loans pledged to the taxable collateralized mortgage 8-
6418 bonds, series 1989-A                                                          25-
                                                                                   1999
                                                                                   12-
6452 Single family mortgage revenue bonds and related matters                      15-
                                                                                   1999
     Authorizing the deemed reissuance of not to exceed $1,500,000 aggregate
6579 principal amount of hospital facility revenue refunding bonds, series 1996    5-9-
     (Saint Anthony's Health Center) and authorizing the execution and delivery of 2001
     certain documents in connection therewith
     Authorizing and directing the execution of an escrow agreement for the        9-
6676 payment of the refunded bonds, series 1998                                    25-
                                                                                   2002
     Authorizing the issuance and sale of multifamily housing revenue bonds,
     series 2003 (Marian Heights Apartments) in an aggregate principal amount not
     to exceed $7,500,000 and confirming the sale thereof; authorizing the         1-
6712 execution and delivery of a financing agreement, a trust indenture, a         22-
     regulatory agreement and declaration of restrictive covenants, a bond         2003
     purchase agreement and related documents; authorizing the distribution of an
     official statement; and related matters
7064 Approving the transfer of volume cap in connection with private activity bond 4-9-
     issues, and related matters                                                   2008
     Approving the transfer of volume cap in connection with private activity bond 4-
7136 issues, and related matters                                                   22-
                                                                                   2009
     Approving the transfer of volume cap in connection with private activity bond 4-
7195 issues, and related matters                                                   28-
                                                                                   2010
     Approving the transfer of volume cap in connection with private activity bond 4-
7252 issues, and related matters                                                   27-
                                                                                   2011
     Approving the transfer of volume cap in connection with private activity bond 2-
7296 issues, and related matters                                                   22-
                                                                                   2012
     Approving the transfer of volume cap in connection with private activity bond 4-
7356 issues, and related matters                                                   24-
                                                                                   2013
     Approving the transfer of volume cap in connection with private activity bond 4-
7398 issues, and related matters                                                   23-
                                                                                   2014
     Approving the transfer of volume cap in connection with private activity bond 4-
7454 issues, and related matters                                                   22-
                                                                                   2015
7508 Approving the transfer of volume cap in connection with private activity bond 3-9-
     issues, and related matters                                                   2016
     Approving the transfer of volume cap in connection with private activity bond 4-
7636 issues, and related matters                                                   25-
                                                                                   2018
 
APPENDIX E -
ELECTION ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
2030     Special election, Second Ward to fill vacancy               8-23-1939
2105     Special election for referendum as to the tax rate for the  12-9-1942
         Firemen's Pension Fund
2196     Election precinct ordinance                                 8-28-1946
         Bond issue election pursuant to Ordinance #2202 providing
2205     for direct obligation bonds of $28,000 for building and     1-22-1947
         erecting a storage or storage garages
         Bond issue election pursuant to Ordinance #2203 providing
2206     for direct obligation bonds of $18,000 for purchase of      1-22-1947
         refuse disposal equipment
2229     Special election to fill Alderman vacancy in Second Ward    4-28-1947
2305     Bond issue election providing for bridge bonds of $62,000   3-9-1949
         and municipal building bonds of $20,000
2344     Special election for establishment of a public library and  12-28-1949
         reading room
2381     Special election to fill Judge of City Court vacancy        11-28-1951
2573     Special election to fill Alderman vacancy in Third Ward     6-8-1955
3087     Bond issue election for sewer improvements of $1,625,000    9-13-1961
3346     Election to establish a tax rate limit higher than that     4-27-1966
         otherwise applicable to certain funds
3682     Special election pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes  7-14-1971
         5/11-76.1-4
5645     Advisory referendum election to establish a college savings 2-26-1992
         program
 
APPENDIX F -
FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
1199     Alton Gas & Electric franchise, repealing Ordinance #1176   6-14-1916
         and reinstating Ordinance #368
1213     Illinois Terminal Railroad Company franchise                2-14-1917
1414     Streetcar franchise (See #1425 and 1457)                     
1425     Streetcar franchise                                         1-9-1924
1431     Illinois Belle Telephone Co. franchise                      2-14-1924
1457     Streetcar franchise                                         7-9-1924
1544     C.C.C.&St.L. Ry. Co., switch track across Oak Street        4-14-1926
         franchise
1601     Langdon Street viaduct franchise                            2-9-1927
1695     Commercial Company of Alton tunnel franchise                4-10-1929
1723     Alton Water Company waterworks system franchise             3-12-1930
1737     Alton Motor Coach Co. franchise                             2-25-1931
1741     Luer Brothers Packing & Ice Co. sidewalk franchise          4-8-1931
1752     Illinois Terminal Co. railroad track franchise              8-12-1931
1764     Illinois Terminal Transportation Company franchise          1-13-1932
1832     Alton Light & Power Co. franchise                           2-13-1935
1964     Young Men's Cristian Assn. of Alton covered fill franchise  3-10-1937
1972     Union Electric Co. of Illinois ornamental street lighting   7-28-1937
         franchise
2060     Standard Tilton Milling Company easement                    6-25-1941
2112     Union Electric Company of Illinois electric street light    4-14-1943
         system franchise
2122     Illinois Belle Telephone Company franchise                  7-14-1943
2169     Amendment to section 2 of Ordinance #1723, the Alton Water  11-14-1945
         Co. waterworks system franchise
2172     Citizens Coach Co. motor bus transportation franchise       3-13-1946
2192     Shurtleff College temporary housing units franchise         6-12-1946
         Amendment to Ordinance #532, joint levee tracks of the Gulf
2239     Mobil & Ohio Railroad Company, as lessee of the Cleveland,  7-23-1947
         Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Railroad Company, and the
         Illinois Terminal Railroad Company
         Union Electric Power Co. electric distribution and
2279     transmission system franchise, and repealing section 17 of  7-28-1948
         Ordinance #2112
2286     Union Electric Power Co. gas distribution system franchise  8-11-1948
         Union Electric Power Co. electric distribution and
2295     transmission system franchise, and repealing section 17 of  12-23-1948
         Ordinance #2112
2296     Union Electric Power Co. gas distribution and transmission  12-23-1948
         system franchise
2317     James M. Duncan parking meter pole franchise                7-13-1949
2378     Union Electric Power Co. electric street light franchise    10-10-1951
2438     Wood River Drainage & Levee District certain rights,        11-26-1952
         privileges and easements
         Amendment to Ordinance #2378 by approving and confirming a
2485     supplementary agreement to street lighting contract with    1-27-1954
         Union Electric Power Co.
2540     Illinois Terminal Railroad Co. railroad track franchise     8-25-1954
2558     Luer Bros, Packing & Ice Co. sidewalk franchise             3-9-1955
         Amendment to ordinance 2239, joint levee tracks and
         facilities of the Gulf, Mobile & Ohio Railroad Co., the New
2612     York Central Railroad Co., as lessee of the Cleveland,      4-11-1956
         Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis Railroad Co., and the
         Illinois Terminal Railroad Co.
2885     Union Electric Co. street lighting franchise                11-25-1959
2919     Citizens Coach Co., Inc. motor bus franchise                1-13-1960
3024     St. Louis, Alton & Springfield Railroad railroad tracks     10-26-1960
         franchise
3274     Alton Water Co. water transmission and distribution system  1-13-1965
         franchise
3467     Union Electric Co. street lighting franchise                2-14-1968
3469     Illinois Bell Telephone Co. franchise                       3-13-1968
3583     Madison County Cablevision Co. franchise.                   1-14-1970
3716     Amendment to section 19 of ordinance 3583, Madison County   12-22-1971
         Cablevision Co. franchise
3917     Amendment to ordinance 3583, Madison County Cablevision Co. 6-12-1974
         franchise
4285     Union Electric Co. street lighting franchise                2-28-1978
4294     Amendment to section 13, ordinance 3583, Madison County     3-22-1978
         Cablevision Co. franchise
4300     Amendment to ordinance 3583, Madison County Cablevision Co. 4-12-1978
         franchise
4319     Amendment to ordinance 4285, Union Electric Co. street      6-14-1978
         lighting franchise
4559     Amendment to ordinance 2295, Union Electric Co. electric    10-22-1980
         transmission and distribution system franchise
4560     Amendment to ordinance 2296, Union Electric Co. gas         10-22-1980
         distribution system franchise
4673     Union Electric Co. franchise for twenty years               2-24-1982
4794     Amendment to ordinance 3583, Madison County Cablevision Co. 8-24-1983
         franchise
4801     Amendment to ordinance 4673, Union Electric Co. franchise   9-28-1983
4903     Amendment to ordinance 3469, Illinois Bell Telephone Co.    2-27-1985
         franchise
5186     Adopting an abatement of franchise fees as enumerated in    10-28-1987
         ordinance 4673
5200     Amendment to ordinance 4673, as previously amended by       1-27-1988
         ordinance 4801, Union Electric Co. franchise
5232     Abating franchise fees as required by ordinance 4673, as    6-8-1988
         amended
5452     Illinois-American Water Company water supply franchise      5-23-1990
6713     Renewal of Union Electric Company franchise for twenty      2-26-2003
         years
         Extending the time period for the filing of an, its
6773     acceptance of ordinance 6713 by Union Electric Company from 10-22-2003
         sixty (60) days, as set out in section 8 of that ordinance,
         to December 1, 2003
7623     Renewing an existing franchise and granting for a period of 3-14-2018
         20 years to Ameren Illinois, a corporation
7624     Renewing an existing franchise and granting for a period of 3-14-2018
         20 years to Ameren Illinois, a corporation
 
APPENDIX G -
ZONING ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. Description                                                                    Date
No.
                                                                                    6-
2975 Zoning map amendment                                                           22-
                                                                                    1960
     Zoning map amendment, Lots 5 & 6 Cox's Resubdivision changed from R-2 One-     8-
3001 Family to R-4 Apartment Residential                                            24-
                                                                                    1960
     Zoning map amendment, to rezone an additional portion of Outlot #1 of the      8-
3002 Curran Tract from R-4 Residential to C-1 Commercial                            24-
                                                                                    1960
     Zoning map amendment, reclassifying property from R-1 and R-2 One-Family       8-
3017 Residential to R-3 Two-Family Residential District                             24-
                                                                                    1960
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain tracts of property in the City, Alta    10-
3019 Sita Subdivision R-1 Residential District                                      12-
                                                                                    1960
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning Lot #1 Schueler's Resubdivision of Lots 69, 70, 10-
3025 71, 72 and 73 in First Addition to Maple Terrace, M-1 Light Industrial         12-
     District                                                                       1960
     Zoning map amendment, (Johnson Property-Washington Ave.) DeBow's Addition      12-
3040 northwestern side of Washington reclassified from R-2 Residence to R-          28-
     4 Residential District                                                         1960
     Zoning map amendment, (Dehner Property, Frank Schmidt, U.E.-Danforth St.,      4-
3066 Delmar School, Alton Brick Area) Zoning Tillman Subdivision R-1 One-Family     12-
     Residential                                                                    1961
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning Lot #13, in Lyman Trumbull's Subdivision from   4-
3068 R-2 Residential to C-2 Commercial, 3200 Belle                                  26-
                                                                                    1961
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning Lot #6, Block #6 of Mills Resubdivision of Mill 6-
3074 Subdivision from R-2 One-Family Residential District to R-3 Two-Family         14-
     Residential District                                                           1961
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning Lots 2 and 3 E.J. Reed's Subdivision of part of 10-
3090 Lots 30, 31 and 32 in DeBow's Addition from R-2 One-Family Residential         11-
     District to R-4 Apartment Residential District                                 1961
     Zoning map amendment, to zone certain property recently annexed to the City    1-
3103 commonly referred to as Piasa Corners                                          24-
                                                                                    1962
                                                                                    9-
3138 Loading zone granted, (50 feet) to Alton Banking and Trust Co.                 26-
                                                                                    1962
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning part of Lot 1, NE Corner, Block 42, Salu        10-
3141 Addition from R-2 Residential to R-3 Residential (Joseph Lamm)                 10-
                                                                                    1962
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property for Miller Broom Manufacturing Co.     11-
3145 from R-2 Residential to C-4 Business District                                  28-
                                                                                    1962
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property for Glen Ballard from R-2 Residential  4-
3174 to C-2 Business District. Salu Addition Block #6, East End of Lot (7)          24-
                                                                                    1963
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property for Automobile Club of Missouri from   4-
3196 R-2 and R-4 Residential to C-2 Business District. Schmergi Block, Upper Alton  24-
                                                                                    1963
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property for the Estate of Agnes O'Sullivan     1-8-
3212 Liefferig, deceased, from R-4 Residential to C-1 Business District, 937 and    1964
     945 Union
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property for John Payne from R-2 Residential to 4-
3229 C-2 General Commercial, Southeast corner of College with Pleasant              22-
                                                                                    1964
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property for Delpha K. Patrick (Mrs. David L.   5-
3230 Peirick) from R-2 Residential to R-4 Apartment Residential District            14-
                                                                                    1964
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property on the southwest corner of Jersey and  5-
3235 Edwards St. for Carl F. Davis from R-2 Single-Family Residence to R-4 Multiple 27-
     Dwelling. 2336 Brown                                                           1964
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property from R-4 Residential to C-1 Business   6-
3238 (Hemphill property-Union and Central)                                          10-
                                                                                    1964
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property for the Alton Women's Home Association 8-
3246 from R-2 Residential to R-4 Residential. State St. south of Northdale Drive    12-
                                                                                    1964
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property for Carl L. Blandford situated 10-
3257 on the north side of College Avenue and at the intersection of Humbert St.     14-
     with College Ave., from R-2 Residential to R-3 Residential                     1964
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property from Mrs. Leroy Unthank        10-
3259 situated on the north side of Fernwood Avenue west of Milton Road              28-
                                                                                    1964
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property on the east side of Seminary   2-
3278 St. North of Western Military Academy                                          10-
                                                                                    1965
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property for Orville M. Thies from R-           3-
3283 2 Residential to R-4 Apartment Residential District. Lots 11 and 12 in Block   24-
     35 in Pope and Others Addition                                                 1965
3305 Zoning map amendment, rezoning 3409 and 3411 Pranor St. from R-2 One-Family    9-8-
     Residential District to C-2 General Commercial District                        1965
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property for Edward Gregory from R-             9-8-
3308 2 Residential to R-4 Apartment Residential District. Lots 47-48-49 of Maple    1965
     Terrace Subdivision facing Miami St.
     Zoning map amendment, zoning certain property annexed to the City by Ordinance 10-
3317 #3304 (Brickyard)                                                              27-
                                                                                    1965
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning Lot #10 Block #1 of Mills Subdivision           12-
3330 (immediately south of 1211 Pine St.) from R-2 Residential District to R-       22-
     3 Residential District                                                         1965
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property along the south side of        11-
3371 Beltline highway east of the intersection of Seminary St.                      23-
                                                                                    1966
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning Lots #15 and #16 of Popular Heights Subdivision 12-
3387 located approximately 50 feet east of the intersection of Michigan St. with    28-
     California Ave., commonly known as 3416 California Ave., from R-2 Residential  1966
     District to R-3 Residential District
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property on the north side of Alton     6-
3430 Beltline highway east of Seminary St. (Homer M. Adams)                         28-
                                                                                    1967
3440 Zoning map amendment, rezoning property for Elsie Flatt Parker from R-         8-9-
     2 Residential to R-4 Apartment, 2300 Brandt                                    1967
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property owned by Illinois Terminal     4-
3478 Railroad Co. and recently annexed to the City from R-1 Residential District to 10-
     M-2 Industrial District                                                        1968
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning that property owned by Clair Investments, Inc.  4-
3485 and annexed to the City by Ordinance #3479, from R-1 Residential District to   24-
     C-2 Commercial District                                                        1968
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property for Kenneth H. Peters from R-          11-
3509 2 Residential to R-4. 2307 Sanford                                             13-
                                                                                    1968
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property on the south side of Alton     1-
3525 Beltline Highway immediately west of Humbert Road, Morning Star Place, Salu    22-
     Addition to Upper Alton                                                        1969
                                                                                    4-
3537 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property in Alta Sita, a subdivision    23-
                                                                                    1969
     Zoning map amendment, removing Lots 46, 49, 50, 53, 54, 55 and part of lot 58  8-
3561 of William Russell's Subdivision. East side of State St. 380 ft. north of Dry  27-
     St.                                                                            1969
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning block 21 in Town of Alton, bounded by Alton     8-
3562 Street on West 5th St. on north, George St. on east and 4th St. on south       27-
                                                                                    1969
                                                                                    10-
3573 Zoning map amendment, rezoning Lots 6 and 7, Block 7, Hawley's Addition        22-
                                                                                    1969
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning part of the north half of Section 6, Township 5 11-
3575 North, Range 9 West of the Third Principal Meridian                            12-
                                                                                    1969
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning the south one-half of Lot 11, Block 9 of O.M.   11-
3577 Adams addition                                                                 12-
                                                                                    1969
3589 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the east side   4-8-
     of State St. at the intersection of State and Delmar St.                       1970
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning a certain lot at northeast corner of Pearl and  4-
3590 Harrison St. T5N, R10W                                                         28-
                                                                                    1970
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning south one-half of Lot #10 Smith's Middletown    6-
3597 Addition, from R-2 to R-4. (1002 College and Pleasant)                         10-
                                                                                    1970
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning a tract of land in the east one-half of Section 6-
3600 35 and the west one-half of Section 36, Township 6 North, Range 10 West of the 24-
     3rd. P.M. (Big Arch Rd. and Alby St. Rd.)                                      1970
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property known as 735 Park Dr. and Lots 30 and  6-
3601 31 Edgewood Subdivision                                                        10-
                                                                                    1970
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning part of tracts 2 and 8 in Henry W. Buckmaster's 8-
3614 Subdivision in the northeast quarter, Section 1, T5N, R10W of 3PM              12-
                                                                                    1970
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain lots situated along the south side of   9-
3617 William St., approximately 17 feet west of intersection with Belle St.         10-
                                                                                    1970
                                                                                    5-
3656 Zoning map amendment, rezoning Lots 11 and 12 Forest Hills Place Subdivision   26-
                                                                                    1971
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the east side   5-
3657 of Alby and south side of Big Arch Road                                        26-
                                                                                    1971
3673 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the east side    
     of Henry St. approximately 350 feet north of intersection with Elble St.
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located on the south side of   7-
3681 the Beltline approximately 240 feet west of the intersection of Golf Road and  28-
     the Beltline                                                                   1971
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning Lots 6, 7 and 8, Block 11, Salu Addition to     8-
3690 Upper Alton                                                                    25-
                                                                                    1971
                                                                                    10-
3702 Zoning map amendment, rezoning Lot 16, Block 2, Highland Park Subdivision      27-
                                                                                    1971
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated on east side of       11-
3706 Washington Avenue approximately 296 feet north of the intersection of          10-
     Washington Avenue with GM&O Railroad right of way                              1971
                                                                                    11-
3707 Zoning map amendment, rezoning Tract 18, Gambrill's Subdivision                10-
                                                                                    1971
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the north side  12-
3710 of College Avenue east of the intersection of College Avenue and State House   8-
     Square                                                                         1971
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property known as 2312 and 2322 College 1-
3717 Avenue                                                                         26-
                                                                                    1972
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property on Highland Avenue             7-
3755 approximately 120 feet southeast of Highland and Brown Street                  12-
                                                                                    1972
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property along and west of Humbert
3762 Street road and certain tracts on Delmar Avenue east of Buckmaster Avenue and  8-9-
     certain tracts on north side of Delmar Avenue east of Brick Company property   1972
     and certain tracts on south side of Delmar Avenue west of Buckmaster Avenue
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the northwest   1-
3789 side of the Beltline immediately south of the intersection of the Beltline     24-
     with Bloomer Street                                                            1973
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the north side  2-
3797 of Fifth Street at the intersection of Fifth Street with Seminary Square       28-
                                                                                    1973
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the west side   8-8-
3830 of Main Street approximately 10 feet south of the intersection of Main Street  1973
     and Hillcrest, aka 934 Main Street
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property known as Lot 12, Block 20 of   10-
3844 the City property situated along the east side of George Street on the         10-
     southeast corner of the intersection of George Street with East Fifth Street   1973
     Special use granted on property situated on the north side of East Seventh     10-
3845 Street and known as 524 East Seventh Street                                    10-
                                                                                    1973
     Special use granted on property situated on the east side of West Ninth Street 10-
3846 and known as 1243 West Ninth Street                                            10-
                                                                                    1973
                                                                                    10-
3858 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property known as 220 Main Street       24-
                                                                                    1973
     Special use granted on property situated along the west side of Henry Street   10-
3859 at the intersection of Henry with Eighth Street                                24-
                                                                                    1973
     Special use granted on property situated on the east side of West Ninth Street 10-
3860 and known as 1243 West Ninth Street                                            24-
                                                                                    1973
                                                                                    3-
3903 Special use granted on property known as 1400 Main Street                      13-
                                                                                    1974
                                                                                    4-
3909 Special use granted on property situated at 2603 Main Street                   10-
                                                                                    1974
                                                                                    4-
3910 Special use granted on property located at 1506 Clawson Street                 10-
                                                                                    1974
     Special use granted on property situated along the north side of Twelfth       5-
3915 Street, approximately 110 feet west of the intersection of Henry Street with   22-
     Twelfth Street                                                                 1974
     Zoning map amendment, zoning as C-3 Planned Commercial District property south 1-
3964 of Beltline Highway, east of Seminary Street, west of Rodgers Avenue and north 22-
     of Gulf, Mobile and Ohio Railroad; to amend Article XII, Section 4(2) of Ord.  1975
     #2911; to approve the plan for use and development of tract
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the west side   3-
3966 of Humbert Street at the northwest corner of the intersection of Humbert       12-
     Street and Beltline                                                            1975
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the south side  3-
3967 of Russell Avenue approximately 135 feet west of the intersection of Russell   12-
     Avenue with Humbert Road                                                       1975
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the west side   3-
3968 of Central Avenue approximately 350 feet south of intersection of Central      12-
     Avenue and State House Circle                                                  1975
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning from present R-2 District to C-2 District       6-
3990 certain property                                                               11-
                                                                                    1975
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property along south side of Salu       6-
3993 Street                                                                         25-
                                                                                    1975
                                                                                    6-
4000 Special use granted on property known as Alton Memorial Hospital               25-
                                                                                    1975
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning from present R-1 District to C-2 District       7-
4010 classification certain property                                                23-
                                                                                    1975
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning from present R-2 District to an R-3 District    7-
4011 classification certain property                                                23-
                                                                                    1975
                                                                                    9-
4023 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property                                10-
                                                                                    1975
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the north side  10-
4036 of East Third Street at the northwest corner of the intersection of Langdon    22-
     Street with East Third Street and known as 458 East Third Street               1975
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property known as Lot 4 in the          11-
4045 resubdivision of Morning Star Place, situated along the west side of Humbert   12-
     Street                                                                         1975
     Zoning map amendment, to change from the present C-1 District to a C-          1-
4065 2 District classification certain property                                     28-
                                                                                    1976
     Zoning map amendment to change from the present R-4 District to a C-1 District 1-
4066 classification certain property                                                28-
                                                                                    1976
     Special use granted on property known as Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 13 and 14,     3-
4084 Block 1, Henry Hohman Subdivision                                              24-
                                                                                    1976
     Zoning map amendment, to change from a present R-2 District to R-4 District    3-
4087 classification certain property                                                24-
                                                                                    1976
     Zoning map amendment, to change from the present classification of R-1, R-2,   10-
4130 R-3 and C-2 to a C-4 Central Business District classification certain property 13-
                                                                                    1976
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the south side  2-
4180 of Alton Beltline Parkway and east of the intersection of Seminary Street with 23-
     Alton Beltline Parkway                                                         1977
4184 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property west of 1324 Adams Court       3-9-
                                                                                    1977
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning present R-1 District to a C-2 District          4-
4191 classification as to certain property                                          13-
                                                                                    1977
     Special use granted on part of Lot 8 in Mounier's First Subdivision, situated  6-
4203 along the west side of State Street approximately 161 feet north of the        22-
     intersection of State Street with Eugene Street and known as 2336 State Street 1977
     Special use granted on Lots 59 and 60 on Edgewood Subdivision, situated along  6-
4204 the south side of Brown Street approximately 80 feet west of the intersection  22-
     of Park Drive with Brown Street, and known as 1149 Brown Street                1977
                                                                                    9-
4242 Special use granted on certain property known as 1103 Main Street              28-
                                                                                    1977
                                                                                    10-
4244 Special use granted on certain property known as 925 Market Street             12-
                                                                                    1977
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along Beltline        1-
4269 Parkway                                                                        11-
                                                                                    1978
                                                                                    1-
4277 Special use granted on certain property known as 512 Spring Street             25-
                                                                                    1978
                                                                                    3-
4295 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 205 E. Elm Street   22-
                                                                                    1978
                                                                                    3-
4296 Special use granted on certain property known as 2313 Washington Avenue        22-
                                                                                    1978
                                                                                    6-
4324 Special use granted on certain property known as 3840 Oscar Street             28-
                                                                                    1978
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located 75 feet east of the    7-
4331 intersection of East Center Drive with East Delmar Avenue                      26-
                                                                                    1978
                                                                                    7-
4334 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property known as 343 East Delmar       26-
                                                                                    1978
4335 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property in the east one-half of Lot 7  8-9-
     in Benjamin Godfrey Subdivision and known as 407 East Delmar                   1978
                                                                                    10-
4362 Special use granted on certain property known as 2415 Gillis Street            11-
                                                                                    1978
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 1214-1216 Main      10-
4363 Street                                                                         11-
                                                                                    1978
     Special use granted on certain property located on the north side of College   11-
4384 Avenue east of the Henry Street intersection                                   22-
                                                                                    1978
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the east side   12-
4387 of Exchange Street at the intersection of Exchange Street with Shelly Street   13-
                                                                                    1978
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated approximately 1377    1-
4395 feet east of the intersection of East Delmar Avenue with Buckmaster Lane       10-
                                                                                    1979
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the east side   1-
4396 of Buckmaster Lane approximately 80 feet south of the intersection of East     10-
     Delmar Avenue with Buckmaster Lane                                             1979
                                                                                    4-
4424 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 2120 Central Avenue 25-
                                                                                    1979
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 1914 Washington     5-
4428 Avenue                                                                         23-
                                                                                    1979
     Variation from yard requirements granted on St. Joseph's Hospital in           6-
4434 connection with its proposed new accessory building and off-street parking     27-
     facility located in Block 19 in Hunter or Russell's Addition                   1979
     Special use granted on certain property known as Lot 19 in Tibbitt's           6-
4438 Subdivision                                                                    27-
                                                                                    1979
                                                                                    7-
4451 Special use granted on certain property known as 1122 State Street             25-
                                                                                    1979
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 3217 Edsall Street, 9-
4457 from a present classification of R-2 to C-1 District                           12-
                                                                                    1979
     Special use granted on certain property known as 310 Oakwood, behind Holly     2-
4487 Hills, situated along the south side of Beltline (Hwy 140) approximately 335   14-
     feet east of the intersection of Alby Street with Beltline                     1980
                                                                                    3-
4498 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 1101 Main Street    26-
                                                                                    1980
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located on Fosterburg Road     4-9-
4503 approximately 4,800 feet north of the intersection of Fosterburg Road with     1980
     College Avenue
                                                                                    8-
4526 Special use granted on certain property known as 1720 Seminary Street          27-
                                                                                    1980
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located along the west side of 10-
4557 Belle Street approximately 401 feet north of the intersection of Piasa Street  8-
     with Belle Street                                                              1980
                                                                                    4-
4606 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 2615 Edwards Street 22-
                                                                                    1981
                                                                                    6-
4611 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 733 Humbolt Court   10-
                                                                                    1981
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located on the east side of    8-
4628 Humbert Road                                                                   12-
                                                                                    1981
4632 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at the intersection of 9-9-
     East Delmar Drive with East Center Drive                                       1981
4633 Special use granted on certain property known as 310 Oakwood                   9-9-
                                                                                    1981
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located on the east side of    11-
4655 East 13th Street northeast of the intersection of East 13th Street with Alton  25-
     Street                                                                         1981
                                                                                    12-
4663 Special use granted on certain property known as 929 Milnor Avenue             23-
                                                                                    1981
                                                                                    4-
4682 Special use granted on certain property known as 1002 Union Street             14-
                                                                                    1982
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property along the east side of Grand   5-
4695 Avenue                                                                         12-
                                                                                    1982
4697 Special use granted on certain property known as 726 Henry Street              6-9-
                                                                                    1982
                                                                                    8-
4709 Special use granted on certain property known as 512 Spring Street             11-
                                                                                    1982
                                                                                    8-
4713 Special use granted on certain property known as 2336 State Street             25-
                                                                                    1982
                                                                                    9-
4721 Special use granted on certain property known as 1103 Main Street              22-
                                                                                    1982
                                                                                    10-
4726 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property at 2216 State Street           27-
                                                                                    1982
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 2609-2613           10-
4727 Washington Avenue                                                              27-
                                                                                    1982
                                                                                    4-
4763 Special use granted on certain property known as 1002 Union Street             27-
                                                                                    1983
                                                                                    12-
4816 Special use granted on certain property known as 915 East Fifth Street         14-
                                                                                    1983
                                                                                    4-
4836 Special use granted on certain property known as 1122 State Street             11-
                                                                                    1984
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property known as 1800-1848 East        6-
4855 Broadway                                                                       27-
                                                                                    1984
4862 Special use granted on certain property known as 504 East 12th Street          1984
4867 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 2123 College Avenue 8-8-
                                                                                    1984
                                                                                    9-
4876 Special use granted on Lot 1, Block 1, J.W. Olmstead Subdivision               12-
                                                                                    1984
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located on the west side of    9-
4886 Washington Avenue, south of the intersection of Washington Avenue with Clara   14-
     Avenue                                                                         1984
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located along the northeast    12-
4894 side of Homer Adams Parkway south of the intersection of Bloomer Drive with    12-
     Homer Adams Parkway                                                            1984
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located along the south side   4-
4919 of Victory Street, approximately 120 feet east of the intersection of Victory  24-
     Street with Brown Street                                                       1985
                                                                                    8-
4938 Special use granted on certain property known as 2206 Seminary                 14-
                                                                                    1985
                                                                                    8-
4939 Special use granted on certain property known as 23 East Elm Street            14-
                                                                                    1985
                                                                                    8-
4940 Special use granted on certain property known as 300 Admiral Drive             14-
                                                                                    1985
                                                                                    9-
4947 Special use granted on certain property known as 2336 State Street             11-
                                                                                    1985
                                                                                    9-
4948 Special use granted on certain property known as 2726 College Avenue           11-
                                                                                    1985
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located in the 1300 block of   10-
4970 Central Avenue                                                                 23-
                                                                                    1985
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located on the southwest side  10-
4971 of Milton Road southwest of the intersection with New Milton Road              23-
                                                                                    1985
                                                                                    11-
4975 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 2344 State Street   27-
                                                                                    1985
                                                                                    12-
4984 Special use granted on certain property known as 43 Holly Hill Drive           18-
                                                                                    1985
                                                                                    3-
5007 Special use granted on certain property known as 906 College Avenue            12-
                                                                                    1986
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 426 Jefferson       3-
5009 Street                                                                         26-
                                                                                    1986
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 1906 Washington     6-
5038 Avenue                                                                         25-
                                                                                    1986
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning a certain portion of Lot 2 in South Center      7-
5046 Plaza                                                                          23-
                                                                                    1986
                                                                                    7-
5047 Special use granted on certain property known as 310 Oakwood                   23-
                                                                                    1986
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located in the 1400 block of   7-
5048 Central Avenue                                                                 23-
                                                                                    1986
                                                                                    10-
5079 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at 33 East Delmar      8-
                                                                                    1986
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located on the east side of    11-
5089 Humbert Road approximately 1,000 feet north of the intersection with Homer     26-
     Adams Parkway                                                                  1986
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located along the south side   11-
5091 of Homer Adams Parkway on the south side of the intersection with Buckmaster   12-
     Lane                                                                           1986
                                                                                    12-
5100 Special use granted on certain property known as 43 Holly Hill Drive           17-
                                                                                    1986
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at the intersection of 2-
5112 Seminary and Brown Streets                                                     11-
                                                                                    1987
                                                                                    2-
5116 Special use granted on certain property known as 726 Henry Street              25-
                                                                                    1987
     Initial zoning to certain property recently annexed to Alton by operation of   2-
5123 law (Public Act 84-1261)                                                       25-
                                                                                    1987
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located on the north side of   6-
5147 Loren Lane, commonly known as 3320 Loren Lane                                  24-
                                                                                    1987
                                                                                    7-
5158 Special use granted on certain property known as 23 East Elm Street            22-
                                                                                    1987
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the west side   7-
5159 of Henry Street, approximately 2,000 feet north of the intersection with 20th  22-
     Street                                                                         1987
     Initially zoning to certain property recently annexed to Alton by operation of 7-
5160 law (Public Act 84-1261)                                                       22-
                                                                                    1987
5165 Special use granted on certain property known as 310 Oakwood                   9-9-
                                                                                    1987
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the east side   10-
5178 of Jefferson Avenue approximately 80 feet north of the intersection of         28-
     Jefferson Avenue and Deneen Street, commonly known as 429 Jefferson Avenue     1987
     Special use granted for certain premises situated along the west side of Henry 10-
5179 Street approximately 2,000 feet north of the intersection of 20th Street with  28-
     Henry Street                                                                   1987
     Special use granted for premises situated along the north side of East Fifth   10-
5180 Street northeast of the intersection of East Fifth with Central Avenue         28-
                                                                                    1987
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located at the north side of   11-
5183 Ray Street, commonly known as 3112 Ray Street                                  10-
                                                                                    1987
                                                                                    11-
5184 Special use granted for certain property known as 906 College Avenue           10-
                                                                                    1987
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located along the south side   11-
5185 of East Delmar approximately 123 feet west of its intersection with Alby       10-
     Street                                                                         1987
     Special use granted for certain premises situated along the north side of      11-
5194 Wonderland Drive approximately 300 feet east of the intersection of Wonderland 25-
     Drive with Fosterburg Road                                                     1987
                                                                                    1-
5198 Special use granted for certain property known as 2207 Brown Street            13-
                                                                                    1988
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the north side  2-
5208 of Elm Street approximately 120 feet west of the intersection of Alby,         10-
     commonly known as 30 East Elm                                                  1988
                                                                                    2-
5210 Amendment to Ordinance #5018 establishing an enterprise zone within the City   10-
                                                                                    1988
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the north side  3-
5215 of Russell Street approximately 200 feet west of the intersection of Russell   23-
     with Humbert Street                                                            1988
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located along the north side   5-
5225 of Wallace Street and the east side of Central Avenue in the vicinity of the   11-
     intersection of Central Avenue and Wallace Street                              1988
     Special use granted for premises situated along the west side of Henry Street  5-
5226 at the intersection with Eighth Street, more commonly known as 726 Henry       11-
     Street                                                                         1988
     Special use granted for certain premises situated along the east side of       5-
5231 Washington Avenue approximately 500 feet north of the intersection of Manor    25-
     Court with Washington Avenue                                                   1988
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated on the south side of  8-
5261 Elm Street east of the intersection with Alby Street, commonly known as 51     10-
     East Elm Street                                                                1988
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the north side  8-
5275 of Alby Street west of the intersection with Third Street                      24-
                                                                                    1988
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the north side  8-
5276 of Homer Adams Parkway approximately 200 feet west of the intersection with    24-
     Humbert Street                                                                 1988
     Special use granted for certain property located along the west side of        9-
5284 Lovejoy Lane                                                                   28-
                                                                                    1988
                                                                                    9-
5285 Special use granted for certain property known as 304 East Third Street        28-
                                                                                    1988
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located along the east and     9-
5291 west side of Alton Fosterburg Road at the intersection of said Fosterburg Road 28-
     and Route 140                                                                  1988
                                                                                    10-
5292 Special use granted for certain property known as 310 Oakwood Avenue           28-
                                                                                    1988
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the west side   11-
5305 of Cross Street and south side of Atwood Street at the intersection of Cross   9-
     with Atwood Street                                                             1988
                                                                                    12-
5310 Variance from the City Code requirement for height of ground sign              14-
                                                                                    1988
                                                                                    2-
5318 Reaffirming and restating zoning ordinance #2911, as amended                   22-
                                                                                    1989
5322 Special use granted for a helistop on property owned by St. Anthony's Hospital 3-8-
                                                                                    1989
                                                                                    4-
5331 Special use granted for certain property known as 3840 Oscar Street            26-
                                                                                    1989
                                                                                    4-
5333 Special use granted for certain property known as 300 Admiral Drive            26-
                                                                                    1989
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the south side  4-
5334 of Homer M. Adams Parkway and the north side of Oakwood Avenue, approximately  26-
     450 feet west of the intersection of Oakwood Avenue and Buckmaster Lane        1989
                                                                                    6-
5345 Special use granted for certain property known as 23 East Elm Street           28-
                                                                                    1989
                                                                                    6-
5346 Special use granted for construction and maintenance of a 68-foot radio tower  28-
                                                                                    1989
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the north side  7-
5359 of Marshall Street approximately 70 feet south of the intersection of 12th     12-
     Street with McGuan Street                                                      1989
     Special use granted for certain property known as 504 East 12th Street for the 7-
5362 operation of a preschool for 10 years                                          26-
                                                                                    1989
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property located along the west side of 7-
5363 Fosterburg Road approximately 500 feet west of the intersection of Culp and    27-
     Fosterburg Road with Castelli Road                                             1989
     Amendment to Ordinance #5018 as amended, establishing an enterprise zone       7-
5365 within the City                                                                26-
                                                                                    1989
     Special use granted for certain property known as 304 East Third Street for    9-
5380 the operation of a grow and learn children's center                            27-
                                                                                    1989
     Special use granted for certain property known as 412 Brentwood for the        9-
5381 operation of a beauty salon                                                    27-
                                                                                    1989
     Special use granted certain property known as 1004 East 5th Street for the     10-
5390 operation of the Alton Day Care and Learning Center                            25-
                                                                                    1989
     Special use granted for property commonly known as Lot 1, Block 1, J. W.       11-
5399 Olmstead Subdivision for the maintenance of a 280 foot microwave tower and     22-
     tower equipment building by Cybertel Illinois Corporation                      1989
     Special use granted for property commonly known as 43 Holly Hill Drive for the 12-
5410 operation of a one-chair beauty salon                                          20-
                                                                                    1989
     Special use granted for property commonly known as 2207 Brown Street for the   1-
5414 operation of a one-chair beauty salon                                          10-
                                                                                    1990
     Amendment to Ordinance #5018, as amended, establishing an enterprize zone      1-
5418 within the City                                                                11-
                                                                                    1990
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in Section 6, Alton   2-
5426 Township 5, Range 9, Lots 3, 4 and 5 of Block 12 of Salu Addition commonly     28-
     known as 2602 Washington and 2426 Moore                                        1990
                                                                                    1-
5427 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property commonly known as 74 East Elm  14-
                                                                                    1990
                                                                                    2-
5430 Establishing an enterprise zone within the City                                28-
                                                                                    1990
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in Section 7, Alton   3-
5435 Township 5, Range 9, Lot 106 of Burton's Subdivision, more commonly known as   28-
     1840 Rodgers                                                                   1990
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in section 6, Alton   3-
5436 township 5, range 9, lot 87 of Alta Sita subdivision, more commonly known as   28-
     3201 James Terrace                                                             1990
     Special use granted for property commonly known as 1103 Main Street for        4-
5442 operation of a day nursery                                                     25-
                                                                                    1990
     Special use granted on property known as 726 Henry Street for the operation of 6-
5458 a child day care center                                                        27-
                                                                                    1990
     Special use granted on property known as 906 College Avenue for the operation  7-
5464 of an adult day/health care center                                             25-
                                                                                    1990
5469 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in section 6 township 8-8-
     5 north, range 9 west, more commonly known as 3201 James Terrace               1990
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in section 6 township 8-8-
5470 5 north, range 9 west, more commonly known as part of parcel #1 Gordon F.      1990
     Moore Park
                                                                                    8-
5474 Adopting the partial comprehensive plan for the Riverfront district            22-
                                                                                    1990
     Adopting the official map of the partial comprehensive plan for the Riverfront 8-
5475 district                                                                       22-
                                                                                    1990
5476 (Rep. by Ord. 6734, 6-11-2003)                                                  
     Adopting the zoning ordinance map amendment for the Marina/Riverfront zoning   8-
5477 along the Riverfront                                                           22-
                                                                                    1990
     Special use granted on property lying to the south of Wonderland Drive section 10-
5482 4, township 5 north, range 9 west, T.P.M.                                      10-
                                                                                    1990
     Special use granted on certain property known as 2627 Krum Street for the      11-
5494 operation of a child day care center                                           28-
                                                                                    1990
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in section 5,         12-
5496 township 5 north, range 9 west more commonly known as land lying northwest of  12-
     Fosterburg Road                                                                1990
     Amending the permitted and special use table of the zoning ordinance,          12-
5497 ordinance 2911                                                                 12-
                                                                                    1990
                                                                                    12-
5501 Special use granted on certain property known as 2318 Tibbitt                  12-
                                                                                    1990
                                                                                    12-
5506 Amendment to ordinance 2911                                                    19-
                                                                                    1990
5512 Amendment to ordinance 2911                                                    1-9-
                                                                                    1991
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in section 18,        1-
5516 township 5 north, range 9 west more commonly known as 2647 Sidney              23-
                                                                                    1991
     Amendment to ordinance 5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone       3-
5531 within the city                                                                13-
                                                                                    1991
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning the Mississippi Lime Company property adjacent  4-
5533 to Gordon Moore park from the existing zoning classification of R-1 to M-3     10-
                                                                                    1991
     Special use granted on property known as 2117-2119 Central, 912-914 Wallace    4-
5536 and 918-920 Wallace                                                            10-
                                                                                    1991
     Special use granted on certain property known as 2336 State Street for the     6-
5549 operation of a child day care center                                           12-
                                                                                    1991
     Special use granted on certain property known as 310 Oakwood Road for the      6-
5550 operation of a child day care center                                           12-
                                                                                    1991
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in section 02,        5-
5553 township north, range 10 west more commonly known as 2132 and 2134 State       22-
     Street                                                                         1991
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in section 13,        6-
5559 township 5 north, range 10 west more commonly known as 320 Vine Street         26-
                                                                                    1991
     Special use granted on certain property known as 412 Brentwood Boulevard for   6-
5560 the operation of a beauty parlor                                               26-
                                                                                    1991
     Special use granted on certain property known as 100 Lovejoy Lane for the      6-
5561 operation of a child day care center                                           26-
                                                                                    1991
     Amendment to ordinance 5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone       6-
5564 within the city                                                                26-
                                                                                    1991
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in Section 2,         7-
5565 Township 5 North, Range 10 West of the Third Principal Meridian more commonly  10-
     known as land lying behind 2300 Henry Street                                   1991
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in Sections 7 and 8,  6-
5572 Township 5 North, Range 9 West more commonly known as 3325 Fernwood Street     26-
                                                                                    1991
     Special use granted for certain property commonly known as 3325 Fernwood       6-
5573 Street for the operation of an arts and crafts assembly facility               27-
                                                                                    1991
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in Section 12,        8-
5584 Township 5 North, Range 10 West more commonly known as 906 College Avenue      28-
                                                                                    1991
     Special use granted on certain property known as 906 College Avenue for the    8-
5585 operation of a community relations office                                      28-
                                                                                    1991
     Special use granted on certain property known as 3536 California Avenue for    10-
5602 the operation of a one chair beauty parlor                                     23-
                                                                                    1991
     Special use granted on certain property known as 3600 Coronado Drive for the   11-
5603 operation of a 75 foot tall amateur radio antenna                              13-
                                                                                    1991
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated in Sections 3 and 4,  10-
5609 Township 5 North, Range 9 West more commonly known as land lying north of      9-
     Storey Lane                                                                    1991
     Special use granted on certain property known as 929 Milnor Avenue for the     11-
5611 operation of a child day care school                                           13-
                                                                                    1991
     Special use granted on certain property known as 713 Belle Street to allow for 11-
5613 the operation of a "metals, secondary production" facility in a C-4 Zoning     13-
     District                                                                       1991
     Approving and adopting the Master Plan for the Marina Riverfront District in   11-
5614 the City as prepared and presented by Booker Associates, Inc.                  13-
                                                                                    1991
     Amendment to Ordinance #5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone      12-
5630 within the City                                                                11-
                                                                                    1991
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property commonly known as 209 Miami    3-
5644 from R-2 One-Family Residential to C-1 Commercial                              25-
                                                                                    1992
5651 Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property commonly known as 4414 West    4-8-
     Center Drive from M-2 Heavy Industrial to C-2 General Commercial               1992
     Special use granted for properties otherwise known as land lying behind 2300   7-
5677 Henry Street for the operation of an outdoor recreational enterprise           22-
     (adventure course facility) for 5 years                                        1992
     Special use granted for property commonly known as 1821 Seminary Street for    7-
5678 the operation of a bed and breakfast for 5 years                               22-
                                                                                    1992
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property commonly known as land in the  9-
5703 4500 block of Alby Street from M-2 Heavy Industrial to M-1 Light Industrial    23-
                                                                                    1992
     Special use granted for property commonly known as 2400 Locust Street for the  11-
5711 operation of a child care facility for 5 years                                 12-
                                                                                    1992
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property commonly known as 1913 Oakwood 11-
5726 Avenue from R-2 One-Family Residential to C-2 General Commercial               25-
                                                                                    1992
     Amendment to Ordinance #5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone      3-
5746 within the City                                                                10-
                                                                                    1993
     Special use granted for property commonly known as 806 Rosedale for the        4-
5750 operation of a one chair beauty parlor                                         28-
                                                                                    1993
     Amendment to Ordinance #5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone      4-
5764 within the City                                                                28-
                                                                                    1993
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning 3327 Mayfield Street from R-2 zoning district   7-
5786 to C-2 zoning district                                                         14-
                                                                                    1993
                                                                                    7-
5787 Special use granted to Deborah Flynn for the property known as 2803 Benbow     14-
                                                                                    1993
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain properties commonly known as 3362, 3364 9-
5816 and 3365 Fosterburg Road                                                       22-
                                                                                    1993
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property situated along the west side   10-
5825 of Fosterburg Road approximately 500 feet west of the intersection of Culp and 27-
     Fosterburg Road with Castelli Road                                             1993
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning 915 College Avenue from C-1 Commercial to C-    11-
5834 2 General Commercial                                                           10-
                                                                                    1993
                                                                                    12-
5838 Special use granted for premises commonly known as 3401 Fosterburg Road        22-
                                                                                    1993
                                                                                    12-
5842 Special use granted for premises commonly known as 1508 Highland Avenue        22-
                                                                                    1993
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property commonly known as the 3000     3-
5856 block of Buckmaster Lane                                                       23-
                                                                                    1994
                                                                                    4-
5858 Special use granted for premises commonly known as 501 East Delmar Avenue      27-
                                                                                    1994
                                                                                    5-
5869 Special use granted for premises commonly known as 1296 Yeakel Street          11-
                                                                                    1994
                                                                                    4-
5870 Special use granted for premises commonly known as 23 East Elm Street          27-
                                                                                    1994
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 in Crossroads Plaza-First    10-
5916 Addition and Lot 6 in Crossroads Plaza-Second Addition from M-1 Light          26-
     Industrial to C-2 General Commercial                                           1994
                                                                                    11-
5927 Special use granted for premises commonly known as 3320 Franor Street          23-
                                                                                    1994
     Amendment to Comprehensive Plan and Official Map for the City to incorporate   12-
5932 areas designated for hospital/institutional use                                14-
                                                                                    1994
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning certain property bounded by College Avenue on   12-
5933 the south, St. Joseph's Cemetery on the east, Riley Avenue on the north and    14-
     U.S. Route 67 on the west                                                      1994
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning 229 Market Street from C-2 General Commercial   4-
5961 to C-4 Central Business                                                        12-
                                                                                    1995
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning 960 Union from R-3 Two-Family Residential to C- 5-
5974 1 Commercial                                                                   10-
                                                                                    1995
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning 912 College from R-2 One-Family Residential to  5-
5975 R-4 Apartment Residential                                                      10-
                                                                                    1995
                                                                                    7-
5993 Special use granted for 43 Holly Hill Drive for a beauty shop                  12-
                                                                                    1995
                                                                                    9-
6004 Special use granted for 2803 Benbow for a nail boutique                        13-
                                                                                    1995
     Special use granted for 43 Holly Hill Drive for a beauty shop for a 5-year     10-
6014 period                                                                         11-
                                                                                    1995
     Special use granted for 731 Silver for operation of an administrative office   1-
6041 for the NAACP for a period of 18 months                                        24-
                                                                                    1996
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning 905 Market, and adjacent property from C-       1-
6042 1 Commercial to R-4 Apartment Residential                                      24-
                                                                                    1996
     Adopting the Hunterstown Neighborhood Revitalization Plan as prepared and      2-
6046 presented by Booker Associates, Inc.                                           28-
                                                                                    1996
                                                                                    3-
6051 Special use granted for 711 Sanborne for a day nursery/day care school         13-
                                                                                    1996
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property in the 1800 block of Storey Lane from  4-
6063 R-1 One-Family Residential to C-2 General Commercial                           24-
                                                                                    1996
     Special use granted for property in the 1800 block of Storey Lane for the      4-
6064 operation of a dwelling facility for adjustment                                24-
                                                                                    1996
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property at Ninth and Piasa Streets from M-     4-
6065 2 Light Industrial to C-2 General Commercial                                   24-
                                                                                    1996
     Special use granted for a portion of the property at 2300 Wyckoff Street for   6-
6078 the operation of an unmanned telecommunications cell site                      26-
                                                                                    1996
                                                                                    9-
6096 Special use granted for 1844 East Broadway for a day care center               25-
                                                                                    1996
     Special use granted for property in the 3400 block of Brown Street for the     10-
6097 operation of a substation                                                      9-
                                                                                    1996
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning 2411 College and 2417 College from R-2 one-     9-
6098 family residential to C-2 general commercial                                   25-
                                                                                    1996
     Special use granted for 407 East 12th Street for the operation of a bed and    11-
6106 breakfast                                                                      13-
                                                                                    1996
     Special use granted for property located at 15 Chessen Lane for the operation  11-
6114 of a freestanding telecommunication facility                                   27-
                                                                                    1996
     Special use granted for property located at 900 Tonsor Road for the operation  11-
6115 of a freestanding telecommunication facility                                   27-
                                                                                    1996
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning 2410 Bloomer Drive from R-1 one-family          12-
6120 residential to C-2 general commercial                                          4-
                                                                                    1996
     Special use granted for property located at 2410 Bloomer Drive for the         12-
6121 operation of a freestanding telecommunication facility                         4-
                                                                                    1996
     Special use granted for property located at 908 State Street for the operation 2-
6128 of a guest house                                                               12-
                                                                                    1997
     Amending the comprehensive plan and official map for the area designated as    2-
6129 Hunterstown                                                                    12-
                                                                                    1997
     Amending the zoning ordinance 2911 regarding the area designated as            2-
6130 Hunterstown                                                                    12-
                                                                                    1997
     Special use granted for property located at 815 East Fifth Street for the      3-
6139 operation of a stealth telecommunication                                       12-
                                                                                    1997
6153 Special use granted for property located in the 4700 block of Culp Lane for    4-9-
     the operation of mini-warehouses                                               1997
     Special use granted in an M-1 zoning district for a telecommunication          5-
6162 facility, freestanding for a period of 10 years                                28-
                                                                                    1997
     Special use granted in an R-2 zoning district for a dwelling, two-family for a 5-
6163 period of 30 years                                                             28-
                                                                                    1997
     Special use granted in an R-2 zoning district for a day nursery/day care       7-
6175 school for a period of 2 years at 1053 College Avenue                          23-
                                                                                    1997
                                                                                    7-
6177 Zoning map amendment, rezoning 2223 State Street from R-2 to R-4               23-
                                                                                    1997
     Special use granted in an R-4 zoning district for the operation of a           7-
6178 delicatessen for a period of 7 years at 2223 State Street                      23-
                                                                                    1997
     Amendment to ordinance 5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone       10-
6209 within the city                                                                22-
                                                                                    1997
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning 2643 Claire from R-1 one-family residential to  12-
6229 C-2 general commercial                                                         17-
                                                                                    1997
     Special use granted at 2400 Locust Street to allow for an operation of a       1-
6235 childcare facility in an R-2 zoning district                                   28-
                                                                                    1998
     Amendment to ordinance 5018, as amended, by limiting tax abatements as to land 2-
6245 in both an enterprise zone and a redevelopment project area                    11-
                                                                                    1998
                                                                                    2-
6246 Special use granted for Ameritech to erect a communication tower and shelter   25-
                                                                                    1998
     Special use granted at 726 Henry Street to allow for an operation of a         3-
6258 childcare facility in an R-4 zoning district                                   25-
                                                                                    1998
                                                                                    4-
6266 Special use granted at 200 East 8th Street                                     22-
                                                                                    1998
                                                                                    5-
6277 Special use granted at 410 Tara Avenue                                         13-
                                                                                    1998
                                                                                    6-
6297 Special use granted at 1821 Seminary                                           24-
                                                                                    1998
                                                                                    6-
6298 Special use granted at 1831 Seminary                                           24-
                                                                                    1998
6308 Amendment to ordinance 5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone       7-8-
     within the city                                                                1998
     Amendment to ordinance 5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone       8-
6320 within the city                                                                26-
                                                                                    1998
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning 603 Oak and 1028 E. Sixth Street from R-2 one-  1-
6362 family residential to R-4 apartment residential                                27-
                                                                                    1999
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning properties in the 2500 block of Washington      1-
6364 Avenue from R-2 one-family residential to C-2 general commercial               13-
                                                                                    1999
     Amendment to ordinance 5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone       1-
6365 within the city                                                                27-
                                                                                    1999
     Amendment to ordinance 5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone       3-
6372 within the city                                                                24-
                                                                                    1999
                                                                                    4-
6378 Special use permit granted at the 3300 block of Fosterburg Road                28-
                                                                                    1999
     Zoning map amendment, rezoning property located at 2300 Henry Street, Alton,   10-
6435 from CR conservation/ recreation to R-1 one-family residential                 13-
                                                                                    1999
     Special use permit granted for a "day nursery/day care center" for a period of 10-
6442 ten years at 739 Silver Street, Alton, Illinois                                27-
                                                                                    1999
     Confirming the existing R-6 zoning of certain property and to perfect legal    10-
6443 descriptions of said property                                                  27-
                                                                                    1999
     Amending article VI of ordinance 2911 by making certain changes to the height  10-
6444 and area table                                                                 27-
                                                                                    1999
     Rezoning property located at 2500 Locust Street, from R-2 (one-family          11-
6450 residential) to C-2 (general commercial)                                       24-
                                                                                    1999
     Granting a special use permit at 2200 College Avenue for the installation of a 2-
6466 "telecommunications facility, disguised support structure"                     23-
                                                                                    2000
     Rezoning property identified by permanent parcel number 23-1-08-03-00-000-     3-
6469 008.004, located on Stanley Road in the city of Alton, from C-2 (general       22-
     commercial) to R-1 (one-family residential)                                    2000
     Rezoning 3505 Fosterburg Road, Alton, Illinois from R-1 (one-family            3-
6471 residential) to C-1 (commercial)                                               22-
                                                                                    2000
     Amendment to ordinance 5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone       4-
6477 within the city                                                                13-
                                                                                    2000
     Rezoning property located at 911 College Avenue, Alton, from R-2 (one-family   6-
6495 residential) to C-2 (general commercial)                                       14-
                                                                                    2000
                                                                                    6-
6504 Granting a special use permit at 200 East 8th Street in Alton, Illinois        28-
                                                                                    2000
     Granting a special use permit at 1821 Seminary, Alton, Illinois, to allow the  6-
6505 construction of a small earth house                                            28-
                                                                                    2000
     Granting a special use permit at 121 W. Elm Street in Alton, Illinois, for the 7-
6514 operation of a child daycare facility for a period of three (3) years          12-
                                                                                    2000
     Granting a special use permit at 325 E. Third Street in Alton, Illinois, to    8-
6523 allow the installation of a "telecommunication facility, stealth" for a period 23-
     of five (5) years                                                              2000
     Granting a special use permit at 3173 Fosterburg Road in Alton, Illinois, for  8-
6524 construction of self storage units for a period of seven (7) years             23-
                                                                                    2000
     Granting a special use permit at 2603 N. Rodgers Street in Alton, Illinois, to 8-
6525 allow the leasing of Thomas Jefferson School to be used as a senior center for 23-
     a period of three (3) years                                                    2000
                                                                                    10-
6544 Hunterstown district declared an urban renewal redevelopment project area      25-
                                                                                    2000
     Rezoning premises identified by permanent parcel number 23-1-08-18-10-101-013, 11-
6547 located at the northwest corner of Broadway and Main Streets, Alton, Madison   22-
     County, Illinois, from M-1, C-1, and R-3 (industrial, commercial, and          2000
     residential) to C-2 (general commercial)
     Rezoning property commonly known as Alton center business park located between 4-
6567 East Broadway and Illinois Route 143 in Alton, Illinois                        11-
                                                                                    2001
     Granting a special use permit in an R-2 zoning district for a "Day Nursery/Day 6-
6585 Care School" on a 24 hour a day basis for a period of two years at 1053        27-
     College Avenue, Alton, Illinois                                                2001
     Granting a special use permit at 2627 Homer Adams Parkway for the installation 7-
6586 of a 120' "telecommunic ations facility disguised support structure"           11-
                                                                                    2001
     Rezoning property located at 74 E. Elm Street, Alton, Illinois, from C-1       7-
6596 (commercial) to R-2 (one-family residential)                                   11-
                                                                                    2001
     Rezoning property located at the intersection of Highland and Gold Streets
6598 including 1000, 1001, 1006-1008, 1012 and 10121/2 Highland and 917 Gold        8-8-
     Streets, Alton, Illinois, from C-1 (commercial) to R-2 (one-family             2001
     residential)
     Rezoning property located at 2212 State Street, Alton, from R-2 (one-family    10-
6608 residential) to R-4 (apartment residential)                                    10-
                                                                                    2001
     Rezoning property located at northwest corner of Washington and Locust, Alton, 11-
6616 Illinois, from R-2 (one-family residential) to C-2 (general commercial) to     14-
     allow the construction of a new convenience store and car wash                 2001
     Rezoning property located east of South Center Drive, Alton, Illinois, from M- 12-
6635 1 (light industrial) to C-2 (general commercial) to allow for improvements to  12-
     said property by G. J. Grewe, Inc.                                             2001
     Granting a special use permit to community counseling center for the           12-
6636 construction and operation of a group home for a period of fifteen years at    12-
     2302 State Street, Alton, Illinois                                             2001
6642 (Rep. by Ord. 6647, 2-27-2002)                                                  
     Rezoning property located at the northwest corner of Moonlight Way and         3-
6645 Castelli Drive from R-4 (apartment residential) to R-5 (zero side yard         13-
     residential)                                                                   2002
     Granting a special use permit to community counseling center for the           2-
6647 construction and operation of a group home for a period of forty years after   27-
     the time it is occupied at 2302 State Street, Alton, Illinois                  2002
     Granting a special use permit at 806 Roedale, Alton, Illinois, for the         4-
6650 operation of a beauty salon for a period of two years                          10-
                                                                                    2002
     Granting a special use permit at 504 E. 12th Street to allow for an operation  8-
6670 of an infant/toddler day care facility in an R-2 zoning district               14-
                                                                                    2002
                                                                                    11-
6686 Amending ordinance 5614 concerning the marina riverfront district master plan  13-
                                                                                    2002
     Rezoning property commonly known as 2516 Washington Avenue, Alton, Illinois,   11-
6689 from R-2 (one-family residential) to C-2 (general commercial) to allow for the 13-
     sale or rent of said property as commercial                                    2002
6697 (Rep. by Ord. 7360, 7-24-2013)                                                  
     Granting a special use permit at 2102 State Street for the operation of an     12-
6698 inside non-automatic car wash                                                  11-
                                                                                    2002
     Granting a special use permit at 901-903 State Street for the operation of a   12-
6706 guest house                                                                    18-
                                                                                    2002
     Granting a special use permit for a "day care center" at 919 Brown Street,     2-
6710 Alton, Illinois                                                                12-
                                                                                    2003
     Granting a special use permit at 3512 McArthur Blvd. to allow for the          2-
6711 operation of Catholic Charities in an R-2 zoning district                      12-
                                                                                    2003
6725 Rezoning property located at 80 E. Homer Adams Parkway, from M-2 (heavy        4-9-
     industrial) to C-2 (general commercial)                                        2003
     Approving the comprehensive plan and future land use map of the city of Alton, 5-
6733 Illinois, dated April, 2003                                                    28-
                                                                                    2003
     Rezoning property commonly known as 16 E. Delmar, Alton, Illinois, from R-2    11-
6775 (single-family residential) to C-2 (general commercial)                        25-
                                                                                    2003
     Granting a special use permit for a used car/truck lot at 2726 E. Broadway,    11-
6777 Alton, Illinois                                                                25-
                                                                                    2003
     Rezoning property commonly known as lot 1 in the first addition to Greenleaf   11-
6778 Estates from C-2 (general commercial) to R-2 (single-family residential)       12-
                                                                                    2003
     Rezoning property commonly known as 21 E. Sixth Street, Alton, Illinois, from  12-
6783 R-3 (mixed single-family residential) to C-4 (downtown commercial)             10-
                                                                                    2003
     Granting a special use permit to allow the construction of zero lot line homes 2-
6791 at lot 14 in Greenleaf Estates                                                 11-
                                                                                    2004
     Rezoning 6.49 acres off Castelli Drive, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single-     2-
6792 family residential) to R-3 (mixed single-family residential)                   11-
                                                                                    2004
     Rezoning 609 West Delmar, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single-family             2-
6795 residential) to C-2 (general commercial)                                       25-
                                                                                    2004
     Rezoning 649 East Fifth Street, Alton, Illinois, from C-2 (general commercial) 2-
6796 to R-2 (single-family residential)                                             25-
                                                                                    2004
     Rezoning Worden Street property, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single-family      3-
6799 residential) to R-3 (mixed single-family residential)                          10-
                                                                                    2004
     Rezoning lots 13–25 in Greenleaf Estates, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single- 3-
6800 family residential) to R-3 (mixed single-family residential)                   10-
                                                                                    2004
     Granting a special use permit in Gordon Moore park for the installation of a   4-
6810 "telecommunications facility, disguised support structure"                     14-
                                                                                    2004
     Granting a special use permit in Rock Spring park for the installation of a    4-
6811 "telecommunications facility, disguised support structure"                     14-
                                                                                    2004
6818 Granting a special use permit for a "day care center" at 2142 Seminary, Alton, 6-9-
     Illinois                                                                       2004
     Rezoning property commonly known as 2020 Central Avenue, Alton, Illinois, from 6-
6824 R-2 (single-family residential) to C-1 (neighborhood commercial)               23-
                                                                                    2004
                                                                                    10-
6842 Granting a special use permit at 623 E. Sixth Street, Alton, Illinois          13-
                                                                                    2004
     Rezoning 60 East Elm Street, Alton, Illinois, from C-2 (general commercial) to 11-
6847 R-2 (single-family residential)                                                10-
                                                                                    2004
                                                                                    11-
6848 Granting a special use permit at 617 State Street, Alton, Illinois             10-
                                                                                    2004
6864 Granting a special use permit at Alton Memorial Hospital for the installation  2-9-
     of a "telecommunications facility, disguised support structure"                2005
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a retail business for  1-
6865 the sale and trade of used vehicles at the property located at 3550 Homer      26-
     Adams Parkway, Alton, Illinois                                                 2005
6868 Granting a special use permit at 647 East Broadway, Alton, Illinois            3-9-
                                                                                    2005
     Granting a special use permit to allow the construction, use and maintenance   4-
6874 of six single-family attached residences at Sunset and Dawn Streets, Alton,    27-
     Illinois                                                                       2005
     Rezoning 1625 Main Street, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single-family            4-
6877 residential) to C-2 (general commercial)                                       27-
                                                                                    2005
     Rezoning 1735 Main Street, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single-family            4-
6878 residential) to C-2 (general commercial)                                       27-
                                                                                    2005
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a retail business for  4-
6879 the sale and trade of new and used vehicles, boats, trailers, and ATVs at the  27-
     property located at 2627 Homer Adams Parkway, Alton, Illinois                  2005
     Rezoning 3000 Buckmaster Lane, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single-family        5-
6883 residential) to R-4 (multiple-family residential)                              25-
                                                                                    2005
     Granting a special use permit to allow warehousing and storage at 1015 East    8-
6896 Broadway, Alton, Illinois                                                      24-
                                                                                    2005
     Granting a special use permit to allow the construction, use and maintenance   8-
6897 of single family attached residences (zero lot line, 2 units) at 202 West      24-
     Delmar, Alton, Illinois                                                        2005
     Rezoning 330 Alby Street, Alton, Illinois, from C-4 (downtown commercial) to   9-
6909 R-2 (single family residential)                                                28-
                                                                                    2005
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a funeral home at 1695 10-
6914 Oakwood, Alton, Illinois                                                       12-
                                                                                    2005
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a pet care services    10-
6921 facility at the southwest corner of Broadway and Chessen Lane, Alton, Illinois 26-
                                                                                    2005
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a retail business for  11-
6925 the sale and trade of used vehicles at the property located at 1126 East       9-
     Broadway, Alton, Illinois                                                      2005
6934 Granting a special use permit in Rock Spring park for the installation of a    2-8-
     "telecommunications facility, disguised pine tree stealth tower"               2006
     Granting a special use permit to allow the construction, use and maintenance   4-
6947 of single-family attached residences (zero lot line, 2 units) at the rear of   26-
     202 West Delmar, Alton, Illinois                                               2006
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a pet care services    4-
6949 facility on North Alby, Alton, Illinois                                        26-
                                                                                    2006
     Amendment to ordinance 5018, as amended, establishing an enterprise zone       5-
6956 within the city                                                                11-
                                                                                    2006
     Granting a special use permit to allow warehousing and storage at 116 Cherry   8-
6968 Street, Alton, Illinois                                                        23-
                                                                                    2006
                                                                                    9-
6969 Amendment to ordinance 5018 establishing an enterprise zone within the city    27-
                                                                                    2006
     Granting a special use permit for a day care center at 1046 Tremont Street,    3-
6996 Alton, Illinois                                                                28-
                                                                                    2007
     Granting a special use permit to allow "crane rental with operator" in the     6-
7013 1300 block of Adams Court, Alton, Illinois                                     27-
                                                                                    2007
     Granting a special use permit at 511 Vine Street for the installation of       6-
7014 "disguised support structure cell towers"                                      27-
                                                                                    2007
     Rezoning 2344 State Street, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single-family           9-
7024 residential) to C-2 (general commercial)                                       26-
                                                                                    2007
     Rezoning 611 W. Delmar, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single-family residential)  10-
7029 to C-2 (general commercial)                                                    10-
                                                                                    2007
                                                                                    5-
7079 Granting a special use at 915A Milton Road for a livery service                14-
                                                                                    2008
     Rezoning 1 Storey Lane, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single- family residential) 6-
7083 to CR (conservation recreation)                                                11-
                                                                                    2008
                                                                                    7-
7088 Amending ordinance 5018 establishing an enterprise zone within the city        23-
                                                                                    2008
     Granting a special use permit for a group home for persons with developmental  8-
7093 disabilities at 3305 Oakwood                                                   27-
                                                                                    2008
     Granting a special use permit for a day care center at 1246 Brown Street,      9-
7094 Alton, Illinois                                                                10-
                                                                                    2008
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a pet care services    9-
7098 facility at 299 E. Elm Street, Alton, Illinois                                 24-
                                                                                    2008
     Rezoning property at 1 St. Anthony's Way, Alton, Illinois, to a MED (medical)  11-
7100 zoning district                                                                12-
                                                                                    2008
     Granting a special use permit to allow an RV park or campground at 1000        11-
7112 Stanley Road in the city of Alton                                              25-
                                                                                    2008
     Further amending ordinance 5018 to add the Alton Square Mall and the proposed  12-
7113 heritage environmental services site in Roxana to the riverbend enterprise     17-
     zone                                                                           2008
     Granting a special use permit at 1035 Washington, Alton, Illinois for the      12-
7117 installation of a "telecommunications facility, disguised support structure"   10-
                                                                                    2008
     Granting a special use permit at 920 E. 5th Street, Alton, Illinois, for the   1-
7120 installation of a "telecommunications facility, disguised support structure"   28-
                                                                                    2009
     Granting a special use permit for a guest house in the 1100 block of George    5-
7145 Street, Alton, Illinois                                                        27-
                                                                                    2009
     Rezoning 2600 and 2620 Brown Street, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single-family  8-
7152 residential) to C-2 (general commercial)                                       12-
                                                                                    2009
     Granting a special use permit to allow an RV park or campground at 246         7-
7153 Wonderland Drive and 1000 Stanley Road in the city of Alton                    22-
                                                                                    2009
     Further amending ordinance number 5018 to add WR Landings LLC's proposed       10-
7159 projects in Wood River to the riverbend enterprise zone                        14-
                                                                                    2009
     Rezoning 701 West Delmar, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single-family             12-
7172 residential) to C-1 (neighborhood commercial)                                  16-
                                                                                    2009
                                                                                    1-
7177 Designating the Hunterstown redevelopment project area                         27-
                                                                                    2010
     Amending ordinance 5018 to add Champion Hotel's proposed projects in Alton to  2-
7182 the riverbend enterprise zone                                                  10-
                                                                                    2010
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a pet care services    3-
7186 facility at 299 E. Elm Street, Alton, Illinois                                 10-
                                                                                    2010
     Granting the renewal of a special use permit at 920 E. 5th Street, Alton,      6-9-
7201 Illinois, for the installation of a "telecommunications facility, disguised    2010
     support structure"
     Granting a special use at 2404 Bloomer Drive for the installation of a cell    6-
7205 tower                                                                          23-
                                                                                    2010
7206 Granting a special use permit for a bed and breakfast at 729 Linden, Alton,    6-9-
     Illinois                                                                       2010
     Granting rezoning and special use permit to allow an electronic message center 9-8-
7213 sign for Enjoy Church, formerly known as New Testament Fellowship Church,      2010
     located at 3303 Homer Adams Parkway, Alton, Illinois
     Granting a special use permit to allow a ten (10) day transfer facility at     11-
7224 1750 Fosterburg Road, Alton, Illinois                                          10-
                                                                                    2010
     Rezoning 2202 Norside, Alton, Illinois, from R-1 (single- family residential)  12-
7234 to R-2 (single-family residential)                                             15-
                                                                                    2010
     Rezoning 1900 Brown Street, Alton, Illinois, from R-2 (single-family           12-
7235 residential) to R-4 (multiple-family residential)                              15-
                                                                                    2010
     Granting a special use permit so as to allow the operation of a beauty salon   12-
7236 at 2526 Della, Alton, Illinois                                                 15-
                                                                                    2010
     Granting a special use permit so as to allow the operation of a barber shop at 4-
7248 3804 Aberdeen, Alton, Illinois                                                 27-
                                                                                    2011
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a pet grooming salon   8-
7265 at 413 Ridge Street, Alton, Illinois                                           10-
                                                                                    2011
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a computer and         8-
7267 electronics recycling facility at 415 Ridge Street, Alton, Illinois            10-
                                                                                    2011
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a retail business for  9-
7274 the sale and trade of used vehicles at the property located at 1120 Milton     14-
     Road, Alton, Illinois                                                          2011
     Granting a special use permit to allow the construction, use and maintenance   4-
7309 of single-family attached residences in the 900 block of Gold Street and 700   11-
     block of Hampton Avenue, Alton, Illinois                                       2012
     Rezoning the property at 3412 Fosterburg Road, Alton, Illinois, to a CR        5-
7312 (conservation/recreation) zoning district                                      23-
                                                                                    2012
7320 Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a computer recycling   8-8-
     facility at 708 Milton Road, Alton, Illinois                                   2012
     Granting a special use permit to allow plate work manufacturing at the         10-
7326 property located at 812-850 Belle Street, Alton, Illinois                      10-
                                                                                    2012
     Amending the comprehensive plan and future land use map of the city of Alton,  10-
7332 Illinois, dated April, 2003                                                    24-
                                                                                    2012
     Rezoning the property at 1 Golf Course Road, Alton, Illinois, to an MUT (mixed 10-
7334 use transportation) zoning district                                            24-
                                                                                    2012
     Granting a special use permit to allow a gun shop at the property located at   11-
7336 400 Landmarks Blvd., Alton, Illinois                                           14-
                                                                                    2012
     Granting a special use permit to allow an in home day care at 1900 Beall       12-
7348 Avenue, Alton, Illinois                                                        19-
                                                                                    2012
     Granting a special use permit to allow for the rental of a guesthouse at 632   12-
7349 Summit, Alton, Illinois                                                        19-
                                                                                    2012
     Rezoning the property at 1422 Washington Avenue and 1322 Washington Avenue,    2-
7350 Alton, Illinois, to C-2 (general commercial)                                   27-
                                                                                    2013
     Amending ordinance 5018 to add proposed projects in Alton and Bethalto to the  3-
7353 riverbend enterprise zone                                                      27-
                                                                                    2013
     Granting a special use permit to allow a microbrewery at 331 Belle Street,     7-
7359 Alton, Illinois                                                                24-
                                                                                    2013
     Repealing ordinance 6697 which established a special use permit for a two-unit 7-
7360 guest house at 303B-305B East Third Street, Alton, Illinois                    24-
                                                                                    2013
     Granting a special use permit at 417 East Third Street for the operation of a  8-
7367 guest house                                                                    28-
                                                                                    2013
     Granting a special use permit at 1317 Milton Road for the operation of a used  9-
7374 car lot                                                                        25-
                                                                                    2013
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a pet care services    11-
7380 facility at 1200 Milton Road, Alton, Illinois                                  26-
                                                                                    2013
     Granting a special use permit to allow a limousine service at 1320 Milton      12-
7390 Road, Alton, Illinois                                                          18-
                                                                                    2013
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a used car lot at 2355 2-
7392 State Street, Alton, Illinois                                                  26-
                                                                                    2014
     Repealing a special use permit to allow a gun shop at the property located at  4-
7400 400 Landmarks Boulevard, Alton, Illinois                                       23-
                                                                                    2014
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a microbrewery at 400  5-
7408 Landmarks Boulevard, Alton, Illinois                                           28-
                                                                                    2014
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a duplex at 4 Front    6-
7414 Street, Alton, Illinois                                                        25-
                                                                                    2014
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a taxi service at 1102 6-
7415 Milton Street, Alton, Illinois                                                 25-
                                                                                    2014
                                                                                    12-
7436 Establishing an Enterprise Zone within the City of Alton                       10-
                                                                                    2014
     Granting a special use permit for a bed and breakfast at 510 Seminary Square,  3-
7448 Alton, Illinois                                                                11-
                                                                                    2015
     Granting a special use permit for a tattoo parlor at 558-560 E. Broadway,      7-
7469 Alton, Illinois                                                                22-
                                                                                    2015
7474 Granting a special use permit to allow a microbrewery at 1320 Milton Road,     9-9-
     Alton, Illinois                                                                2015
     Granting a special use permit to allow a catering business and limited service 12-
7501 restaurant at 1801 State Street, Alton, Illinois                               16-
                                                                                    2015
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a retail business for  12-
7502 the sale and trade of used vehicles at the property located at 46 E. Elm       16-
     Street, Alton, Illinois                                                        2015
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a nursing home and     12-
7503 assisted living facility at the property located at 823 Danforth, 845          16-
     Danforth, 300 McInerney, Alton, Illinois                                       2015
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a fitness center at    1-
7507 the property located at 900-918 Union, Alton, Illinois                         27-
                                                                                    2016
7510 Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of specific uses within   3-9-
     NAICS Code 332812 at the property located at 2115 College, Alton, Illinois     2016
     Granting a special use permit to operate a child day care center at 935        4-
7517 Tremont, Alton, Illinois                                                       27-
                                                                                    2016
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a motion picture and   4-
7519 sound recording studio at the property located at 115 Market Street, Alton,    27-
     Illinois                                                                       2016
     Rezoning property commonly known as 433 Foulds Avenue, Alton, Illinois, from   9-
7536 CR (Conservation/ Recreation District) to R-2 (Single-Family Residential       28-
     District)                                                                      2016
     Rezoning property commonly known as 1623 Main Street, Alton, Illinois, from C- 9-
7537 2 (General Commercial District) to R-2 (Single-Family Residential District)    28-
                                                                                    2016
     Granting a special use permit to allow a gun shop at the property located at   9-
7541 3685 E. Broadway Alton, Illinois                                               14-
                                                                                    2016
     Granting a special use permit to allow a used merchandise store at the         11-
7548 property located at 2318-2320 E. Broadway Alton, Illinois                      22-
                                                                                    2016
     Granting a special use permit to allow a 80' antenna at the property located   7-
7574 at 1002 Martin Luther King Drive, Alton, Illinois                              12-
                                                                                    2017
     Granting a special use permit to allow a grid tied ground mounted 3.84         8-
7581 kilowatt solar photovoltaic array at the property located at 2100 Fernwood     23-
     Place, Alton, Illinois                                                         2017
     Granting a special use permit to allow 5.67 kilowatt solar photovoltaic array  10-
7586 at the property located at 455 Bluff Street, Alton, Illinois                   11-
                                                                                    2017
     Granting a special use permit to allow digital display face on the sign        11-
7598 located at 309-317 Homer Adams Parkway, Alton, Illinois                        21-
                                                                                    2017
     Granting a special use permit to allow a hair salon at 3209 Edwards Street,    12-
7603 Alton, Illinois                                                                13-
                                                                                    2017
     Granting a special use permit to allow a pre-owned automotive sales dealership 12-
7604 at 1301 Milton Road, Alton, Illinois                                           13-
                                                                                    2017
     Granting a special use permit to allow a electronic message sign at 2801 Homer 2-
7619 Adams Parkway, Alton, Illinois                                                 28-
                                                                                    2018
     Granting a special use permit to allow Senior Services Plus to operate an      2-
7620 office at 3403 Agnes Street, Alton, Illinois                                   28-
                                                                                    2018
     Granting a special use permit to allow a motion picture and sound recording    4-
7632 industry at 626 E. Broadway, Alton, Illinois                                   25-
                                                                                    2018
     Rezoning 2411 Salu Street, and 2322 Washington Street, Alton, Illinois to C-2  4-
7637 (General Commercial District)                                                  25-
                                                                                    2018
     Granting a special use permit to allow a taxi service at 4130 Alby Street,     5-
7639 Alton, Illinois                                                                23-
                                                                                    2018
     Granting a special use permit to allow a commercial tower at 1651 Storey Lane, 7-
7646 Alton, Illinois                                                                11-
                                                                                    2018
     Granting a special use permit to allow a mini-warehouse and self storage at    7-
7654 2811, 2831, 2851 Homer Adams Parkway, Alton, Illinois                          25-
                                                                                    2018
7659 Granting a special use permit to allow a sound recording studio at 1320 Milton 8-8-
     Road, Alton, Illinois                                                          2018
     Granting a special use permit to allow electronic message signs at 3001        8-
7661 Washington Avenue, Alton, Illinois                                             22-
                                                                                    2018
     Granting a special use permit to allow a warehouse at 33 E. Delmar and 4120    8-
7662 Alby Street, Alton, Illinois                                                   22-
                                                                                    2018
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a social organization  8-
7663 within a Residential District at 2512 Amelia, Alton, Illinois                  22-
                                                                                    2018
     Granting a special use permit to allow a roof mount solar system at 2960 Shady 11-
7672 Place, Alton, Illinois                                                         28-
                                                                                    2018
     Amending the zoning map by establishing M-2 (General Industrial) Zoning for    3-
7691 property recently annexed to City of Alton                                     27-
                                                                                    2019
     Granting a special use permit to allow a grid tied ground mounted 5.22         5-8-
7695 kilowatt solar photovoltaic array at the property located at 821 Douglas       2019
     Street, Alton, Illinois
     Granting a special use permit to allow a grid tied ground mounted 7.68         5-8-
7696 kilowatt solar photovoltaic array at the property located at 512 William,      2019
     Alton, Illinois
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a used car lot at 48   5-
7697 E. Elm Street, Alton, Illinois                                                 22-
                                                                                    2019
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a used car lot at 1300 5-
7698 E. Broadway, Alton, Illinois                                                   22-
                                                                                    2019
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a BK's Lawn Care at    6-
7702 2513 Merchant Street, Alton, Illinois                                          26-
                                                                                    2019
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a landscape business   6-
7703 at 730 E. Broadway, Alton, Illinois                                            12-
                                                                                    2019
     Granting a special use permit to allow an additional digital display face on   6-
7704 the sign located at 309 - 317 Homer Adams Parkway Alton, Illinois              26-
                                                                                    2019
     Granting a special use permit to allow a guesthouse at the property located at 6-
7705 508 William Street, Alton, Illinois                                            12-
                                                                                    2019
     Granting a special use permit to allow a grid roof mount solar panel at the    6-
7706 property located at 2511 Donald Avenue, Alton, Illinois                        26-
                                                                                    2019
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a taxi service at 1317 6-
7707 Milton Road, Alton, Illinois                                                   26-
                                                                                    2019
     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a used car lot at 200  6-
7708 Dreith Street, Alton, Illinois                                                 26-
                                                                                    2019
     Granting a special use permit to allow a grid roof mount solar panel at the    6-
7709 property located at 3537 Western Avenue, Alton, Illinois                       26-
                                                                                    2019
     Amending Ordinance 7436 to add territory in and around the Village of Bethalto 6-
7710 to the Riverbend Enterprise Zone                                               26-
                                                                                    2019
     Rezoning 532 Alby Street, Alton, Illinois to C-4 (Downtown Commercial          4-
7752 District)                                                                      23-
                                                                                    2020
     Establishing and designating the Alton Square Business District - 2020 and     7-
7765 approving the business district plan for the Alton Square Business District    22-
                                                                                    2020
     Rezoning property commonly known as 1401 Washington, Alton, Illinois, from R-  10-
7814 2 (Single-Family Residential) to C-2 (General Commercial)                      13-
                                                                                    2021
     Rezoning property commonly known as 1840 N. Rodgers, Alton, Illinois, from C-  10-
7815 2 (General Commercial) to R-2 (Single-Family Residential)                      27-
                                                                                    2021
     Rezoning 1719 Clawson Street, Alton, Illinois from R-2 (Single-Family          9-
7854 Residential) and C-2 (General Commercial District) to R-4 (Multi-Family        28-
     Residential)                                                                   2022
     Approving a loading zone at Broadway to the north side of the Riverbend Head   4-
7876 Start & Family Services building in front of the Administrative Center         12-
     entryway                                                                       2023
     Approving a minor subdivision plat for Ameren Service Company of property at   3-
7877 727 Belle Street                                                               22-
                                                                                    2023
                                                                                    5-
7885 Amending Ord. 7436 to amend territory of the Riverbend Enterprise Zone         10-
                                                                                    2023
     Establishing and designating the Route 3 and Buckmaster Business District and  9-
7905 approving the Route 3 and Buckmaster Business District Plan within the City of 27-
     Alton, Illinois                                                                2023
7925 Approving a minor subdivision plat for Charles and Jo Ann Baumann of property  1- -
     at 2591 Union School Road                                                      2024
     Approving the rezoning of real estate owned by Timothy Brimer located at 400   2-
7929 Big Arch Rd From "R-1" and "R-2" Single-Family Residential District to "CR"    14-
     Conservation Recreation District                                               2024
     Amending Alton Ordinance No. 7436 To amend territory of the Riverbend          2-
7932 Enterprise Zone                                                                28-
                                                                                    2024
     Rezoning real estate owned by William E. Moyer and Verla R. Moyer located at   6-
7975 unaddressed N. Rodgers Ave from “C-2" General Commercial District to “R-1" 11-
     Single-Family Residential District                                             2025
                                                                                   
 
APPENDIX H -
ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
2459     Annexing parts of Lots 1 to 6 inclusive in Block 2 of       6-10-1953
         Stelzel's Addition to Tonsor Park
2609     Annexing Rock Springs Country Club, Inc.                    3-28-1956
2688     Annexing property owned by Upper Alton Cemetery             10-23-1957
2741     Annexing Laclede Steel Co. property                         7-2-1958
2744     Annexing Illinois Terminal Railroad Company property        7-23-1958
         Annexing part of U.S. Highway #67, designated as Federal
2752     Aid Route #4 extending from the east corporate limits of    8-13-1958
         the City to the west corporate limits of the Village of
         East Alton
2754     Annexing territory owned by the Laclede Steel Company       8-27-1958
2755     Annexing territory owned by Air Reduction Co.               8-27-1958
2759     Annexing territory owned by Local Union #3643, United Steel 9-24-1958
         Workers of America
2765     Annexing territory owned by Stolze Lumber Company           10-22-1958
2768     Annexing territory owned by the Alton Box Board Company     12-10-1958
2769     Annexing territory owned by the Union Electric Company      12-10-1958
         Annexing territory owned by the Cleveland, Cincinnati,
2770     Chicago and St. Louis Railway Company (the New York Central 12-10-1958
         Railroad Company, lessee)
2771     Annexing territory owned by the GM&O Land Company           12-10-1958
2772     Annexing territory owned by the Gulf, Mobile and Ohio       12-10-1958
         Railroad Company
2775     Annexing territory owned by the GM&O Land Company           1-14-1959
2781     Annexing Rodgers Park                                       1-28-1959
2788     Annexing Union Electric Company property                    3-11-1959
2789     Annexing territory owned by Local Union #3643, United Steel 3-11-1959
         Workers of America
2790     Annexing territory owned by Air Reduction Company,          3-11-1959
         Incorporated
2791     Annexing territory owned by Laclede Steel Company           3-11-1959
2800     Annexing territory owned by Stolze Lumber Company           3-25-1959
2810     Annexing certain property owned by John H. Wolf and Clara   5-13-1959
         E. Wolf
2815     Annexing property commonly known as the Sheehan Tract       6-10-1959
2831     Annexing territory owned by Norval J. Mitchell and          7-22-1959
         Charlotte M. Mitchell
         Annexing part of U.S. Highway #67 and designated as Federal
2850     Aid Route #4, extending from the east corporate limits of   8-12-1959
         the City to the southeasterly right-of-way line of the
         C.C.C. & St.L. Railroad
2870     Annexing Delmar School                                      9-23-1959
2877     Annexing certain property as described in this Ordinance    10-28-1959
2898     Annexing territory owned by the Western Military Academy    12-9-1959
2899     Annexing part of F.A. Route #132 and a part of Delmar       11-4-1959
         Avenue
2900     Annexing territory owned by Alton Brick Co.                 11-4-1959
2916     Annexing territory owned by the Laclede Alton Works         12-9-1959
         Employees' Credit Union
2917     Annexing certain property owned by Frank Schmidt, Jr. and   12-9-1959
         located in Tillman's Subdivision
2926     Annexing a portion of F.A. Route #4 (U.S. Route #67)        12-23-1959
2927     Annexing property containing less than 60 acres and which   12-23-1959
         property is wholly bounded by the City
2928     Annexing property containing less than 60 acres and which   12-23-1959
         property is wholly bounded by the City
2929     Annexing property containing less than 60 acres and which   12-23-1959
         property is wholly bounded by the City
2930     Annexing property containing less than 60 acres and which   12-23-1959
         property is wholly bounded by the City
2931     Annexing property containing less than 60 acres which       12-23-1959
         property is wholly bounded by the City (Maggos Property)
         Annexing property containing less than 60 acres in area
2932     which is wholly bounded by the City and the Village of East 12-23-1959
         Alton
2933     Annexing a portion of Seminary Street                       1-27-1960
2934     Annexing certain property containing less than 60 acres     2-10-1960
         which is wholly bounded by the City
2941     Annexing a certain tract of property situated easterly of   2-24-1960
         Chessen Lane
2942     Annexing a tract of land owned by Laclede Steel Company     3-9-1960
2945     Annexing territory owned by Alton Brick Company             2-10-1960
2953     Annexing certain property situated within Wood River        3-25-1960
         Township
         Annexing certain property hereinafter described to the City
2975     pursuant to order of the County Court, County of Madison,   6-8-1960
         State of IL, entered May 24, 1960
2980     Annexing certain property owned by Union Electric Company   7-27-1960
2992     Annexing certain school property which is completely        7-11-1960
         surrounded by the City
2993     Annexing certain area east of Seminary Road which is        7-11-1960
         completely surrounded by the City
2994     Annexing certain area west of S.A.R. #4 which is completely 7-11-1960
         surrounded by the City
3077     Annexing certain parcel of real property owned by Laclede   7-12-1961
         Steel Company
3093     Annexing territory used for highway purposes and for        10-25-1961
         territory owned by H&G Realty Corporation
3111     Annexing certain property owned by John J. Conley and Ara   5-9-1962
         Conley to the City
3123     Annexing certain property owned by Harry E. Richey and      6-27-1962
         Elizabeth Richey
3124     Annexing certain property owned by Emma St. Peters          6-27-1962
3125     Annexing certain property owned by Joseph F. Stork and      6-27-1962
         Nellie C. Stork
3127     Annexing a certain parcel of real property owned by Laclede 6-27-1962
         Steel Company
3128     Annexing 272 feet of U.S. Route #67 immediately north of    6-27-1962
         Delmar Avenue
3216     Annexing certain property owned by Wickenhouser             1-22-1964
         Construction Company, Inc., and located in Godfrey Township
3279     Annexing certain property known as 1020 Cardinal Street     2-10-1965
         Annexing certain property containing 1.84 acres whichlies
3304     within the boundaries of the property recently annexed by   8-11-1965
         the City from the Alton Brick Company
3431     Reannexation of certain property known as 1020 Cardinal     7-12-1967
         Street
3456     Annexing certain property owned by Illinois Terminal        10-25-1967
         Railroad Co.
3479     Annexing certain properties situated north of Delmar Avenue 3-27-1968
3543     Annexing certain property owned by F.C.W., Inc.             7-9-1968
3572     Amending Ordinance #3543, above mentioned                   9-24-1969
         Annexing a part of Tract #2 in Henry W. Buckmaster's
3655     Subdivision of the NE1/4 of Section 1, T5N, R10W of Third   4-28-1971
         Principal Meridian
         Annexing certain territory along and west of Humbert Street
         Road and certain tracts on Delmar Avenue east of Buckmaster
3749     Avenue and certain tracts on north side of Delmar Avenue    6-14-1972
         east of Brick Company property and certain tracts on south
         side of Delmar Avenue west of Buckmaster Avenue
3833     Annexing certain property at the intersection of Delmar and 8-22-1973
         Short Streets
3834     Annexing certain property along East Delmar Road            8-22-1973
3998     Annexing certain property known as 3306 Humbert Road        6-25-1975
4046     Annexing certain surrounded territory                       11-12-1975
4091     Annexing certain property of the Alton Housing Authority    4-14-1976
4239     Annexing certain territory along Beltline Parkway           9-14-1977
4290     Annexing certain properties situated in the 1900 block of   3-8-1978
         Beltline Parkway
4329     Annexing certain properties situated at 407 East Delmar     7-12-1978
4374     Annexing certain property situated in the Godfrey Township  10-25-1978
4375     Annexing certain property situated in the Godfrey Township  10-25-1978
4488     Annexing certain property situated along the Fosterburg     2-13-1980
         Road in Foster Township
         Annexing certain Wood River Drainage and Levee District
4494     property in the south half of Section 17, and the north     3-26-1980
         half of Section 20, Township 5 North, Range 9 West of Third
         Principal Meridian
4527     Annexing the west 165 feet of Lot 4 in S1/2SW1/4 Section    6-25-1980
         36-6-10 Madison County, IL
4558     Annexing certain property situated in the 1100 block of     10-8-1980
         Douglas Street
4588     Annexing certain property situated in Madison County, IL    1-14-1981
         Annexing certain property situated in the Southeast Quarter
4596     of the Southwest Quarter of Section 31, Township 6 North,   2-25-1981
         Range 9 West of the Third Principal Meridian
4646     Annexing certain property situated in the Fosterburg        10-14-1981
         Township
         Annexing certain property situated in the North one-half of
4653     Section 4, Township 5 North, Range 9 West of the Third      11-11-1981
         Principal Meridian and consisting of approximately 75.54
         acres
         Annexing Lots 3 and 4 in Middlebrook, a subdivision in the
4722     Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 6,    9-22-1982
         T5N, R9W of the 3rd P.M.
4766     Annexing certain property situated in the Godfrey Township  6-8-1983
4767     Annexing certain property situated in the Foster Township   6-8-1983
4792     Annexing certain property known as Marvin Subdivision and   8-24-1983
         situated along Fosterburg Road
         Annexing a tract of land in the Southwest Quarter of
4877     Section 17, and the Northwest Quarter of Section 20,        9-12-1984
         Township 5 North, Range 9 West, of the 3rd P.M.
4883     Annexing certain property known as 26 E. Delmar             10-24-1984
4943     Annexing certain property known as 40 East Delmar           8-14-1985
4998     Annexing certain property known as the St. Mary's Roman     3-12-1986
         Catholic Church Tract
4999     Annexing certain property known as the Balaco Tract         3-12-1986
5000     Annexing certain property known as the Baron Tract          3-12-1986
5031     Annexing approximately 28 acres owned by Clifford and Nina  5-14-1986
         Abraham
         Annexing certain property in Middlebrook, a subdivision in
5050     the Northeast Quarter of the Northeast Quarter of Section 6 7-9-1986
         Township 5 North, Range 9 West of the Third Principal
         Meridian, located in Madison County, IL
5051     Annexing certain property known as Moonlight/Castelli       8-13-1986
         tracts
         Annexing certain property in section 31, township 6 north,
5058     range 9 west, more commonly referred to as Lotteo Balaco    7-28-1986
         tract
5059     Annexing certain property known as Barth tract              7-28-1986
5060     Annexing certain property known as 926 Logan Street         7-28-1986
5065     Annexing certain property consisting of approximately 220   7-28-1986
         acres
5066     Annexing certain property consisting of approximately 120   8-13-1986
         acres (DU Chemin)
5073     Annexing certain property known as 1000 Logan Street        9-10-1986
5111     Annexation by operation of law of Oakwood and other tracts  1-28-1987
5195     Annexing certain property known as Reed tract               12-9-1987
5204     Annexing certain property known as the Moonier tract        2-10-1988
5211     Annexing certain property known as Schrimpf tract           2-24-1988
5213     Annexing certain property known as the Church tract         3-9-1988
5252     Annexing certain property known as the Thomeczek tract      7-27-1988
5325     Annexing certain property known as the Romeros tract        4-26-1989
5447     Annexing certain territory (Hopp Hollow Subdivision, 16     4-9-1990
         acres)
5500     Annexing certain territory (Mississippi Lime)               12-19-1990
5682     Amending the amended preannexation agreement of April 23,   7-22-1992
         1990, between Edward C. McPike and the city
5701     Annexing certain territory (containing 2.40 acres being     9-23-1992
         Castelli property)
5809     Annexing certain territory (unincorporated territory        9-8-1993
         containing 60 acres or less)
6407     Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement        7-14-1999
         between the city and the United States Of America
6408     Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement        7-14-1999
         between the city and Larry, Susan, Paul, and Jennifer Yost
6416     Annexing certain territory to the city (the U.S. property)  7-28-1999
6417     Annexing certain territory to the city (the Yost property)  7-28-1999
         Annexation of unoccupied territory lying along the boundary
6623     line between the village of East Alton and the city of      7-10-2002
         Alton to the city of Alton, Illinois
         Annexing certain territory to the city of Alton, Madison
6659     County, Illinois (Stutz Farms property - approximately 30   6-12-2002
         acres)
6781     Authorizing the execution of an annexation agreement for    11-25-2003
         the development known as Heritage Woods
6782     Annexing certain territory (known as Heritage Woods) to the 11-25-2003
         city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois
6890     Authorizing the execution of a pre-annexation agreement     8-10-2005
         between the city of Alton and Stutz Brothers partnership
6959     Annexation of property belonging to Stutz Brothers          6-28-2006
         partnership
6967     Annexing certain territory to the city of Alton, Madison    8-23-2006
         County, Illinois (Fosterburg Road)
7025     Annexing certain territory to the city of Alton, Madison    10-24-2007
         County, Illinois (3542 Fosterburg Road)
7101     Annexing certain territory to the city of Alton, Madison    11-12-2008
         County, Illinois (3530 Fosterburg Road)
7121     Approving an annexation agreement between the city of Alton 1-29-2009
         and Fosterburg-255, LLC
7139     Confirming an annexation agreement between the city of      5-13-2009
         Alton and Fosterburg-255, LLC
7388     Annexing certain territory to the city of Alton, Madison    12-11-2013
         County, Illinois (3777 Culp Lane, Bethalto)
7533     Annexing certain territory to the City of Alton, Madison    8-24-2016
         County, Illinois
7665     Approving an annexation agreement between the City of Alton 9-12-2018
         and Larry Manns
7666     Annexing certain territory to the City of Alton, Madison    9-12-2018
         County, Illinois
7679     Approving an annexation agreement between the City of Alton 12-19-2018
         and Larry Manns
7680     Annexing approximately 286 acres to the City of Alton,      12-19-2018
         Madison County, Illinois
 
APPENDIX I -
VACATING PROPERTY
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
1237     Vacating part of Pike Street lying west of Main Street      2-18-1918
1370     Vacating portion of Glen Avenue                             6-14-1922
1410     Vacating a part of Glen Avenue                              8-8-1923
1448     Vacating certain portions of Clark Street and Mills Avenue  5-28-1924
1528     Vacating a certain strip of land in Block 42 in Salu        8-26-1925
         Addition to one George Ebbler
1531     Vacating certain streets and parts of streets in Delaplain  9-23-1925
         and Smith's Addition to Upper Alton
1532     Vacating of Averill Avenue                                   
1551     Vacating a strip of Milnor Avenue                           3-10-1926
1560     Vacating an alley running from Seventh Street to Union      4-14-1926
         Street at the end of Vine Street
1596     Vacating a part of Pear Street                              1-12-1927
1598     Vacating certain portions of Pearl Street                   1-9-1927
1599     Vacating certain portions of Pearl Street                   1-12-1927
1635     Vacating part of Madison Avenue and 21st Street             6-22-1927
1669     Vacating portion of Highland Avenue                         6-13-1928
1681     Vacating a part of alley in Block 18 of Hohmann's           10-10-1928
         Subdivision of Hunter's North Liberty Addition
         Vacating a part of Fifth Street from the east line of Pearl
1687     Street easterly to the west line of C.H. Cegar's            12-26-1928
         Resubdivision of C.C. Chamberlain's Addition to the City
1703     Vacating portion of Broad or Humbert Street                 6-12-1929
1717     Vacating an alley in Block #97 of Godfrey and Gilman's      9-11-1929
         Addition
1721     Vacating a portion of the alley running through Block #19   2-12-1930
         of Salu Addition from north to south
1727     Vacating a certain street in Colt's Addition to Upper Alton 4-23-1930
         (now Alton)
1728     Vacating the east part of an alley in Block #18, City       5-28-1930
         proper
1738     Vacating a part of Hamilton Street between Belle and West   2-25-1931
         Ninth Streets
1739     Vacating a part of Harrison Street                          2-25-1931
1977     Vacating certain streets and alleys or portions thereof     7-28-1937
         (Vine, Monument, Plum, Shields, etc.)
1990     Vacating a certain street in the City                       1-12-1938
1993     Vacating 2 feet of Milnor Avenue                            2-23-1938
1998     Vacating portions of Shields St. and Bozza St.              4-13-1938
2010     Vacating a portion of Langdon Street between Front Street   1-11-1939
         and East Broadway
2024     Vacating certain streets and alleys or portions thereof     5-24-1939
         (8th Street)
2031     Vacating certain alley in Colt's Addition to Upper Alton    12-13-1939
         (now Alton)
2050     Vacating part of Fifth Street and part of Market Street     4-9-1941
         (Duncan-Rubenstein)
         Vacating a portion of the east side of Easton Street lying
2090     immediately north of East Broadway and abutting the west    4-22-1942
         side of Lot 1, Block 10, Alton City proper (see Lease #9)
         Vacating that portion of 7th Street lying between the west
2127     boundary of Market Street and the east boundary of Piasa    8-25-1943
         Street
2130     Vacating the abandoned portion of Washington Street, lying  9-22-1943
         easterly of Block 42 in Salu Addition to Upper Alton
         Vacating a certain part of Front Street or "The Levee" in
         the City, immediately south of and abutting Lots 37 and 32
2171     in Ninian Edwards' Subdivision of part of east end of Block 2-13-1946
         91 of William Russell's plat of a part of Lower Alton, now
         a part of the City
2173     Vacating a part of a certain alley in Block 68 of Godfrey   3-27-1946
         and Gilman's Addition
2185     Vacating alley in Block 68 of Godfrey and Gilman's Addition 4-24-1946
2188     Vacating State Street between West Broadway and Front       4-24-1946
         Street
         Vacating that portion of Virden Street which lies south of
2191     the intersection of Lloyd and Virden Streets and east of    6-26-1946
         Lot #5 and west of Lots #4, 3, 2 and 1 in Mather's
         Subdivision
2236     Vacating a portion of a certain alley in Zephyr Heights     8-13-1947
         Subdivision
         Vacating an alley in Josiah Randle's Subdivision (portion
2289     of a 161/2 foot alleyway running north and south between    10-13-1948
         Powhattan Street and Amelia Street)
         Vacating a certain part of Illinois Avenue, Palmer Avenue
2375     and Morrison Avenue in East End Place (Owens-Illinois Glass 8-22-1951
         Co.)
         Vacating a portion of an alley in Yager Park (alley running
2377     north and south and lying directly and immediately to the   10-10-1951
         east of and adjacent to Lot 8 Block 16, Yager Park
2455     Vacating a portion of Langdon Street between Front Street   4-22-1953
         and East Broadway
2487     Vacating part of the plat of Krug's Subdivision             3-10-1954
2531     Vacating Plum Street between Illinois Terminal right- of-   4-14-1954
         way and Mississippi River (Plum Street)
2586     Close the northeasterly 69.7 feet of an alley in Maguire's  10-13-1955
         Subdivision
         Close the alley running west from Lincoln Street between
2592     Danforth and Douglas Streets for a distance of 6071/2 feet  11-9-1955
         in Block 7 of Turner's Subdivision
         Vacating a portion of an alley in Block 39 of Hunter or
2602     Russell's Addition to Alton, east 100 feet of a 12 foot     2-8-1956
         alley
         Vacating a public alley running east and west between
2639     Clawson and Seminary Streets and running north from         12-26-1956
         Powhattan to its south
2646     Vacating a part of Hazel Street                             2-13-1957
2756     Vacating a portion of Cooper Street near its intersection   9-10-1958
         with Fletcher Street
2757     Vacating Curdie Avenue, running between Milnor Avenue on    10-8-1958
         the north and Glen Avenue on the south
2835     Vacating Steel Street between Lead Street and Sering Avenue 6-8-1959
2878     Vacating a portion of Cut Street immediately south of       10-28-1955
         Broadway
2886     Vacating an alley in Threde's Subdivision                   10-19-1959
2967     Vacate a part of Elm Street in Block 6, J.C. Tibbett's      6-8-1960
         Subdivision
3018     Vacating certain property in the furtherance of the         9-28-1960
         construction of Federal Aid Route #155
3067     Vacating a portion of alley known as Hunters Court between  4-26-1961
         Oak Street and Central Avenue
3095     Vacating a portion of Mitchell Street near its intersection 10-25-1961
         with Belle Street
         Vacating Spring Street between a point 300 feet north of
3148     the center line of the level of the Wood River Drainage and 11-28-1962
         Levee District to the south edge of Front Street, as now
         located
         Vacating an alley running northerly from Third Street
3154     between Henry and Langdon Streets and a portion of an alley 1-23-1963
         running generally in an easterly-westerly direction between
         Langdon Street and Henry Street
         Vacating portions of Vine Street and Monument Street, south
3164     of East Broadway, and the alley running east and west       2-27-1963
         through Block 7 of Hunter's Addition
3172     Vacating a portion of Monument Street                       4-24-1963
3179     Vacating a portion of Humbert Street                        6-26-1963
         Vacating portions of Eighth Street and the unnamed alley
3192     running north and south through Blocks 61 and 62 of Godfrey 9-25-1963
         and Gilman's Addition (Amended Ord. #3254)
3200     Vacating a portion of Hamilton Street                       11-13-1963
         Vacating the 15 foot alley running east and west between
3201     Broadway and Plainview Terrace, bounded west by Main Street 11-13-1963
         (Amended Ord. #3236)
3203     Vacating a portion of a 15 foot alley behind the Elm Street 12-11-1963
         Garment Factory located in Maguire's Subdivision
         Vacating an unnamed alley running north and south between
3220     Lots 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34 on the east and Lots 25, 26, 27, 2-26-1964
         28 and 29 on the west, all in Penitentiary Plat Addition
         Amending Ordinance #3201 as amended, being an Ordinance
         vacating the 15 foot alley running east and west between
3236     Broadway and Plainview Terrace, bounded west by Main        6-24-1964
         Street, to increase the time limit for filing of an
         indemnification agreement
         Amending Ordinance #3192 as amended, being an Ordinance
3254     vacating portions of Eighth Street and the unnamed alley    9-9-1964
         north and south through Blocks 61 and 62 of Godfrey and
         Gilman's Addition
3261     Vacating a certain tract of land in Block 3 of River View   11-12-1964
         Subdivision
3368     Vacating a portion of alley known as Seibold Court between  8-24-1966
         West Fourth Street and West Fifth Street
3395     Vacating a dead-end alley extending south from Pearl Street 2-8-1967
         between Central Avenue and Arch Street
3421     Vacating an unnamed alley running between Arthur Street and 4-26-1967
         Pine Street
3422     Vacating Sidney Street west of Lampert Street               4-26-1967
3459     Vacating a certain alley running 590 feet south from        12-13-1967
         Northdale Drive along the west line of J. Krug Subdivision
         Vacating a portion of a certain unnamed alley running
3464     westerly of Sering Street between its intersection with     1-10-1968
         Denny and Krum Streets
3472     Vacating Golf Course Road between F.A. Route #132 and       3-13-1968
         Oakwood Avenue
3500     Vacating a part of Mulberry Street situated north of        8-14-1968
         Sanborne Street
3507     Vacating a portion of Langdon Street                        11-13-1968
3520     Vacating a portion of Trowbridge Road                       12-11-1968
3534     Vacating the alleyway in Block 31 in Salu Addition          4-9-1969
3536     Vacating certain streets and parts thereof in Alta Sita     4-9-1969
         Subdivision
         Vacating an alley between Belle and Piasa Streets from
3632     Fifth Street north to Block 1 of Bowards Addition (Amended  1-12-1971
         Ord. #3636)
         Amending Ordinance #3632 to provide reverter provisions for
3636     vacated alley between Belle and Piasa Streets from Fifth    1-13-1971
         Street north to Block 1 of Bowards Addition
3688     Vacating 12 inches of Richmond Street                       8-11-1971
3698     Vacating an alley between Lots 1 and 2 and Lots 11 and 12,  10-13-1971
         Block 62, Godfrey and Gilman's Addition
3721     Vacating a parcel of land between Lots 28 and 29, Wickcrest 2-23-1972
         Subdivision
3730     Vacating a portion of Twelfth Street                        3-22-1972
3731     Vacating an alley between Lots 1 through 4 and 11 through   3-22-1972
         14, Block 62, Godfrey and Gilman's Addition
3746     Vacating Hazel Street                                       6-15-1972
3813     Vacating a certain portion of Thirteenth Street             6-13-1973
         Vacating a portion of a certain alley lying between
3902     Anderson Street and Winler Street southerly from Sunnyside  3-13-1974
         Street for a distance of 120 feet
3904     Vacating a portion of St. Joseph Street                     3-13-1974
         Vacating the easterly 30 feet of the 60 foot right-of- way
3905     north of the culdesac on Rock Springs Drive adjacent to Lot 3-27-1974
         12, Herb's Addition
         Vacating part of Buckmaster Avenue between east line of
3950     Tract 2 and the west line of Tract 8 in Henry W.            9-25-1974
         Buckmaster's Subdivision
         Vacating unnamed alley between Ida and Denny Streets
3982     running westerly from Sering Avenue to unnamed alley        4-23-1975
         running north and south between Ida and Denny Streets
3983     Vacating Burling Drive between Lots 17 and 18, River        4-23-1975
         Terrace Subdivision
         Vacating a portion of an alley located 260 feet south of
4109     the southeast corner of the intersection of Donnelly Street 5-26-1976
         with Olmstead Way, thence east a distance of 290 feet to
         intersection with Oakwood Avenue
         Vacating part of a sixteen foot wide alley west of Scovell
4118     Street between Lots 1, 2, 3 and 4 in Block 2 of Bostwick's  7-14-1976
         Second Addition
         Vacating a certain public right of way appearing to be an
         extension of West Nineteenth Street, and being a width of
4139     30 feet and a length of 2771/2 feet west from the west side 10-27-1976
         of Hayden Street and lying south of Lots 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11
         of Hayden's Second Subdivision
4213     Vacating a portion of an unnamed alley lying easterly on    6-22-1977
         Clawson Street between Salu Street and Locust Street
4214     Vacating a portion of East Delmar                           6-22-1977
4240     Vacating an unnamed alley running south off Trube Street    9-28-1977
         parallel with the 200 Block of East Elm Street
4263     Vacating a portion of East Delmar Avenue                    12-28-1977
4301     Amending Ordinance #4263 (vacating a portion of East        4-12-1978
         Delmar)
4350     Vacating a certain alley running north from Pearl Street to 8-23-1978
         Spruce Street and lying between Liberty and Osage Streets
4306     Vacating a portion of Second Street as originally platted   4-26-1978
4471     Vacating that part of Exchange Street lying between Deneen  10-10-1979
         Street and Shelley Street
4517     Vacating the westerly part of Shelley Street and the north  5-14-1980
         50 feet of Exchange Street
         Vacating a certain unnamed alley lying between Jersey
4537     Street and Washington Avenue and running north of the 2400  6-9-1980
         block of Judson Street
4549     (Rep. by Ord. 6108, 12-18-1996)                              
         Vacating a certain alley between Elm Street and Valley View
4554     Drive south from the 300 block of Glover Street to          10-8-1980
         Hoffmeister Street
4571     Vacating a portion of Spring Street                         11-12-1980
4608     Vacating a part of South Road (not open) in the crossroads  6-10-1981
         plaza
         Vacating a certain alley located between 2418 and 2420 Main
4642     Street, running east and west between Main and an unnamed   10-14-1981
         alley running north and south between Salu Street and
         Locust Street
4701     Vacating a certain alley between California and Thomas      7-14-1982
         Streets from 3410 California east to Doerr Street
4712     Vacating a certain portion of Humbert Street                8-25-1982
4715     Vacating a certain alley running north from Rozier Street   9-8-1982
4736     Vacating a certain unnamed alley running north on the east  1-12-1983
         side of 2438 Arthur Street
4791     Vacating an unimproved street known as Cover Street         8-24-1983
         Vacating an unnamed alley lying between Washington and Main
4864     Street, and running north and south from Moore to Claire    8-8-1984
         Avenue
4865     Vacating a certain alley adjacent to and directly behind    8-8-1984
         510 Beacon Street
4871     Vacating a portion of a certain alley running north and     8-22-1984
         south, adjacent to 2802 North Street
4878     Vacating a certain unnamed alley running parallel with Alby 9-26-1984
         Street between 16th and 17th Streets
4930     Vacating a portion of a certain alley running between       7-24-1985
         Badley and Fullerton Streets
4962     Vacating a portion of a certain alley running adjacent to   10-23-1985
         premises known as 1643 South Rodgers Street
4981     Vacating a portion of an unnamed alley between Mather       12-11-1985
         Street and premises owned by Elm Street Presbyterian Church
5026     Vacating the unnamed alley running east and west between    4-23-1986
         Maxey and Judson Streets
5027     Vacating a portion of Ida Street which is west of Lampert   4-23-1986
         Street
5032     Vacating the unnamed alley between Fullerton and Badley     5-28-1986
         Streets running westerly from Hastings Street
5045     Vacating an unnamed alley running approximately 350 feet    7-9-1986
         from Trube Street to the railroad right of way
5081     Vacating a portion of a certain alley located in the 600    10-8-1986
         Block of Edmond Street
5118     Vacating an unnamed alley adjacent to Lots 23, 24, 25 and   2-25-1987
         26 of Holly Hill Subdivision
         Vacating an unnamed alley between and parallel to Hampton
5150     and Highland Streets running from Webster Street to Elliott 6-24-1987
         Street
5161     Vacating a portion of Alton Street between Fifth and Sixth  7-22-1987
         Streets
5199     Vacating a portion of an unnamed alley between Mather and   1-13-1988
         Rozier Streets
5221     Vacating a portion of Wilson Avenue                         4-27-1988
5222     Vacating an unnamed alley running east and west between     4-27-1988
         Herbert and Milton Road
5230     Vacating an unnamed alley behind 2710 Salu Street           5-25-1988
5241     Vacating an unnamed alley between 2306 Powhattan and 2302   6-22-1988
         Humbert
5242     Vacating a portion of High Street between Dry Street and an 6-22-1988
         unnamed alley
5244     Vacating a portion of an unnamed alley adjacent to 3215     7-13-1988
         Kendall
5248     Vacating an unnamed alley running between Shelly Street and 7-13-1988
         Deneen Avenue
5254     Vacating portions of William Street, Cross Street and       7-27-1988
         Atwood Street
         Vacating a portion of an unnamed alley running north and
5256     south between West Ninth and West Tenth Streets and one     7-27-1988
         block west of Belle Street
5278     Vacating an unnamed alley in Block 53 of the original Town  8-10-1988
         of Alton
         Vacating a portion of Atwood Street beginning with a
5294     previous vacation and running approximately 100 feet in a   10-12-1988
         westerly direction to the property line dividing Lots 10
         and 11 in Verdemont Subdivision
5296     Vacating an unnamed alley running 80 feet in a southerly    10-12-1988
         direction from its intersection with Atwood Street
5301     Vacating an unimproved portion of the 1600 Block of         11-9-1988
         Greenwood
5307     Vacating a portion of Cut Street immediately southerly of   10-26-1988
         Broadway
5312     Vacating an unnamed alley running north to south between    1-11-1989
         Denny Street and Ida Street, parallel with Main Street
         Vacating of platted streets and alley in connection with
5341     the construction of Federal Aid Primary (FAP) Route 10      6-14-1989
         (Relocated U.S. Route 67)
         Vacating of streets and alleys in connection with the
5344     proposed construction of the New Clark Bridge over and      6-14-1989
         across the Mississippi River
5366     Vacating George Street for a distance of 120 feet in a      8-9-1989
         northerly direction from its intersection with 12th Street
5370     Vacating an unimproved section of Mill Street               8-23-1989
         Vacating an unnamed alley between Amelia Street and
5378     Bostwick Street west of Clawson Street and east of Main     9-27-1989
         Street
         Vacating an unnamed alley parallel to and south of Royal
5387     Street which is adjacent to Lots 9, 10, 11 and 12 of        10-25-1989
         Clement Place Subdivision
         Vacating an unnamed alley which runs parallel with State
5402     Street between Mitchell Street and Miller Street commencing 11-8-1989
         with its intersection of Mitchell Street and extending 100
         feet toward Miller Street
         Vacating an unnamed alley running parallel between 10th and
5434     11th Streets immediately west of the rear of the property   6-13-1990
         located at 1000-1002 Belle Street
5450     Vacating an unnamed alley lying between Ida Street and      5-23-1990
         Denny Street, running between Lampert and Main Street
         Vacating an unnamed alley which runs parallel with State
5451     Street between Mitchell Street and Miller Street commencing 5-23-1990
         with its intersection of Mitchell Street and extending 100
         feet toward Miller Street
5453     Vacating an unnamed alley between 2134 and 2202 State       6-13-1990
         Street
         Vacating an unnamed alley which runs north and south
5473     between Elm Street and Delmar and lying between State       8-22-1990
         Street and Tibbit Street
         Vacating an unnamed alley easement measuring 15 feet x 211
5484     feet south and west from Pearl Street 165 feet south of     10-10-1990
         Pearl Street
5514     Vacating a portion of Powhattan Street from Elizabeth       1-9-1991
         Street to the Rock Springs Golf Course
5517     Vacating that portion of Humbert Street between Amelia and  1-23-1991
         Ebbeler
5518     Vacating a part of Easton Street north of 12th Street       2-13-1991
5537     Vacating that portion of an unnamed east-west alley between 4-24-1991
         East 5th Street and East 4th Street
5566     Vacating an unnamed alley which runs immediately behind     7-24-1991
         2304 Holman
         Vacating that portion of an unnamed alley which runs across
5569     the east side of the property commonly known as 25151/      7-24-1991
         2 Hazel
5571     Vacating the undeveloped part of Hazel Street running south 7-24-1991
         from Powhatten along the property known as 2303 Powhatten
         Vacating that portion of an unnamed alley which runs across
5607     the rear of the properties immediately behind 1016, 1024    10-23-1991
         and 1026 Washington
5608     Vacating the southerly 16 feet of Harold Avenue to the new  11-27-1991
         owners of Piasa Corners shopping center
5689     Vacating a portion of Godfrey Street                        8-26-1992
5690     Vacating an alley in Benson and Giberson subdivision        8-26-1992
5721     Vacating an alley in Kendall Place subdivision              12-9-1992
5722     Vacating a portion of Moore Street between Humbert Street   12-9-1992
         and Washington Avenue
5727     Vacating portions of George and East 13th Streets           1-13-1993
5740     Vacating a portion of Godfrey Street                        3-10-1993
5741     Vacating an alley in block 63 of Godfrey and Gilman's       3-10-1993
         addition
5752     Vacating a portion of Hazel Street                          4-28-1993
5791     Vacating approximately 134.2 feet, more or less of Winter   9-8-1993
         Street north of its intersection with Degenhardt Street
5824     Vacating a portion of Front Street between Ridge and Henry  10-27-1993
         Streets
5852     Vacating a portion of Clawson Street                        2-23-1994
5884     Vacating unnamed alleys in the Cole-Clark first subdivision 6-22-1994
         of upper Alton and retaining certain rights
5892     Requiring public notice prior to vacating city-owned        7-13-1994
         property
         Amending ordinance 4981 vacating a portion of an unnamed
5895     alley between Mather Street and premises owned by Elm       7-27-1994
         Street Presbyterian church
5908     Vacating a portion of Claire Avenue                         9-28-1994
5934     Vacating unimproved portions of the right of way of Dickson 12-14-1994
         Street, Narrow Street and an unnamed alley
6134     Releasing the sewer easement previously established in      2-26-1997
         ordinance 2188
6315     Vacating an alley running south from Moore Avenue between   8-12-1998
         its intersection with Hazel and Humbert Street
6363     Vacating the west 132 feet of an unnamed alley running east 1-13-1999
         to west between Locust and Moore Streets
         Vacating that portion of Cherry Street located between
6393     Broadway and an unnamed alley which lies south of the       6-9-1999
         Springman Lumber building
6394     Vacating an unnamed alley located between 2306 and 2400     6-9-1999
         Mills Street
6395     Vacating that portion of Lawton Street located east of an   6-9-1999
         unnamed alley which lies east of Armstrong Street
6396     Vacating a triangular parcel of real property located at    5-26-1999
         1008 Milton Road
6409     Vacating a portion of Scovell Street and an alley located   7-28-1999
         between Scovell Street and Washington Avenue
6458     Vacating a portion of 13th Street                           1-26-2000
6460     Vacating an unnamed alley located east of Cardinal Street   2-9-2000
6489     Vacating and unnamed alley running east and west between    2-28-2001
         Ridge and Spring Streets south of Broadway
6490     Vacating a triangular parcel of real property located on    5-24-2000
         Worden Avenue and adjacent to 1717 Worden Avenue
         Vacating Feldwisch Avenue in its entirety, Bozza Street
         between East Broadway and Washington Avenue, and an unnamed
6565     public right of way running south from Feldwisch toward     4-11-2001
         Bozza and an unnamed public right of way running south from
         Feldwisch Avenue to Bozza Street
         Vacating a portion of Elfgen Street from Kirsch Street east
6570     to the end of Elfgen Street and an unnamed alley which runs 3-28-2001
         north and south from Elfgen Street to Delmar Avenue
         parallel to and west of State Street
6601     Vacating St. Anthony's Way west of Central Avenue           9-12-2001
6619     Vacating an unnamed alley running east from Lincoln between 11-14-2001
         Danforth and Douglas Streets
6671     Vacating a portion of Shaw Street west of McInerney Street  8-28-2002
         Vacating a portion of Elfgen Street from Kirsch Street east
6707     to the end of Elfgen Street and an unnamed alley which runs 1-22-2003
         north and south from Elfgen Street to Delmar Avenue
         parallel to and west of State Street
         Vacating a portion of Elfgen Street from Kirsch Street east
6790     to the end of Elfgen Street and an unnamed alley which runs 12-17-2003
         north and south from Elfgen Street to Delmar Avenue
         parallel to and west of State Street
6932     Vacating a portion of an alley running west from Mamie      1-11-2006
         Street
6985     (Rep. by Ord. 7003, 5-9-2007)                                
6986     Vacating a portion of a twenty foot easement between Riley  12-20-2006
         Avenue and Tonsor Road
6990     Vacating a portion of an unnamed alley between State Street 1-24-2007
         and William Street
7003     Repealing the vacation of a portion of Dickson Street       5-9-2007
7016     Vacating an additional portion of an unnamed alley between  8-22-2007
         State Street and William Street
         Vacating a portion of Central Avenue, a portion of St.
7031     Joseph Avenue, a portion of Wallace Street and all of       11-14-2007
         Virginia Street in the City of Alton, Illinois
7034     Vacating a portion of Pearl Street                          10-10-2007
7074     Vacating a portion of Easton Street                         4-23-2008
7208     Vacating a portion of Alton Street and a portion of Fifth   6-23-2010
         Street
7219     Vacating a portion of an unnamed alley off of Gillham       10-27-2010
         Avenue
7220     Vacating a portion of Pearl Street                          10-13-2010
         Vacating a portion of an unnamed alley south and parallel
7280     to Bluff Street between Mamie and Riverview and east of 719 10-12-2011
         Riverview
7305     Vacating a portion of Taylor Avenue and a portion of an     3-14-2012
         unnamed street between Taylor Avenue and Fletcher Street
7405     Vacating a portion of Missouri Avenue                       5-28-2014
7409     Vacating a portion of Fourth Street                         6-11-2014
7525     Vacating a portion of an unnamed alley between Joesting     6-22-2016
         Avenue and Washington Avenue
7529     Vacating a portion of Front Street                          8-10-2016
7633     Vacating a portion of Seventh Street                        4-11-2018
7660     Vacating a portion of Easton Street                         9-26-2018
7855     Releasing an easement on Langdon Street                     10-12-2022
7875     Approving the City of Alton to vacate a portion of Pear     4-12-2023
         Street
7886     Approving the City of Alton to vacate a portion of former   5-24-2023
         Front Street
7934     Vacating a portion of an unnamed alley off Liberty Street   3-27-2024
                                                                    
 
APPENDIX J -
STREET NAMES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. Description                                                                 Date
No.
1200 Change the name of Evergreen Avenue from the south line of Madison Avenue   8-9-
     to the north line of Nineteenth Street                                      1916
     Change the names of Weigler Street, East Third Street from Henry Street to  6-
1229 East Broadway, East Fourth Street from Henry Street to Shields Branch, East 13-
     Fifth Street from Liberty Street to Vine Street and of East Sixth Street    1917
     from Liberty Street to Vine Street
                                                                                 5-
1247 Change the name of German Street to Victory Street                          22-
                                                                                 1918
                                                                                 7-
1403 Naming a certain street to be known hereafter as Mills Avenue               11-
                                                                                 1923
     Naming the alley in Blocks 40, 39, 38, 37, 36 and 35 in Hunter's or         10-
1416 Russell's Addition to the City between Liberty and Vine Streets             24-
                                                                                 1923
     Naming the alley in Blocks 17 to 24 and Blocks 29 and 30 in Hunter's or     10-
1417 Russell's Addition                                                          24-
                                                                                 1923
     Naming the alley in Blocks 9 to 16 inclusive in Hunter's or Russell's       10-
1418 Addition                                                                    24-
                                                                                 1923
1427 Change the name of a portion of Pear Street to be hereafter known as Pearl  1-9-
     Street                                                                      1924
     Naming the alley between Belle Street and McGuan Avenue from Marshall       2-
1430 Street to Sixteenth Street                                                  13-
                                                                                 1924
                                                                                 6-
1450 Naming and designating a street as Ray Avenue                               11-
                                                                                 1924
                                                                                 11-
1472 Change the name of McKinley Avenue to McKinley Boulevard                    26-
                                                                                 1924
                                                                                 5-
1507 Change the name of Averill Avenue to Wilkinson Avenue                       27-
                                                                                 1925
                                                                                 11-
1594 Naming a certain plot of ground in the City                                 24-
                                                                                 1926
     Change the name of Shields Street from Bozza Street to Pear Street and Pear 1-
1595 Street from Shields to Pearl Street                                         12-
                                                                                 1927
                                                                                 8-
1716 Change the name of Vena Avenue to Riverview Drive                           28-
                                                                                 1929
                                                                                 5-
1729 Naming a certain street in the City                                         28-
                                                                                 1930
     Naming a certain street north of Ninth Street between Henry and Liberty     10-
1758 Street, Schenk Avenue                                                       14-
                                                                                 1931
                                                                                 1-
2135 Designating a certain tract of land in the City as Dorman Square            12-
                                                                                 1944
                                                                                 10-
2243 Change name of street                                                       8-
                                                                                 1947
                                                                                 7-
2285 Change the name of Volbracht Avenue to Mather Street                        28-
                                                                                 1948
     Change the name of 19th Street between Beall Avenue and Liberty Street      9-
2436 (Amended Ord. #2456, 5-27-1953)                                             10-
                                                                                 1952
                                                                                 9-
2437 Change the names of certain streets (Amended Ord. #2444, 12-24-1952)        24-
                                                                                 1952
                                                                                 2-
2490 Change the name of Elizabeth Street to East 21st Street                     24-
                                                                                 1954
2494 Change the name of that part of Wilson Avenue extending south of Elm Street 1954
     to its end to Dooley Drive
     Designating the name of the street running south of College Avenue between  9-9-
2855 its intersections with Main Street and Washington Avenue to be Upper Alton  1959
     Court
                                                                                 9-
3020 Renaming a portion of Cut Street as Main Street                             13-
                                                                                 1960
     Change the names of certain streets in Public Housing Project Illinois 55-  1-
3102 1, a subdivision known as Alton Acres                                       24-
                                                                                 1962
                                                                                 6-
3118 Naming certain City owned park area as the Eunice Smith Arboretum           13-
                                                                                 1962
     Naming the park site situated off Third Street and north of the public      8-
3185 parking lot adjacent to the City Hall, Rufus Easton Triangle                29-
                                                                                 1963
     Naming a certain strip of land 20 feet in width and situated south of       11-
3264 Hoffmeister Street as Trebor Lane                                           25-
                                                                                 1964
                                                                                 2-
3720 Change the name of a certain street, Main Street, to East Line Street       23-
                                                                                 1972
                                                                                 7-
3756 Change the name of north part of Spaulding Avenue to Shurtleff Court        12-
                                                                                 1972
                                                                                 7-
3827 Designating certain City streets as Joesting Drive and Terra Drive          26-
                                                                                 1973
                                                                                 5-
4111 Change the name of St. Joseph Avenue to St. Anthony's Way                   26-
                                                                                 1976
     Naming Illinois Route 111, commonly known as Beltline Highway, Beltline     5-
4112 Parkway                                                                     26-
                                                                                 1976
                                                                                 10-
4370 Renaming Fletcher Street to Webster Street                                  27-
                                                                                 1978
                                                                                 7-
4931 Naming the alley connecting Deneen Street and Shelly Street                 24-
                                                                                 1985
                                                                                 10-
4963 Naming the unnamed street connecting Old Broadway and East Broadway         23-
                                                                                 1985
     Naming the road which currently runs from Fosterburg Road to the City's     10-
5604 compost area Emma L. Kaus Lane                                              23-
                                                                                 1991
     Naming the unnamed road which currently runs off Castelli Lane Uhrig        11-
5615 Heritage Road                                                               27-
                                                                                 1991
     Renaming George Street which intersects with Mayfield Street to George      3-
5641 Avenue                                                                      25-
                                                                                 1992
                                                                                 7-
5680 Naming the roads at Gordon Moore Park                                       22-
                                                                                 1992
5696 Naming the new Route 67 from its origin on Piasa Street north to Homer      9-9-
     Adams Parkway to Martin Luther King Drive                                   1992
     Renaming George Street north from its intersection with 14th Street to the  11-
5720 northerly end of George Street to McElroy Street                            12-
                                                                                 1992
     Renaming South Center Drive from its intersection of new Route 67 to its    2-
5739 intersection with East Center Drive to Alton Square Mall Drive              10-
                                                                                 1993
                                                                                 12-
5828 Naming an alley between Old Belle and 20th Street R.J.M. Drive              8-
                                                                                 1993
                                                                                 1-
5946 Renaming a portion of Piasa Street to Landmarks Boulevard                   25-
                                                                                 1995
     Change name of the Old Berm Highway south of Landmarks Boulevard to its     8-
5996 intersection with the new Route 143, to Ridge Street                        23-
                                                                                 1995
     Change name of Orchard Boulevard, between Kendall Avenue and College        11-
6022 Avenue, to Kendall Avenue                                                   22-
                                                                                 1995
6118 Name the road running east to west in front of the Alton Marina to Boat     1-8-
     Launch Road                                                                 1997
6119 Name the street running north to south between Landmarks Boulevard and the  1-8-
     Alton Marina entrance to Henry Street                                       1997
     Name the unnamed road from Bloomer Drive running east or south to 3550      10-
6436 Homer Adams Parkway "Edward D. Voumard Drive"                               27-
                                                                                 1999
                                                                                 9-
6602 Renaming a portion of Ridge Street to Discovery Parkway                     12-
                                                                                 2001
                                                                                 12-
6989 Changing the name of the Berm Highway to River Heritage Parkway             20-
                                                                                 2006
     Renaming a portion of Riverfront Drive to TSgt. Russell E. Dunham Memorial  5-
7142 Parkway                                                                     27-
                                                                                 2009
                                                                                 8-
7472 Naming an unnamed alley as Mikesway                                         26-
                                                                                 2015
     Naming the second entrance to Gordon Moore Park "Officer Blake Snyder       5-
7638 Memorial Drive"                                                             23-
                                                                                 2018
     Naming the unnamed street right of way located between 1209 and 1215        5-
7811 Hampton Avenue between Hampton Avenue and Cooper Street “Stampley Lane” 13-
                                                                                 2021
     Authorizing an Honorary Street sign be placed on the corner of Locust       5-
7941 Avenue and Humbert Street honoring Clarence Willis                          22-
                                                                                 2024
     Authorizing an Honorary Street sign be placed on the corner of Central      7-
7946 Avenue and College Avenue honoring Viola Jackson                            10-
                                                                                 2024
     Authorizing an Honorary Street sign be placed on the corner of 5th Street   7-
7948 and Market Street honoring Reverend Thomas Wright                           13-
                                                                                 2024
     Authorizing an Honorary Street sign be placed on the corner of Main Street  9-
7954 and College Avenue honoring Dale Neudecker                                  11-
                                                                                 2024
     Authorizing an Honorary Street sign be placed on the corner of Moore Street 11-
7962 and Humbert Street honoring Roosevelt and Rose Reed                         26-
                                                                                 2024
                                                                                
 
APPENDIX K -
SALE AND LEASE OF CITY PROPERTY
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
1218     Convey certain property to Valentine Delaney                2-28-1917
1271     Lease Sparks Milling Company, certain land                  2-25-1920
1275     Bell Brothers lease                                         3-29-1920
1289     Lease of land to C.P.& St.L. Railroad                       5-26-1920
1297     Lease to Landau Grocery Company certain parts of west       7-14-1920
         side of Spring Street
1305     Sale of City property on Gross Street                       2-23-1921
1386     Lease Mill St. to Sparks Milling Co.                        10-11-1922
1397     Lease of River Front Park to Elks                           6-13-1923
         Lease of certain real estate located on the City common
         lying south of Broadway between Oak St. and Monument Ave.
1527     to East End Supply Co. (Mayor Geo.T. Davis and City Clerk,  8-26-1925
         B.R. Kennedy served with an injunction Aug. 29, 1925,
         enjoining them from signing said lease.)
         Lease to United States of America of portion of Riverside
1814     Park for period of 4 years for the construction of proposed 9-15-1933
         Alton dam. Also deed for strip of land of even width of
         about 175 feet fronting on banks of Mississippi River
1956     Sale of certain real estate known as the Hose House in the  8-12-1936
         500 Block, East Broadway
1958     Lease of a portion of Plum Street to the Owens Illinois     8-26-1936
         Glass Company
2025     Lease certain property belonging to the City (Otto H.       5-24-1939
         Threde)
2032     Lease certain City property to Clarence Denby, Trustee for  12-13-1939
         the Chauffeurs & Teamsters Local #525 (Union Depot)
2040     Lease certain property owned by the City                    8-14-1940
2043     Lease certain property owned by the City (Fifth St. to      11-13-1940
         Duncan and Rubenstein)
2051     Lease certain real estate of the City (Union Depot).        3-26-1941
         Changing from one to 3 Trustees
2054     Revising lease with I.O.O.F. Temple Association             4-23-1941
2091     Lease of certain real estate, a part of Court Square and    4-22-1942
         adjoining Block #10, in the original Town of Alton
2111     Lease part of the Fire Dept. Hose House at Broadway and     1-27-1943
         Pear St. to Carter Bros. Motor Co., Inc.
2158     Lease certain public property of the City (Meyer Schmid     3-14-1945
         Landau Co.)
         Lease space having a clearance of more than 12 feet above
2234     street grade and extending over Illinois Avenue to Owens-   7-23-1947
         Illinois Glass Co., for overhead support of power lines
         Lease space having a clearance of more than 12 feet above
         street grade and extending over the public street known as
2237     the Old Country Road in Alton unto the Mississippi Lime     7-23-1947
         Company for the erection and maintenance of an overhead
         conveyor
         Lease of certain property to the Greater Alton Association
2288     of Commerce for development of off-street parking, south of 8-11-1948
         Front Street and east of east curb line of Market St.
2307     Lease of certain property at Fourteenth and Market          3-9-1949
         Rubenstein Junk Yard) (Amended Ord. #2333)
         Lease of a portion of the public commons laying south of
2314     East Broadway and between Oak St. and Central Ave. (Alton   4-27-1949
         Telegraph Printing Co. and McCoy Transfer Co.)
         Lease of a portion of certain City properties lying along
2320     the northerly bank of the Mississippi River, westerly of    7-13-1949
         State St. (Mississippi Elevator Co.)
         Lease of a portion of certain City property lying between
2326     Broadway St. and Fourth St. in the 1500 block of Broadway   8-24-1949
         (J.V. Gerard and Nelson C. Gerard)
2333     Amending Ordinance #2307, lease of certain property at      9-14-1949
         Fourteenth and Market
         Lease of a portion of certain property in the Alton Public
2339     Commons lying between Oak St. and Central Ave., Illinois    12-14-1949
         Bell Telephone Co.
2354     Lease of a portion of certain properties located at Front   6-28-1950
         and Market Streets (Union Depot or Depot Hotel)
         Lease of a portion of certain City properties lying along
2371     the northerly bank of the Mississippi River, westerly of    6-27-1951
         Henry St. extended (Reat Raymond)
2373     Lease of a portion of certain City property located at      8-8-1951
         Twelfth and Belle Streets (Klump Oil Co.)
2382     Lease of what is commonly known as the Watertower           12-26-1951
         Playground Property
2429     Lease of certain City property known as the scales          8-13-1952
         property, 1504 E. Broadway
         Sale and conveyance of certain City property (the Alton
2430     Roman Catholic Ursuline convent of the Holy Family. N.C.    7-23-1952
         corner 3rd and Easton)
2435     Lease of a portion of the Haskell Property (Alton Community 9-10-1952
         Consolidated School District #151)
         Lease of a portion of the Haskell Park (Northeast corner of
2446     Haskell Park to Piasa Bird Council, Boy Scouts of America).  
         This Ordinance was never presented to the City Council.
         Lease of a portion of certain City property located at #1
         Front Street to Alton Depot Club, Inc., properly known as
2468     the Union Depot)                                            9-9-1953
         This Ordinance declared invalid as same was not on file in
         the City Clerk's office one week before final passage.
2475     Lease of a portion of certain City property located at #1   10-28-1953
         Front Street
2483     Lease of a portion of certain City property located in the  12-9-1953
         public commons
2486     Lease to the Church of God in Christ Congregational         2-10-1954
         Amending Ordinance #2435 passed on September 10, 1952,
2535     which authorized the execution of a lease of certain real   12-14-1955
         estate known as Haskell House to Alton Community Unit
         School District #11
         Sale of certain real property owned by the City. (A tract
2597     of land lying adjacent to and west of Lot 1, Block 92 of    12-14-1955
         Godfrey and Gilman's Addition)
2615     Lease of property to the Piasa Bird Council for collection  4-25-1956
         of waste paper
2664     Sale to Union Electric Co. street light standards, cable    6-12-1957
         and other accessories and equipment appurtenant thereto
2675     Sale of certain real property owned by the City             8-14-1957
         Lease space over the Old Country Road or West Broadway, and
2702     over the proposed McAdams Highway, to Russell Miller        1-8-1958
         Milling Co.
2737     Lease with Earl W. Manns on property located at 1504 E.     6-11-1958
         Broadway
2793     Lease with the Mississippi Lime Co. for certain riverfront  3-11-1959
         property
2839     Lease with Mississippi Lime Co. for certain riverfront      1-27-1960
         property
2842     Lease space above public real estate owned by the City to   8-26-1959
         Russell-Miller Milling Co.
2843     Lease for 99 years certain real estate owned by the City    8-26-1959
2866     Convey to Union Electric Co. City-owned property located at 10-28-1959
         State and Belle Streets
2902     Lease of certain property in John Serling's Subdivision to  12-9-1959
         Alton Box Board Co.
3057     Sale of certain real property owned by the City             2-23-1961
3058     Lease certain property on West 13th Street unto the         2-23-1961
         Church of God in Christ Congregational
3098     Sale of theater-type seats removed from the City Hall       12-27-1961
         auditorium to the highest bidder
3110     Sale of the City-owned 1927 model American-LaFrance Fire    5-9-1962
         Department pumper truck
         Amend lease agreement between the City and Alton Community
3120     School District #11, made and entered into on September 18, 5-23-1962
         1952
         Lease of space having a clearance of more than 12 feet
3132     above street grade and extending over Illinois Avenue unto  8-22-1962
         Owens-Illinois Glass Co., for overhead support of power
         lines
3155     Sale of certain real property owned by the City             1-23-1963
3159     Amend lease agreement between the City and Marietta         1-23-1964
         Raymond, entered into on June 29, 1951
3178     Lease agreement with the Junior Service League of Alton for 7-10-1963
         Old Depot site situated at the foot of Piasa Street
3182     Sale of certain real property owned by the City             8-14-1963
3183     Amending Ordinance #3178, lease agreement with the Junior   9-11-1963
         Service League of Alton
3197     Lease agreement between the City and Earl W. Manns          11-13-1963
3199     Sale of certain personal property                           10-23-1963
3213     Sale of certain City owned obsolete items of personal       1-8-1964
         property to the Alton Volunteer Emergency Corporation
3240     Sale of certain real property owned by the City commonly    6-24-1964
         known as Boals School
3252     Sale of certain real property owned by the City commonly    9-23-1964
         known as Boals School
3275     Sale of certain Civil Defense property                      1-27-1965
3325     Sale of certain property owned by the City                  11-10-1965
3327     Sale of certain real property owned by the City commonly    12-8-1965
         known as Boals School
         Lease by and between the City and Marietta Raymond on
3344     certain property lying along the northerly bank of the      4-27-1966
         Mississippi River and westerly of Henry Street extended
3356     Lease of certain property by the City (513 E. Third Street) 6-22-1966
3379     Sale of certain real property owned by the City (East side   
         of Belle west of 6th Street)
3386     Lease of a portion of certain City property (Monument       1-11-1967
         Avenue area)
         Lease tract of land located south of East Broadway, between
3494     Oak Street and Central Avenue, to Alton Telegraph Printing  6-26-1968
         Co.
         Lease tract of land located south of E. Broadway lying
3522     between the extension of Cherry and Monument Streets to     12-11-1968
         Owens-Illinois, Inc.
3766     Lease certain property by the City for Civil Defense        8-9-1972
         purposes
3769     Lease between the City and Alton Barber Service Co.         9-13-1972
3778     Lease of certain property from Western Military Academy     11-8-1972
3798     Sale of Lot 13 and the west one-half of Lot 12, Block 16,   2-28-1973
         Hunter or Russell's Addition
3821     Sale of Lot 13 and the west one-half of Lot 12, Block 16,   9-12-1973
         Hunter or Russell's Addition
4149     Lease tract of land on the east bank of the Mississippi     11-10-1976
         River upstream from the west line of Henry Street
4178     Renewal of Lease #94 of certain City property to H.A.       2-23-1977
         Nevlin Moving and Storage Company
         Lease of space having a clearance of more than 12 feet
4179     above street grade and extending over Illinois Avenue to    2-23-1977
         Owens-Illinois, Inc., for overhead support of power lines
4268     Lease of a portion of certain City property. (Part of       1-11-1978
         Public Commons)
         Lease spaces having clearances of more than 12 feet above
4435     street grades, extending over Oak Street and Hunter's Court 6-27-1979
         respectively to St. Joseph's Hospital
4448     Lease agreement between the City and Alton Box Board        7-25-1979
         Company
4453     Lease of certain property unto Mississippi Lime Company     8-22-1979
4516     Lease of certain property at Fourteenth and Market Streets  5-14-1980
         to Mat Stern and Company, Inc.
         Lease tract of land located south of East Broadway between
4538     Oak Street and Central Avenue, to Illinois Thrifty Drug     7-23-1980
         Company
         Lease tract of land located south of East Broadway between
4587     Oak Street and Central Avenue, to Alton Telegraph Printing  12-23-1980
         Company
4589     Cancel lease agreement between the City and Alton Telegraph 1-14-1981
         Printing Company
4652     Sale of certain real estate owned by the City               10-28-1981
4681     Lease of a certain alley parallel to Gross Street           3-24-1982
4691     Lease of portion of certain City property                   5-12-1982
4725     Convey to the United States of American certain real estate 9-22-1982
         known as Tract 122
4733     Use, occupy or improve certain real estate now owned by the 12-8-1982
         Alton School District
4740     Lease of certain property at 14th and Market                2-9-1983
4741     Lease agreement between the City and Illinois and Owens-     
         Illinois, Inc.
4841     Exchange of property between the City and Reliance Quarry,  4-25-1984
         Inc.
4842     Sale of real estate known as 505 Washington Avenue          4-25-1984
4869     Sale of real estate commonly known as 1508 East Broadway    8-8-1984
4997     Sale of premises constituting part of Lot 16, Block 27 in   2-26-1986
         Hunter's Addition
5260     Sale of premises located near the intersection of Humbert   8-10-1988
         Road and Homer Adams Parkway
         Lease of municipally-owned real property to the Arnold
5274     Palmer Golf Management Company and liquor license for       8-24-1988
         leased premises
5446     Mining lease pertaining to the City-owned real property     4-9-1990
5578     Sale of municipally-owned real property                     7-10-1991
5581     (Repealed by Ord. 5653, 4-8-1992)                           8-28-1991
         Lease agreement between the City and Ivan G. Ham for lease
5582     of that portion of the alley right of way adjacent to and   8-28-1991
         immediately north of Lot 22 in Block 15 of Sering Place
         Subdivision
5653     Repealing Ordinance #5581 which pertained to approving the  4-8-1992
         lease agreement between the City and Alton Parking Company
         Lease agreement between the City and Bill Simon Equipment,
         Inc., for lease of the property described as a 30 foot x 80
5672     foot parking space beneath the Clark Bridge approach to     7-22-1992
         Broadway on the property dedicated by the City as Langdon
         Street
         Lease of space having a clearance of more than 12 feet
5698     above street grade and extending over Illinois Avenue to    9-9-1992
         Owens-Illinois, Inc.
5758     Sale of municipally-owned real property                     4-14-1993
5773     Assignment of leases with Mississippi Lime Company          5-26-1993
5862     Purchase of real estate                                     3-23-1994
5863     Sale of surplus real estate                                 3-23-1994
5911     Sale of surplus personal property                           10-13-1994
6003     Sale of premises at the intersection of Phinney Avenue and  8-23-1995
         Central Avenue, commonly known as 1417 Central Avenue
6015     Sale of surplus personal property                           10-26-1995
6043     Sale of the park and recreation maintenance building at     2-7-1996
         2415 North Central Avenue
6044     Purchase of property at 2726 College Avenue for use as      2-14-1996
         public right of way
         Leasing spaces having clearances of more than 12' above
6053     street grades, extending over Oak Street and Hunter's Court 2-28-1996
         respectively to St. Anthony's health center
6088     Sale of property at 314 State Street                        7-24-1996
6089     Sale of property at 1011 Milton Road                        7-24-1996
6090     Sale of Hoffmeister park                                    7-24-1996
6099     Purchase of property at 1228 East Fourth Street             9-25-1996
6100     Purchase of property at 1309 East Fourth Street             9-25-1996
6101     Easement on property at the corner of Third and Easton      11-13-1996
         Streets
6132     Sale of surplus personal property                           2-26-1997
         Easement to Union Electric Company at an alley located
6137     north of East Broadway and between Market Avenue and Alby   3-12-1997
         Street
6146     Amendment of the lease from the United States of America    3-26-1997
         department of the army
6195     Lease of city owned property between the city and Sports    9-10-1997
         Training, Inc.
6219     Eminent domain condemnation proceedings in connection with  11-25-1997
         the improvement of 20th Street
         Lease agreement with the Arnold Palmer Golf Management
6322     L.L.C. by adding land for a learning center and by          9-23-1998
         extending the term of the lease
6325     Purchase, by the city, of property at 310 Cherry Street     10-14-1998
6326     Purchase, by the city, of property at 1101 E. Fourth        10-14-1998
         Street
6327     Purchase, by the city, of property at 318 Cherry Street     10-14-1998
6414     A lease agreement between the city and David and Marian     8-11-1999
         Nelson
6427     (Rep. by Ord. 6428, 9-8-1999)                                
         Repealing ordinance 6427 and authorizing "quick-take" and/
6428     or eminent domain condemnation proceedings in connection    9-8-1999
         with the development of a police station
6430     Authorizing the sale of Hoffmeister park                    9-22-1999
6431     Authorizing the public sale of surplus personal property    9-22-1999
6464     Amending ordinance 6431, authorizing the sale of additional 3-8-2000
         items of surplus personal property
         Amending ordinance 6431, authorizing the public sale of
6496     surplus personal property, by the addition and removal of   5-24-2000
         certain items of surplus personal property
6618     Providing for the transfer of ownership of city owned       10-24-2001
         residential lots to Hampton Place, L.P.
6687     Authorizing the public sale of surplus personal property    11-13-2002
6700     Confirming a lease of certain real estate unto Mississippi  12-18-2002
         Lime Company upon terms and conditions as herein contained
6701     Authorizing consent to the assignment of a sand plant lease 12-18-2002
         with Mississippi Lime Company
6702     Authorizing consent to the assignment of a mining lease     12-18-2002
         with Mississippi Lime Company
6703     Authorizing the conveyance of real estate owned by the City 12-18-2002
         of Alton, commonly known as the Lincoln School property
6709     Authorizing the public sale of surplus personal property    2-12-2003
6758     Authorizing the sale of surplus personal property           9-10-2003
6827     Sale and transfer of property from Alton Community Unit     7-28-2004
         School District 11 to the City of Alton, Illinois
6849     Sale and transfer of ownership of a City owned residential  11-10-2004
         lot in the 1900 block of Marilla Street
         Authorizing execution of a lease of real estate for the
6894     purpose of constructing and maintaining an excess flow      8-24-2005
         detention facility
6907     Authorizing execution of a mining lease pertaining to City  8-24-2005
         owned real property
6951     Sale and transfer of ownership of a City owned residential  5-10-2006
         lot in the 500 block of Grand Avenue
6955     Sale and transfer of ownership of 2.611 acres of City owned 4-26-2006
         property located at the former City landfill on Alby Street
6960     Sale and transfer of ownership of a City owned residential  6-14-2006
         lot commonly known as 804 Union Street, Alton, Illinois
6963     Sale and transfer of ownership of a City owned residential  7-12-2006
         lot in the 200 block of Cherry Street, Alton, Illinois
         Providing for the sale and transfer of ownership of a City
6992     owned residential lot located at 1400 Runyan Street, Alton, 2-28-2007
         Illinois
         Authorizing the Mayor to execute a lease of property owned
7020     by Illinois-American Water Company for the purpose of       8-22-2007
         erecting a "welcome to Alton" sign
7035     Authorizing the public sale of surplus personal property    11-14-2007
7054     Authorizing the execution of the third amendment to a       2-13-2008
         mining lease pertaining to City owned real property
7056     Concerning a ground lease between the City of Alton and     3-12-2008
         USCOC of Greater Missouri, LLC
7075     Authorizing the execution of the third amendment to a       4-23-2008
         mining lease pertaining to City owned real property
7315     Authorizing the lease of Municipality owned real estate     6-13-2012
         along the south side of Fourth Street near Ridge Street
7391     Authorizing the sale of a City owned Mac Tractor & Hostar   2-26-2014
         Trailer
7404     Authorizing lease of Municipally owned property             4-23-2014
7424     Authorizing execution of a mining lease pertaining to City  9-24-2014
         owned real property
7566     Authorizing the sale of 708 Mechanic, Alton, Illinois       4-26-2017
         Accepting the proposal of Illinois American Water Company
7634     for the sale and purchase of the wastewater collection,     4-11-2018
         treatment and disposal facilities
         Amending Ordinance 7634, accepting the proposal of Illinois
7701     American Water Company for the sale and purchase of the     6-12-2019
         wastewater collection, treatment and disposal facilities
         Establishing a lease of certain property unto Bluff City
7722     Minerals, LLC upon terms and conditions of said lease as    10-9-2019
         herein contained
7739     Dedicating city owned real estate as public right-of-way    12-18-2019
7742     Modifying the golf course lease agreement dated May 13,     1-22-2020
         2014 with STO LLC
7770     Authorizing the city to amend the lease agreement with      7-23-2020
         American Cruise Line Inc.
         Amending Ord. 7634 regarding the allocation of funds from
7760     the sale of wastewater collection treatment and disposal    6-11-2020
         facility
         Bluff City Minerals, LLC assigning its interest under lease
7801     agreement established by Ord. 7722 to New Frontier          4-15-2021
         materials Operations Alpha LLC
                                                                    
 
APPENDIX L -
STREET GRADES
 
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
         Street grade established on Mack Street from Jefferson
1203     Avenue to McInerney Street and McInerney Street from Mack   7-26-1916
         Street to west end of said McInerney Street and on Sparks
         Street to the north end of Sparks Street
         Street grade established on Hayden Avenue from the south
1208     line of Madison Avenue to the south line of Nineteenth      8-9-1916
         Street, and on Nineteenth Street from the west line of
         Hayden Avenue to the west line of Belle Street
1241     Street grade established on Hillcrest Avenue from the east  3-29-1918
         line of Main Street to the eastern City limit line
         Street grade established on 3rd Street and 4th Street in
1335     Plainview Addition, from the east line of Main Street to a  9-14-1921
         point 137 feet east
         Street grade established on Brown, Highland, Pearl, Wesley,
1342     Putnam, Greene, Gold, Silver, Harrison, Seventh, Cherry,    11-23-1921
         Vine, Garden and Wescott Streets
1759     Street grade established on Fountain Street                 10-14-1931
 
APPENDIX M -
PAVING ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
         Paving alley in Block #22 Hunter's or Russell's Addition
1214     from east line of Cherry Street to west curb line of Vine    
         Street
1220     Paving Belle Street from north line of West third Street to 3-28-1917
         the north line of West Ninth Street
1261     Paving Sugar alley                                          4-28-1916
1262     Paving College Avenue                                       6-11-1919
1274     Paving Washington Avenue                                    2-11-1920
1306     Paving Diamond, Clement Place and Royal Street              3-23-1921
1307     Paving Hillcrest Avenue                                     3-23-1921
1312     Paving Spring Street                                        4-28-1921
1321     Paving Benbow Avenue and Clawson Street                     6-22-1921
1343     Paving Brown, Highland and Pearl Streets                    12-21-1921
1344     Paving Garden Street and Westcott Avenue                    11-23-1921
1350     Paving Union Street, Central to Brown                       1-25-1922
1351     Paving Salu Street                                          1-25-1922
1352     Paving Milnor Avenue                                        2-23-1922
1355     Paving Spruce Street                                        3-8-1922
1368     Paving Salu Street                                          7-12-1922
1378     Paving Lucille and Jackson Streets                          7-22-1922
1411     Paving Mills Avenue and Pine Street                         8-22-1923
1413     Paving Hawley Avenue and Lincoln Street                     9-12-1923
1415     Paving Central and Elm                                      10-10-1923
         Paving Mamie Avenue, Foulds Avenue, Angle Street and street
1422     between Bluff and Foulds opposite Mrs. Dr. Harry Lemon's    12-26-1923
         residence
1423     Paving McClure Avenue from Broadway to Agnes Street         12-26-1923
1424     Paving Highland Avenue from Brown to Phinney Avenue         12-26-1923
1426     Paving Lampert Avenue, McClure Avenue and Condit Avenue     1-23-1924
1428     Paving Dorris Street from Broadway to Agnes Street          1-9-1924
1432     Paving Grandview Avenue                                     2-13-1924
1433     Paving Seventh, Cherry and Vine Streets                     2-13-1924
1434     Paving Pear Street, Central Avenue East                     2-13-1924
1442     Paving McKinley Avenue                                      4-28-1924
1446     Paving Pine Street                                          5-12-1924
1453     Paving Union Street, Central to Brown, and Brown            6-25-1924
         Street, Union to 7th Street
1454     Paving Mills Avenue                                         6-25-1924
1456     Paving Watalee Avenue                                       7-9-1924
1476     Paving Augusta Street                                       6-14-1925
1477     Paving Pearl and Osage                                      1-14-1925
1479     Paving Sanford Avenue from Main Street to City limits       1-28-1925
1480     Paving Sidney Street from Main Street to Siring Avenue      1-28-1925
1481     Paving of Brown Street and Union to end of present paving,  1-28-1925
         3,080 feet north
1483     Paving Hunter Court                                         2-11-1925
1484     Paving Johnson Street                                       3-11-1925
1487     Paving Garden Street and Westcott Avenue                    3-25-1925
1488     Paving Allen Street                                         3-25-1925
1501     Paving Evergreen, Park, Worden and Locust Streets           5-13-1925
1503     Paving of alley between Fifteenth and Sixteenth Streets     7-8-1925
         west of Liberty Street
1534     Repaving Ridge Street                                       10-14-1925
1537     Paving Vena Avenue                                          11-25-1925
1541     Paving Belle Street, Madison to State Street                2-10-1926
1552     Paving Lampert Avenue, Condit and McClure                   2-24-1926
1553     Paving Norton, Lawton, Armstrong                            2-24-1926
1555     Paving Seventh Street                                       3-10-1926
1556     Paving alley in Block 2, Forrest Place                      3-10-1926
1558     Paving Highland Avenue                                      3-10-1926
1564     Paving Sixteenth Street                                     4-28-1926
         Paving of Seventeenth Street and Piasa Street, Piasa Street
1565     from the north curb line of 16th to the south curb line of  4-28-1926
         17th Street, and 17th Street from the east curb line of
         Belle Street to the west property line of Alby Street
1569     Paving part of Seventh Street and part of Easton Street     6-9-1926
1586     Paving Tremont and Johnson Streets                          8-25-1926
1593     Paving Hamilton Street                                      11-10-1926
1600     Paving Pearl Street                                         1-26-1927
1602     Paving Market Street from the north line of 17th Street to  3-9-1927
         the north line of 19th Street
1612     Paving Washington Avenue from north curb line of College    4-13-1927
         Avenue to the south curb line of Salu Street
         Paving Alby Street, from the north end of the present
1613     pavement at the south side of Chicago and Alton Railroad    4-13-1927
         tracks at 16th Street, northwardly to the south property
         line of Elm Street
1615     Paving Marilla Avenue                                       6-8-1927
1638     Paving Thirteenth and Alton Streets                         7-27-1927
1651     Paving 19th, 20th and Beall Avenue                          2-23-1928
1652     Paving and sewer on Yager Street                            2-23-1928
1654     Paving Silver Street                                        2-23-1928
1655     Paving Adams Court                                          2-23-1928
1656     Paving Greene, Gold and Putnam Streets                      2-23-1928
1657     Paving and sewer on Park Drive                              3-14-1928
1658     Paving Miller, Sycamore, Woodlawn Avenue, Emerald Avenue    3-14-1928
         and Ervay
1659     Paving Kohler and Maurice Streets                           3-14-1928
1660     Paving Mount Street and Prairie Avenue                      3-14-1928
1667     Paving Riley Avenue                                         5-9-1928
1668     Paving improvement, Hardy Street                            6-13-1928
1672     Paving Improvement #1, Siring Avenue                        6-27-1928
1673     Paving Improvement #2, Siring Avenue                        6-27-1928
1680     Paving improvement, Mather Street                           9-26-1928
1690     Paving and sewer for Hawthorne Boulevard                    3-13-1929
1692     Paving and Sewer for 19th and Hayden Streets                3-13-1929
1698     Paving improvement, 12th, 13th, McGuan Avenue, 15th and     5-8-1929
         16th Streets
         Paving improvement, Maupin Avenue, Elliot Avenue, Hampton
1701     Street, Harrison Street, Thorpe Street, Fletcher Street,    5-22-1929
         Westley Street and Harold Street
1704     Paving Humbert Street, Crawford Avenue and Scovell Street   6-12-1929
1705     Paving improvement #3, Highland Avenue                      6-26-1929
1707     Paving Kendall Avenue                                       7-10-1929
1709     Paving Virden, Mounier, Davis, Tibbitt, Mather, Church and  7-10-1929
         Volbrach Avenue
1711     Paving Benbow, Clawson and Palmer Streets                   7-24-1929
1714     Paving Amelia Street and Rockwell Avenue                    8-24-1929
1720     Paving improvement for Powhattan                            2-12-1930
1724     Paving improvement, Edwards, Runyon and Jersey Streets      3-26-1930
1731     Paving improvements, Chamberlain, Walker and                6-11-1930
         Greenwood Streets
1734     Paving Maple Street and Blair Avenue                        9-10-1930
1735     Paving improvement, Turner Tract (McPherson Street, Douglas 9-10-1930
         Street and Lincoln Street)
1770     Paving improvement, west end business district              6-8-1932
1987     Paving Judson Avenue                                        12-8-1937
1988     Paving Maxey and Chapin Place                               12-8-1937
3532     Paving improvement for Grandview Avenue                     3-26-1969
3736     Paving improvement for Humbert Street                       5-10-1972
 
APPENDIX N - SEWER ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
1184     Shields Branch sewer                                         
1211     Amending Ordinance #1184, Shields Branch sewer              9-13-1916
1311     Yager Park sewer                                            4-28-1921
1372     Mather Street sewer                                         6-28-1922
1412     Hawley Avenue sewer                                         9-12-1923
1474     Sidney sewer                                                12-10-1924
1478     Sanford Avenue sewer                                        1-14-1925
1482     Hunter Court sewer                                          2-11-1925
1542     Adams Court Sewer #1, Spring to Monument Avenue             2-10-1926
1543     Adams Court Sewer #2, Monument to Plum Street               2-10-1926
1584     Kohler Street sewer                                         7-14-1926
1597     Wallace and Pleasant Street sewer                           1-12-1927
1616     Hardy Street sewer                                          6-8-1927
1639     East Broadway and Sering Avenue sewer                       7-27-1927
1652     Yager Street paving and sewer                               2-23-1928
1657     Park Drive paving and sewer                                 3-14-1928
1679     Upper Shields Valley sewer                                  9-12-1928
1691     16th Street, Blair, Maple, Common and Elliott Avenue sewer  3-13-1929
1692     19th and Hayden Streets paving and sewer                     
1699     13th Street, McGuan Avenue and 15th Street sewer            5-8-1929
         improvement
1700     Hampton Street and Cooper Street sewer improvement          5-8-1929
1706     Highland and Marie Avenue sewer                             6-26-1929
1708     Salu Addition sewer                                         7-10-1929
1710     Turn Tract sewer                                            7-10-1929
1712     State Street Sewer #3                                       7-24-1929
1730     Condit Avenue and Denny Avenue Sanitary sewer improvement   6-11-1930
1736     Sanborne and Myrtle Streets sewer improvement               10-22-1930
2012     Upper Piasa Valley sewer improvement                        1-25-1939
2534     College Heights sewer improvement                           5-26-1954
2897     Krum-Denny sanitary sewer improvement                       11-25-1959
2995     Riverview-Shelly-Topping Additions sanitary sewer           8-10-1960
         improvement
2996     Holly Hills sanitary sewer improvement                      7-13-1960
3080     Norside sanitary sewer improvement                          7-12-1961
3106     Amending Ordinance #2995, Riverview-Shelly-Topping Addition 7-24-1962
         sanitary sewer improvement
3271     Riverview-Shelly-Topping Additions sanitary sewer           12-23-1964
         improvement
3316     Hazel-Salu sanitary sewer improvement                       10-27-1965
3321     Leonard-Oscar sanitary sewer improvement                    11-10-1965
3354     Condit-Agnes sanitary sewer improvement                     6-22-1966
3428     Coronado Drive paving and storm sewer improvement           6-28-1967
3450     Siring Place-Milton South sanitary sewer improvement        10-25-1967
3474     Amending Ordinance #3271, the Riverview-Shelly-Topping      3-13-1968
         Additions sanitary sewer improvement
3487     Milton Area Northwest sanitary sewer improvement            5-22-1968
3505     N. Rodgers area sanitary sewer improvement                  11-13-1968
3524     (Rep. by Ord. 4291, 3-8-1978)                               2-12-1969
3529     Fairview-Humbert area sanitary sewer improvement            2-12-1969
3714     Contract with village of Bethalto for sewage disposal       1-12-1972
         service
         College Avenue (FAP Route 67); College Avenue (FAP Route
         67) and Main Street; Washington Avenue (FAP Route 67) and
3879     Brown Street; and Main Street and Brown Street. Prohibited  12-26-1973
         discharge of sanitary sewage and industrial wastewater into
         storm sewers
4028     Federal Aid Route 4. Prohibited discharge of sanitary       10-8-1975
         sewage and industrial wastewater into storm sewers
         Repealing ordinance 3524. The city attorney is directed to
4291     dismiss with prejudice case no. 69X(G)57, circuit court of  3-8-1978
         Madison County, IL
4381     Modify contract with Godfrey Township utility board for     11-8-1978
         sewage disposal services
4382     Modify contract with village of Bethalto for sewage         11-22-1978
         disposal services
4389     Amend sewage disposal contract with the village of Bethalto 11-22-1978
4826     Federal Aid Urban Route 8961. Prohibited discharge of       1-25-1984
         sanitary sewage and industrial wastewater into storm sewers
         Federal Aid Primary (FAP) Route 10 section 261A. Prohibited
5339     discharge of sanitary sewage and industrial wastewater into 6-14-1989
         storm sewers
         Federal Aid Primary (FAP) Route 10, section 100I (railroad
5343     relocation). Prohibited discharge of sanitary sewage and    6-14-1989
         industrial wastewater into storm sewers
5508     Federal Aid Urban Route 8998. Prohibited discharge of       12-12-1990
         sanitary sewage and industrial wastewater into storm sewers
5709     Agreement with the Godfrey Township utility board for       10-14-1992
         sewage disposal services
5710     Agreement with the village of Bethalto for sewage disposal  10-14-1992
         services
5754     Federal Aid Urban Route 8998. Prohibited discharge of       4-14-1993
         sanitary sewage and industrial wastewater into storm sewers
         FAU Route 8972 (Broadway) and Henry Street. Prohibited
5801     discharge of sanitary sewage and industrial wastewater into 7-28-1993
         storm sewers
5805     Connection charges for use of sewer extension from          8-11-1993
         Fosterburg Road along the south side of Wonderland Drive
6058     Amended agreement with the village of Bethalto regarding    3-13-1996
         sewage disposal services
         Federal Aid Primary (FAP) Route 785 (marked Route Illinois
6214     140, College Avenue). Prohibited discharge of sanitary      11-25-1997
         sewage and industrial wastewater into storm sewers
6252     FAU Route 8998. Prohibited discharge of sanitary sewage and 3-11-1998
         industrial wastewater into storm sewers
6678     FAU Route 8966. Prohibiting the discharge of sanitary       9-25-2002
         sewage and industrial wastewater into storm sewers
 
APPENDIX O - SIDEWALK ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
         Sidewalk on both sides of Hillcrest Avenue from the east
1242     line of Main Street to the west line of Sering Avenue and   3-29-1918
         from the east line of Sering Avenue to the eastern City
         limit line
1331     Sidewalks on both sides of College Avenue from Washington   9-28-1921
         Avenue to Rock Springs Park
1336     Sidewalks on Main Street (south to Sanford Avenue)          9-28-1921
1337     Sidewalks on Seminary Street                                9-28-1921
1369     Sidewalk on north side of East 5th Street between Henry and 6-14-1922
         Seminary Square
1376     Sidewalk on Main Street, Sanford to Broadway                8-12-1922
1385     Sidewalks on Dry Street                                     9-27-1922
1447     Sidewalks on Danforth Street                                5-14-1924
1455     Sidewalks on State Street                                   7-9-1924
1459     Sidewalks, south of Union on Liberty Street                 7-23-1924
1460     Sidewalks on East Ninth Street                              7-23-1924
1461     Sidewalks on Logan Street                                   7-23-1924
1467     Sidewalks on East Broadway (east of Washington              7-23-1924
         Avenue)
1470     Sidewalks on Warren Street                                  9-10-1924
1494     Sidewalks on Main Street near Clara Barton School           4-8-1925
1499     Sidewalks on State Street                                   4-28-1925
1502     Sidewalk on Liberty Street (Grove to Franklin Street)       6-24-1925
1506     Sidewalk on Central Avenue                                  6-24-1925
1510     Sidewalks on Bozza Street                                   5-27-1925
1511     Sidewalks on Franklin Street                                5-27-1925
1512     Sidewalks on Liberty Street, Union to Clement Place         5-27-1925
1517     Sidewalks on Danforth Street                                6-10-1925
         Sidewalk on Brown Street from east curb line of Washington
1561     to east City limits, except curb lines at all street and    4-14-1926
         alley intersections
1566     Sidewalk on Madison Avenue                                  5-26-1926
1567     Sidewalk on Mills Avenue                                    5-26-1926
1570     Sidewalk on Elliott Avenue                                  6-24-1926
1571     Sidewalk on Sidney Street                                   6-23-1926
1572     Sidewalk on East Broadway                                   6-23-1926
1583     Sidewalk on Elliott Avenue                                  7-14-1926
1585     Sidewalk on Clawson Street                                  8-25-1926
1591     Sidewalk on Clawson Street                                  9-22-1926
1614     Sidewalk on Tremont Street                                  4-27-1927
1649     Sidewalk on Fountain Street                                 10-26-1926
1663     Sidewalks on Main Street                                    4-25-1928
1674     Sidewalks on Brown Street                                   6-27-1928
1675     Sidewalks on Mills Avenue                                   6-27-1928
1677     Amending Ordinance #1663, sidewalks on Main Street          9-12-1928
1682     Regulation of location of sidewalks in public streets       11-28-1928
1713     Sidewalks on Mills Avenue                                   8-14-1929
         Sidewalk on each side of College Avenue from the west curb
         line of Main Street to the east curb line of Scovell Street
1776     also on each side of Washington Avenue from the south curb  7-13-1932
         line of College Avenue to a point 365 feet south of said
         Washington Avenue
1779     Sidewalk on the west side of Spring Street from the north   10-26-1932
         property line of Broadway to the south line of Adams Court
 
APPENDIX P - PARK ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                Date
1205     Park tax levy for fiscal year beginning April 1, 1916 and  8-9-1916
         ending March 31, 1917
         Acquire tract of land situated in the northwest quarter of
1210     Section 11, Township 5 North, Range 10 West of the Third   8-23-1916
         Principal Meridian, for use as a public park in connection
         with Riverview Park
1228     Park appropriation for fiscal year beginning April 1, 1917 6-27-1917
         and ending March 31, 1918
1233     Park tax levy for fiscal year beginning April 1, 1917 and  7-25-1917
         ending March 31, 1918
1246     Park appropriation for fiscal year beginning April 1, 1918 4-27-1918
         and ending March 31, 1919
1251     Park tax levy for fiscal year beginning April 1, 1918 and  8-14-1918
         ending March 31, 1919
1259     Park appropriation                                         4-28-1919
1265     Park tax levy                                              8-13-1919
1284     Park tax levy                                              3-29-1920
1292     Park tax levy                                              7-14-1920
1308     Park appropriation                                         4-28-1921
1324     Park tax levy                                              7-13-1921
1361     Park appropriation                                         4-28-1922
1374     Park tax levy                                              6-28-1922
1393     Park appropriation                                         4-28-1923
1407     Park tax levy                                              8-8-1923
1438     Park appropriation                                         4-28-1924
1451     Designating part of McKinley Avenue for park purposes      6-11-1924
1462     Park tax levy                                              7-9-1924
1493     Park appropriation for year beginning April 1, 1925 and    4-8-1925
         ending March 31, 1926
1513     Park tax levy                                              6-10-1925
1547     Park appropriation                                         2-24-1926
1573     Park tax levy                                              7-14-1926
1607     Park appropriation                                         3-23-1927
1643     Park tax levy                                              8-10-1927
2987     Amending ordinance 2959 the appropriation ordinance to     6-22-1960
         finance improvements in Salu Park
3118     Naming certain City owned park area as the Eunice Smith    6-13-1962
         Arboretum
4140     Naming certain City owned piece of land as the Gordon F.   10-27-1976
         Moore Community Park
6009     Lease from Department of the Army for public park and      9-13-1995
         recreational purposes
         Amending the Traffic Code of the City by providing for a
6304     speed restriction throughout Gordon F. Moore Park and for  7-8-1998
         stop signs at specified locations on Parker Road, Arnold
         Palmer Drive, and Voss Place
6305     Establish handicap parking spaces at designated locations  7-8-1998
         in Gordon F. Moore Park
6313     Establish certain crosswalks in Gordon F. Moore Park       8-12-1998
6342     Establish 2 additional handicap parking spaces within      12-9-1998
         Gordon F. Moore Park
6704     Authorizing the renaming of Salu Park to James H. Killion  12-18-2002
         Park at Salu
7576     Community development park & recreation loan               7-12-2017
7716     Establishing no parking in front of 513 State Street       9-25-2019
7734     Establishing a no parking zone in front of 613/615 Forest  12-18-2019
         Avenue
7737     Establishing parking restrictions along the west side of   12-18-2019
         the entire 1900 block of Marilla Street
7741     Repealing ordinance No. 3922 and establishing two hour     1-22-2020
         parking on Belle Street between 7th Street and 9th Street
7762     Establishing parking restrictions in the 3400 block of Oak 7-23-2020
         Drive
                                                                   
 
APPENDIX Q -
PLAYGROUND ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                    Date
1465     Playground and recreation system tax levy      7-23-1924
1498     Playground and recreation fund appropriation   4-28-1925
1516     Playground and recreation system tax levy      6-24-1925
1546     Playground and recreation appropriation        2-24-1926
1608     Playground and recreation appropriation        3-23-1927
1646     Playground and recreation tax levy             8-10-1927
2009     Playground and recreation tax raise (election) 12-21-1938
 
APPENDIX R -
RAILROAD ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
         Grant to Illinois Terminal Railroad Company the right to
         construct, keep, operate and maintain a system of railroad
         tracks and switches over and across certain streets and
         public lands in the City, in connection with which said
1213     railroad company is to erect, keep, operate and maintain    2-14-1917
         certain terminal tracks, river terminals, dock houses,
         docks and other facilities to secure the enlargement,
         betterment and improvement of the interchange of traffic in
         the City
1341     Switch track across Cut Street (to J.E. Cowling)            11-9-1921
1544     C.C.C. & St.L. Ry. Co. and the New York Central Railroad    10-26-1938
         Co. (removal of tracks on Front Street)
         Grant to Burlington Northern, Inc., rights to construct,
3962     maintain, renew, replace and operate railroad tracks and    12-26-1974
         appurtenant facilities upon the riverfront between Henry
         and Piasa Streets
 
APPENDIX S -
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENT ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                          Date
1772     College Avenue and Washington Avenue business        6-22-1932
         district improvement
1800     White Way Improvement #2 (Upper Alton)               4-26-1933
1960     Broadway White Way improvement                       11-12-1936
1962     Upper Alton White Way improvement                    11-12-1936
2013     Construct roadway along College Avenue and Twentieth 2-9-1939
         Street, from Central Avenue to Alby Street
2369     Liquidate local improvement funds                    5-23-1951
2622     Mather Street paving improvement                     6-13-1965
2623     Teresa Avenue paving improvement                     6-13-1965
 
APPENDIX T - MISCELLANEOUS SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. Description                                                                       Date
No.
1257 Citizen's National Bank (to excavate and use space under sidewalk on Broadway and 4-9-
     also on Piasa Street)                                                             1919
                                                                                       3-
1273 Traffic posts of (Mississippi) highways                                           29-
                                                                                       1920
1519 Piasa sewer emergency                                                             7-8-
                                                                                       1925
1780 White Way Lighting system contract with Alton Light & Power Co.                    
     Accepting devise of certain real estate by Florence E. Haskell to the City,       2-
1781 designating a name therefor and prescribing its use                               23-
                                                                                       1923
                                                                                       10-
1815 Henry Street Park fill granted to the United States of America                    11-
                                                                                       1933
                                                                                       9-
2005 Riverside Park restoration settlement                                             28-
                                                                                       1938
     Illinois Terminal Railroad Company (pipe lines and storage tanks under Front      6-
2028 Street)                                                                           28-
                                                                                       1939
                                                                                       10-
2101 Parking meter lease with M.H. Rhodes, Inc.                                        14-
                                                                                       1942
     Altering the use of certain real estate devised to the City by Florence E.        11-
2104 Haskell from park purposes to school purposes and providing for the operation of  25-
     a nursery school thereon                                                          1942
     Altering the use of certain real estate devised to the City by Florence E.        8-
2129 Haskell from park purposes to school purposes (Monticello Seminary)               24-
                                                                                       1943
                                                                                       4-
2141 Restoration of City Hall                                                          12-
                                                                                       1944
     Construction and maintenance of temporary housing units by the Madison County     6-
2193 Housing Authority as the managing agent therefor, upon behalf of the City         12-
                                                                                       1946
                                                                                       3-
2208 Permit to erect neon sign to Kriger Grocery & Baking Company                      12-
                                                                                       1947
     Grant permission to Shurtleff College to erect and maintain temporary classroom   3-
2209 and recreational facilities                                                       12-
                                                                                       1947
                                                                                       6-
2232 Police protection for the transfer of funds within the City                       11-
                                                                                       1947
                                                                                       7-
2284 Street Department equipment fund                                                  28-
                                                                                       1948
     Conveying certain easements across City owned properties to the Wood River        9-
2332 Drainage and Levee District                                                       28-
                                                                                       1949
     Sale at public auction and assignment of special assessment liens delinquent      2-
2362 against real estate in the City                                                   14-
                                                                                       1951
     Acquisition of property known as Rock Springs Country Club and dedicating said    8-
2582 property for use as a golf course                                                 24-
                                                                                       1955
                                                                                       4-
2613 Acquisition of McAdam's highway right of way                                      11-
                                                                                       1956
     Contract labor agreement between City and Firemen's Union Local 1255,             4-
2656 International Association of Fire Fighters                                        24-
                                                                                       1957
     Agreement between the City and the Alton Police Local #939, American Federation   4-
2657 of State, County and Municipal Employees, A.F. of L.C.I.O.                        24-
                                                                                       1957
     Cancel lease agreement made and entered into by and between the City and Earl W.  6-
2736 Manns                                                                             11-
                                                                                       1958
     Cancel lease agreement made and entered into on April 28, 1937 by and between the 3-
2794 City and Mississippi Lime Co.                                                     11-
                                                                                       1959
2838 Cancel lease agreement made and entered into on April 28, 1937 by and between the 7-8-
     City and Mississippi Lime Co.                                                     1959
                                                                                       11-
2885 Union Electric Co street lighting contract                                        25-
                                                                                       1959
                                                                                       8-
3089 Disconnect certain property from the Milton Fire Protection District              23-
                                                                                       1961
     Convey to USA a utility easement over and upon certain property situated in       2-
3104 Riverside Park                                                                    14-
                                                                                       1962
     Designate bank depositories for various funds created pursuant to the sale of     4-
3114 sewer system revenue bonds and general obligation bonds                           25-
                                                                                       1962
                                                                                       10-
3147 Alton Water Company service agreement                                             29-
                                                                                       1962
                                                                                       11-
3204 Easement grant from Union Electric Co.                                            13-
                                                                                       1963
     Acquisition of the property of the Alton Water Co. used and useful in furnishing  3-
3226 water service to its customers                                                    11-
                                                                                       1964
                                                                                       9-
3369 Release a portion of certain property located at 12th and Belle Streets           14-
                                                                                       1966
3643 Installment purchase of certain property from the State of Illinois for public    3-
     park and recreation purposes, paid by direct annual tax                           1971
                                                                                       4-
3651 Encroachment on the public right of way (Alby Street intersection)                29-
                                                                                       1971
     Encroachment on the public right of way (College Avenue from Annex Street to the  6-
3659 east City limits)                                                                 10-
                                                                                       1971
                                                                                       6-
3661 Encroachment on the public right of way (Washington Avenue intersection)          10-
                                                                                       1971
     Convey certain real estate by warranty deed to the Department of Public Works and 5-
3738 Buildings, State of Illinois                                                      10-
                                                                                       1972
     Easement for public access to Buckmaster Avenue from Alton Beltline Highway at    10-
3774 Golf Course Road                                                                  11-
                                                                                       1972
                                                                                       12-
3878 Encroachment on public right of way                                               26-
                                                                                       1973
                                                                                       12-
3887 Acquisition and construction of pollution control facilities                      26-
                                                                                       1973
                                                                                       6-
4002 Financing of a hospital facility                                                  25-
                                                                                       1975
     Encroachment of public right of way (Belle Street from Delmar Avenue to Mather    10-
4029 Street)                                                                           8-
                                                                                       1975
                                                                                       2-
4071 Encroachment on public right of way                                               11-
                                                                                       1976
     First supplemental indenture and mortgage and security agreement to be            1-
4172 substituted as security for the $4,000,000 hospital facility revenue bonds (Saint 12-
     Anthony's Hospital, series 1974)                                                  1977
                                                                                       10-
4245 Grant permanent easement and right of way to Alton Water Company                  12-
                                                                                       1977
                                                                                       1-
4274 Grant easement to Azcon Corporation                                               11-
                                                                                       1978
     Amend Ordinance #2582 to delete the restriction of the use of Rock Springs        4-
4302 Country Club property as a golf course                                            12-
                                                                                       1978
                                                                                       4-
4304 Amend Ordinance #4290 by adding section 4 to establish zone classification of C-2 26-
                                                                                       1978
     Effective date for Ordinance #4267, requiring certificates of occupancy,          5-
4321 occupancy permits or licenses                                                     24-
                                                                                       1978
                                                                                       10-
4371 Repeal Ordinance #4321, Code of the City of Alton                                 25-
                                                                                       1978
                                                                                       1-
4485 Membership in the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association           23-
                                                                                       1980
                                                                                       10-
4572 Membership in the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association           22-
                                                                                       1980
     Note to meet the advance premium payment to participate in the Illinois Municipal 11-
4577 League Risk Management Association                                                26-
                                                                                       1980
     Participation in assessment relief for national historic district or municipal    6-
4617 landmark areas not provided                                                       24-
                                                                                       1981
                                                                                       3-
4680 Easement to Sisters of St. Franchise of the Martyr St. George                     24-
                                                                                       1982
                                                                                       4-
4687 Microfilming of all City records                                                  28-
                                                                                       1982
     Second supplemental mortgage and security agreement between Saint Anthony's       4-
4688 Hospital and the City                                                             28-
                                                                                       1982
4698 Designating Dr. Martin Luther King Day                                            6-9-
                                                                                       1982
     Granting certain rights, privileges and easements as to City-owned properties to   
4776 the Wood River Drainage and Levee District                                        6-8-
                                                                                       1983
     Addition of South Access Road, Connector and Old Broadway to the municipal street 8-
4782 system                                                                            10-
                                                                                       1983
     Closing streets in connection with construction of Federal Aid Primary (FAP)      8-
4783 Route 789 spur                                                                    10-
                                                                                       1983
                                                                                       8-
4786 Encroachment on public right of way                                               10-
                                                                                       1983
4821 Repealed Ordinance 5130, 4-8-1987                                                  
4822 Repealed Ordinance 5130, 4-8-1987                                                  
4823 Repealed Ordinance 5130, 4-8-1987                                                  
4824 Repealed Ordinance 5130, 4-8-1987                                                  
4825 Repealed Ordinance 5130, 4-8-1987                                                  
                                                                                       1-
4828 Encroachment of public right of way                                               25-
                                                                                       1984
     Incorporate County Highways State Route No. 5 (Fosterburg Road) into the          1-
4829 municipal street system of the City                                               25-
                                                                                       1984
4830 Repealed Ordinance 5130, 4-8-1987                                                  
4848 Granting certain rights, privileges and easements as to City-owned properties to  5-9-
     the Wood River Drainage and Levee District                                        1984
                                                                                       12-
4896 Third amendment agreement and a third supplemental indenture                      19-
                                                                                       1984
                                                                                       12-
4977 Establish an Enterprise Zone                                                      11-
                                                                                       1985
5018 Property tax abatement for industrial firms locating or expanding in Madison      4-9-
     County                                                                            1986
                                                                                       11-
5084 Abate real estate taxes on real estate owned by Baron and Moonlight, Inc.         12-
                                                                                       1986
     Intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Woodridge, the Illinois Municipal 11-
5085 League and other units of local government                                        12-
                                                                                       1986
                                                                                       1-
5101 Partially abating real estate taxes on real estate owned by Schmidt               14-
                                                                                       1987
     Repealing Alton City Ordinances #4821, 4822, 4823, 4824, 4825 and 4830 relating
5130 to the Illinois Department of Transportation, State of Illinois, termination or   4-8-
     modification of restrictions on use of certain real estate held in trust by the   1987
     City
                                                                                       4-
5134 Transfer of jurisdiction of County Highway 12 (Oakwood Avenue)                    22-
                                                                                       1987
     Abate real estate taxes on real estate used by Hutchinson Foundry Products,       7-
5251 Incorporated, located at 4131 Alby Street                                         13-
                                                                                       1988
     Abate real estate taxes on property owned and used by Specialty Waste Services,   7-
5258 Inc.                                                                              27-
                                                                                       1988
     Transfer of jurisdiction of Oakwood Avenue from Toledo Avenue easterly to a point 8-
5259 midway between Clark and Francis Avenue                                           10-
                                                                                       1988
     Partially abating real estate taxes on real estate located at 23 North Henry      8-
5264 Street                                                                            10-
                                                                                       1988
     Add Broadway Street from Monument Street to Ridge Street to the municipal street  8-
5266 system                                                                            10-
                                                                                       1988
                                                                                       8-
5267 Encroachment on public right of way                                               10-
                                                                                       1988
     Purchase of premises owned by Ownen-Illinois Glass Container, Inc., located on    9-
5281 Palmer Avenue                                                                     28-
                                                                                       1988
     Approve House and Community Development Cooperation Agreement: 1988, 1989 and     9-
5289 1990                                                                              14-
                                                                                       1988
     Exchange of property interests between the City and Pepsi Cola Alton Bottling,    10-
5306 Inc.                                                                              26-
                                                                                       1988
5317 Disconnecting certain property known as the "Declue Tract"                        2-8-
                                                                                       1989
                                                                                       5-
5337 Encroachments on public right of way                                              24-
                                                                                       1989
                                                                                       6-
5340 Encroachment on public right of way                                               14-
                                                                                       1989
                                                                                       8-
5371 Allocation of low-income housing tax credits                                      23-
                                                                                       1989
                                                                                       8-
5376 Approve development agreement pertaining to development of a hydroelectric plant  23-
                                                                                       1989
     Execution and delivery of a sale tax rebate agreement between the City and May    2-
5422 Centers, Inc.                                                                     14-
                                                                                       1990
     Execution and delivery of property tax abatement agreement between the City and   2-
5423 May Centers, Inc.                                                                 14-
                                                                                       1990
                                                                                       4-
5448 Docking of riverboats under the Riverboat Gambling Act                            25-
                                                                                       1990
                                                                                       12-
5507 Encroachments on public right of way                                              12-
                                                                                       1990
     Agreement between the City, Riverboat Gambling Partnership, and Metro Tourism and 4-
5548 Entertainment, Inc.                                                               24-
                                                                                       1991
     Naming the City's new public works facility the Lucian A. Harris Public Works     10-
5606 Facility                                                                          23-
                                                                                       1991
                                                                                       12-
5618 Agreement with Illinois Bell and the City regarding use of the public way         11-
                                                                                       1991
                                                                                       12-
5628 Adopting the revised civil service ordinances for the City                        18-
                                                                                       1991
                                                                                       12-
5629 Authorize borrowing of money and execution of an installment note contract        19-
                                                                                       1991
                                                                                       3-
5650 Encroachments on public right of way                                              25-
                                                                                       1992
                                                                                       6-
5670 Borrow funds from the Water Pollution Control Revolving Fund                      10-
                                                                                       1992
                                                                                       7-
5679 Naming the bathhouse and swim beach area at Gordon Moore Park the Fischer Complex 22-
                                                                                       1992
     Establish special account for one-half of the Patron Surcharge Funds pertaining   10-
5716 to the riverboat gambling operation in the City                                   28-
                                                                                       1992
                                                                                       4-
5753 Encroachments on public right of way                                              14-
                                                                                       1993
                                                                                       5-
5769 Release of real estate liens                                                      26-
                                                                                       1993
5776 Approve housing and community development cooperation agreement: 1994, 1995 and   6-9-
     1996                                                                              1993
     Amending Ordinance 5548, an agreement between the City, Riverboat Gambling        7-
5790 Partnership, and Metro Tourism and Entertainment, Inc.                            14-
                                                                                       1993
                                                                                       7-
5800 Encroachment on public right of way                                               28-
                                                                                       1993
     Pledge certain revenues to or on behalf of the Illinois Development Finance       11-
5832 Authority                                                                         10-
                                                                                       1993
     Temporary use of replacement cost in lieu of market value for calculating         10-
5833 substantial damage                                                                27-
                                                                                       1993
5855 Approving and adopting an Appearance Plan pursuant to Alton City Code, Chapter 13 3-9-
     (Appearance Review Commission)                                                    1994
                                                                                       3-
5859 Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 23-
                                                                                       1994
                                                                                       3-
5864 Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 23-
                                                                                       1994
     Establish qualified mortgage credit certificate program pursuant to section 25 of 11-
5925 Internal Revenue Code                                                             23-
                                                                                       1994
                                                                                       1-
5930 Procedures for authorization of cost overruns on public works contracts           11-
                                                                                       1995
     Authorizing the Mayor and Comptroller to compromise and settle de minimis         1-
5944 litigation matters                                                                11-
                                                                                       1995
                                                                                       3-
5963 Encroachment on public right of way                                               22-
                                                                                       1995
                                                                                       4-
5964 Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 12-
                                                                                       1995
     Approving and adopting an appearance plan pursuant to                              
6013                                                                                   10-
     Alton City Code, Chapter 13 (Appearance Review Commission)                        11-
                                                                                       1995
     Authorize funds to improve Spencer T. Olin golf course and option to extend       10-
6018 Palmer lease agreement                                                            25-
                                                                                       1995
     Approving the addendum II to the refuse collection and disposal agreement with    12-
6026 Laidlaw Waste Systems, Inc.                                                       6-
                                                                                       1995
                                                                                       3-
6061 Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 27-
                                                                                       1996
     Execution and delivery of sales tax rebate agreement between the city and Simon   7-
6087 Property Group (Illinois), L.P.                                                   24-
                                                                                       1996
6122 Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 1-8-
                                                                                       1997
     Execute the Illinois Municipal League risk management association minimum/maximum 3-
6135 contribution agreement                                                            12-
                                                                                       1997
                                                                                       3-
6144 Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 26-
                                                                                       1997
                                                                                       11-
6213 Encroachment on public right of way in the city                                   25-
                                                                                       1997
     Confirming certain persons and positions to be covered by civil service           1-
6230 protection                                                                        14-
                                                                                       1998
                                                                                       2-
6241 Execution of the IML/RMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement                   11-
                                                                                       1998
                                                                                       3-
6250 Borrow funds from the water pollution control revolving fund                      11-
                                                                                       1998
                                                                                       3-
6253 Encroachments on public right of way in the city                                  11-
                                                                                       1998
     Setting coverage and reserve requirements for loans from the Illinois             5-
6284 environmental protection agency's water pollution control revolving loan fund     13-
                                                                                       1998
     Approve agreement between the city and Mississippi                                 
6288 Lime Company and Illinois American Water Company concerning tax increment         6-
     financing district                                                                10-
                                                                                       1998
     Purchase of approximately 9.28 acres of state owned land adjacent to Worden       8-
6318 Street                                                                            26-
                                                                                       1998
     Closing Third Street between Piasa Street and State and closing Belle Street      9-
6330 between Third and Fourth Street for Lincoln Douglas Days                          23-
                                                                                       1998
                                                                                       10-
6334 Borrow funds from the water pollution control revolving fund                      28-
                                                                                       1998
                                                                                       1-
6356 Execution of the IML/RMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement                   27-
                                                                                       1999
     Transfer of property owned by the city located in the 900 block of Easton Street  8-
6415 to habitat for humanity                                                           11-
                                                                                       1999
     Authorizing the execution of the IML/RMA minimum/ maximum contribution agreement  12-
6456 by the city                                                                       15-
                                                                                       1999
     Authorizing the execution and delivery of an intergovernmental cooperation        3-
6472 agreement and certain documents in connection therewith; and related matters      22-
                                                                                       2000
                                                                                       4-
6483 Borrow funds from the water pollution control revolving fund                      26-
                                                                                       2000
     An amended redevelopment agreement between the city of Alton, Illinois, and Alton 4-
6484 Center Business Park, L.L.C.                                                      26-
                                                                                       2000
     Authorizing the transfer of six properties owned by the city of Alton to habitat  9-
6530 for humanity                                                                      13-
                                                                                       2000
     Execution of the IML/RMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement by the city of    12-
6551 Alton                                                                             20-
                                                                                       2000
     Authorizing the exchange of real estate between the city of Alton and Monroe      3-
6558 Memorial Church                                                                   14-
                                                                                       2001
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 3-
6568 of Alton                                                                          28-
                                                                                       2001
     Authorizing the execution and delivery of an intergovernmental cooperation        6-
6584 agreement and certain documents in connection therewith; and related matters      28-
                                                                                       2001
     Authorizing a pole line removal and relocation agreement with Union Electric      12-
6625 Company, d/b/a Ameren UE                                                          12-
                                                                                       2001
     Amending sections 6.01 and 6.03 of chapter six of the rules and regulations of    12-
6637 the Alton civil service commission                                                19-
                                                                                       2001
     Approving an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Alton and the        12-
6638 village of Godfrey concerning the transfer of certain wastewater sewerage lines   19-
                                                                                       2001
     Authorizing the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois to borrow funds from the  2-
6641 water pollution control revolving fund                                            13-
                                                                                       2002
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 3-
6652 of Alton                                                                          27-
                                                                                       2002
     Amending section 7.15 concerning preference points of the rules and regulations   4-
6655 of the civil service commission of the city of Alton, Illinois                    24-
                                                                                       2002
     Regulating encroachments on a public right-of-way commonly known as Indiana       9-
6677 Avenue                                                                            25-
                                                                                       2002
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 4-
6728 of Alton                                                                          23-
                                                                                       2003
     Pertaining to the jurisdictional transfer from the Illinois department of         7-9-
6750 transportation to the city of Alton of certain roadways in connection with the    2003
     Indiana Avenue project
                                                                                       12-
6788 Exempting the city of Alton from the affordable housing planning and appeal act   17-
                                                                                       2003
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 4-
6807 of Alton                                                                          28-
                                                                                       2004
     Authorizing the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois to borrow funds from the  5-
6813 water pollution control revolving fund                                            26-
                                                                                       2004
     Authorizing the city of Alton to enter into a public infrastructure loan for the  8-
6833 streetscape improvement projects                                                  25-
                                                                                       2004
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 4-
6871 of Alton                                                                          27-
                                                                                       2005
                                                                                       4-
6872 Authorizing the exchange of real property                                         13-
                                                                                       2005
                                                                                       8-
6892 Accepting a deed from Nu Bowl Lanes, Inc., D/B/A Bowl Haven                       10-
                                                                                       2005
                                                                                       9-
6908 Authorizing the exchange of real property - McInerney Street                      14-
                                                                                       2005
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 3-
6944 of Alton                                                                          22-
                                                                                       2006
     Authorizing the city of Alton, Madison County, Illinois to borrow funds from the  7-
6964 water pollution control revolving fund                                            12-
                                                                                       2006
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 3-
6999 of Alton                                                                          28-
                                                                                       2007
     Establishing and designating the Alton Square business district and the Alton     3-
7066 Square business district tax allocation fund                                      26-
                                                                                       2008
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 3-
7068 of Alton                                                                          26-
                                                                                       2008
     Directing execution of an agreement between the city of Alton and Coyote Alton    3-
7070 Mall, L.P.                                                                        26-
                                                                                       2008
                                                                                       3-
7071 Approving the Alton Square business district plan                                 26-
                                                                                       2008
     Directing execution of an additional agreement between the city of Alton and      7-
7091 Coyote Alton Mall, L.P.                                                           23-
                                                                                       2008
     Directing execution of second amendment to agreement between the city of Alton    9-
7097 and Coyote Alton Mall, L.P.                                                       24-
                                                                                       2008
     Approving a redevelopment agreement between the city of Alton and Coyote Alton    1-
7119 Mall, L.P.                                                                        28-
                                                                                       2009
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 3-
7128 of Alton                                                                          25-
                                                                                       2009
     Directing execution of a theater development agreement between the city of Alton  5-
7141 and Coyote Alton Mall, L.P.                                                       27-
                                                                                       2009
     Renaming the Alton Law Enforcement Center as the "Donald E. Sandidge Law          8-
7154 Enforcement Center"                                                               12-
                                                                                       2009
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the city 3-
7190 of Alton                                                                          24-
                                                                                       2010
     Authorizing the City to enter into an energy efficient loan with Madison County   1-
7239 Community Development                                                             12-
                                                                                       2011
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 3-
7247 of Alton                                                                          23-
                                                                                       2011
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 3-
7302 of Alton                                                                          14-
                                                                                       2012
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 3-
7306 of Alton                                                                          28-
                                                                                       2012
                                                                                       4-
7308 Accepting a warranty deed for public roadway known as Toledo Avenue               25-
                                                                                       2012
7317 Dedicating real estate on Fosterburg Road as a right of way                       8-8-
                                                                                       2012
                                                                                       11-
7342 Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement    28-
                                                                                       2012
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 2-
7344 of Alton                                                                          13-
                                                                                       2013
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 9-
7375 of Alton                                                                          25-
                                                                                       2013
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 3-
7397 of Alton                                                                          26-
                                                                                       2014
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 3-
7452 of Alton                                                                          25-
                                                                                       2015
7453 Dedicating City owned real estate adjacent to Rock Springs Park as public right   4-8-
     of way                                                                            2015
     Authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of   4-
7456 Alton and Alton Community School District 11                                      22-
                                                                                       2015
                                                                                       12-
7490 Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement    16-
                                                                                       2015
                                                                                       12-
7499 Dedicating real estate on College Avenue as a right-of- way                       16-
                                                                                       2015
                                                                                       12-
7500 Dedicating real estate on North Rodgers as a right-of- way                        16-
                                                                                       2015
     Dedicating City owned real estate adjacent to Rock Springs Park as public right-  1-
7504 of-way                                                                            27-
                                                                                       2016
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 3-
7512 of Alton                                                                          23-
                                                                                       2016
                                                                                       4-
7515 Temporarily closing the 2700 block of Amelia Street                               27-
                                                                                       2016
                                                                                       9-
7534 Adopting and approving of rules of the Civil Service Commission                   14-
                                                                                       2016
                                                                                       11-
7546 Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement    9-
                                                                                       2016
     Transferring funds from certain line items within certain departments of the City 3-
7563 of Alton                                                                          22-
                                                                                       2017
                                                                                       9-
7587 Amending the Civil Service Rules                                                  27-
                                                                                       2017
     Approving membership in the Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association 10-
7590 and authorizing the execution of an intergovernmental cooperation contract        25-
                                                                                       2017
7618 (Rep. by Ord. 7651, 8-8-2018)                                                      
7651 Repealing ordinance 7618 as an ordinance determined to be redundant and           8-8-
     unnecessary                                                                       2018
                                                                                       12-
7681 Approving advance payment from Illinois American Water                            19-
                                                                                       2018
                                                                                       2-
7686 Authorizing execution of an agreement with Bluff City Minerals, LLC               13-
                                                                                       2019
     Authorizing the City of Alton to enter into an agreement with American Cruise     8-
7715 Line Inc.                                                                         28-
                                                                                       2019
                                                                                       10-
7718 Amending the civil service rules                                                  9-
                                                                                       2019
                                                                                       11-
7728 Authorizing the execution of the IMLRMA minimum/maximum contribution agreement    26-
                                                                                       2019
                                                                                       11-
7729 Amending the civil service rules                                                  26-
                                                                                       2019
                                                                                       12-
7732 Amending the civil service rules                                                  18-
                                                                                       2019
                                                                                       12-
7740 Authorizing the execution and recording of a grant of drainage easement           18-
                                                                                       2019
     Approval of a business district plan for the proposed Alton Square Business       5-
7756 District - 2020 and fixing a time and place for public hearing                    27-
                                                                                       2020
                                                                                       6-
7758 Amending the civil service rules                                                  11-
                                                                                       2020
     Authorizing “No Parking” signs placed on both sides of the alley between Mulbe11-
7819 Street and Sycamore Street                                                        23-
                                                                                       2021
     Authorizing “No Parking” signs placed on both sides of the street on the 3200 11-
7820 block of Batson Drive                                                             23-
                                                                                       2021
                                                                                       11-
7821 Designating handicapped parking space at 2450 Mills Avenue                        23-
                                                                                       2021
                                                                                       11-
7822 Authorizing installation of a crosswalk at the 1300 block of Webster Street       23-
                                                                                       2021
     Granting a variance to the flood hazard regulations for improvements constructed  3-
7827 within Riverfront Park                                                            23-
                                                                                       2022
                                                                                       4-
7831 Authorizing handicapped parking space at 3406 California Avenue                   13-
                                                                                       2022
     Authorizing “No Parking” signs to be placed on the west side of the 400 block 4-
7832 Easton Street                                                                     28-
                                                                                       2022
                                                                                       4-
7833 Authorizing handicapped parking space at 810 E. 7th Street                        28-
                                                                                       2022
                                                                                       5-
7834 Authorizing “No Parking” signs to be placed on the 700 block of Silver Street 11-
                                                                                       2022
                                                                                       5-
7837 Authorizing “No Parking” signs to be placed on Jasper Street                  25-
                                                                                       2022
                                                                                       5-
7838 Authorizing handicapped parking space at 708 State Street                         25-
                                                                                       2022
7840 Authorizing handicapped parking space at 1207 Willard Street                      - -
                                                                                       2022
                                                                                       9-
7853 Authorizing "no parking" sign to be placed on Belleview Avenue                    28-
                                                                                       2022
                                                                                       11-
7859 Authorizing handicapped parking space at 711 State Street                         10-
                                                                                       2022
     Authorizing an honorary street sign to be placed on 13th Street honoring Bishop   11-
7860 Samuel E. White                                                                   10-
                                                                                       2022
                                                                                       12-
7863 Authorizing elimination of handicapped parking spaces at 830 East 6th Street      21-
                                                                                       2022
                                                                                       12-
7864 Authorizing elimination of "no parking" signs on Virden Street                    21-
                                                                                       2022
     Authorizing an honorary street sign to be placed on Cherry Street honoring Eddie  12-
7865 Mae Harrison                                                                      21-
                                                                                       2022
     Authorizing an intergovernmental agreement for participation in the mutual aid    12-
7866 box alarm system (MABAS master agreement 2022)                                    21-
                                                                                       2022
                                                                                       1-
7868 Authorizing permanent easement for encroachment on Plum Street                    11-
                                                                                       2023
     Authorizing temporary easement for removal of encroachments on Plum Street and    1-
7869 East 4th Street                                                                   11-
                                                                                       2023
     Authorizing an honorary street sign to be placed on Silver Street honoring James  1-
7871 Gray                                                                              25-
                                                                                       2023
                                                                                       1-
7872 Authorizing "no parking" signs be placed on the 700 Block of Silver Street        25-
                                                                                       2023
     Approving a right-of-way dedication to the city of Alton located in the Alton     2-
7873 Center Business Park                                                              22-
                                                                                       2023
                                                                                       4-
7881 Authorizing elimination of a handicapped parking space at 930 Alton Street.       26-
                                                                                       2023
     Authorizing an honorary street sign be placed on Rockwell Street honoring the     5-
7883 Love Family                                                                       10-
                                                                                       2023
                                                                                       5-
7884 Amending the Riverbend Enterprise Zone intergovernmental agreement                10-
                                                                                       2023
                                                                                       5-
7887 Authorizing a permanent easement for an encroachment on East Third Street         25-
                                                                                       2023
     Amending the asset purchase agreement between the City of Alton, Illinois and     6-
7888 Illinois-American Water Company                                                   14-
                                                                                       2023
     Authorizing stop signs be placed on Northbound and Southbound Monroe Street at    6-
7889 Madison Avenue                                                                    28-
                                                                                       2023
                                                                                       7-
7893 Authorizing elimination of a handicapped parking space at 810 E. 7th Street       26-
                                                                                       2023
7897 Authorizing speed limit signs be placed on eastbound and westbound Henry Street   8-9-
     beginning at 4th Street and ending at Blair Street                                2023
     Authorizing an honorary street sign be placed on Johnson Lane honoring Estella    8-
7898 Holmes                                                                            23-
                                                                                       2023
     Proposing the approval of a business district plan for the proposed Route 3 and   9-
7901 Buckmaster Business District and fixing a time and place for a public hearing     13-
     date on the plan and designating the business district                            2023
     Authorizing an honorary street sign be placed on Rock Springs Terrace honoring    10-
7907 Tom Caffey                                                                        11-
                                                                                       2023
                                                                                       10-
7908 Authorizing "No Parking" signs to be placed on the 2100 block of Mills Avenue     11-
                                                                                       2023
     Authorizing the removal of the restricted parking signs on the south side of 300  11-
7909 block of East 3rd Street and the time posted parking signs on the 200 block of    8-
     George Street                                                                     2023
     Authorizing an electric easement to Ameren Illinois Company to facilitate the     11-
7910 solar farm project                                                                8-
                                                                                       2023
                                                                                       11-
7912 Authorizing “No Parking” signs to be placed on the 1000 block of Marie Street 8-
                                                                                       2023
                                                                                       11-
7917 Designating handicapped parking space at 3219 Hawthorne Boulevard                 21-
                                                                                       2023
     Authorizing stop signs to be placed on northbound and southbound Alby Street at   11-
7918 East 20th Street                                                                  21-
                                                                                       2023
     Authorizing stop signs to be placed on northbound and southbound Alby Street at   12-
7919 East 4th Street                                                                   13-
                                                                                       2023
     Authorizing elimination of a handicapped parking space at 600 block of East       12-
7920 Broadway                                                                          13-
                                                                                       2023
     Creating a Pace area and establishing the Illinois Finance Authority Property     12-
7922 Assessed Clean Energy Program for record owners of property                       13-
                                                                                       2023
     Authorizing an easement to Ameren Illinois Company to access a 20-foot-wide       2-
7930 pipeline                                                                          14-
                                                                                       2024
                                                                                       2-
7933 Amending the Riverbend Enterprise Zone Intergovernmental Agreement                28-
                                                                                       2024
     Authorizing the Public Works Department to install a crosswalk at 301 West Elm    4-
7936 Street                                                                            24-
                                                                                       2024
     Approving the use of Food And Beverage Sales Tax for a Community Enrichment       4-
7940 Project                                                                           24-
                                                                                       2024
                                                                                       5-
7942 Designating handicapped parking space at 919 Alton Street                         22-
                                                                                       2024
     Authorizing the installation of crosswalks across Alby Street at intersections    6-
7943 with East 5th Street and East 6th Street                                          26-
                                                                                       2024
                                                                                       6-
7944 Adopting procedures for electronic attendance at meetings for the city            26-
                                                                                       2024
     Authorizing stop signs be placed on Northbound and Southbound Henry Street at     6-
7945 East 15th Street                                                                  12-
                                                                                       2024
                                                                                       7-
7947 Authorizing “no parking” signs to be placed on Golf Road                      31-
                                                                                       2024
     Authorizing a perpetual easement for a gas regulator station at 80 Henry Street   8-
7952 for Ameren Illinois Company                                                       28-
                                                                                       2024
     Authorizing a perpetual easement for pipeline access at 80 Henry Street for       8-
7953 Ameren Illinois Company                                                           28-
                                                                                       2024
     Authorizing “no parking” signs to be placed on the northwest corner of the 1609-
7955 block of Clawson Street                                                           11-
                                                                                       2024
     Authorizing “no parking” signs to be placed on the southeast side of the 700  10-
7957 block of Hampton Avenue                                                           9-
                                                                                       2024
     Authorizing the removal of the two hour parking sign on the east side of the 500  10-
7958 block of Ridge Street                                                             24-
                                                                                       2024
     Allocating title 4, chapter 3 municipal occupation and business taxes section 12  11-
7960 Municipal Cannabis Retailers' Occupation Tax for the first installment of a       13-
     pavement management system for the city                                           2024
     Authorizing the elimination of a handicapped parking space in front of 2404       11-
7961 Sanford Avenue                                                                    13-
                                                                                       2024
     Authorizing the elimination of a handicapped parking space in front of 1719       12-
7965 Clawson Street                                                                    11-
                                                                                       2024
     Authorizing stop signs to be placed on eastbound Wallace Street and westbound     12-
7966 Rock Springs Terrace at Holman Street                                             18-
                                                                                       2024
     Amending Alton ordinance no. 7436 to amend territory of the Riverbend Enterprise  12-
7967 Zone                                                                              18-
                                                                                       2024
                                                                                       12-
7968 An ordinance amending the Riverbend Enterprise Zone intergovernmental agreement   18-
                                                                                       2024
                                                                                       12-
7969 An ordinance authorizing an easement for an encroachment on East Third Street     18-
                                                                                       2024
7972 An ordinance authorizing elimination of a handicapped parking space in front of   4-9-
     722 Alby Street                                                                   2010
     An ordinance authorizing stop signs be placed on eastbound and westbound Pearl    4-
7973 Street at Gold Street                                                             23-
                                                                                       2025
     An ordinance authorizing a stop sign be placed on westbound Kendall Avenue at     4-
7974 Park Avenue                                                                       23-
                                                                                       2025
                                                                                      
 
APPENDIX U -
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
Ord. No. Description Date
Ord. No. Description                                                 Date
7712     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a   8-14-2019
         used car lot at 3001 Washington, Alton, Illinois
7713     Granting a special use permit to allow a electronic message 8-14-2019
         sign at 219 E. Fourth Street, Alton, Illinois
7720     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a   9-25-2019
         used car lot at 1720 Main, Alton, Illinois
7724     Granting a special use permit to allow an electronic        10-9-2019
         message sign at 3400 Fosterburg Road, Alton, Illinois
         Granting a special use permit to allow a grid roof mount
7730     solar panel at the property located at 2206 Krug Place,     11-26-2019
         Alton, Illinois
         Granting a special use permit to allow a grid roof mount
7731     solar panel at the property located at 2301 Crawford        11-26-2019
         Street, Alton, Illinois
         Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a
7735     landscape business at 1719 Washington Avenue, Alton,        12-18-2019
         Illinois
         Granting a special use permit to allow a grid roof mount
7744     solar panel at the property located at 2211 Gillis Street,  1-22-2019
         Alton, Illinois
7753     Granting a special use permit at 1103 exchange street for   4-23-2020
         the operation of a guest house
         Granting a special use permit to allow a grid roof mount
7754     solar panel at the property located at 1126 Milton Avenue,  4-23-2020
         Alton, Illinois
7761     Granting a special use permit for a bed and breakfast at    7-9-2020
         1103 State Street, Alton, Illinois
         Granting a special use permit to allow a roof mounted solar
7763     array at the property located at 2203 Norside, Alton,       7-23-2020
         Illinois
7771     Granting a special use permit at 370 Mcinerney Street for   8-27-2020
         the operation of a guest house.
7772     Granting a special use permit to allow solar panels at the  8-27-2020
         property located at 2611 Yager Avenue
7773     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a   8-13-2020
         used car lot at 4134 A. Alby Street, Alton, Illinois
         Granting a special use permit to allow a roof mounted solar
7775     array at the property located at 2901 Buena Vista Avenue,   9-10-2020
         Alton, Illinois
         Granting a special use permit to allow a roof mounted solar
7777     array at the property located at 809 Logan Avenue, Alton,   8-27-2020
         Illinois
7783     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a   10-15-2020
         barber shop at 2201 State Street, Alton, Illinois
7794     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a   12-17-2020
         used car lot at 3424 E. Broadway, Alton, Illinois
7797     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a   2-11-2021
         tobacco/smoker supply store at 2603 E. Broadway Street
7802     Granting a special use permit to allow the operation of a   4-15-2021
         used car lot at 37 E. Delmar
7807     Granting a special use permit at 3426 Robin Avenue for the  4-29-2021
         operation of a guest house
         Granting a special use permit to allow a utility- scale
7857     solar system at the former Alby St. landfill, commonly      9-28-2022
         known as the 4000 block of Alby Street
7858     Granting a special use permit at 1025 George St. to allow   9-27-2022
         the operation of a bed and breakfast inn
7892     Granting a special use permit at 1801 State Street for the  6-14-2023
         operation of a dermatology office
7896     Granting a special use permit at 417 East 3rd Street to     7-26-2023
         allow the operation of a Type B Short-Term Rental Unit
7899     Granting a special use permit at 3401 Fosterburg Road to    8-23-2023
         allow the installation of a small solar energy system
         Granting a special use permit at 1710 Barons Commerce Park
7900     Drive to allow the installation of a small solar energy     8-23-2023
         system
7971     Granting a special use permit at 1300 Washington Avenue to  1-8-2025
         allow the installation of a telecommunications facility
7977     Granting a special use permit at 400 East 14th Street to    6-25-2025
         allow the operation of a Type B short-term rental unit
                                                                    
 
