VILLAGE CODE of
ANNAWAN
ILLINOIS
1998
Code current through:
Ord. 421, passed 2-10-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This Village Code of the Village of Annawan, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 421, passed February 10, 2025.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this Village Code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent
therewith. Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any
particular provision of the Code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
 
PENDING ORDINANCES
 
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 219
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE VILLAGE OF ANNAWAN, ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL CODE
   BE IT ORDAINED by the President and Board of Trustees of the Village of
Annawan, Illinois, as follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the Village
Code of the Village of Annawan, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the Village, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the
official code and law of the Village as enacted by the President and Board of
Trustees.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official Village Code is identified by the proper catchline and is
inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which
shall be maintained in the office of the Village Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official
Village Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision
and the fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the
governing body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous
effectiveness of ordinances included in said official Village Code. All
ordinances of a special nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances,
franchises, vacating ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in
full force and effect unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of
the Village Code. Such ordinances are not intended to be included in the
official Village Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the Village to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
   PASSED this 13th day of October, 1998.
   APPROVED this 13th day of October, 1998.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/211a1fd860eeeaded6bd697480bc604182b72795/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1056.png]
 
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the Board of Trustees, this Village Code is hereby
declared to be and shall hereafter constitute the official Village Code of
Annawan. This Village Code of ordinances shall be known and cited as the
ANNAWAN VILLAGE CODE and is hereby published by authority of the Board of
Trustees and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most recent legislation
of the Village as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this Village Code by title in any legal documents. (1998 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The Village Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of
this State as the ordinances of the Village of general and permanent effect,
except the excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1998 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the Village Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this Village Code. All
such amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this Village Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the Village Code. (1998 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this Village Code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the Board of Trustees. The Village Clerk shall see that the replacement pages
are properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the
Clerk. Any person having custody of a copy of the Village Code shall make every
effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed.
Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages
when such are delivered or made available to such person through the office of
the Village Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and
other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the Village and
shall be returned to the office of the Village Clerk when directed so to do by
order of the Board of Trustees. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the Village passed prior to the adoption of this
Village Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this Village
Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
Village; zoning and subdivision ordinances; and all special ordinances. (1998
Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this Village Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the Village Code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case, this Village Code shall be considered as amending
such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1998 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Currently Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the Village herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the Village under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this Village Code. (1998 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this Village Code or any part thereof or any portion adopted by reference
therein is for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective
by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the
validity or effectiveness of the remaining portions of this Code, or any part
thereof or any portion adopted by reference therein. The Village Board of
Trustees hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this Village Code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this Village Code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this Village Code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the Village has
been changed in the content of this Village Code to "Title", "Chapter",
"Section" and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to the Village's ordinances is not
meant to amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1998
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CODE: The Village Code of the Village of Annawan.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the Village Council of the Village of
Annawan.
COUNTY: The County of Henry, State of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village employee by
title only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the
Village of Annawan".
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the Village, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a Village officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the Village
of Annawan".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
VILLAGE: The Village of Annawan, County of Henry, State of Illinois.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1998 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the Village Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Liability Of Officers
1-4-3: Citation; Compromise And Settlement
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this Code or by state
statute, any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this Code shall be fined in an amount not to exceed seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) per offense. The Village hereby establishes the
following schedule for fines, which may be used as guidance for the Village's
code enforcement officers but shall not be controlling under all circumstances,
and may be deviated from with the approval of the Village President:
      1.   A first offense shall be subject to a fine of fifty dollars ($50.00)
for each violation;
      2.   A second offense shall be subject to a fine of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) for each violation;
      3.   A third offense shall be subject to a fine of four hundred dollars
($400.00) for each violation; and
      4.   A fourth and all subsequent offenses shall be subject to a fine of
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation.
   B.   Each day that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate
offense. A penalty for each offense may also include a requirement that the
offending party complete an education program or perform some reasonable public
service work such as, but not limited to, picking up litter in public parks or
upon public highways or performing maintenance of public facilities.
   C.   Violations of this Code that are continuous with respect to time are a
public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable relief. The
imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief.
   D.   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
   E.   In case of amendment of any section of this Code containing the
provisions for which a penalty is provided in another section, the penalty so
provided in such other section shall be held to relate to the amended section
or the amending section, whether reenacted in the amendatory ordinance or not,
unless such penalty is specifically repealed therein.
   F.   The imposition of a forfeiture does not prevent suspension or
revocation of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
(1998 Code; amd. Ord. 418, 8-14-2024)
1-4-2: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Village to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1998
Code; amd. Ord. 418, 8-14-2024)
1-4-3: CITATION; COMPROMISE AND SETTLEMENT:
   A.   Any person who has received a citation for violation of any of the
provisions of this Code may settle an initial ordinance violation charge by
paying the minimum amount of the fine specified by such Code provision, plus
fifty dollars ($50.00). Any person charged with a subsequent violation of such
Code provision may settle such subsequent ordinance violation charge by paying
one and one-half (1 ½) times the amount required for settlement of an initial
ordinance violation charge. The Village attorney or his or her designee may
withdraw any such offer for settlement, refuse payment or refund payments
previously made if the Village attorney or his or her designee believes that
such settlement would not be in the best interests of the Village, would not
lead to compliance with this Code, or would otherwise diminish the seriousness
of the applicable offense.
   B.   Any person wishing to settle and compromise an offense pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter shall pay the required amount either by mailing a
check or money order together with the violator's copy of the citation to the
Village of Annawan, 200 N. Meadow Lane, Annawan, IL 61234, or by paying the
same in person at the Annawan Village Hall during regular business hours.
Checks or money orders should be made payable to the Village of Annawan.
   C.   If payment of any settlement amount hereunder is not received by the
Village within thirty (30) days from the date such offense was allegedly
committed, or ten (10) days prior to the listed court date, if any, for such
citation, whichever is earlier, the Village may authorize the Village attorney
or his or her designee to proceed with filing a complaint with the Henry County
Circuit Court to enforce the Village's ordinances. In the event the Village
proceeds with the filing of an ordinance violation, the respondent shall be
responsible for all costs to the extent permissible by law, in addition to any
fine. (Ord. 418, 8-14-2024)
CHAPTER 5
VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES 1
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election; Functions
1-5-2: Oath; Salary
1-5-3: Village President
1-5-4: Meetings
1-5-5: Rules Of Order
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-5-1, 5/3-5-2, 5-/3-11-1 et seq., 5/3-12-1 et seq., and 5/3-14-
  1 et seq.
1-5-1: ELECTION; FUNCTIONS:
The Board of Trustees, consisting of six (6) Trustees and the Village
President, shall be elected to the office for four (4) year terms, according to
the method provided by statute 1 . This Board shall be the legislative
department of the Village government and shall perform such duties and have
such powers as may be delegated by statute to it. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS.
1-5-2: OATH; SALARY:
The members of the Board of Trustee shall take the oath of office prescribed by
statute 1  and shall receive such compensation as may be provided by ordinance.
(1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/3-14-3.
1-5-3: VILLAGE PRESIDENT:
   A.   Presiding Officer: The Village President shall be the presiding officer
of all regular and special meetings of the Board of Trustees and at all times
when the Board meets as a Committee of the Whole.
   B.   Authority: Except as otherwise provided by this Code or by statute, the
Village President shall be and is hereby authorized to hire, supervise and
discharge, as he or she deems appropriate, all employees of the Village and all
such persons shall perform their duties subject to his or her direction. (1998
Code)
1-5-4: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The Village Board shall hold its regular monthly
meeting in the Village Hall on the second Tuesday of each month at seven thirty
o'clock (7:30) P.M. (Ord. 129, 4-2-1973)
   B.   Rescheduled Monthly Meetings: The President and Board of Trustees at
any meeting may reschedule one or more regular monthly meetings by motion or
resolution duly made, seconded and passed by a majority of the corporate
authorities when holding office.
   C.   Special Meetings:
      1.   Call Of Special Meeting: The Village President or any three (3)
Village Trustees may call special meetings of the Board of Trustees by a
written call filed with the Village Clerk at least seventy two (72) hours prior
to the time specified for such meeting.
      2.   Written Notice; Service: At least forty eight (48) hours' written
notice of such special meeting shall be given to the Trustees by the Village
Clerk, which notice shall specify the time and purpose of such meeting and
shall be delivered to each member of the Board of Trustees personally if such
Trustee can be found and, if such Trustee cannot be found, then by leaving a
copy of such notice at the home of such Boardmember in the presence of an adult
member of the family of the Boardmember.
      3.   Posting Of Notice: Notice of special meetings, with the agenda,
shall be posted at the Village Hall within the Village forty eight (48) hours
before the scheduled meeting.
      4.   Affidavit Of Service: The Village Clerk shall cause an affidavit
showing service of such notice as herein provided, to be filed in the Clerk's
office prior to the time fixed for such special meeting.
      5.   Meeting Without Notice: Special meetings may be held without notice
when all members of the Board are present in person or with consent in writing
to the holding of such meeting. Such written consent shall be filed with the
Village Clerk prior to the beginning of the meeting.
      6.   Full Attendance, Regular Meeting: Any special meeting attended by
all of the members of the Board of Trustees shall be a regular meeting for the
transaction of any business that may come before such meeting.
   D.   Place For Meetings: All meetings of the Board of Trustees shall be held
at the Hodgett Hall including special and adjourned meetings, of such other
places as shall be designed by the Board.
   E.   Meetings Open To Public: All official meetings of the Board of
Trustees, whether regular, adjourned or special, shall be open to the public
except where authorized by the Illinois Open Meeting Act 1 . (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 120/1 et seq.
1-5-5: RULES OF ORDER:
   A.   Rescinded Action: No vote or action of the Board of Trustees shall be
rescinded at any special meeting of the Board of Trustees unless there be
present at such special meeting as many members of the Board of Trustees as
were present at the meeting when such vote or action was taken, as provided by
statute.
   B.   Resolutions: Any resolutions submitted to the Board of Trustees shall
be reduced to writing before being voted upon on request of any two (2) members
of the Board.
   C.   Addressing Meetings: No person other than the President or a member of
the Board shall address that body at any regular or special meeting except upon
consent of a majority of the members.
   D.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
members present at any meeting.
   E.   Robert's Rules Of Order: The latest edition of Robert's Rules of Order
shall govern the deliberations of the Board of Trustees, except when in
conflict with any of the foregoing rules.
   F.   Quorum: A majority of the Trustees or three (3) Trustees and the
Village President shall constitute a quorum to do business.
   G.   Committees:
      1.   Standing Committees: The following shall be the standing committees
of the Board of Trustees:
      Police
      Finance
      Water/Sewer
      Parks and Buildings
      Streets and Alleys
      Storm Tile and Drainage
      Garbage
      2.   Special Committees: Special committees shall be created, from time
to time, as directed by the Village President.
      3.   Appointment: All committees shall be appointed by the Village
President.
   H.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any
meeting of the Board of Trustees or of any committee thereof. Any person
violating the provisions of this subsection shall be punished as provided in
this Code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PREVAILING WAGE
SECTION:
1-6-1: Determination Of Rate
1-6-2: Definitions
1-6-3: Applicability
1-6-4: Posting Of Rate
1-6-5: Mailing Copies
1-6-6: Filing With Secretary Of State, Department Of Labor
1-6-1: DETERMINATION OF RATE:
To the extent and is required by the "Prevailing Wage Act", approved June 26,
1941, as amended, the general prevailing rate of wages in this locality for
laborers, mechanics and other workers engaged in construction of public works
coming under the jurisdiction of the Village is hereby ascertained to be the
same as the prevailing rate of wages for construction work in Henry County area
as determined by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois as of June 5,
2017, a copy of that determination on file in the Village and incorporated
herein by reference. As required by said Act, any and all revisions of the
prevailing rate of wages by the Department of Labor of the State of Illinois
shall supersede the department's June determination and apply to any and all
public works construction undertaken by the Village. (Ord. 386, 10-10-2018)
1-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
The definition of any terms appearing in this chapter which are also used in
the aforesaid Act shall be the same as in said Act. (Ord. 386, 10-10-2018)
1-6-3: APPLICABILITY:
Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general prevailing
rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except public
works construction of the Village to the extent required by the aforesaid Act.
Upon motion duly made and seconded, and unanimously carried by the Board of
Trustees and approved by the Village, authorization is hereby given to publish
this chapter and the prevailing rate of wages in pamphlet form and the same
shall be posted at the Annawan Village Hall, and will be made conveniently
available for public inspection at the said location. (Ord. 386, 10-10-2018)
1-6-4: POSTING OF RATE:
The Village Clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection by any
interested party in the Village office at the Town Hall this determination of
such prevailing rate of wage. A copy of this determination or of the current
revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect shall be
attached to all contract specifications. (Ord. 386, 10-10-2018)
1-6-5: MAILING COPIES:
The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to any employer, and
to any association of employers and to any person or association of employees
who have filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rate. (Ord. 386, 10-10-2018)
1-6-6: FILING WITH SECRETARY OF STATE, DEPARTMENT OF LABOR:
The Village Clerk shall promptly file a certified copy of the ordinance
codified in this chapter with both the Secretary of State and the Department of
Labor of the State of Illinois. (Ord. 386, 10-10-2018)
CHAPTER 7
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
1-7-1: Adoption Of Act
1-7-1: ADOPTION OF ACT:
   A.   The regulations of sections 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et
seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this chapter), are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the village
to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   D.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   F.   The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   G.   This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this chapter shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this chapter by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village.
   I.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village if the act is found unconstitutional
by the Illinois supreme court.
   J.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this chapter shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the village.
(Ord. 250, 5-11-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10-40.
CHAPTER 8
NON-SUFFICIENT FUNDS - RETURNED CHECKS
SECTION:
1-8-1: Definition
1-8-2: Returned Check
1-8-3: Returned Check Charges
1-8-4: Method Of Payment
1-8-1: DEFINITION:
NON-SUFFICIENT FUNDS (NSF): To indicate that a check cannot be honored because
of insufficient funds are available in the account on which the instrument was
drawn. NSF is also referred to as a bad check, dishonored check, bounced check,
cold check, rubber check, returned check, or hot check. (Ord. 374, 3-14-2017)
1-8-2: RETURNED CHECK:
In the event any person attempts to pay the Village of Annawan by the use of
check for any Village obligation which is later returned for non-sufficient
funds shall be charged by the Village of Annawan a service fee which is set
forth in section
1-8-3 of this chapter. The person shall also be responsible for any additional
fees incurred by the Village of Annawan for the returned check. (Ord. 374, 3-
14-2017)
1-8-3: RETURNED CHECK CHARGES:
   A.   First offense: Warning letter.
   B.   Second offense: Twenty five dollars ($25.00) for checks up to one
hundred dollars ($100.00). Fifty dollars ($50.00) for checks over one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   C.   Third offense: Fifty dollars ($50.00) for checks up to one hundred
dollars ($100.00). Seventy five dollars ($75.00) for checks over one hundred
dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 374, 3-14-2017)
1-8-4: METHOD OF PAYMENT:
Upon receiving a return check for non-sufficient funds, all payments to the
Village of Annawan shall be in the form of cash or cashier check. No checks
will be accepted. (Ord. 374, 3-14-2017)
CHAPTER 9
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-9-1: Adoption
1-9-1: ADOPTION:
The Village hereby adopts a policy prohibiting sexual harassment, which is on
file in the Village. (Ord. 379, 1-9-2018, eff. 1-9-2018)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
EMERGENCY SERVICES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Establishment
2-1-2: Coordinator
2-1-3: Membership
2-1-4: Functions
2-1-5: Mobile Support Team
2-1-6: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
2-1-7: Emergency Action
2-1-8: Compensation
2-1-9: Reimbursement By State
2-1-10: Purchases And Expenditures
2-1-11: Oath
2-1-12: Office
2-1-13: Appropriation; Levy Of Taxes
2-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There is hereby created the Annawan Emergency Management Agency to prevent,
minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting from disaster caused
by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or from natural or manmade
disaster, in accordance with the Illinois Emergency Management Act. (Ord. 140A,
12-9-1975; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-2: COORDINATOR:
   A.   Appointment: The Coordinator of the Emergency Management Agency shall
be appointed by the Village President and shall serve until removed by the
Village President.
   B.   Vacancy: In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability
of the person appointed to serve as the Coordinator, the Village President, or
any person designated by him, shall be and act as Coordinator until a new
appointment is made as provided in this Chapter.
   C.   Duties: The Coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration, training, and operation of the Emergency
Management Agency, subject to the direction and control of the Village
President as provided by statute. (Ord. 140A, 12-9-1975; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The Emergency Management Agency shall consist of the Coordinator and such
additional members as may be selected by the Coordinator. (Ord. 140A, 12-9-
1975; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-4: FUNCTIONS:
The Emergency Management Agency shall perform such Emergency Management Agency
functions within the Village as shall be prescribed in and by the State
Emergency Management plan and program prepared by the Governor, and such
orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor, and, in
addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be
required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other political
subdivision, municipality, or quasi-municipality entered into as provided the
Illinois Emergency Management Act. (Ord. 140A, 12-9-1975; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-5: MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   A.   Membership: All or any members of the Emergency Management Agency
organization may be designated as members of a mobile support team created by
the Director of the State Emergency Management Agency as provided by law.
   B.   Team Leader: The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated
by the Coordinator of the Village Emergency Management Agency.
   C.   Compensation: Any member of the mobile support team who is a Village
employee or officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor or the State
Director shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights,
and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is
not a paid officer or employee of the Village, while so serving, shall receive
from the State reasonable compensation as provided by law. (Ord. 140A, 12-9-
1975; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-6: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The Coordinator of Emergency Management Agency may negotiate mutual aid
agreements with other cities or political subdivisions of the State, but no
such agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by the Village
President and by the State Director of the Emergency Management Agency. (Ord.
140A, 12-9-1975; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-7: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the Governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the State
of a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
from manmade or natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the Village Emergency
Management Agency to cooperate fully with the State Emergency Management Agency
and with the Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
(Ord. 140A, 12-9-1975; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-8: COMPENSATION:
Members of the Emergency Management Agency who are paid employees or officers
of the Village, if called for training by the State Director of the Emergency
Management Agency, shall receive for the time spent in such training the same
rate of pay as is attached to the position held; members who are not such
Village employees or officers shall receive for such training time such
compensation as may be established by the Village President. (Ord. 140A, 12-9-
1975; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-9: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The Village Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the State to the Village for expenses incident to training
members of the Emergency Management Agency as prescribed by the State Director
of the Emergency Management Agency, compensation for services and expenses of
members of a mobile support team while serving outside the Village in response
to a call by the Governor or State Director of the Emergency Management Agency,
as provided by law, and any other reimbursement made by the State incident to
emergency services and disaster activities as provided by law. (Ord. 140A, 12-
9-1975; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-10: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   A.   Authorized By Village President: The Village President may, on
recommendation of the Village Coordinator of the Emergency Management Agency,
authorize any purchase of contracts necessary to place the Village in a
position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from the explosion of any
nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the public health and safety,
protect property, and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of
such disaster, or from manmade or natural disaster.
   B.   Authorized By Coordinator: In the event of enemy caused or other
disaster, the Village Coordinator of the Emergency Management Agency is
authorized, on behalf of the Village, to procure such services, supplies,
equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the
exigency without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to Village contracts or obligations, as authorized
by the Illinois Emergency Management Act; provided, that if the Coordinator
meets with the Village President at such time, he shall act subject to the
directions and restrictions imposed by the Village President. (Ord. 140A, 12-9-
1975; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-11: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Village Emergency
Management Agency organization shall, before entering upon his duties,
subscribe to the following oath, which shall be filed with the Coordinator:
   I,                         , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will
support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of
the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and the
territory, institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a
member of any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of
the government of the United States or of this State by force or violence; and
that during such time as I am affiliated with the Annawan Emergency Management
Agency organization, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this State by force or violence.
(Ord. 140A, 12-9-1975; amd. 1998 Code)
2-1-12: OFFICE:
The Village President is authorized to designate space in a Village building,
or elsewhere, as may be provided for by the Village President for the Village
Emergency Management Agency as its office. (Ord. 140A, 12-9-1975; amd. 1998
Code)
2-1-13: APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES:
The Village President may make an appropriation for Emergency Management Agency
purposes in the manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for Emergency
Management Agency purposes only, a tax not to exceed five cents ($0.05) per one
hundred dollars ($100.00) of the assessed value of all taxable property in
addition to all other taxes, as provided by the Illinois Emergency Management
Act; however, that amount collectable under such levy shall in no event exceed
twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. (Ord. 140A, 12-9-1975; amd. 1998 Code)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: Application
3-1-3: Record Of Licenses
3-1-4: Fees
3-1-5: Term Of License
3-1-6: Minors, Intoxicated Persons Excluded
3-1-7: Revocation Of License
3-1-8: Permit Fees
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to exercise the trade or
calling of an auctioneer, hawker, peddler, pawnbroker, huckster or street
vendor or to conduct any circus, menagerie, or show, or to keep or run or
maintain any billiard, bagatelle, pigeon hole or other table, or implement of
like character, or that is kept or used for a similar purpose, or any ball
alley, or pin alley, in any place or public resort, or to advertise any goods
or wares, merchandise or other thing, or any sale thereof, by the ringing of a
bell or bells or by public outcry upon the streets, or in any place to the
annoyance of the public or of any private family; or to store any gunpowder,
nitroglycerine, pitch, resin, tar, coal oil, benzine, turpentine, hemp, cotton,
petroleum, or any product of petroleum, without first obtaining a license
therefor; provided, that nothing herein contained shall apply to executors,
administrators, constables or trustees or other persons selling by virtue of
their office; and, provided further, that nothing herein contained shall be
construed to prohibit the sale of goods by sample for future delivery.
   B.   Penalty: Any persons violating any of the provisions of this Section,
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ch. 4 § 1; amd. 1998 Code)
3-1-2: APPLICATION:
The Village Clerk may receive applications for licenses and grant the same
except where this Chapter provides that the President and Board of Trustees
shall grant the same, upon the party applying for the same presenting to him a
receipt from the Village Treasurer for the amount fixed by ordinance for the
object for which the license is desired, and each license so issued by the
Clerk shall contain a condition that the same shall be forfeited if the holder
thereof shall violate any of the provisions of any ordinance of this Village or
law of this State, and that the same may be revoked at any time by the
President and Board of Trustees. (Ch. 4 § 3)
3-1-3: RECORD OF LICENSES:
It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to provide, at the expense of the
Village, a suitable book in which to record, and to record therein all licenses
issued, the time when issued and when the same expires, and any other facts
necessary for a full understanding of the object of the license issued. (Ch. 4
§ 3)
3-1-4: FEES 1 :
There shall be charged and collected from each person desiring a license and/or
permit for any purpose a license and/or permit fee as shall be determined from
time to time by resolution of the Board of Trustees. (1998 Code; amd. per
letter dated 3-13-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  3-1-8 of this Chapter.
3-1-5: TERM OF LICENSE:
   A.   Pro Rata Term: Any yearly license provided for in this Chapter may be
issued for any part of a year upon the payment of a corresponding part of the
annual fee of such license, unless otherwise provided by ordinance. (Ch. 4 § 8)
   B.   Fiscal Year: The fiscal year shall end on April 30 of each and every
year from and after the passage hereof. All billiard, pool and bagatelle
license and druggist permits shall terminate on said day. (Ch. 4 § 9)
3-1-6: MINORS, INTOXICATED PERSONS EXCLUDED:
   A.   Minors:
      1.   Playing Amusements Prohibited; Consent Required: It shall be
unlawful for any person to whom a license or permit has been issued to keep or
run a billiard room, bagatelle or other similar table, ten (10) pin alley, or
shooting gallery, to suffer or permit, either by himself or his agent, any
minor to play upon any such table or alley, or at any game played thereon, or
to handle or use any gun or other implement kept for the purpose aforesaid,
without a written consent of the parent or guardian of such minor.
      2.   Misrepresentation Of Age: It shall be unlawful for any minor to
falsely represent himself to be of lawful age for the purpose of obtaining any
intoxicating liquors, playing at any game, or for the doing of any act or thing
prohibited by this Chapter.
      3.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
subsection A, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided
in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Loitering:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any minor or person intoxicated
to frequent, loiter, loaf or be in and about any place where any billiard,
bagatelle, pigeon hole or other table, or ball or pin alley, air gun or other
gun for like purposes, or shooting gallery may be kept or used under the
provision of this Chapter, or to play at any game, or use or handle any gun or
other implement or thing used in playing at any such game without first having
obtained written consent of his parent or guardian so to do.
      2.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
subsection B shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided
in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ch. 4 § 7; amd. 1998 Code)
3-1-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The President and Board of Trustees shall have the power, at any time in their
discretion, to revoke or annul any license or permit that may have been issued
by virtue of any ordinance of this Village by refunding such fractional part of
the whole sum paid for the license as the unexpired time the license has to run
is to the whole time for which it was given and has been paid for. (Ch. 4 § 5)
3-1-8: PERMIT FEES:
Permit fees in this Section are required for home building, outer home
improvements, subdivisions and any type of commercial building or commercial
building improvements.
   A.   Residential Properties:
 Fee
                         Fee
$ 0.00 to $ 5,000.00     $ 25.00
5,001.00 to 15,000.00    75.00
15,001.00 to 30,000.00   175.00
30,001.00 to 100,000.00  250.00
100,001.00 to 125,000.00 300.00
125,001.00 to 200,000.00 350.00
Above 200,000.00         1/2 percent of project total
 
   B.   Commercial Properties: One-half percent (1/2%) of project total. (Per
letter dated 3-13-2000)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Application For License
3-2-4: Restrictions On License
3-2-5: Classification; Fees
3-2-6: Term; Prorating Fee
3-2-7: Disposition Of Fees
3-2-8: List
3-2-9: Transfer Of License
3-2-10: Renewal Of License
3-2-11: Change Of Location
3-2-12: Location Restrictions
3-2-13: View From Street
3-2-14: Sanitary Conditions
3-2-15: Employees
3-2-16: Closing Hours
3-2-17: Minors
3-2-18: Peddling
3-2-19: Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Fines
3-2-20: Penalty
3-2-21: Duties Of Police Department
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt, and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such club files with the local liquor control
commissioner at the time of its application for a license under this chapter
two (2) copies of a list of names and residences of its members, and similarly
files within ten (10) days of the election of any additional member his name
and address; and, provided further, that its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting and that no member or any officer,
agent, or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in
the form of salary or other compensation any profits from the distribution or
sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five (25)
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings,
structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and
regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and
having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare,
cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAIL SALE: "Sell at retail" and "sale at retail" refer to and mean sales for
use or consumption and not for resale in any form. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the Village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license or in
violation of the terms of such license. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
3-2-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Village President in
writing, signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized
agent thereof, if a club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and
shall contain the following information and statements:
   A.   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of the
stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominees, the name and
address of such person;
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization;
   C.   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
   D.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
   E.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made;
   F.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license;
   G.   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for another
similar license on premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of such application;
   H.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this Chapter, laws of this State, or the ordinances of this
Village; if the applicant has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or
State law, he shall give full details as to place, date, nature of the offense
and sentence.
   I.   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of being the keeper
or is keeping a house of ill fame and a statement that the applicant has not
been convicted of pandering or other crime or misdemeanor opposed to decency
and morality.
   J.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the Federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
   K.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
State, or of the United States, or any ordinance of the Village in the conduct
of his place of business. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
3-2-4: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE:
No such license shall be issued to: (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979; amd. 1998 Code)
   A.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides;
   B.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   C.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any Federal or State
law, if the Illinois Liquor Control Commission determines, after investigation,
that such person has not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public
trust;
   D.   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   E.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality;
   F.   A person whose license issued under the Liquor Control Act of 1934 1
has been revoked for cause;
   G.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   H.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license;
   I.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship within the Village;
   J.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois Business Corporation
Act 2  to transact business in Illinois;
   K.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee;
   L.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of the Liquor Control Act of 1934 or has forfeited
his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   M.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a license
is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the
license is to be issued;
   N.   Any law enforcing public official, including members of the Local
Liquor Control Commission, the President of the Village Board of Trustees, any
member of a Village Board of Trustees, or any president or member of the County
Board; and no such official shall be interested in any way, either directly or
indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor,
except that a license may be granted to such official in relation to premises
which are not located within the territory subject to the jurisdiction of that
official if the issuance of such license is approved by the State Liquor
Control Commission;
   O.   Any person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee;
   P.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as prescribed by
any of subsections (a)(3) through (a)(10) of section 28-1 of, or as proscribed
by section 28-3 of, the Criminal Code of 1961 3 , approved July 28, 1961, as
heretofore or hereafter amended, or as proscribed by a statute replaced by any
of the aforesaid statutory provisions;
   Q.   A person or entity to whom a Federal wagering stamp has been issued by
the Federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued a
license under the Raffles Act 4  or the Illinois Pull Tabs and Jar Games Act 5
. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979; amd. 1998 Code; Ord. 385, 9-11-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS 5.
2 2. 805 ILCS 5/1.01 et seq.
3 1. 720 ILCS 5/28-1, 5/28-1.1, or 5/28-3.
4 2. 230 ILCS 15/0.01 et seq.
5 3. 230 ILCS 20/1 et seq.
3-2-5: CLASSIFICATION; FEES:
The number and classification of such license shall be:
   A.   Class A License:
      1.   Sales Authorized: Class A license shall authorize the retail sale on
the premises specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises as
well as other sales of such retail liquor.
      2.   Fee: The annual fee for such license shall be eight hundred dollars
($800.00).
      3.   Number Of Licenses: The number of such licenses to be issued, and to
be in effect at any one time shall not exceed seven (7).
   B.   Class B License:
      1.   Sales Authorized: Class B licenses shall authorize the retail sale
in clubs on the premises specified of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises as well as other retail sales of such liquor.
      2.   Fee: The annual fee for such license shall be eight hundred dollars
($800.00). (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979; amd. 1998 Code)
3-2-6: TERM; PRORATING FEE:
Each license shall terminate on April 30 next following its issuance. The fee
to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which
have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the license. (Ord. 152, 4-12-
1979)
3-2-7: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All such fees shall be paid to the Village President at the time application is
made, and shall be forthwith turned over to the Village Treasurer. In the event
the license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant;
if the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the General
Corporate Fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the Board
of Trustees, by proper action. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
3-2-8: LIST:
The Village President shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all
such licenses issued by him; and shall furnish the Village Clerk, Village
Treasurer, and Chief of Police each with a copy thereof; upon the issuance of
any new license, or the revocation of any old license, the Village President
shall give written notice of such action to each of these officers within forty
eight (48) hours of such action. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
3-2-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall not
constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such
decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license
but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of
such licensee. A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid
for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under
such license in accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 152, 4-
12-1979)
3-2-10: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof, provided he is
then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such renewal
license is sought are suitable for such purpose; and, provided further, that
the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a vested
right which shall in any case prevent the Village President and Board of
Trustees from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within his
jurisdiction. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979; amd. 1998 Code)
3-2-11: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only
in the premises described in the application and license. Such location may be
changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the Village
President. No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the law
of this State and the ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
3-2-12: LOCATION RESTRICTIONS:
No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within one hundred feet (100') of any church, school, hospital, home for aged
or indigent persons or for veterans, their surviving spouses or children, or
any military or naval station; provided, that this prohibition shall not apply
to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly organized clubs, or to
restaurants, food shops or other places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not
the principal business carried on, if such place of business so exempted shall
have been established for such purposes prior to the taking effect of this
Chapter; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor on premises within one hundred feet (100') of any church or school where
such church or school has been established within such one hundred feet (100')
since the issuance of the original license. No alcoholic liquor, other than
beer shall be sold for consumption on the premises within one thousand five
hundred feet (1,500') from any building used for regular classroom or
laboratory instruction on the main campus of any State university owned or
maintained, in whole or in part, by the State of Illinois; provided, this
prohibition shall not apply: a) to a place of business which sells beer but
does not sell any other alcoholic liquor and was established and operated prior
to August 7, 1963; or b) to premises owned or controlled by any State
university and used as a faculty center or an airport. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
3-2-13: VIEW FROM STREET:
   A.   Clear View Required: In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic
liquor for consumption upon the premises is licensed (other than as a
restaurant, hotel or club), no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or
thing shall be permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed
premises nor inside such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the
interior of such licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all
times, and no booth, screen, partition, or other obstruction nor any
arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted in or about the interior
of such premises which shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such
premises from the street, road or sidewalk, and said premises must be so
located that there shall be a full view of the entire interior of such premises
from the street, road or sidewalk.
   B.   Lighting: All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the
premises shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light
or artificial white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises
shall be clearly visible.
   C.   Violation: In case the view into any such licensed premises required by
the foregoing provisions, shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or by him
wilfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such license
shall be subject to revocation in the manner herein provided.
   D.   Plans; Drawings; Photographs: In order to enforce the provisions of
this Section, the Village President shall have the right to require the filing
with him of plans, drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view
as above required. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
3-2-14: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the storage
of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition,
and shall be kept in full compliance with the ordinances regulating the
condition of premises used for the storage or sale of food for human
consumption. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
3-2-15: EMPLOYEES:
   A.   Diseased Person: It shall be unlawful to employ in any premises used
for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted with, or
who is a carrier of, any contagious, infectious or venereal disease; and it
shall be unlawful for any person who is afflicted with or a carrier of any such
disease to work in or about any premises or to engage in any way in the
handling, preparation or distribution of such liquor. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
   B.   Minors:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ
or permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to attend bar and/
or to draw, pour or mix any alcoholic liquor in any licensed premises; provided
that the provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to prevent the
employment of persons who are at least eighteen (18) years of age as waiters or
waitresses in restaurants, hotels or motels for the purpose of serving food and
alcoholic liquor on the licensed premises. This provision shall apply only
during the hours the establishment is serving food. (1998 Code; amd. Ord. 387,
11-13-2018, eff. 11-13-2018)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, or any officer, associate,
member, representative, agent or employee of such licensee, to engage, employ
or permit any person under twenty one (21) years of age to sell any alcoholic
liquor in any licensed premises. (1998 Code)
3-2-16: CLOSING HOURS:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic liquor
in the Village except as follows: Sunday from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. On all other days from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. to one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. the following day, except that on New Year's Eve the hours
shall be from seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. until three o'clock (3:00) A.M. New
Year's Day. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
It shall be unlawful to keep open for any purpose whatsoever any premises in or
on which alcoholic liquor is sold at retail during the hours within which the
sale of said liquor is prohibited; except in the case of hotels, bowling alleys
and clubs which establishments may be kept open during such hours but no
alcoholic liquor may be sold to or consumed by the members or public during
such hours. (Ord. 293, 7-10-2007)
3-2-17: MINORS:
No minor shall be present in any establishment where alcoholic liquor is sold
unless in the company of his parent or his legal guardian. However, if such
establishment has a barroom which is separate from a room or rooms in said
establishment where food is served, minors unattended by a parent or legal
guardian may remain in the food serving room or rooms. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979)
3-2-18: PEDDLING:
It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the Village. (Ord. 152, 4-
12-1979)
3-2-19: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; FINES:
   A.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License: The Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may, in accordance with the Liquor Control Act 1 , revoke or
suspend any license issued under the provisions of this chapter if he
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of the Liquor
Control Act, this chapter or any other ordinance or resolution enacted by the
Corporate Authorities of the Village, or any applicable rules or regulations
established by the Local Liquor Control Commissioner or the Illinois Liquor
Control Commission, or any State and/or Federal Statute which is not
inconsistent with this chapter.
   B.   Fine In Lieu Of Suspension Or Revocation: In lieu of suspension or
revocation of a local license, the Local Liquor Control Commissioner may
instead levy a fine on the licensee. The fine imposed shall not exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each violation. Each day on which a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. Not more than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) in fines may be imposed against any licensee during any
license year.
   C.   Immediate Closure Of Business: If the Local Liquor Control Commissioner
has reason to believe that any continued operation of a particular licensed
premises will immediately threaten the welfare of the community, he may, upon
the issuance of a written order stating the reasons or such conclusion and
without notice or hearing, order the licensed premises closed for not more than
seven (7) days, giving the licensee an opportunity to be heard during that
period; except, that if the licensee is also engaged in another business on the
licensed premises, such order shall not be applicable to such other business.
   D.   Public Hearing: No such license shall be so revoked or suspended and no
licensee shall be fined except after a public hearing by the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner with a three (3) day written notice to the licensee
affording the licensee an opportunity to appear and defend the charges
contained in such notice. The three (3) day notice provisions shall begin the
day following delivery by certified or registered mail or by personal service.
   E.   Decisions: The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall, within five (5)
days after such hearing, if he determines after such hearing that the license
should be revoked or suspended or that the licensee should be fined, state the
reason for such determination in a written order and either the amount of the
fine, the period of suspension or that the license has been revoked and serve a
copy of such order within the five (5) days upon the licensee.
Review of the decisions of the local liquor control commissioner shall be as
provided for in 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-14 for home rule
municipalities and shall be limited to a review of the official record of the
local liquor control commissioner.
   F.   Costs:
      1.   Costs Of Hearing: Any licensee determined by the local liquor
control commissioner to have violated any of the provisions of the liquor
control act, or any ordinance or resolution of the village, or any rule or
regulation established by the local liquor control commissioner, or the
Illinois liquor control commission, shall pay to the village the costs of the
hearing before the local liquor control commissioner on such violation. The
local liquor control commissioner shall determine the costs incurred by the
village for said hearing, including, but not limited to: court reporter fees,
the costs of transcripts or records, attorney fees, the cost of preparing and
mailing notices and orders and all other miscellaneous expenses incurred by the
village or such lesser sum as the local liquor control commissioner may allow.
      2.   Payment: The licensee shall pay said costs to the village within
thirty (30) days of notification of the costs by the local liquor control
commissioner. Failure to pay said costs within thirty (30) days of notification
is a violation of this section and may be cause for license suspension or
revocation, or the levy of a fine.
      3.   Appeal: In the event of an appeal to the Illinois liquor control
commission, and in cases where the appeal is taken pursuant to the
administrative review act 2 , payment is due forty (40) days after the entry of
an order finally affirming the determination of the local liquor control
commissioner.
   G.   Effect Of License Revocation: When any license shall have been revoked
for any cause, no license shall be granted to said licensee for the period of
one year thereafter for the conduct of the business of selling alcoholic liquor
at retail in the premises described in such revoked license. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 235 ILCS.
2 1. 735 ILCS 5/3-1-1 et seq.
3-2-20: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code; a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 152, 4-12-1979; amd.
1998 Code)
3-2-21: DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the police department of the village and the
officers in charge thereof to make a weekly report in writing of all arrests
and complaints for the violation of this chapter, which report shall set forth
the name of the person alleged to have violated the provisions thereof, the
person signing the complaint, the officer making the arrest, the action taken
on same, the date of arrest, and the date of hearing, whether the said party
was fined or released, the amount of fine paid and whatever disposition was
made, showing the docket and the page on which said case was entered, which
report shall be made in triplicate, one copy to be kept as part of the records
of the police department and two (2) copies to be filed with the clerk not
later than ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. of the Monday next following said week.
   B.   The officer observing a violation of this chapter shall also issue a
notice to appear (NTA) to the owner or employee present assigning a date for a
hearing before the local liquor control commissioner. The time and date of the
hearing shall be one hour before the regularly scheduled meeting of the village
board, or another date and time set after consultation with the mayor. No
public hearing date shall be set with less than three (3) days' written notice
to the licensee. (Ord. 293, 7-10-2007)
CHAPTER 3
TOBACCO
SECTION:
3-3-1: Minimum Age Restrictions; Illegal Sales
3-3-2: Complaint Procedure
3-3-1: MINIMUM AGE RESTRICTIONS; ILLEGAL SALES:
   A.   Minimum Age Restrictions: No person under the age of eighteen (18)
shall purchase, accept, possess or consume any cigar, cigarette, smokeless
tobacco or tobacco in any of its forms.
   B.   Illegal Sales: No person shall sell, buy for, distribute samples of, or
furnish any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco or tobacco in any of its forms,
to any person under the age of eighteen (18).
   C.   Penalty:
      1.   Violation: Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this Section shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
      2.   Contest Of Violation: If any person contests the violation, they may
request a court hearing.
      3.   Fine:
         a.   Payment Within Seven Days: Any person charged with a violation of
the above provisions may settle or adjust the fine due for violation within
seven (7) days of the charge by paying the sum of twenty five dollars ($25.00)
to the Village Clerk.
         b.   Payment Between Seven And Fourteen Days: Between seven (7) and
fourteen (14) days following the offense, the fine may be settled by the
payment of the sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) to the Village Clerk.
         c.   Release Of Liability: Fines so paid shall constitute a complete
release of all liability under the law for the offense charged. (1998 Code)
3-3-2: COMPLAINT PROCEDURE:
   A.   Sales; Purchases:
      1.   Enforcement Authority: The Police Department is the authorized
enforcement authority for illegal underage sales and purchases of tobacco
products. While the Village does not at this time conduct unannounced
inspections of tobacco vendors, the Police Department has established a
complaint procedure which is utilized following complaints about alleged
underage sales/purchases.
      2.   Source Revealed: Complaint procedures are also followed when an
underage youth charged with tobacco possession, or possession and consumption,
reveals the source of the tobacco products found in his/her possession. At the
time citations are issued, underage youths are asked if and where they
purchased the tobacco products.
      3.   Complaint Received; Identified Vendor:
         a.   Discussion With Owner: When the Police Department receives a
complaint about a vendor, or when an establishment is identified by an underage
youth who has received a citation for possession, or possession and
consumption, a police officer contacts the owner of the establishment to
discuss the complaint.
         b.   Salesperson: The police officer discusses the details of the
complaint with the licensee/establishment owner, which often includes the
description of the salesperson given to the Police Department by a complainant
or a youth offender. Findings indicate that individuals described by
complainants or underage offenders typically are not the owners of the
establishments, rather, they are employees.
         c.   Review Of Law, Penalties, Access Prevention Methods: The police
officer review State and local tobacco minimum age laws, penalties, and youth
access prevention methods with the establishment owner.
   B.   Possession; Consumption:
      1.   Authorized Enforcement: The Police Department is the authorized
enforcement entity for underage possession and consumption laws.
      2.   Citations: Citations issued to underage youths for possession of
tobacco products, or for possession and consumption, usually are either as a
result of basic plain view by police officers, a secondary violation, or
complaints registered by residents. The largest number of complaints come from
residents in close proximity to schools.
      3.   Notification Of Parents: Whether a first-time offense or subsequent
violation, after issuing a citation to a minor, the police officer is required
to notify parents/legal guardians. However, youth offenders do not have to be
released to their parents/legal guardians as in full-custody arrest procedures.
      4.   Juvenile Police Officer: The Juvenile Police Officer maintains all
records, reviews all citations, and coordinates parental contact and
acknowledgement of underage tobacco citations.
      5.   Arrest; Release: A minor arrested for possession and consumption
may, within fourteen (14) days, be released upon supervision under the
direction and control of the Juvenile Police Officer pursuant to the Juvenile
Court Act of 1986, 705 Illinois Compiled Statutes 405/5-6.
      6.   Tobacco Awareness Education Program:
         a.   First-Time Offender: Release of a minor on supervision shall be
on the condition that the minor is a first-time offender and agrees to
participate in the Tobacco Awareness Education Program sponsored by the Police
Department and the Henry Public Health Department within thirty five (35) days
following arrest. The release of a minor on supervision to participate in the
Tobacco Awareness Education Program is available only to first-time offenders
and with parental acknowledgement.
         b.   Failure To Complete Program; Fine: After fourteen (14) days from
the date of the offense or upon the failure of a minor to complete the Tobacco
Awareness Education Program during his/her release on supervision, fines are
imposed only by a court of competent jurisdiction in the manner otherwise
provided by law.
         c.   Arrestee/Parent Information On Tobacco Ordinance Violation Form:
All youth offenders and their parents/legal guardians are given an arrestee/
parent information on tobacco ordinance violation form (whether first time or
subsequent offense). Parents/legal guardians of first-time offenders who choose
to attend the alternative educational program must sign a form acknowledging
his/her child’s agreement to participate in the Tobacco Awareness Education
Program in lieu of the payment of a fine as a result of the child's arrest. The
signing of the form also acknowledges the requirement that parent/legal
guardian must attend the last hour of the final session of the program with
his/her child. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
3-4-1: License Required
3-4-2: Application For License
3-4-3: License Fee
3-4-4: Issuance; Renewal
3-4-5: Assignment Or Transfer
3-4-6: Use Restricted
3-4-7: Penalty
3-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall keep for public use, or let for hire, gain or profit, any pool
table, billiard table, jukebox, pinball machine, pinball alley, shuffle alley
or shuffleboard, or any other game, table or implement kept for a similar
purpose in any public place or public resort without first having obtained a
license to do so. (Ord. 28-A, 4-14-1950)
3-4-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring a license under this Chapter shall make application in
writing to the Village President therefor stating the purpose for which the
same is desired, and specifying the particular place where the game, table or
implement for which a license is requested will be carried on. If the Village
President shall grant such application, he shall endorse his approval upon the
application, and, upon filing of the application so endorsed with the Village
Clerk, and the payment of the required fee, he shall issue such applicant a
license for the purpose specified. (Ord. 28-A, 4-14-1950)
3-4-3: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Annual Fee: A license for any of the purposes named in Section
3-4-1 of this Chapter may be granted upon the payment by the applicant of an
annual license fee of ten dollars ($10.00) for each such pool table, billiard
table, jukebox, pinball machine, pinball alley, shuffle alley or shuffleboard,
or other game, table or implement kept for a similar purpose.
   B.   Prorated Fee: Whenever any such license is applied for after May 1 in
any year, the same, if granted, shall be issued to the person applying therefor
upon the applicant paying therefor the number of twelfth parts of the annual
license fee equal to the number of months that will elapse between the date of
application for the license and the day when said license is made to expire, a
fractional month to be considered as a whole month. (Ord. 28-A, 4-14-1950)
3-4-4: ISSUANCE; RENEWAL:
   A.   Issuance; Term: All licenses issued under this Chapter shall be signed
by the Village President and Village Clerk, shall specify the kind of and
location of the building or premises to be occupied, shall be dated the day
issued, and unless sooner revoked, shall expire on May 1 next thereafter.
   B.   Renewal: A new application shall be made upon the expiration of any
license which it is sought to renew. (Ord. 28-A, 4-14-1950)
3-4-5: ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER:
No license shall be assignable or transferable nor so construed so as to apply
to any other building or place other than that described in such license. (Ord.
28-A, 4-14-1950)
3-4-6: USE RESTRICTED:
No such game, table or implement shall be let to or used by any disorderly or
intoxicated person, nor any such person allowed to frequent or remain in said
premises, nor shall any gambling be allowed in or upon said premises, and said
premises shall be kept in an orderly and well-governed condition. (Ord. 28-A,
4-14-1950)
3-4-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 28-A, 4-14-1950; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TRAILER COACH CAMPS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: License Required
3-5-3: License Fee
3-5-4: Plan
3-5-5: Location
3-5-6: Water Supply
3-5-7: Sanitation Facilities
3-5-8: Laundry Facilities
3-5-9: Sewage And Refuse Disposal
3-5-10: Garbage Receptacles
3-5-11: Fire Protection
3-5-12: Animals; Pets
3-5-13: Register Of Occupants
3-5-14: Posting Of License
3-5-15: Revocation
3-5-16: Penalty
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this Section:
CAMP: Trailer coach camp.
TRAILER COACH: Any vehicle used or maintained for use as a conveyance upon
highways or city streets so designed and so constructed as to permit occupancy
thereof as a temporary dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons,
having no other foundation than wheels or jacks.
TRAILER COACH SPACE: A plot of ground within a trailer coach camp designed for
the accommodation of one trailer coach.
TRAILER HOME: Any vehicle described in this Section but being placed on a
foundation of blocks, timbers or some other foundation more stable and
permanent than wheels or jacks. (Ord. 83, 9-8-1964)
3-5-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   Application: Application for a trailer coach camp license shall be
filed with and issued by the Village Board.
   B.   Required Information: Application shall be in writing signed by the
applicant and shall contain the following:
      1.   The name and address of the applicant.
      2.   The location and legal description of the trailer coach camp.
      3.   A complete plan of the camp showing compliance with Section
3-5-4 of this Chapter.
      4.   Plans and specifications of all buildings and other improvements
constructed or to be constructed within the trailer coach camp.
      5.   Such further information as may be requested by the Village Board to
enable it to determine if the proposed camp will comply with legal
requirements.
   C.   Number Of Copies: The application and all accompanying plans and
specifications shall be filed in triplicate.
   D.   Investigation; Inspection: The Village Board shall investigate the
applicant and inspect the proposed plans and specifications.
   E.   Issuance: If the applicant is found to be of good moral character, and
the proposed trailer coach camp will be in compliance with all provisions of
this Chapter and all other applicable ordinances or statutes, the Village Board
shall approve the application and, upon completion of the camp according to the
plans, shall issue the license.
   F.   Transfer Of License: Upon application for a transfer of the license,
the Village Board shall issue a transfer if it finds that the transferee is of
good moral character. (Ord. 83, 9-8-1964)
3-5-3: LICENSE FEE:
The annual license fee for each trailer coach camp shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00). (Ord. 83, 9-8-1964)
3-5-4: PLAN:
The trailer coach camp shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   Site: The camp shall be located on a well-drained site, properly graded
to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water.
   B.   Space Size; Location: Trailer coach spaces shall be provided consisting
of a minimum of one thousand (1,000) square feet for each space which shall be
at least twenty five feet (25') wide and clearly defined. Trailer coaches shall
be so harbored on each space that there shall be at least a fifteen foot (15')
clearance between trailer coaches. No trailer coach shall be located closer
than ten feet (10') from any property line bounding the camp.
   C.   Driveways: All trailer coach spaces shall abut upon a driveway of not
less than twenty feet (20') in width which shall have unobstructed access to a
public street, alley or highway. All driveways shall be hard surfaced, or
treated with gravel or crushed rock, or well oiled, well marked in the daytime
and lighted at night with 25-watt lamps at intervals of one hundred feet (100')
located approximately fifteen feet (15') from the ground.
   D.   Service Buildings: Each camp shall provide service buildings to house
toilet facilities, bathing facilities, laundry facilities and other sanitary
facilities, as hereinafter more particularly prescribed.
   E.   Electrical Outlets: An electrical outlet supplying at least 110 volts
shall be provided for each trailer coach space. (Ord. 83, 9-8-1964)
3-5-5: LOCATION:
Trailer coach camps may be located in any district in which a license is
granted by the Village Board. Each boundary of the camp must be at least three
hundred feet (300') from any permanent residential building located outside the
camp unless separated therefrom by a natural or artificial barrier, or unless a
majority of the property owners adjacent to area within said three hundred feet
(300'), consent in writing to the establishment of the camp. (Ord. 83, 9-8-
1964; amd. 1998 Code)
3-5-6: WATER SUPPLY:
An adequate supply of pure water for drinking and cosmetic purposes shall be
supplied to meet the requirements of the camp. The water supply shall be
obtained from faucets only. No common drinking cups shall be permitted. (Ord.
83, 9-8-1964)
3-5-7: SANITATION FACILITIES:
Each camp shall be provided with toilets, baths or showers, slop sinks and
other sanitation facilities, which shall conform to the following requirements:
   A.   Toilet Facilities: Toilet facilities for men and women shall be
provided, and they shall be either in separate buildings at least twenty feet
(20') apart or shall be separated, if in the same building, by a soundproof
wall.
   B.   Service Buildings:
      1.   Compliance Required: The service buildings housing the toilet
facilities shall be permanent structures complying with all applicable
ordinances and statutes regulating buildings, electrical installations and
plumbing and sanitation systems 1 .
      2.   Location: The service buildings housing the toilet facilities shall
be located not closer than ten feet (10') nor further than two hundred feet
(200') from any trailer coach space.
      3.   Lighting; Ventilation: The service buildings shall be well lighted
at all times of the day or night and shall be well ventilated with screened
openings.
      4.   Construction: Service buildings shall be constructed of such
moistureproof material, including painted woodwork as shall permit repeated
cleaning and washing, and shall be maintained at a temperature of at least
sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit (68°F) during the period from October 1 to May
1. The floors of the service buildings shall be of water impervious material
and shall slope to a floor drain connected with the sewage system.
   C.   Maintenance: All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall be
maintained in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of any condition that
will menace the health of any occupant or the public or constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 83, 9-8-1964)
 
Notes
1 1. See subsection
  3-5-8C of this Chapter.
3-5-8: LAUNDRY FACILITIES:
   A.   Facilities Required: The laundry facilities shall be provided in the
ratio of one double laundry tub and ironing board for every twenty (20) trailer
coach spaces.
   B.   Electrical Outlet: An electrical outlet supplying current sufficient to
operate an iron shall be located conveniently near the ironing board.
   C.   Building Requirements: The service building housing the laundry
facilities shall be a permanent structure complying with all applicable
ordinances and statutes regulating buildings, electrical installations and
plumbing and sanitation systems. (Ord. 83, 9-8-1964)
3-5-9: SEWAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL:
Waste from showers, bathtubs, toilets, slop sinks and laundries shall be
discharged into a public sewer system in compliance with applicable ordinances
or into a private sewer or disposal plant or septic tank system of such
construction and in such manner as will present no health hazard. (Ord. 83, 9-
8-1964)
3-5-10: GARBAGE RECEPTACLES:
Tightly covered garbage cans shall be provided in quantities adequate to permit
disposal of all garbage and rubbish. Garbage cans shall be located not further
than two hundred feet (200') from any trailer coach space. The cans shall be
kept in sanitary condition at all times. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected
and disposed of as frequently as may be necessary to ensure that the garbage
cans shall not overflow. (Ord. 83, 9-8-1964; amd. 1998 Code)
3-5-11: FIRE PROTECTION:
   A.   Fire Extinguishers: Every camp shall be equipped at all times with one
fire extinguisher in good working order for every ten (10) trailer coach spaces
located not further than two hundred feet (200') from each trailer coach space.
   B.   Open Fire: No open fires shall be permitted at any place which would
endanger life or property. No fires shall be left unattended at any time. (Ord.
83, 9-8-1964)
3-5-12: ANIMALS; PETS:
No owner or person in charge of any dog, cat or other pet animal shall permit
it to run at large or commit any nuisance within the limits of any trailer
coach camp. (Ord. 83, 9-8-1964)
3-5-13: REGISTER OF OCCUPANTS:
   A.   Registry Required: It shall be the duty of the licensee to keep a
register containing a record of all trailer coach owners and occupants located
within the camp.
   B.   Required Information: The register shall contain the following
information:
      1.   Name and address of each occupant.
      2.   The make, model and year of all automobiles and trailer coaches.
      3.   License number and owner of each trailer coach and automobile by
which it is towed.
      4.   The state issuing such licenses.
      5.   The dates of arrival and departure of each trailer coach.
   C.   Inspection: The camp shall keep the register available for inspection,
at all times, by law enforcement officers, public health officials and other
officials whose duties necessitate acquisition of the information contained in
the register.
   D.   Maintenance Of Records: The register records shall not be destroyed for
a period of three (3) years following the date of registration. (Ord. 83, 9-8-
1964)
3-5-14: POSTING OF LICENSE:
The license certificate shall be conspicuously posted in the office of or on
the premises of the trailer coach camp at all times. (Ord. 83, 9-8-1964)
3-5-15: REVOCATION:
The Village Board may revoke any license to maintain and operate a camp when
the licensee has been found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of
violating any provision of this Chapter. After such conviction, the license may
be reissued if the circumstances leading to conviction have been remedied and
the camp is being maintained and operated in full compliance with law. (Ord.
83, 9-8-1964)
3-5-16: PENALTY:
Any person violating this Chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 83, 9-8-1964; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 6
ITINERANT MERCHANTS, TRANSIENT VENDORS, PEDDLERS AND HAWKERS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: License Required
3-6-3: Application
3-6-4: License Fee
3-6-5: Hours Of Operation
3-6-6: Uninvited Peddling Prohibited
3-6-7: Denial; Revocation
3-6-8: Holding Inventory
3-6-9: Penalty
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in this section:
ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who transports tangible personal property for
retail sale within this village who does not maintain in this village an
established office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse, service center
or residence from which such business is conducted. However, this chapter does
not apply to any person who delivers tangible personal property within this
village who is fulfilling an order for such property which was solicited or
placed by mail or other means. This chapter does not apply to any person
holding a valid license, issued by the village to engage in retail sales.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, firm, association or
other entity.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who is engaged temporarily in the retail sale of
goods, wares or merchandise in this village and who, for the purpose of
conducting such business, occupies any building, room, vehicle, structure of
any kind, or vacant lot. However, this chapter does not apply to any person
selling goods, wares or merchandise which are raised, produced or manufactured
by him, to any person selling vegetables, fruit or perishable farm products at
an established village market, to any person operating a store or refreshment
stand at a resort, to any person operating a stand or booth on or adjacent to
property owned by him or upon which he resides, to any person operating a stand
or booth at a state or county fair, or to any person operating a stand or booth
at a trade show, exposition, convention or similar event. This chapter does not
apply to any person holding a valid license issued by the village to engage in
retail sales. (1998 Code)
3-6-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any itinerant merchant, transient vendor, peddler, or
hawker to sell or offer for sale, or peddle any article, goods or chattels, in
the village without having a license therefor. (Ord. 96, 8-2-1962)
3-6-3: APPLICATION:
Application for such licenses shall be made to the chief of police. The
application shall set forth the name and legal status of the applicant, the
permanent business address and if an individual, the residence address, and if
an employee, his employer's name and address. (Ord. 96, 8-2-1962; amd. 1998
Code)
3-6-4: LICENSE FEE:
The application for a license shall be accompanied by a fee of seventy-five
dollars ($75.00) per day. (Ord. 96, 8-2-1962; amd. Ord. 283, 12-21-2006; Ord.
421, 2-10-2025)
3-6-5: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Any selling, offering for sale, or peddling by such licensee shall be between
the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M., and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. unless
special permission otherwise shall be granted by the Village. (Ord. 96, 8-2-
1962; amd. 1998 Code)
3-6-6: UNINVITED PEDDLING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any person to go upon
any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or create any sound
in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such
residence for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and
engage in peddling, in defiance of a notice exhibited at the residence stating
in clear and concise wording that peddling is not invited. (1998 Code)
3-6-7: DENIAL; REVOCATION:
The Village, for good cause shown, shall be empowered to refuse the issuance of
a license to an applicant, and to revoke a license granted. (Ord. 96, 8-2-1962;
amd. 1998 Code)
3-6-8: HOLDING INVENTORY:
   A.   Power To Hold: If any person makes retail sales as a transient merchant
or itinerant vendor without having obtained a license under Section
3-6-2 of this Chapter, the Village may hold the inventory, truck or other
personal property of the person until he obtains a license to conduct business
as a transient merchant or itinerant vendor.
   B.   Order To Sell: If the property has been held by the Village for more
than sixty (60) days and the person whose property is being held has not
obtained a license under Section
3-6-2, the Village may petition the Circuit Court for an order for the sale of
the property being held. If the Court finds that the person whose property is
held has not obtained a license under Section
3-6-2, the Court may order the Village to sell the property.
   C.   Proceeds Of Sale: Proceeds of sale of the property, less reimbursement
of the licensing agency of the reasonable expenses of storage and sale of the
property, shall be deposited in the Treasury of the Village. (1998 Code)
3-6-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense; a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
96, 8-2-1962; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 7
TAXES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Simplified Municipal Telecommunications Tax
3-7-2: Hotel And Motel Tax
3-7-1: SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX:
   A.   Effective January 1, 2003, a Simplified Municipal Telecommunications
Tax is hereby imposed upon the act or privilege of originating in the
Municipality or receiving in the Municipality intrastate or interstate
telecommunications by a person under the provisions of the Simplified Municipal
Telecommunications Tax Act, PA 92-0526, at a rate of one percent (1%) of the
gross charges for such telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer.
   B.   The tax hereby imposed shall be collected and enforced by the
Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois. The Illinois Department of
Revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of this
section. (Ord. 238, 9-10-2002)
3-7-2: HOTEL AND MOTEL TAX:
   A.   Hotel And Motel Tax:
      1.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, whenever any of the
following words, terms, or definitions are used herein, they shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
   HOTEL OR MOTEL ROOM: A room within a structure offered for rental on a daily
basis and containing facilities for sleeping. One room offered for rental with
or without an adjoining bath shall be considered as a single hotel or motel
room. The number of hotel or motel rooms within a suite shall be computed on
the basis of those rooms utilized for the purpose of sleeping.
   OWNER: Any person having an ownership interest in or conducting the
operation of a hotel or motel room or receiving the considerations for the
rental of such hotel or motel room.
   PERSON: Any natural person; trustee; court-appointed representative;
syndicate; association; partnership; firm; club; company; corporation; business
trust; institution; agency; government corporation; Municipal corporation,
district, or other political subdivision; contractor; supplier; vendor; vendor
operator; user or owner; or any officers, agents, employees, or other
representatives of any of the above, acting either for himself or for any other
person in any capacity; or any other entity recognized by law as the subject of
rights and duties. The masculine, feminine, singular or plural is included in
any circumstances.
      2.   Tax Imposed:
         a.   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax of five percent (5%) of
the rent charged for the privilege of renting and use of a hotel or motel room
within the Village for each twenty four (24) hour period or any portion thereof
for which a daily room charge is made. The previously described Hotel and Motel
Tax shall not be levied and imposed upon anyone who rents a room for more than
thirty (30) consecutive days or to a person who works and lives in the same
hotel or motel.
         b.   The ultimate incidence of any liability for payment of such tax
is to be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel or
motel room (such person hereafter referred to as "renter").
         c.   The tax herein shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel or motel to
secure the tax from the renter of the hotel or motel room and to pay over to
the Clerk of the Village the tax under procedures prescribed by the Mayor, or
as otherwise provided in this section.
         d.   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this section
shall secure said tax from the renter at the time he collects the rental
payment for the hotel room.
      3.   Books And Records:
         a.   The Mayor or designated Financial Officer may enter the premises
of any hotel or motel for inspection and examination of records in order to
effectuate the proper administration of this section, and to assure the
enforcement of the collection of the tax imposed. It shall be unlawful for any
person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the Mayor or designated Finance
Director in the discharge of his/her duties in the performance of this section.
It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete books and
records to which the Clerk shall at all times have full access, which records
shall include a daily sheet showing:
            (1)   The number of hotel or motel rooms rented during the twenty
four (24) hour period, including multiple rentals of the same hotel or motel
room where such shall occur; and
            (2)   The actual Hotel or Motel Tax receipts collection for the
date in question.
      4.   Transmittal Of Tax Review:
         a.   Commencing on January 1, 2017, the owner or owners of each hotel
or motel room within the Village shall file tax returns showing tax receipts
and will file tax monies collected with respect to each hotel and motel room
during each quarter commencing on or after January 1, 2017.
This section authorizes the owners to file the return on a quarterly basis,
with the return for January, February, and March of a given year being due on
or before April 30 of such year; with the return for April, May and June of a
given year being due on or before July 31 of such year; with the return for
July, August and September of a given year being due on or before October 31 of
such year; and the return for October, November and December of a given year
being due on or before January 31 of the following year.
         b.   If for any reason any tax period is not paid when due, a penalty
at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) per thirty (30) day period, or
portion thereof, from the date of delinquency shall be added and collected.
      5.   Collection: Whenever any person fails to pay any tax as herein
provided, the Village Attorney, upon the request of the Mayor or designated
Finance Director, shall bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the
payment of the tax on behalf of the Village in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
      6.   Penalties:
         a.   Any person found guilty of failing to pay, collect, report, or
transmit the Hotel or Motel Tax to the Clerk in accordance with the terms of
this section shall, except when otherwise specifically provided, be guilty of
an offense, and upon the first conviction therefor within a two (2) year
calendar period be punished by a fine of not less than two hundred dollars
($200.00) not more than two hundred ninety nine dollars ($299.00) and upon the
second and third convictions therefor within the same period be punished by a
fine of not less than three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
         b.   Repeated offenses of this section in excess of three (3) within
any two (2) calendar years shall constitute misdemeanors and upon conviction
therefor shall be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars
($500.00), incarceration in a place other than a penitentiary for a term not to
exceed thirty (30) days, or both.
         c.   A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed
each day upon which the person shall continue any violation of this section, or
permit any such violation to exist after notification thereof. (Ord. 369, 10-
13-2016)
CHAPTER 8
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
3-8-1: License Required
3-8-2: Application
3-8-3: License Fee
3-8-4: Display
3-8-5: Revocation
3-8-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   A.   The owner of a video gaming terminal shall obtain a license for such
device issued by the Village.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to install, keep, maintain, use or
permit the installation, keeping, maintenance or use upon his premises of any
video gaming terminal unless a valid license issued under this chapter for the
video gaming terminal is in effect.
   C.   It shall be unlawful for any person to deliver video gaming terminals
within the Village for use by any other person for gain or profit from the
operation thereof unless a license therefor has been issued by the Village and
the license fee has been paid for the current years. (Ord. 349, 6-11-2013)
3-8-2: APPLICATION:
Applications for the license required by this chapter shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and shall contain the following information:
   A.   The name, address, age and date of birth of the owner of the video
gaming terminal and of the owner of the establishment where the video gaming
terminal shall be located.
   B.   Prior convictions of the owner of the video gaming terminal and the
owner of the establishment, if any.
   C.   The place where the video gaming terminal is to be displayed or
operated and the business conducted at that place.
   D.   A description of the video gaming terminal to be covered by the
license.
   E.   Evidence that licenses have been issued by the Illinois Gaming Board to
the owner of the video gaming terminal and the owner of the establishment.
(Ord. 349, 6-11-2013)
3-8-3: LICENSE FEE:
   A.   Fee: The annual fee for the license required by this chapter shall be
twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year per terminal. The fee shall be non-
refundable.
   B.   Expiration: Licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall terminate on
December 31 next following its issuance. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in
proportion to the full calendar months which have expired in the year prior to
the issuance of the license. (Ord. 349, 6-11-2013)
3-8-4: DISPLAY:
The license required by this chapter shall be prominently displayed next to the
video gaming terminal. (Ord. 349, 6-11-2013)
3-8-5: REVOCATION:
   A.   Violations: The Mayor, at any time, may notify any licensee under this
chapter of any charge of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
in connection with the operation of any video gaming terminal. Notice of the
hearing for revocation of a license or permit shall be given in writing,
setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place
of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the licensee or permittee at the last known address at least five
(5) days prior to the date set for the hearing.
   B.   Hearing On Revocation: At the hearing, the Village Attorney shall
present the complaint and shall represent the Village. The licensee or
permittee shall be permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit
evidence and cross examine witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render
the decision.
   C.   Appeals:
      1.   Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Village in regard to the
denial of an application for a license or permit as provided in this chapter,
or in connection with the revocation of a license or permit as provided in this
chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the Village Board of Trustees. Such
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Village Clerk, within ten (10) days
after notice of a denial of an application or a revocation of a license or
permit, a written statement under oath, setting forth specifically the grounds
for appeal.
      2.   The Village Board of Trustees shall thereupon set the time and place
for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given to the
applicant or licensee or permittee in the same manner as provided in subsection
A of this section. The decision of the Village Board of Trustees on such appeal
shall be by vote of a majority of all the members then holding office and shall
be final. (Ord. 349, 6-11-2013)
CHAPTER 9
CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Cannabis Business Establishments Prohibited
3-9-3: Exemptions
3-9-4: Public Nuisance Declared
3-9-5: Penalty
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases shall, for the purpose of this Title, have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section, as follows:
ADULT-USE CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT: A cultivation center, craft grower,
processing organization, infuser organization, dispensing organization or
transporting organization.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CRAFT GROWER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, dry, cure, and package cannabis and perform other necessary
activities to make cannabis available for sale at a dispensing organization or
use at a processing organization, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act (P.A.
101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to- time, and regulations promulgated
thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
cultivate, process, transport, and perform necessary activities to provide
cannabis and cannabis-infused products to licensed cannabis business
establishments, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it
may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois department of
Financial and Professional Regulations to acquire cannabis from license
cannabis business establishment for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-
0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated,
"Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization" does not include facilities
licensed under the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program (P.A.
98-122; ILCS 130/1 et seq.) that only provides cannabis and related products to
qualified registered medical cannabis patients and designated caregivers.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS INFUSER ORGANIZATION OR INFUSER: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed that is licensed by the Illinois
Department of Agriculture to directly incorporate cannabis or cannabis
concentrate into a product formulation to produce a cannabis-infused product,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act. (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended
from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PROCESSING ORGANIZATION OR PROCESSOR: A facility operated by
an organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Agriculture to either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce
cannabis concentrate or incorporate cannabis or cannabis concentrate into a
product formulation to produce a cannabis product, per the Cannabis Regulation
and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended from time-to-time, and
regulations promulgated thereunder.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS TRANSPORTATION ORGANIZATION OR TRANSPORTER: An organization
or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of Agriculture to
either extract constituent chemicals or compounds to produce cannabis product,
per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may be amended
from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
PERSON: Any person, business, entity, firm, corporation, association, club,
society or other organization, including any owner, manager, proprietor,
employee, volunteer or agent. (Ord. 394, 12-10-2019)
3-9-2: CANNABIS BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED:
The following Adult-Use Cannabis Business Establishments are prohibited in the
Village of Annawan. No person shall locate, operate, own, suffer, allow to be
operated or aide, abet or assist in the operation within the Village of Annawan
of any of the following:
   Adult-Use Cannabis Craft Grower
   Adult-Use Cannabis Cultivation Center
   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization
   Adult-Use Cannabis Infuser Organization or Infuser
   Adult-Use Cannabis Processing Organization or Processor
   Adult-Use Cannabis Transporting Organization or Transporter (Ord. 394, 12-
10-2019)
3-9-3: EXEMPTIONS:
Nothing in this ordinance is intended to prohibit Cannabis Establishments that
are registered medical cannabis cultivation centers or medical cannabis
dispensing organizations as defined in and authorized by the Compassionate Use
of Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, 410 ILCS 130/1, eq seq., and/or
distribute only medical cannabis as authorized by that Act. (Ord. 394, 12-10-
2019)
3-9-4: PUBLIC NUISANCE DECLARED:
Operations of any prohibited Cannabis Business Establishment with the Village
in violation of the provisions of this Chapter is hereby declared a public
nuisance and shall be abated pursuant to all available remedies. (Ord. 394, 12-
10-2019)
3-9-5: PENALTY:
Any person that violates any provisions of this Chapter, any rule or regulation
promulgated hereunder, shall be subject to a lawsuit seeking in junction and/or
fine of not less than $25.00 or not more than $750.00 per violation. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during and on which a violation
occurs or continues. (Ord. 394, 12-10-2019)
CHAPTER 10
RAFFLES AND GAMBLING
SECTION:
3-10-1: Classification Of Licenses
3-10-2: License Required
3-10-3: Raffle Application
3-10-4: Licensee Qualifications
3-10-5: License Issuance
3-10-6: Licensing Fees
3-10-7: Conduct Of Raffles
3-10-8: Records To Be Kept
3-10-9: Penalty
3-10-1: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
   A.   Class A: General raffle license. A general raffle license shall permit
an organization the ability to conduct a raffle that may include multiple
drawings to award prizes, but all drawings must occur on the same day and at
the same location and within the confines of the same raffle event.
   B.   Class B: Financial hardship raffle license. A Class B raffle license
allows a not-for-profit fund-raising organization or group, organized for the
sole purpose of providing financial hardship assistance to an identified
individual or group of individuals suffering severe financial hardship as a
result of an injury, disability, accident, or disaster, to conduct one raffle
event for that purpose.
   C.   Class C: Annual raffle license. An Annual raffle license permits an
organization to regularly conduct raffles as defined herein within a period of
twelve (12) consecutive calendar months. Such a license shall permit no more
than fifty-two (52) raffle events per year. Holders of a Class C license shall
be eligible to conduct Queen of Hearts Raffles; however, a Queen of Hearts
Raffle shall not continue beyond the 12 months allotted to the licensee without
renewal of that organization's license. (Ord. 413, 10-17-2023)
3-10-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct or operate a raffle, or to sell,
offer for sale, convey, issue, or otherwise transfer for value a chance on a
raffle, unless conducted pursuant to a license duly issued by the Village and
in accordance with the provisions of this Code.
Such License, when issued, is effective for all areas within the Village of
Annawan. Such a license is not effective outside the Village of Annawan. (Ord.
413, 10-17-2023)
3-10-3: RAFFLE APPLICATION:
Any person seeking to conduct or operate a raffle shall file an application
therefore with the Village Clerk on forms provided by the Village of Annawan.
Pursuant to the Illinois Raffles and Poker Runs Act, such application shall
contain the following information:
   A.   The name, address, and type of organization;
   B.   The length of existence of the organization and, if incorporated, the
date and state of incorporation;
   C.   The name, address, telephone number, and date of birth of the
organization's presiding officer, secretary, raffles manager, and any other
members responsible for the conduct and operation of the raffle;
   D.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes to be awarded in the raffle;
   E.   The maximum retail value of each prize to be awarded in the raffle;
   F.   The maximum price charged for each raffle chance issued or sold;
   G.   The maximum number of raffle chances to be issued;
   H.   The area in which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
   I.   The time period during which raffle chances will be issued or sold;
   J.   The date, time, and location at which winning chances will be
determined. (Ord. 413, 10-17-2023)
3-10-4: LICENSEE QUALIFICATIONS:
Raffle licenses shall be issued only to a bona fide religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational, or veterans' organizations that
operate without profit to their members and which have been in existence
continuously for a period of five years immediately before making application
for a license and which have had, during that entire five-year period, a bona
fide membership engaged in carrying out their objectives or to a nonprofit
fundraising organization that the licensing authority determines is organized
for the sole purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified
individual or group of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the
result of an illness, disability, accident, or disaster. (Ord. 413, 10-17-2023)
3-10-5: LICENSE ISSUANCE:
   A.   The Village Clerk shall receive all license applications, and the
Village President shall act upon them within 30 days. If an application is
approved, the Village Clerk shall forthwith issue a raffle license to the
applicant.
   B.   A Class A and B raffle license shall be valid for a period of one year
(365) days from and after its issuance. In no event shall a Class C license be
authorized for a period longer than one {'{'}ll year.
   C.   A raffle license shall contain the following:
      1.   The area in which raffle chances will be sold or issued;
      2.   The period of time during which raffle chances will be sold or
issued; and
      3.   The date, time, and location on or at which the winning chances will
be determined.
   D.   Such license shall be prominently displayed at the time and location of
the determination of the winning chances.
   E.   A license may be suspended or revoked for any violation of this Code.
   F.   If the Village refuses to issue a license to an applicant, then the
applicant shall be notified of the denial in writing with the following
included in the notice of denial:
      1.   A statement about the decision to refuse to issue a license;
      2.   The earliest the applicant may reapply for a license.
   G.   No later than May 1 of each year, the Village shall prepare, publicly
announce, and publish a report of summary statistical information relating to
new and renewal license applications during the preceding calendar year. Each
report shall show, at a minimum:
      1.   The number of applicants for a new or renewal license under this Act
within the previous calendar year;
      2.   The number of applicants for a new or renewal license under this Act
within the previous calendar year who had any criminal conviction;
      3.   The number of applicants for a new or renewal license under this Act
in the previous calendar year who were granted a license;
      4.   The number of applicants for a new or renewal license with a
criminal conviction who were granted a license under this Act within the
previous calendar year;
      5.   The number of applicants for a new or renewal license under this Act
within the previous calendar year who were denied a license; and
      6.   The number of applicants for a new or renewal license with a
criminal conviction who were denied a license under this Act in the previous
calendar year in whole or in part because of a prior conviction. (Ord. 413, 10-
17-2023)
3-10-6: LICENSING FEES:
A license fee of $20.00 shall be payable to "Village of Annawan" upon
submission of Class A, Class B, and Class C raffle application. When an
application for a raffle license is filed, such application fee is
nonrefundable, even if the application is denied or in the event the raffle is
canceled for any reason. (Ord. 413, 10-17-2023)
3-10-7: CONDUCT OF RAFFLES:
The operation and conduct of raffles are subject to the following restrictions:
   A.   The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to
the lawful purpose of the licensee.
   B.   No person, except a bona fide member of the licensee may participate in
the management or operation of the raffle.
   C.   No person may receive remuneration or profit for participating in the
management or operation of the raffle.
   D.   A licensee may rent a premises in which to determine the winning
chances in a raffle only from an organization which is also licensed under this
section.
   E.   No person under the age of 18 years may participate in the conducting
of raffles or chances. A person under the age of 18 years may be within the
area where winning chances are being determined only when accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian.
   F.   The aggregate retail value of all prizes awarded in a single raffle
shall not exceed $2,500,000.00 and the retail value of any one prize awarded in
a single raffle shall not exceed $2,500,000.00.
   G.   The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance sold,
offered for sale, conveyed, issued, or otherwise transferred for value shall
not exceed $1,000.00. (Ord. 413, 10-17-2023)
3-10-8: RECORDS TO BE KEPT:
   A.   Each licensee shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses, a
list of names of prize winners, and net proceeds for each raffle event at which
winning chances are determined. All deductions or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction, and the recipient. The distribution of net proceeds shall be
itemized as to payee, purpose, amount, and date of payment.
   B.   Each licensee shall file its records and report with the Village Clerk
within thirty (30) days following the conclusion of the raffle.
   C.   Gross receipts from the operation of raffles shall be segregated from
other revenues of the licensee including bingo gross receipts, if bingo games
are also conducted by the same nonprofit organization pursuant to license
therefore issued by the Department of Revenue of the State of Illinois and
placed in a separate account. Each licensee shall keep separate records of its
raffles. The person who accounts for gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds
from the operation of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for the
other revenues of the licensee.
   D.   Each licensee shall report to its membership and to the Village its
gross receipts, expenses, and net proceeds from the raffle and the distribution
of net proceeds itemized as required herein. If a license is valid for more
than thirty (30) days, the report shall be made monthly.
   E.   Raffle records shall be preserved by each licensee for three (3) years,
and organizations shall make their records available relating to the operation
of raffles for public inspection at the reasonable times and places. (Ord. 413,
10-17-2023)
3-10-9: PENALTY:
Failure to comply with any of the requirements of this Code shall constitute a
violation, and any person shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not less
than $75.00 nor more than $750.00 for each offense. Each day in which a
violation continues shall be considered a separate offense. (Ord. 413, 10-17-
2023)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
ARTICLE A. REGULATIONS FOR USE AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
4-1A-1: Definitions
4-1A-2: Scope
4-1A-3: Containers
4-1A-4: Excess Liquid
4-1A-5: Sterilization Of Containers
4-1A-6: Placement Of Containers
4-1A-7: Prohibited Deposits
4-1A-8: Dumping, Accumulation Prohibited
4-1A-9: Landscape Waste
4-1A-10: Recycling Program
4-1A-11: Penalty
4-1A-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this article, the following definitions are hereby adopted:
GARBAGE: Includes all organic household or kitchen waste, such as unused food
and food residues.
HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH: Includes inorganic incombustible household waste such as tin
cans, bottles and crockery resulting from the regular operation of the
household. (Ord. 48, 6-3-1958)
4-1A-2: SCOPE:
The collection and disposal of garbage and household rubbish in the village
shall be governed by the provisions of this article, whether the collection and
disposal thereof is carried on by the village or by some person acting under
contract with the village. (Ord. 48, 6-3-1958)
4-1A-3: CONTAINERS:
A maximum of one container will be picked up at the curbside of the street on
Monday and again on Friday of each week. The container construction shall be a
standard commercial galvanized metal or strong plastic with handles and
tightfitting lid. The capacity of the container shall not exceed thirty two
(32) gallons and the loaded weight shall not exceed forty (40) pounds in
weight. No oversized cans, barrels or makeshift containers will be emptied. Any
container in a weekly pick up exceeding the allowed number will require an
"excess tag" attached, which shall be purchased from the village for one dollar
($1.00).
Dumpsters for large amounts of waste can be rented from the village for a fee
of forty dollars ($40.00) for one month or a fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for
one weekend, Friday-Monday.
Large and bulk items will be picked up on the first Tuesday of the month year
around. Carpet must be cut into lengths of five feet (5') or less. Smaller
items that should be placed in regular containers for Monday or Friday pick up
will not be picked up on the Tuesday pick up.
Refrigerators, washers, dryers, water heaters, other appliances, tires,
batteries, liquid paint, chemicals, demolition or remodeling debris will not be
picked up. Containers of dried paint will be picked up. (Ord. 246, 6-10-2003,
eff. 8-1-2003)
4-1A-4: EXCESS LIQUID:
Before garbage is placed in containers, it shall be drained of excess liquids,
except grease. (Ord. 48, 6-3-1958)
4-1A-5: STERILIZATION OF CONTAINERS:
Each and every container for garbage shall be sterilized at least twice a year,
by means of boiling water and soap, or by scrubbing out with water and dosing
said containers with a disinfectant. The lid shall be removed only for the
purpose of emptying the container or placing garbage therein, or to wash and
dry the same when the container shall be emptied and cleaned. (Ord. 48, 6-3-
1958)
4-1A-6: PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS:
The containers heretofore referred to shall be placed in a convenient place on
the premises at such times and in such a manner as may be directed by the
village officials. (Ord. 48, 6-3-1958)
4-1A-7: PROHIBITED DEPOSITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit in any container for garbage any
article or thing but garbage, or to deposit in any container for household
rubbish any article or thing but household rubbish. "Combustible trash" and
"landscape waste" which is defined as organic material such as leaves, grass,
brush, hedge, tree trimmings and garden waste shall not be set out for solid
waste collection. (Ord. 48, 6-3-1958; amd. 1998 Code)
4-1A-8: DUMPING, ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED:
No pile or deposit of manure, garbage, miscellaneous waste, or refuse of any
kind whatsoever, or accumulation of any offensive or nauseous substance, shall
be made within the limits of the village, nor shall any person unload,
discharge or put upon or along the line of any railroad, street, alley or
highway, or public place within the village, any manure, garbage or other
offensive or nauseous substance. (Ord. 48, 6-3-1958)
4-1A-9: LANDSCAPE WASTE:
Yard waste (organic material) such as flowers, weeds, small twigs, grass
clippings and garden waste will be picked up on the first and third Mondays of
each month, if placed in yard waste bags. No metal, plastic, paper products or
excessive amounts of soil shall be included with the yard waste. Yard waste
bags shall be purchased from the village for one dollar ($1.00) each.
The removal of trees growing on private property is the total responsibility of
the landowner's tree removal service. The village is not responsible for
cleanup of debris caused by tree removal. However, trees and bushes removed by
the landowner will be picked up by the village within a reasonable time. Trees
and bushes must be cut to a minimum of four feet (4') in length and a maximum
of seven feet (7') in length. The cuttings must be stacked in compact bundles
for ease of removal. (Ord. 246, 6-10-2003, eff. 8-1-2003)
4-1A-10: RECYCLING PROGRAM:
   A.   Recycling Required: Commencing on August 1, 2003, each residential
dwelling unit shall cooperate in the recycling of refuse. All recyclable
material shall be separated from other garbage and refuse and grouped together
and placed for collection. Recyclable materials will be collected at each and
every residential dwelling unit in the village that is being provided water
service.
   B.   Recyclables Collection: Collection shall be performed once each week in
which there is not a village holiday, shall not start before six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., and will be collected on the same day as refuse throughout the village.
Unforeseen emergencies may require alteration of the schedule.
   C.   Collection At Curb: All recyclable materials shall be collected at the
curb, also referred to as the terrace, and near the street in front of the
residential unit. Collection will not be made in alleys.
   D.   Recyclable Refuse: Recyclable refuse shall consist of and be contained
as follows:
      1.   Transparent Blue Plastic Bag #1:
         a.   Glass: All brown, green, and clear glass shall be rinsed, lids
removed, and placed in this bag. Labels may remain on the glass.
         b.   Cans: All aluminum, steel, and tin cans shall be rinsed and
placed in this bag. Labels may remain on the cans.
         c.   Plastics: All plastics shall be rinsed, caps removed, and
flattened. Plastics are restricted to items having either a number one or
number two (2) imprinted inside the recycling symbol on the bottom of the
container.
      2.   Transparent Blue Plastic Bag #2:
         a.   Newsprint: All newsprint shall be placed in this second bag and
shall not be mixed with any other garbage or refuse, recyclable or otherwise.
Included with newsprint are all supplements that are delivered with the
newspaper.
   E.   Nonrecyclable Materials:
      1.   Items Which Are Nonrecyclable: Without limitation, the following
items, which may be mistaken as falling into one of the categories above, are
not recyclable under this chapter, and must be disposed of with other
nonrecyclable garbage or refuse:
         a.   Glass: All Pyrex glass, window glass, light bulbs, mirrors,
china, and tableware;
         b.   Plastics: All Styrofoam and Melmac type plastics, and any plastic
containers containing automotive fluids or swimming pool chemicals;
         c.   Paper And Cardboard: All office or computer paper, magazines,
waxed paper, waxed cardboard, milk cartons, envelopes, cereal boxes, and
general purpose cardboard.
      2.   Other Nonrecyclable Garbage And Refuse: All other garbage and
refuse, not specifically mentioned as a recyclable item, shall not be placed in
a container or bagged with recyclable items. If nonrecyclable materials are
placed in the recycling bags the bags will not be picked up and it will be
considered a violation of this chapter.
   F.   Ownership Of Recyclable Waste Material:
      1.   After recyclable waste material has been placed in a designated
container for such purpose at a designated recycling collection location for
collection by the village or its authorized agent, the recyclable waste
material shall become the property of the village or its authorized agent.
      2.   During the twenty four (24) hour period commencing at six o'clock
(6:00) P.M. on any day preceding a day designated for collection of recyclable
waste material, no person, other than the village's authorized agent, shall
remove recyclable waste material from a designated container which has been
placed at a designated recycling collection location. Each collection in
violation of this section from each separate designated recycling collection
location during that period shall constitute a separate and distinct violation
of this chapter.
      3.   Nothing in this chapter shall limit the right of an individual
person, organization, or other entity to donate, sell, or otherwise dispose of
recyclable waste material, if such disposal does not violate any applicable
statute, regulation, or ordinance. (Ord. 246, 6-10-2003, eff. 8-1-2003)
4-1A-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the terms of this article shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 48, 6-3-1958; amd. 1998 Code; Ord. 246, 6-10-2003,
eff. 8-1-2003)
CHAPTER 1
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
ARTICLE B. COLLECTION SERVICE CHARGES
SECTION:
4-1B-1: Intent
4-1B-2: Residential Users
4-1B-3: Nonresidential Users
4-1B-4: Delinquent Bills
4-1B-5: Nonpayment
4-1B-6: Unpaid Usage
4-1B-7: Accounting Of Funds
4-1B-8: Joint Liability
4-1B-9: Exclusive Service
4-1B-1: INTENT:
The Village President and Board of Trustees have determined that the public
health and welfare of the Village require a solid waste collection system
designed to minimize illegal dumping, to avoid unpaid use of the system, and to
provide for reasonable certainty of income to meet contractual obligations of
the Village to operate the system. (Ord. 202, 4-1-1993)
4-1B-2: RESIDENTIAL USERS:
   A.   Charge Established: There is hereby established a service charge of
fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month or any part of a month. (Ord. 202, 4-1-1993;
amd. 1998 Code; Ord. 290, 4-10-2007, eff. 5-1-2007; Ord. 354, 5-13-2014, eff.
8-1-2014)
   B.   Applicability: All users of residential water service within the
Village shall be required to pay said monthly service charge. (Ord. 202, 4-1-
1993; amd. 1998 Code)
   C.   Multiple Residential Dwellings: The solid waste collection service
charge of fifteen dollars ($15.00) per month or any part of a month shall be
assessed against each unit of a multiple residential dwelling except any unit
which is not occupied for any day during the month for which the charge is
made. (Ord. 202, 4-1-1993; amd. 1998 Code; Ord. 290, 4-10-2007, eff. 5-1-2007;
Ord. 354, 5-13-2014, eff. 8-1-2014)
   D.   Included In Water Bill: The service charge shall be added to the water
bill and paid with the water bill monthly.
   E.   Exemption: Residences for which the water service has been turned off
for the entire month and residences in which no person has been living for an
entire month shall be exempt from the service charge.
   F.   Schedule Of Service Charges: A copy of the schedule of the service
charges shall be furnished to each person assessed the solid waste service
charge. (Ord. 202, 4-1-1993; amd. 1998 Code)
4-1B-3: NONRESIDENTIAL USERS:
   A.   The service charge for businesses without a dumpster is raised from
fifteen dollars ($15.00) to seventeen dollars ($17.00) per month for twice a
week pickup.
   B.   The service rate for businesses with a dumpster is raised from forty
dollars ($40.00) per month for twice a week pickup to either eighty dollars
($80.00) per month for twice a week pickup or forty dollars ($40.00) per month
for once a week pickup. (Ord. 357, 6-10-2014, eff. 8-1-2014)
4-1B-4: DELINQUENT BILLS:
All solid waste collection bills are due at the same time as water bills. The
same penalty rate shall be added to the solid waste bill as is added to the
water bill if not paid prior to the delinquent date. (Ord. 202, 4-1-1993)
4-1B-5: NONPAYMENT:
Persons who are delinquent in payment of the solid waste charge shall be
subject to termination of their water service upon notice as in the cases of
delinquent water bills. (Ord. 202, 4-1-1993)
4-1B-6: UNPAID USAGE:
   A.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person who is not residing in
a residence for which the solid waste service fee is being paid to place any
trash, garbage or other refuse with trash, garbage or refuse of a person who is
receiving and paying for such service.
   B.   Violation; Penalty: Any person who is found guilty of a violation of
this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 202, 4-1-1993; amd. 1998 Code)
4-1B-7: ACCOUNTING OF FUNDS:
The Village Treasurer shall receive all such revenue from the solid waste
charges and deposit the same in the Garbage Fund. The Village Treasurer shall
administer said fund in every respect in the same manner as provided by the
Illinois Municipal Code. The Village Treasurer shall establish a proper system
of accounts and shall keep proper books, records and accounts in which complete
and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the solid
waste collection service. (Ord. 202, 4-1-1993)
4-1B-8: JOINT LIABILITY:
The owner of the location for which solid waste service is provided, the
occupant thereof, and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the service to such location, and the service is furnished to
the location by the Village only upon the condition that the owner, occupant,
and user are jointly and severally liable therefor to the Village. (Ord. 202,
4-1-1993)
4-1B-9: EXCLUSIVE SERVICE:
The solid waste collection service provided by the Village for residential
users shall be the only permitted method by which residential users may have
their solid waste collected and removed from their property within the Village.
(Ord. 202, 4-1-1993)
CHAPTER 2
NUISANCES 1
(Rep. by Ord. 380, 5-8-2018)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 5, chapter 6 of this Code.
CHAPTER 3
WEEDS
SECTION:
4-3-1: Nuisance Declared
4-3-2: Owner Responsibility
4-3-3: Abatement
4-3-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Whoever shall suffer or permit any cockleburs, thistles, jimson or other weeds
or tall grass to grow to a height exceeding six (6) inches upon any lot or
premises owned or controlled by him, including the city right of way, commonly
referred to as the boulevard within the Village shall be deemed guilty of
maintaining a nuisance. (Ord. 186, 1987; amd. Ord. 388, 12-12-2018)
4-3-2: OWNER RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be the duty of every owner, lessee or occupant of property within the
Village limits to keep such property clear and free of cockleburs, thistles or
other weeds or tall grass. (Ord. 186, 1987)
4-3-3: ABATEMENT:
   A.   Failure To Comply: If you fail to comply with the provisions of this
Chapter, you will be fined a sum of fifty dollars ($50.00) for one offense.
Each day the violation continues shall be a separate offense.
   B.   Abatement By Village: If the offense has not been corrected by the
fifth day, the Village Clerk shall request a private contractor to remove or
mow such weeds and the cost thereof shall be billed to the owner, lessee or
occupant of the property.
   C.   Lien: The fine and reasonable cost of removing such weeds or tall grass
shall be a lien upon the real estate affected upon filing a lien with the
County Recorder within sixty (60) days after such cost is incurred by the
Village. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-4-1: Prohibited; Exception
4-4-2: Exception
4-4-3: Police Enforcement
4-4-4: Violation; Penalty
4-4-1: PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION:
Burning of fallen leaves, cut weeds, grass clippings, brush and other yard
waste is prohibited within the village limits except as provided in section
4-4-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 338, 4-10-2012)
4-4-2: EXCEPTION:
Burning of fallen leaves, cut weeds, grass clippings, brush and other yard
waste is permitted on those Wednesdays and Saturdays corresponding to the weeks
scheduled for recycling pick up. (Ord. 338, 4-10-2012)
4-4-3: POLICE ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Police officers are hereby authorized to cause a fire to be
extinguished whenever they may determine the burning of fallen leaves, cut
weeds, grass clippings, brush or other yard waste to be in violation of this
chapter.
   B.   The foregoing immediate action of the police shall not in any manner
restrict or prohibit the prosecution of an ordinance violation complaint in any
such case. (Ord. 338, 4-10-2012)
4-4-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person found to be in violation of this chapter may be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor greater than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (Ord. 338, 4-10-2012)
CHAPTER 4
VILLAGE PARKS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Park Operating Policy
4-5-3: Enforcement
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
DIRECTOR of PARKS AND RECREATION: A person immediately in charge of any park
area and its activities, and to whom all park attendants of such area are
responsible.
PARK: A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center or any other
area in the city, owned or used by the city, and devoted to active or passive
recreation.
PARK ATTENDANT: Any employee of the city whose job functions include
maintaining, repairing or supervising a park or whose job functions include
enforcing this chapter.
VEHICLE: Any wheeled conveyance, whether motor-powered, animal-drawn, or self-
propelled. The exception is made for vehicles in the service of the Village of
Annawan, Illinois. (Ord. 402, 12-9-2020)
4-5-2: PARK OPERATING POLICY:
   A.   Park Hours. Village park(s) shall be open daily to the public between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. This shall also include the playground
and parking lots. No person shall occupy or be present in any park during the
hours it is not open to the public, unless special permission is obtained from
the Village President, Chief of Police or the Director of Parks and Recreation.
      EXEMPTIONS: Law Enforcement on Official Duty, Director of Parks and
Recreation, Village Employees. A Village Sponsored Event/Activity
   B.   Closed Areas. Any section or part of any park may be declared closed to
the public by the Village President, Chief of Police, or Director of Parks and
Recreation at any time, and for any interval of time, either temporarily, or at
regular and stated intervals (daily or otherwise), and either entirely or
merely to certain uses, as the Director of Parks and Recreation shall find
reasonably necessary.
   C.   Smoking. There shall be no smoking within 50 feet of any baseball
field. This includes the use of Vaping Devices and Electronic Cigarettes. (Ord.
402, 12-9-2020)
4-5-3: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Ejection. The Director of Parks and Recreation shall have the authority
to eject for a period of 24 hours from the park any person who violates this
ordinance. Repeated violations of this ordinance may result in permanent
ejection from any park.
   B.   A violation of this ordinance may result in a citation with a minimum
fine of $25.00 and maximum fine of $750.00. (Ord. 402, 12-9-2020)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 0
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-0-1: Part-Time Police
5-0-1: PART-TIME POLICE:
   A.   Employment: The Village of Annawan may employ part-time police officers
from time to time as they deem necessary.
   B.   Duties: A part-time police officer shall have all the responsibilities
of a full-time police officer and such specific duties as delineated in the
General Orders of the Annawan Police Department, but the number of hours a
part-time police officer may work within a calendar year is restricted. Part-
time police officers shall not be assigned to supervise or direct full-time
police officers. Part-time police officers shall be trained in accordance with
the Illinois Police Training Act 1  and the rules and requirements of the
ILETSB (Illinois Law Enforcement Training Standards Board).
   C.   Hiring Standards: Any person employed as a part-time police officer
must meet the following standards:
      1.   Be of good moral character, of temperate habits, of sound health,
physically and mentally able to perform assigned tasks and duties.
      2.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      3.   Pass a medical examination.
      4.   Pass a thorough background investigation with submission of
fingerprints.
      5.   Possess a high school diploma or GED certificate along with thirty
(30) semester credit hours towards any discipline from an accredited college or
university.
      6.   Possess a valid State of Illinois or Iowa driver's license.
      7.   Possess no prior felony convictions or misdemeanor convictions
involving moral turpitude.
      8.   Any individual who has served in the U.S. military must have been
honorably discharged.
   D.   Discipline: Part-time officers shall be under the disciplinary
jurisdiction of the Chief of Police. Part-time police officers serve at the
discretion of the Village of Annawan authorities, shall not have any property
rights in said employment, and may be removed by the Village of Annawan
authorities at any time. Part- time police officers shall comply with all
applicable rules and General Orders issued by the Annawan Police Department.
(Ord. 345, 9-11-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 705/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 1
CURFEW
SECTION:
5-1-1: Title
5-1-2: Age And Hour Restrictions
5-1-3: Parental Responsibility
5-1-4: Violation; Penalty
5-1-1: TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as THE CURFEW LAW FOR THE VILLAGE
OF ANNAWAN, HENRY COUNTY, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 65, 3-5-1962)
5-1-2: AGE AND HOUR RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of seventeen (17) years to be
in, on, or upon any public street, alley or other public place in the Village
after the hour of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the
following morning from June 1 to September 15, inclusive of each year, and
after the hour of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
the following morning from September 16 to May 31, inclusive, of the following
year, except under the following circumstances:
   A.   Such minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other adult person
having the care and custody of such minor;
   B.   Such minor is in the performance of an errand or duty directed by the
parent, guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of such
minor;
   C.   Such minor is in, on, or upon said public, street, alley or other
public place in the pursuit of lawful and gainful employment;
   D.   Such minor is traveling home, in an orderly and direct manner, from the
home of a friend, school or church program or a legitimate public amusement
place. (Ord. 65, 3-5-1962; amd. 1998 Code)
5-1-3: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of any person under the age of seventeen (17) years to allow
or permit a minor, under the aforesaid age, to go or be in, on or upon any
public street, alley or other public place in the Village after the hour of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following
morning, from June 1 to September 15 inclusive, of each year and after the hour
of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following
morning, from September 16 to May 31 inclusive, of the following year, unless
said minor is within the provisions of subsections
5-1-2A through D of this Chapter. (Ord. 65, 3-5-1962; amd. 1998 Code)
5-1-4: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   Violation By Minor:
      1.   Warning: Any Police Officer finding a minor child violating the
provisions of Section
5-1-2 of this Chapter shall warn the minor to desist immediately from such
violation and shall promptly report the violation to a superior authority.
      2.   Notice: The superior authority may cause a written notice to be
mailed or served upon the parent, guardian or other adult person having the
care and custody of said minor.
   B.   Violation By Parent Or Guardian: Any parent, guardian or other adult
person violating the provisions of Section
5-1-3 of this Chapter shall, on conviction, be fined in an amount not to exceed
twenty five dollars ($25.00) for each offense and shall stand committed until
such fine and court costs are paid. (Ord. 65, 3-5-1962)
CHAPTER 2
DOGS AND CATS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Number Of Dogs And Cats Restricted
5-2-3: Running At Large Prohibited
5-2-4: Rabies Control
5-2-5: Dangerous, Vicious Dogs
5-2-6: Redemption Of Impounded Dogs And Cats
5-2-7: Cruelty To Animals
5-2-8: Nuisance Prohibited
5-2-9: Removal Of Excrement
5-2-10: Exemptions From Provisions
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter, except as otherwise indicated, the following
definitions will apply:
ANIMAL NUISANCE: Created when an animal:
   A.   Runs uncontrolled;
   B.   Molests or disturbs persons or vehicles by chasing, barking or biting;
   C.   Attacks other animals.
ATTACK: Any aggressive, menacing or vicious physical contact between any dog
and any person or other animal, including, but not limited to, contact of the
mouth or teeth of the dog with the victim of the attack and any striking or
scratching of the victim of the attack by the paws of any dog.
BITE: Seizing with the teeth or jaws so that the person or other animal seized
has been nipped, gripped, cut, wounded or pierced, and further includes the
contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
CONFINEMENT STRUCTURE: A securely locked pen, kennel or other structure
designed, constructed and maintained in accordance with the standards herein.
Such pen, kennel or other structure must have secure sides and a secure top
attached to the sides and must be locked with a key or combination lock when
animals are within the structure. Such structure must have a secure bottom or
floor attached to the sides, or the sides of the structure must be embedded in
the ground no less than two feet (2'). All such structures must comply with all
zoning and building regulations of the Village and be adequately lighted,
ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
COUNTY ADMINISTRATOR: The County Administrator appointed pursuant to 510
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3.
DOG, DANGEROUS: Any dog which, unmuzzled, in a vicious or terrorizing manner,
approaches any person or other animal in an apparent attitude of attack upon
any street, sidewalk or any public grounds or place, or any premises other than
those of its owner; provided, that such approach is unprovoked.
DOG, VICIOUS: Any dog which has, when unprovoked, bitten or attacked any person
or other animal on public or private property; has a known tendency, propensity
or disposition to attack persons or animals without provocation; or has been
found to be a dangerous dog upon three (3) separate occasions.
GUIDE DOG: A dog trained and used to aid the blind or hearing impaired;
provided, that the owner of any such dog complies with the provisions contained
in 510 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8.
K-9 DOG: A dog trained and used in the performance of official police duties
authorized by the Chief of Police; provided, that any such dog shall be
currently inoculated against rabies as provided for in 510 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8.
LEASH: A strap or chain, manufactured for use as a leash, securely fastened to
the collar or harness of a dog which shall in no case be longer than eight feet
(8') and shall be of sufficient strength to keep such dog under control.
MUZZLE: A device constructed of strong, soft material or metal which will
prevent a dog from biting any person or animal; provided, that such muzzle must
be made in a manner which will not cause injury to the dog nor interfere with
its vision or respiration.
OWNER: Any person having a right of property in a dog, or who keeps or harbors
a dog, or who has it in his care, or acts as its custodian, or who knowingly
permits a dog to remain on or about any premises occupied by him. (1998 Code)
5-2-2: NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to house, keep or maintain within a single
dwelling unit more than three (3) dogs or three (3) cats, or any combination
thereof, over the age of four (4) months within the corporate limits of the
Village. (1998 Code)
5-2-3: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any dog or cat to run at large. For the purposes of
this Section, any dog or cat not upon the premises of its owner or such other
person having custody, possession or control over any such dog or cat, which is
not on a leash and under the control of a person physically able to control it,
shall be deemed to be running at large. All dogs or cats found to be running at
large shall be promptly impounded by the Chief of Police, or any person
authorized by him for this purpose. (1998 Code)
5-2-4: RABIES CONTROL:
   A.   Inoculation Required: Every owner of a dog or cat four (4) months or
more of age within the corporate limits of the Village shall cause such dog or
cat to be inoculated against rabies every three (3) years by a licensed
veterinarian. Evidence of such rabies inoculation shall be entered on a
certificate, the form of which shall be approved by the Henry County Board and
which shall be signed by the licensed veterinarian administering the vaccine.
In addition, the owner of any such inoculated dog or cat shall cause a rabies
inoculation tag to be affixed to the collar or harness of such dog or cat.
   B.   Confinement Of Rabies Suspects; Reports:
      1.   Animals Exhibiting Rabies Symptoms; Biting Animals:
         a.   The owner of any dog, cat or other animal which exhibits clinical
signs of rabies, whether or not such dog, cat or other animal has been
inoculated against rabies, shall immediately notify the Chief of Police. The
Chief of Police shall cause any dog, cat or other animal exhibiting clinical
signs of rabies to be confined, under suitable observation, for a period of at
least ten (10) days, unless officially authorized by the County Administrator,
in writing, to release it sooner. Any dog, cat or other animal in direct
contact with such dog, cat or other animal, whether or not the exposed dog, cat
or other animal has been inoculated against rabies, shall be confined as
recommended by the County Administrator.
         b.   Whenever the Chief of Police receives information that any person
has been bitten by a dog, cat or other animal, the Chief of Police shall cause
such dog, cat or other animal to be confined under the observation of a
licensed veterinarian for a period of ten (10) days. Such veterinarian shall
report the clinical condition of the dog, cat or other animal immediately, with
the confirmation in writing, to the Chief of Police and the County
Administrator within twenty four (24) hours after the dog, cat or other animal
is presented for examination, giving the owner's name, address, the date of
confinement, the breed, description, age and sex of such dog, cat or other
animal. The ten (10) day observation period shall not be applicable to wildlife
not owned by any person.
         c.   At the end of the confinement period, the veterinarian shall
submit a written report to the Chief of Police and County Administrator
advising them of the final disposition of such dog, cat or other animal.
      2.   Confinement Of Inoculated Animals: When evidence is presented that
such dog, cat or other animal was inoculated against rabies within the time
prescribed by law, it may be confined in the house of its owner or in a manner
which will prohibit it from biting any person for a period of ten (10) days if
the County Administrator or other licensed veterinarian adjudges such
confinement satisfactory.
At the end of any confinement period, such dog, cat or other animal shall be
examined by the County Administrator or another licensed veterinarian.
   C.   Animal Bites; Duties And Prohibitions:
      1.   It is unlawful for any person having knowledge that any person has
been bitten by a dog, cat or other animal to refuse to notify the Chief of
Police or the County Administrator promptly.
      2.   It is unlawful for the owner of such dog, cat or other animal to
euthanize, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of any such dog, cat or other
animal known to have bitten a person, until it is released by the County
Administrator or his authorized representative. It is unlawful for the owner of
such dog, cat or other animal to refuse or fail to comply with the written or
printed instructions made by the County Administrator or the Chief of Police.
If such instructions cannot be delivered in person, they shall be mailed to the
owner of such dog, cat or other animal by regular mail, postage prepaid. The
affidavit or testimony of the Chief of Police, the County Administrator or
their authorized representatives of the delivery or mailing of such
instructions is prima facie evidence that the owner of such dog, cat or other
animal was notified of his responsibilities.
   D.   Rabies Control Costs: Any expense incurred in the handling of any dog,
cat or other animal under the provisions of this Section shall be borne by the
owner. (1998 Code)
5-2-5: DANGEROUS, VICIOUS DOGS:
   A.   Nuisance Declared: Each vicious or dangerous dog is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance and shall only be kept, harbored, maintained, owned or
possessed within the corporate limits of the Village in strict conformance with
the provisions of this Section.
   B.   Dangerous Dogs:
      1.   Requirements And Prohibitions:
         a.   It shall be unlawful for any dangerous dog to leave the premises
of the owner, unless such dog is securely muzzled, restrained on a leash and
under the direct control and supervision of the owner; provided that, in no
event, shall such dog be under the direct control or supervision of any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years.
         b.   It shall be unlawful for any dangerous dog to annoy, endanger or
approach, in an apparent attitude of attack, any person or animal.
      2.   Report Of Incident; Investigation:
         a.   Any person who witness an incident involving a bite, attack or
menacing behavior by any dog occurring in the Village shall file a sworn
affidavit of complaint with the Police Department setting out the nature and
date of the incident, the owner of the dog, the address of the owner and
description of the dog.
         b.   The Police Department, upon receipt of an affidavit of complaint,
shall investigate the complaint to determine whether the dog is dangerous or
vicious. If the Police Department finds that the dog is dangerous or vicious,
the owner shall be notified by certified mail of such finding. No dog shall be
found dangerous or vicious if the attack or menacing behavior was directed at a
person who was, at the time in question, committing a wilful trespass or other
tort upon the premises of the owner; or was teasing, tormenting, abusing or
assaulting the dog; or who has in the past teased, tormented, abused or
assaulted the dog; or was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
         c.   The owner of a dog found to be dangerous or vicious may, within
seven (7) days of the mailing of notice by the Police Department, make a
written request to the Police Department for a review of such finding. Such
review shall be made by the Chief of Police within seven (7) days of such
request and shall be based upon the sworn affidavit of complaint and any
statements or evidence presented by the owner, witnesses to the incident,
Police Department personnel or any other person possessing information relevant
to such findings. The Chief of Police shall issue the written findings within
five (5) days after the review, sustaining or overruling the findings made by
the Police Department.
   C.   Vicious Dogs:
      1.   Requirements And Prohibitions:
         a.   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, maintain, own or in any way
possess within the corporate limits of the Village any vicious dog unless such
dog is at all times kept in a confinement structure.
         b.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection C1a above, a vicious
dog may be allowed out of a confinement structure if it is necessary in order
to obtain veterinary care for the vicious dog or to comply with the order of a
court of competent jurisdiction. At any time that a vicious dog is outside of a
confinement structure, it shall be securely muzzled, restrained on a leash and
under the direct control and supervision of the owner; provided, that in no
event shall such dog be under the direct control or supervision of any person
under the age of eighteen (18) years.
         c.   No owner of a vicious dog shall sell, otherwise transfer, set
free, abandon or give any vicious dog to any person who resides in the Village.
         d.   All vicious dogs kept, harbored, maintained, owned or in any way
possessed in the Village shall be spayed or neutered.
      2.   Warning Signs: The owner of a vicious dog shall post a warning sign,
which is readable from not less than one hundred feet (100'), in a prominent
place in front of the owner's premises to inform the public of the presence of
the vicious dog. Such sign shall be of metal, with black letters at least two
inches (2") in height on a white background. Such sign shall state WARNING:
   VICIOUS DOG ON PREMISES.
      3.   Impoundment And Destruction Of Vicious Dog: Any vicious dog which a)
is outside of a confinement structure and not in compliance with the provisions
of subsection C1b above, or b) inflicts a bite on any person, shall be
impounded by the Police Department and turned over to a licensed veterinarian
for destruction by lethal injection. (1998 Code)
5-2-6: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS AND CATS:
Whenever a dog or cat has been impounded in accordance with this Chapter, the
Chief of Police or his authorized agent shall give notice to redeem of not less
than seven (7) days to the owner of such dog or cat, if known. Such notice
shall be mailed to the last known address of the owner. An affidavit or
testimony of the Chief of Police or his authorized agent who mailed such notice
shall be prima facie evidence of receipt of such notice by the owner of such
dog or cat. In case the owner of any impounded dog or cat desires to make
redemption thereof within the time prescribed, he may do so on the following
conditions:
   A.   He must present proof of current rabies inoculation.
   B.   He must pay for the rabies inoculation.
   C.   He must pay for the board of the dog or cat for the period it has been
impounded.
   D.   He must pay for any other fines imposed pursuant to this Chapter.
   E.   He must pay an administrative fee in the amount of fifteen dollars
($15.00). (1998 Code)
5-2-7: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Beat, underfeed, overload, overwork, torment, abandon, train as a
fighting animal, or otherwise inhumanely treat any domestic animal anywhere in
the Village.
   B.   Sell, offer for sale, barter or give away as a pet or novelty any
rabbit, hare, baby chick, duckling or other fowl which has been dyed, colored
or otherwise treated to impart an artificial color thereto;
   C.   Kill or wound, or attempt to kill or wound, or take the eggs of young
of any game or song bird:
   D.   Knowingly poison or cause to be poisoned any domestic animal; however,
acceptable methods may be used in a responsible manner to control vermin; or
   E.   Give away any domestic animal as a prize for or as an inducement to
enter any contest, game or other competition; or as an inducement to enter a
place of amusement; or offer such vertebrate as an incentive to enter into any
business agreement when the offer was for the purpose of attracting trade.
(1998 Code)
5-2-8: NUISANCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or harborer of any dog, cat or other
domestic animal to cause or permit such animal to perform, create or engage in
any "animal nuisance" defined by Section
5-2-1 of this Chapter. Any animal found acting in any way forbidden by this
Chapter, in the determination of the Chief of Police, shall hereby be declared
a nuisance and its owner or harborer shall be subject to citation. (1998 Code)
5-2-9: REMOVAL OF EXCREMENT:
No person shall appear with an animal upon public ways, within public places or
upon the property of another, absent that person's consent, without some means
for the removal of excrement; nor, shall any person fall to remove any
excrement deposited by such animal. This Section shall not apply to blind
persons while walking the guide dogs. (1998 Code)
5-2-10: EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS:
Notwithstanding any provision contained in this Chapter to the contrary, K-
9 and guide dogs shall be exempt from the provisions of Sections
5-2-3 and 5-2-5 of this Chapter. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Illinois Criminal Code Adopted
5-3-2: Provoking A Disturbance
5-3-3: Intoxication
5-3-4: Keeping Animals Tied
5-3-5: Riding On Sidewalk
5-3-6: Lamps On Bicycles
5-3-7: Excavation In Streets, Protection Of
5-3-8: Storing Vehicles In Streets And Alleys
5-3-9: Distribution Of Handbills On Streets
5-3-10: Street Obstruction; Exhibitions
5-3-11: Vagrancy
5-3-12: Fireworks
5-3-13: Posting In Certain Places Prohibited
5-3-14: Distributing Samples Of Prepared Medicines
5-3-15: Compression Brakes Prohibited
5-3-1: ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Illinois criminal code 1 , as amended, are hereby adopted by
the village. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered violations of
this chapter, and each such violation shall subject the violator thereof to
penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded hereunder. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
5-3-2: PROVOKING A DISTURBANCE:
If any person shall within this village challenge another to fight, or shall
threaten or traduce another, or shall use any profane, obscene or offensive
languages or indulge in any conduct toward another tending to provoke a
disturbance or breach of the peace, the person so offending shall, upon
conviction, be subject to penalty as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ch. 6 § 3; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-3: INTOXICATION:
Whoever shall be found in a state of intoxication or drunkenness upon any
street or alley or in any public park or other place open to the public view
within this village or in any private house or premises to the annoyance of any
persons shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ch. 6 § 10; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-4: KEEPING ANIMALS TIED:
It shall not be lawful for any person to keep any dog, whelp, bitch, calf, or
other animal shut up or tied up in any yard, house or other place, which, by
barking, howling, or by other noise shall disturb the peace and quiet of any
family, individual or neighborhood; and every person violating any provision of
this section, shall upon conviction be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ch. 6 § 12; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-5: RIDING ON SIDEWALK:
Whoever shall ride any bicycle, tricycle, or other wheel of a like character on
any sidewalk shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ch. 6 § 34; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-6: LAMPS ON BICYCLES:
Whoever shall ride any bicycle in any street, alley, park or other public place
one hour after sunset and until one hour before sunrise, without having
securely attached thereto a lighted lamp, the rays from which can be distinctly
seen ahead of such bicycle, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ch. 6 § 35; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-7: EXCAVATION IN STREETS, PROTECTION OF:
Every person who shall dig, make or cause to be dug or made any hole, pit,
ditch, vault or other excavation in or upon any street, lane, avenue, alley,
sidewalk or other public places or who shall dig, make or cause to be dug or
made, any excavation upon any lot adjoining or bounded by any street, lane,
avenue, alley, public place or sidewalk, and who shall not during the night
cause the same to be fenced in with a substantial fence at least three feet
(3') high, the boards or rails of which shall not be more than one foot (1')
apart, and who shall fail to place sufficient red lights in conspicuous places
in front of said fence, shall forfeit and be subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ch. 6 § 37; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-8: STORING VEHICLES IN STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Whoever shall deposit or store any automobile, sleigh, wagon, carriage, buggy,
cart or other vehicle, or any plow, harrow, seeder, farm implement or machine
in or upon any sidewalk, street, alley, or public place shall, upon conviction,
be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ch. 6 § 44; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-9: DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS ON STREETS:
No person shall distribute, cast, throw or place in or upon or along any of the
streets, alleys or public places any handbills, pamphlets, circulars, books or
advertisements for the purpose or with the intent of advertising or making
known any business, occupations profession, medical treatment, medicine or
anything whatsoever, under penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ch. 6 § 46; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-10: STREET OBSTRUCTION; EXHIBITIONS:
No person shall engage in any game, sport or amusement, or exhibit any machine,
show or animal, or indulge in any acrobatic feats, or do anything else in the
streets or upon the sidewalks, which shall have a tendency to frighten horses,
or which shall collect any crowd of persons so as to interfere with the passage
of teams, vehicles or persons along the streets or sidewalks; and any person
violating this Section shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ch. 6 § 47; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-11: VAGRANCY:
All persons who are idle and dissolute, and who go about begging; all persons
who use any juggling or other unlawful games or plays; runaways; pilferers,
confidence men; common drunkards; common nightwalkers; lewd, wanton and
lascivious persons, in speech or behavior; common railers and brawlers; persons
who are habitually neglectful of their employment or their calling, and do not
lawfully provide for themselves, or for the support of their families; and all
persons who are idle or dissolute and who neglect all lawful business, and who
habitually misspend their time by frequenting houses of illfame, gaming houses
or tippling shops; all persons lodging in, or found in the nighttime in
outhouses, sheds, barns or unoccupied buildings or lodging in the open air, and
not giving a good account of themselves; and all persons who are known to be
thieves, burglars, or pickpockets, either by their own confession or otherwise,
or by having been convicted of larceny, burglary, or other crime against the
laws of the State, punishable by imprisonment in the State prison, or in a
house of correction of any city, and having no lawful means of support, or
habitually found prowling around any railroad depot, banking institution,
broker's office, place of public amusement, auction room, store, shop or
crowded thoroughfare, car or omnibus, or any public gathering or assembly or
lounging about any courtroom, private dwelling houses or outhouses, or are
found in any house of illfame, gambling house, or tippling shop, shall be
deemed to be and they are declared to be vagrants, and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ch. 6 § 48; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-12: FIREWORKS:
No person shall fire, discharge or set off within the limits of this Village
any toy pistol, rocket, cracker, torpedo, squib or other fireworks or thing
containing any substance of an explosive nature under penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense; provided, that the Village President may
by proclamation permit the use of fireworks on the Fourth of July and on such
other day as he may deem proper. (Ch. 6 § 49; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-13: POSTING IN CERTAIN PLACES PROHIBITED:
No person shall paste, paint, print, nail or attach, or cause to be pasted,
painted, printed, nailed or attached, any handbill, sign, poster, advertisement
or instrument of any kind on any curb stone, flag stone, or any portion or any
part of any sidewalk or upon any tree, lamp post, hitching post, telegraph,
telephone, or electric light pole, hydrant or police patrol box or upon any
private wall, door, gate or fence without the consent in writing of the owner
thereof. Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ch. 6 § 50; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-14: DISTRIBUTING SAMPLES OF PREPARED MEDICINES:
No person shall distribute within the limits of the Village, samples of
prepared medicines, including pills, tablets, ointments, salves, liquids,
powders or any like preparations; provided, however, the terms, of this Chapter
shall not apply where said prepared medicines are personally distributed to an
adult. Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ch. 6 § 51; amd. 1998 Code)
5-3-15: COMPRESSION BRAKES PROHIBITED:
No person shall use motor vehicle brakes within the corporate boundaries of the
village of Annawan which are in any way activated or operated by the
compression of the engine of any such motor vehicle or any unit or part
thereof. (Ord. 318, 8-11-2009)
CHAPTER 4
OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Public Indecency
5-4-2: Obscenity
5-4-3: Harmful Material
5-4-4: Penalty
5-4-1: PUBLIC INDECENCY 1 :
   A.   Acts Enumerated: Any person who performs any of the following acts in a
public place commits a public indecency:
      1.   Sexual Conduct: An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-12; or
      2.   Lewd Exposure: A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to
arouse or to satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
      3.   Urination; Defecation; Indecent Exposure: Urination, defecation or
indecent exposure of his or her person, except in facilities specifically
provided for such purposes such as public toilets.
   B.   Definition: For the purpose of this Section, "public place" means any
place where the conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
(Ord. 211, 4-9-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-9.
5-4-2: OBSCENITY 1 :
   A.   Definition: Any material or performance is "obscene" if:
      1.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient interest;
      2.   The average person, applying contemporary adult community standards,
would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way, ultimate
sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or perverted, actual
or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd exhibition of the
genitals; and
      3.   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or
scientific value.
   B.   Elements Of Offense: A person commits obscenity when, with knowledge of
the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise reasonable
inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof, he:
      1.   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver,
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene;
      2.   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      3.   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      4.   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his body for gain;
      5.   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this Section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      6.   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented or
held out by him to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   C.   Interpretation Of Evidence:
      1.   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults, except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      2.   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, such evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
      3.   In any prosecution for an offense under this Section, evidence shall
be admissible to show:
         a.   The character of the audience for which the material was designed
or to which it was directed;
         b.   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for ordinary
adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would probably have
of the behavior of such people;
         c.   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         d.   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
State;
         e.   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material;
         f.   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
   D.   Prima Facie Evidence: The creation, purchase, procurement, or
possession of a mold, engraved plate, or other embodiment of obscenity
specially adapted for reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more
than three (3) copies of obscene material shall be prima facie evidence of an
intent to disseminate.
   E.   Affirmative Defenses: It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      1.   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material. (Ord. 211, 4-9-1996)
 
Notes
1 2. 720 ILCS 5/11-20.
5-4-3: HARMFUL MATERIAL 1 :
   A.   Definitions: As used in this Section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
   DISTRIBUTE: To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
   HARMFUL: Material is harmful if, to the average person, applying
contemporary standards, its predominant appeal, taken as a whole, is to
prurient interest, that is, a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex, or
excretion, which goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in
description or representation of such matters, and is material the redeeming
social importance of which is substantially less than its prurient appeal.
   KNOWINGLY: Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter, or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents thereof.
   MATERIAL: Any writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment.
   B.   Elements Of Offense: No person, with knowledge that a person is a child
(that is, a person under 18 years of age), or who fails to exercise reasonable
care in ascertaining the true age of a child, shall knowingly distribute to,
send, or cause to be sent to, or exhibit to, or offer to distribute or exhibit
any harmful material to a child.
   C.   Interpretation Of Evidence.
      1.   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall be
judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the child
to whom the material was offered, distributed, sent, or exhibited, unless it
appears from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its
dissemination, distribution or exhibition that it is designed for specially
susceptible groups, in which case the predominant appeal of the material shall
be judged with reference to its intended or probable recipient group.
      2.   In prosecutions under this Section, where circumstances of
production, presentation, sale, dissemination, distribution, or publicity
indicate the material is being commercially exploited for the sake of its
prurient appeal, such evidence is probative with respect to the nature of the
material and can justify the conclusion that the redeeming social importance of
the material is in fact substantially less than its prurient appeal.
   D.   Affirmative Defenses:
      1.   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit any public library or any
library operated by an accredited institution of higher education from
circulating harmful material to any person under eighteen (18) years of age,
provided such circulation is in aid of a legitimate scientific or educational
purpose, and it shall be an affirmative defense in any prosecution for a
violation of this Section that the act charged was committed in aid of
legitimate scientific or educational purposes.
      2.   Nothing in this Section shall prohibit any parent from distributing
to his child any harmful material.
      3.   Proof that the defendant demanded, was shown, and acted in reliance
upon any of the following documents as proof of the age of a child, shall be a
defense to any criminal prosecution under this Section: a document issued by
the Federal government or any state, county, or city government or subdivision
agency thereof, including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's
license, a registration certificate issued under the Federal Selective Services
Act or an identification card issued to a member of the armed forces.
      4.   In the event an advertisement of "harmful material" as defined in
this Section culminates in the sale or distribution of harmful material to a
child, under circumstances where there was personal confrontation of the child
by the defendant, his employees, or agents, as where the order or request for
harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, or similar means of
transport, it shall be a defense in any prosecution for a violation of this
Section that the advertisement contained the following statement, or a
statement substantially similar thereto, and that the defendant required the
purchaser to certify that he was not under eighteen (18) years of age and that
the purchaser falsely stated that he was not under eighteen (18) years of age:
NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person under 18 years of age to purchase the
matter herein advertised. Any person under 18 years of age who falsely states
that he is not under 18 years of age for the purposes of obtaining the material
advertised herein, is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor under the laws of the
State of Illinois.
 
   E.   Child Falsifying Age: No person under eighteen (18) years of age shall
falsely state, either orally or in writing, that he is not under the age of
eighteen (18) years, or present or offer to any person any evidence of age and
identity which is false or not actually his own for the purpose of ordering,
obtaining, viewing, or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure or view any
harmful material 2 . (Ord. 211, 4-9-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-21.
2 1. 720 ILCS 5/11-21.
5-4-4: PENALTY:
Any violation of this Chapter shall be punished as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 211, 4-9-1996; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 5
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY ABATEMENT
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definitions
5-5-2: Violations
5-5-3: Administrative Procedure
5-5-4: Serving Notices; Copies
5-5-5: Penalties And Remedies
5-5-6: Injunctive Relief And Remedies
5-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated or unless the context clearly indicates a
different intention, the following terms shall, for the purpose of this
chapter, have the following meanings:
CHRONIC NUISANCE PROPERTY: Any real property to which the police department or
sheriff's department has responded at least three (3) times in any consecutive
ninety (90) day period, and on each response has found nuisance activity or
multiple instances of nuisance activity.
NUISANCE ACTIVITY: Behavior or conduct that meets the definition of:
   A.   "Disorderly conduct", as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
26-1;
   B.   "Unlawful use of weapons", as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-1 et seq.;
   C.   "Mob action", as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1.5;
   D.   "Discharge of firearms", as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-1.5;
   E.   "Gambling", as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1;
   F.   "Possession, manufacture or delivery of controlled substances", as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/401 et seq.;
   G.   "Assault, battery or offenses related thereto", as defined in 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-1 et seq.;
   H.   "Sexual abuse or related offenses", as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-1.50;
   I.   "Public indecency", as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
30;
   J.   "Prostitution", as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14;
   K.   "Criminal damage to property", as defined in 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-1 et seq.;
   L.   "Possession, cultivation, manufacture or delivery of cannabis", as
defined in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/1 et seq.; and
   M.   "Illegal consumption or possession of alcohol", as defined in 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1 et seq.
OWNER: Any person, agent, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
including a mortgage in possession in whom is vested all or part of the legal
title to the premises, or all or part of the beneficial ownership and the right
to the present use and enjoyment of the property, or an occupant of that
premises or structures appurtenant thereto.
PERSON: Any individual, association, partnership, or corporation capable of
owning, leasing, renting or otherwise controlling, whether by actual or
constructive possession thereof, the use of real property within the village.
PERSON IN CHARGE: Any person in actual or constructive possession of real
property, including, but not limited to, an owner, person, lessee/renter or
occupant. (Ord. 341, 6-12-2012, eff. 6-12-2012)
5-5-2: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Any property within the village that becomes a chronic nuisance
property is in violation of this chapter and shall be subject to its rules and
regulations.
   B.   Any person in charge who permits real property within the village to
become a chronic nuisance property is in violation of this chapter and shall be
subject to its rules and regulations. (Ord. 341, 6-12-2012, eff. 6-12-2012)
5-5-3: ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE:
   A.   Record Of Nuisances: The police department, with assistance from other
state and local law enforcement agencies, shall keep an accurate village record
of all incidents of alleged nuisance activity and the property at which it
allegedly occurred.
   B.   Review Of Complaints: When two (2) or more incidents of alleged
nuisance activity have occurred at any given parcel of real property in the
village, the police chief or his/her designee shall review the reports of those
incidents and shall determine whether there is cause to believe that the
alleged nuisance activity occurred and whether there is cause to believe that
the nuisance activity occurred at the subject property. There is a one year
time limitation on said incidents.
   C.   Classification As Nuisance Property; Notice: If the police chief or
his/her designee finds that there is cause to believe that nuisance activity
occurred and that there is cause to believe that it occurred at the subject
property, the police chief or his/her designee may then notify the owner that
the subject property is in danger of being classified as a chronic nuisance
property. The notice shall contain: 1) the street address or legal description
of the property; 2) a concise description of the nuisance activity that has
occurred at this location; 3) a statement that further reports of nuisance
activity occurring at the property shall result in the property being
classified as a chronic nuisance property, subject to the regulations and
remedies of this chapter; 4) a statement offering the owner an opportunity to
propose a plan of action, to the police chief or his/her designee, that will
abate the nuisance activity; 5) a demand that the owner respond to the police
chief or his/her designee within ten (10) days to discuss the presence of
nuisance activity on the property.
   D.   Nuisance Condition After Notice: If, after notification is made
pursuant to subsection C of this section, another incident of alleged nuisance
activity occurs at the subject property, the police chief or his/her designee
shall determine whether there is cause to believe that the alleged nuisance
activity occurred and whether there is cause to believe that it occurred at
that, the subject, property.
   E.   Determination Of Chronic Nuisance: If the police chief or his/her
designee finds that there is cause to believe that "nuisance activity" (as
defined in this chapter) occurred (in violation of subsection B of this
section) and that there is cause to believe that it occurred at the subject
property, he shall then determine whether the property is a "chronic nuisance
property" as defined by section
5-5-1 of this chapter.
   F.   Notice Of Chronic Nuisance: Following a determination that the subject
property is a chronic nuisance property, the police chief or his/her designee
shall notify the owner in writing that the property has been determined to be a
chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain: 1) the street and address
or legal description of the property; 2) a statement that the property is a
chronic nuisance property pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; 3) a
concise description of the nuisance activity that supports this determination;
4) a demand that the owner propose a course of action that will abate the
nuisance activity giving rise to this notification; 5) a demand that the owner
respond to the police chief or his/her designee within ten (10) days.
   G.   Failure To Remedy; Abatement By Village: If the owner does not respond
in ten (10) days as requested by subsection F of this section, the police chief
or his/her designee shall request authorization for the village attorney to
commence a legal proceeding to abate the nuisance; provided, that if, prior to
the commencement of the legal proceedings by the village pursuant to this
subsection, a person in charge stipulates with the police chief or his/her
designee that the person in charge will pursue a course of action that the
parties agree will abate the nuisance activity, the police chief or his/her
designee may agree to postpone legal proceedings for a period of not less than
ten (10) days nor more than thirty (30) days; provided further, however, that
if the agreed course of action does not result in the abatement of the nuisance
activity, the village is not precluded or stopped from commencing legal
proceedings to abate the nuisance activity.
   H.   Injunctive Relief: Nothing in this section shall prohibit the village
from filing an action for injunctive relief against a chronic nuisance property
when such property constitutes an immediate threat and danger to the safety,
health and welfare of the surrounding neighborhood and residents of the
village. (Ord. 341, 6-12-2012, eff. 6-12-2012)
5-5-4: SERVING NOTICES; COPIES:
   A.   A copy of the notice required by subsections
5-5-3C and F of this chapter shall be served either personally or by mailing a
copy of the notice by certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, to each owner at his address as it appears in the records of the
Henry County treasurer. Additionally, a copy of the notice shall be served on
the occupants of the structure if that person is different than the owner. In
the event that notice is not possible as set forth above, a copy of the notice
shall be posted at the property if ten (10) days have elapsed from the service
or mailing of the notice to the owner and no response or reply has been
received by the village from the owner or person in charge.
   B.   The failure of any person in charge to receive notice that the property
is a chronic nuisance property shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the
proceedings under this chapter.
   C.   Concurrent with notification procedures set forth herein, the police
chief or his/her designee shall send copies of the notice, as well as any other
documentation which supports legal proceedings, to the village attorney. (Ord.
341, 6-12-2012, eff. 6-12-2012)
5-5-5: PENALTIES AND REMEDIES:
   A.   Any real property found to be a chronic nuisance property shall be
closed and secured against all use and occupancy for a period of not less than
thirty (30) days, but not more than one hundred eighty (180) days.
   B.   In determining the number of days to close the property, if any, the
court may consider evidence of other conduct that has occurred on the property,
including, but not limited to: 1) the disturbance to neighbors; 2) the
recurrence of loud and obnoxious noises; 3) repeated consumption of alcohol in
public.
   C.   Any owner found guilty of violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
for each day that the owner had actual knowledge that the property was a
chronic nuisance property.
   D.   In determining the civil penalty to impose, the court may consider any
of the following factors: 1) the actions or lack of action taken by the person
in charge to mitigate or correct the problem at the property; 2) whether the
problem at the property was repeated or continuous; 3) the magnitude or gravity
of the problem; 4) the cooperation of the person in charge; 5) the cost of the
village to investigate, correct, or attempt to correct the problem.
   E.   In addition to the foregoing remedies, a court, in the proper exercise
of its equitable powers, may impose or grant any other sanction or remedy it
deems necessary and just. (Ord. 341, 6-12-2012, eff. 6-12-2012)
5-5-6: INJUNCTIVE RELIEF AND REMEDIES:
   A.   In the event that the police chief or his/her designee determines that
the property is an immediate threat to the public safety and welfare of the
residents of the village, the village may apply to the court for such interim
relief. In such an event, the village need not comply with the notification
process set forth in section
5-5-3 of this chapter. However, the village shall make a diligent effort to
notify the person in charge prior to any emergency court hearing.
   B.   In the event the court finds the property constitutes a "chronic
nuisance property", as defined in section
5-5-1 of this chapter, the court may order the remedy set forth in section
5-5-5 of this chapter. Additionally, the court may assess a civil fine, as
provided in section
5-5-5 of this chapter, in the event it finds that the person in charge had
knowledge of the nuisance activities at the subject property and permitted the
nuisance activities to occur and/or continue.
   C.   The court may authorize the village to physically secure the property
against use or occupancy, in the event the owner fails to do so within the time
specified by the court. In the event the village is authorized to secure the
property, all costs incurred by the village to effect a closure shall be
assessed as a lien against the property. As used herein, "costs" means those
expenses actually incurred by the village for physically securing the property.
   D.   The village shall prepare a statement of the costs and shall thereafter
submit said statement to the court for its review. If there is no objection to
the statement, the court may order that a lien in said amount may be recorded
against the property. (Ord. 341, 6-12-2012, eff. 6-12-2012)
CHAPTER 6
NUISANCES AND REFUSE
SECTION:
5-6-1: Nuisances Prohibited
5-6-2: Nuisances Defined
5-6-3: Notice To Abate
5-6-4: Failure to Comply With Notice To Abate
5-6-5: Abatement Under Emergency Circumstances
5-6-6: Abatement Costs As Lien
5-6-7: Penalty
5-6-1: NUISANCES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, create or maintain,
whether by act or omission, any condition or thing to be or exist as a nuisance
within the Village. (Ord. 408, 8-9-2022)
5-6-2: NUISANCES DEFINED:
The following acts, conduct and conditions are hereby declared and defined to
be nuisances, and when committed, performed or permitted to exist by any
individual within the territorial limits of the Village, are hereby declared to
be unlawful and prohibited; provided, however, the enumerations set forth in
this section shall not be deemed or construed to be conclusive, limiting or
restrictive:
   A.   Any accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber or other things;
   B.   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes and other
vermin;
   C.   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located;
   D.   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including animal noises;
   E.   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches;
   F.   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
   G.   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by any sewage, dead animal, commercial or industrial waste, or
other substances;
   H.   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained;
   I.   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground;
   J.   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   K.   A motor vehicle not currently licensed by this state or any other state
or country exposed to the view of the general public and not either enclosed in
a building or structure or located on a sales lot of a licensed automobile
dealer;
   L.   Any inoperable motor vehicle located on public or private property and
in view of the general public. As used in this subsection, "inoperable motor
vehicle" means any motor vehicle from which, for a period of at least seven (7)
days, the engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the
engine, wheels or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so
treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven under its own motor
power. "Inoperable motor vehicle" shall not include a motor vehicle which has
been rendered temporarily incapable of being driven under its own motor power
in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations. Nothing in this
subsection shall apply to any motor vehicle that is kept within an enclosed
building when not in use, to operable historic vehicles over twenty five (25)
years of age, or to a motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business
engaged in the wrecking or junking of motor vehicles;
   M.   Any obstruction or encroachment upon public highways, private ways,
streets and alleys. (Ord. 408, 8-9-2022)
5-6-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the Village, any officer of the
Village possessing police powers may serve or cause to be served a notice, in
writing, upon the owner, agent, occupant or person in possession, charge or
control of any lot, building or premises, or item of personalty in or upon
which any nuisance exists, requiring them or either or both of them to abate
the same within a specified reasonable time, which shall be not less than seven
(7) days. (Ord. 408, 8-9-2022)
5-6-4: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH NOTICE TO ABATE:
If the nuisance is not abated within the time specified in the notice, the
Village may proceed to abate the nuisance in any or all manner allowable by
law, including, without limitation:
   A.   Seeking to impose a monetary penalty in such amounts as are set forth
in this chapter;
   B.   Seeking to enjoin the continuation of the nuisance by the filing of a
lawsuit in a court of competent jurisdiction; and
   C.   In the case of an inoperable motor vehicle, authorizing a law
enforcement agency with applicable jurisdiction to remove any inoperable motor
vehicle or part thereof. (Ord. 408, 8-9-2022)
5-6-5: ABATEMENT UNDER EMERGENCY CIRCUMSTANCES:
When, in the opinion of the chief of police, building official or other duly
designated official, there is an actual and immediate danger to the public or
occupants of any particular premises caused by a nuisance on the same, the
chief of police or building official, with concurrence of the Village
president, without any notice or hearing, may order and require such premises
to be vacated. The chief of police, building official or other duly designated
official shall immediately post the premises, warning of the dangerous
condition, and shall then abate such nuisance and prepare a statement of costs
incurred in the abatement thereof. Where the abatement of the nuisance requires
continuing acts by the Village beyond the initial or any other additional
emergency abatements, it shall seek abatement of such nuisance on a permanent
basis through judicial process as soon as readily possible. (Ord. 408, 8-9-
2022)
5-6-6: ABATEMENT COSTS AS LIEN:
Any and all costs and expenses incurred by the Village in the abatement of a
nuisance under the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a lien against
the property upon which such nuisance existed. The lien may be perfected and
enforced in accordance with the provisions of 65 ILCS 5/11-20-15 or other
applicable law. (Ord. 408, 8-9-2022)
5-6-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation. In any case in which an offense is of a
continuing nature, each day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate
violation and shall subject the person so violating the provisions of this
chapter to a separate fine for each such day. In addition to the imposition of
fines, the Village shall be entitled to seek injunctive relief to prevent and
prohibit the continuation of such nuisance and to require the abatement of the
same. (Ord. 408, 8-9-2022)
CHAPTER 7
CHICKENS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Fowl Or Poultry Prohibited Within The Village Limits
5-7-3: Chickens Permitted Under Limited Circumstances
5-7-4: Annual Permit Required
5-7-5: Enclosures
5-7-6: Restrictions
5-7-7: Violations
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have
the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
BREED: As commonly understood, a specific group of an animal which are of the
same species or subspecies but vary in some unique characteristic which
distinguishes the group from other groups within the species.
CHICKEN: A domestic fowl as commonly understood and accepted to go by the name
of "chicken" which may be more specifically understood as the subspecies and
various breeds of the scientific classification: Gallus Gallus Domesticus and
is commonly raised by people for its eggs or meat.
HEN: A female domestic chicken.
OTHER FOWL OR POULTRY: Fowl or poultry other than chicken which may include,
but are not limited to, the following: turkeys, quail, ducks, peafowl, geese,
pigeons, guineas, partridges, pheasants, and other similar species.
ROOSTER: A male domestic chicken. (Ord. 411, 6-13-2023)
5-7-2: FOWL OR POULTRY PROHIBITED WITHIN THE VILLAGE LIMITS:
Except as expressly permitted in this chapter, no chickens or other fowl or
poultry shall be raised, kept or otherwise housed within the village. (Ord.
411, 6-13-2023)
5-7-3: CHICKENS PERMITTED UNDER LIMITED CIRCUMSTANCES:
   A.   The raising, keeping and housing of chickens within the village limits
shall be permitted in strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   B.   Chickens shall be allowed within the village only on properties zoned
and occupied for single family residential use; provided, that no more than
three (3) hens shall be permitted at any property.
   C.   Roosters are strictly prohibited within the village limits.
   D.   There shall be no restriction on the breed of chicken raised, kept or
housed at any property pursuant to this chapter. (Ord. 411, 6-13-2023)
5-7-4: ANNUAL PERMIT REQUIRED:
A permit shall be required for each property on which chickens are to be
raised, kept or housed in accordance with this section. The pem1it shall be in
name of the owner or owners of such property, or their tenant (if applicable),
provided that such tenant has the owner's written consent to apply for such
permit at the time of application.
   A.   An application for a permit shall be submitted to the village clerk on
the form or forms as may be prepared by the village from time to time.
   B.   The application shall be accompanied by a twenty-five dollar ($25.00)
non- refundable application fee at the time of submitting the application.
   C.   Prior to the issuance or renewal of any permit under this section, the
village shall inspect the property to ensure compliance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   D.   A permit issued pursuant to this section shall be valid from May 1 to
April 30 of the following year. The permit may be renewed each year by
submitting a renewal application to the village along with the non-refundable
application fee. (Ord. 411, 6-13-2023)
5-7-5: ENCLOSURES:
   A.   All chickens shall be kept in a fenced area or other suitable enclosure
of sufficient size and strength to confine said chickens to the applicant's
property.
   B.   No enclosure or fenced area shall come within a distance of seven feet
(7') from any property or lot line. In addition, the enclosure or fenced area
shall be located at least thirty feet (30') from any adjacent occupied
residential structure other than that of the applicant.
   C.   A henhouse shall be provided for said chickens with sufficient space
for all chickens kept or raised on the property, and shall be designed to
provide safe and healthy living conditions for the chickens while minimizing
adverse impacts to other residents in the neighborhood.
      1.   The henhouse shall be enclosed on all sides and shall have a roof
and doors. The henhouse shall be constructed using an all-weather roof and
siding for the exterior. Access doors to the henhouse must be able to be shut
and locked at night. Opening windows and vents must be covered with predator
and bird-proof mesh wire consisting of less than one-inch (1") openings.
      2.   The henhouse must provide adequate ventilation, adequate sun and
shade, and must be resistant to rodents, wild birds and predators, including
dogs and cats.
      3.   All henhouses shall be located in the rear yard of the property.
(Ord. 411, 6-13-2023)
5-7-6: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No person shall slaughter any chickens in the village limits.
   B.   Feed for chickens shall be kept at all times in protected containers to
prevent rats, mice or other rodents from gaining access to said feed.
   C.   All areas where chickens are kept shall be maintained in a neat and
clean manner, free of the accumulation of waste or other matter such as to
cause odors on adjacent property that are detectable to a reasonable person's
senses. Any waste or other matter resulting from the chickens shall be disposed
of in a clean and sanitary fashion.
   D.   Noise from chickens shall be reasonably kept to a minimum and shall not
be so loud as to disturb the peace of any adjacent property owner or other
persons of reasonable sensitivity.
    E.   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to permit the keeping,
raising or housing of chickens when such activity is prohibited by private
covenants, conditions or restrictions governing the use of property, or by
rules, regulations or orders issued by the Illinois Department of Public Health
or the Whiteside County Health Department. (Ord. 411, 6-13-2023)
5-7-7: VIOLATIONS:
Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not
less than $75.00 nor more than $750.00. Each day a violation continues shall be
considered a separate punishable offense. The applicant and the owner of the
property shall be jointly and severally liable for any violations of this
chapter. Upon the occurrence of three (3) separate and distinct violations of
this chapter upon a permitted property, it shall result in the immediate
revocation of the permit. A new permit shall not be issued for such property or
to the applicant unless and until the village has received confirmation of
compliance with every provision of this chapter, including the payment of any
and all fines as may be issued hereunder. Violations of this chapter that are
continuous with respect to time are a public nuisance and may be abated by
injunctive or other equitable relief. The imposition of a penalty or fine shall
not act to prevent an award of injunctive relief. (Ord. 411, 6-13-2023)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS 1
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted
6-1-3: Speed Limit
6-1-4: Obedience To Police
6-1-5: Scene Of Fire
6-1-6: Signs And Signals
6-1-7: Animals Or Bicycles
6-1-8: Exemptions
6-1-9: Drivers
6-1-10: Penalty
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-2.
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever in this Title the following terms are used, they shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this Section:
ALLEY: A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings, and not used for general traffic circulation.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices.
CROSSWALK: A. That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway, and in the absence of a sidewalk on one side of the
highway, that part of the highway included within the extension of the lateral
line of the existing sidewalk to the side of the highway without the sidewalk,
with such extension forming a right angle to the center line of the highway;
   B.   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface
placed in accordance with the provisions in the manual adopted by the
Department of Transportation.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Police vehicles, vehicles of Fire Department, ambulances,
vehicles carrying a State, County or Municipal officer or employee in response
to an emergency call, and emergency vehicles of public service corporations on
emergency call.
INTERSECTION: A. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
roadways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   B.   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
   C.   The junction of an alley with a street or highway does not constitute
an intersection.
METAL TIRES: Every tire the surface of which in contact with the roadway is
wholly or partially of metal or other hard, nonresilient material.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a saddle for the use of the rider and
designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with the
ground, but excluding a tractor.
PARK: To stand a vehicle whether occupied or not, for a period of time greater
than is reasonably necessary for the actual loading or unloading of persons.
PEDESTRIAN: Any person afoot.
PNEUMATIC TIRES: Every tire in which compressed air is designed to support the
load.
PROPERTY LINE: The line making the boundary between any street and the lots or
property abutting thereto.
PUBLIC BUILDING: A building used by the City, the County, any park district,
school district, the State, or the United States government.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway.
ROAD TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used for drawing other vehicles
and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of the weight of
the vehicle and load so drawn.
SAFETY ZONE: The area or space officially set apart within a roadway for the
exclusive use of pedestrians and which is protected or is so marked or
indicated by adequate signs as to be plainly visible at all times while set
apart as a safety zone.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle of the second division operated by or for a
public or governmental agency or by or for a private or religious organization
solely for the transportation of pupils in connection with school activities.
SEMI-TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying persons
or property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that some
part of its weight and that of its load rests upon or is carried by another
vehicle.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for the use of
pedestrians.
SOLID TIRE: Every tire of rubber or other resilient material which does not
depend upon compressed air for the support of the load.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between property lines or every way or
place of whatever nature when any part thereof is open to the use of the
public, as a matter or right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic.
TRAFFIC: Pedestrians, ridden or herded animals, vehicles and other conveyances
whether singly or together while using any highway for the purpose of travel.
TRAILER: Every vehicle without motive power designed for carrying passengers or
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle and so constructed that no part
of its weight rests upon the towing vehicle.
TRUCK TRACTOR: Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles and not so constructed as to carry a load other than a part of
the weight of the vehicle and load so drawn.
URBAN DISTRICT: The territory contiguous to and including any street which is
built up with structures devoted to business, industry or dwelling houses
situated at intervals of less than one hundred feet (100') for a distance of a
quarter (1/4) mile or more.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway except devices moved by human power.
YIELD RIGHT OF WAY: When required by an official sign, means the act of
granting the privilege of the immediate use of the intersecting roadway to
traffic within the intersection and to vehicles approaching from the right or
left; provided, that when the roadway is clear the vehicle may proceed into the
intersection. (1998 Code)
6-1-2: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED:
In order to establish rules and regulations for the movement of traffic in and
about the Village, the Village Board does hereby adopt the provisions of the
Illinois Vehicle Code as presented in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5 and as
hereafter amended. (1998 Code)
6-1-3: SPEED LIMIT:
It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle on any street in the Village,
not under the jurisdiction of the State of Illinois or Henry County, at a speed
in excess of twenty five (25) miles per hour. (1998 Code)
6-1-4: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE:
Members of the Police Department, and special police assigned to traffic duty,
are hereby authorized to direct all traffic in accordance with the provisions
of this Title, or in emergencies as public safety or convenience may require,
and it shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with any
lawful order, signal or direction of a policeman. Except in case of emergency,
it shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by law to direct or attempt
to direct traffic 1 . (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-203.
6-1-5: SCENE OF FIRE:
The Fire Department officer in command, or any fireman designated by such Fire
Department officer, may exercise the powers and authority of a policeman in
directing traffic at the scene of any fire or where the Fire Department has
responded to an emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on
the scene in the absence of or in assisting the police. (1998 Code)
6-1-6: SIGNS AND SIGNALS:
   A.   Obedience To: It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to
disobey the instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by
authority of the Mayor and City Council or in accordance with the laws of the
State, excepting on direction of a police officer. All signs and signals
established by direction of the governing body shall conform to the State
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways.
   B.   Unauthorized Signs: No person shall place, maintain or display upon or
in view of any highway any unauthorized sign, signal, marking or device which
purports to be or is an imitation of, or resembles an official traffic-control
device or railroad sign or signal, or which attempts to direct the movement of
traffic, nor shall any person place, maintain or display upon or in view of any
highway any other sign which hides from view or interferes with the movement of
traffic or effectiveness of any traffic control device or any railroad sign or
signal, and no person shall place or maintain nor shall any public authority
permit upon any highway any traffic control device or railroad sign or signal
bearing thereon any commercial advertising 1 .
   C.   Interference With Signals Or Signs: It shall be unlawful for any person
to deface, injure, move or interfere with any official traffic sign or signal 2
. (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-310.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/11-311.
6-1-7: ANIMALS OR BICYCLES:
Every person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street, shall be subject to the provisions of this Chapter
applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can have
no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding animals; provided,
that, except in business districts, bicycles may be ridden on sidewalks 1 .
(1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 625 ILCS 5/11-206.
6-1-8: EXEMPTIONS:
   A.   Emergency Vehicles: The provisions of this Title regulating the
movement or parking of vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized
emergency vehicle when responding to an emergency call, but such driver, upon
approaching a red or stop signal or any stop sign, shall slow down as necessary
for safety but may proceed cautiously past such red or stop sign or signal. At
other times drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall stop in obedience to
a stop sign or signal.
   B.   Assumption Of Special Privileges: No driver of any authorized emergency
vehicle shall assume any special privileges under the Act except when such
vehicle is operated in response to an emergency call or in the immediate
pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law.
   C.   Street Improvements: The provisions of this Title regulating the
movement and parking of vehicles shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while
actively engaged in installing, repairing, or otherwise improving streets or
street pavement. (1998 Code)
6-1-9: DRIVERS:
   A.   Liquor Or Drugs: It shall be unlawful for the habitual user of narcotic
drugs to operate any motor vehicle on any street; and it shall be unlawful for
any intoxicated person, or any person under the influence of alcohol or of a
narcotic drug, to operate or attempt to operate any motor vehicle on any street
1 .
   B.   Accidents: The driver of a vehicle which has collided with, or been in
an accident with any vehicle, person or property in such a manner as to cause
injury or damage, shall stop immediately, and render such assistance as may be
possible, and to give his/her true name and residence to the injured person or
any other persons requesting the same on behalf of the injured person, or to
the owner of the property damaged, and to a policeman, if one is present. A
report of each such accident shall be given by the driver of each vehicle
concerned in it to the Chief of Police within twenty four (24) hours after the
accident 2 . (1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-501.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/11-401.
6-1-10: PENALTY:
   A.   Bail, Arrest Ticket: Any person arrested for a violation of any
provision of this Title regulating traffic, with the exception of those
provisions concerning parking, shall be released from custody upon posting
bail, as may be required by statute or by order of the Court of the Fourteenth
Judicial District. Excepting those provisions hereof concerning parking, all
persons arrested shall be supplied with a copy of a uniform arrest ticket
advising such arrested party of the charge against him/her.
   B.   Fine, General: Any person found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this Title, with the exception of those provisions regarding
parking violations, shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: Two Hour Limit
6-2-2: East Street And Canal Street
6-2-3: Parking Of Trucks Or Commercial Vehicles
6-2-4: Private Property
6-2-5: Alleys
6-2-6: Removal; Towing
6-2-7: Notice To Owner
6-2-8: Prima Facie Proof
6-2-9: Penalty
6-2-10: Parking Prohibited On Route 6
6-2-1: TWO HOUR LIMIT:
   A.   West Front Street: The maximum continuous duration of parking of any
vehicle on the north and south sides of West Front Street from Main Street to
State Street is hereby restricted to two (2) hours during the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. through four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on Monday through
Saturday, holidays excepted.
   B.   South Main Street: The north four (4) spaces on the west side of South
Main Street which are immediately south of Front Street are reserved for
parking by tenants of the Blackert Apartments in the building adjacent thereto.
The maximum continuous duration of parking of any vehicle in the spaces south
of such four (4) spaces on the west side of South Main Street from Front Street
to the alley intersecting Main Street just north of the post office, is limited
to two (2) hours during the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. through four
o'clock (4:00) P.M. on Monday through Saturday, holidays excepted.
   C.   Exception: This section does not apply to vehicles owned by the
village, or other governmental agencies or the vehicles necessary to be parked
in connection with repair work being actively undertaken.
   D.   Penalty: The penalty for violating this section shall be as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 135, 6-11-1974; amd. 1998 Code)
6-2-2: EAST STREET AND CANAL STREET:
   A.   Parking Prohibited: Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be
prohibited from parking along either side of East Street and Canal Street
(marked Illinois Route 78) within the corporate limits.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than ten dollars
($10.00) for each offense. (Ord. 138, 12-10-1974)
6-2-3: PARKING OF TRUCKS OR COMMERCIAL VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful to park any truck or other commercial vehicle having a
weight exceeding eight (8) tons for more than two (2) hours in any consecutive
period of time in streets or alleys in the village of Annawan. (Ord. 228, 8-8-
2000)
6-2-4: PRIVATE PROPERTY:
   A.   Consent Required: It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any
private property without the consent of the owner of the property.
   B.   Blocking Driveway Prohibited: It shall be unlawful to park a motor
vehicle in such a position as to block a driveway entrance to private property.
(Ord. 168, 12-8-1981)
6-2-5: ALLEYS:
   A.   Free Movement: No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10')
of the width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic.
   B.   Blocking Driveway Prohibited: No person shall stop, stand or park a
vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the driveway entrance to
any abutting property. (Ord. 168, 12-8-1981)
6-2-6: REMOVAL; TOWING:
The village police department is hereby authorized to remove and tow away, or
have removed and towed away by commercial towing service, any vehicle illegally
parked in any place where such parked vehicle creates or constitutes a traffic
hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant, alley or driveway, or obstructs or
may obstruct the movement of any emergency vehicle; or any truck or commercial
vehicle having a weight of exceeding four (4) tons which has been parked in any
public street, alley or other public place in a residential zone for a period
of two (2) consecutive hours. (Ord. 168, 12-8-1981)
6-2-7: NOTICE TO OWNER:
Unless the public safety and convenience requires the towing of an illegally
parked vehicle before notice of an intention to tow the vehicle is given to the
owner thereof, the person authorizing or performing the towing service shall
attempt to contact the owner and give notice of the intention to tow the
vehicle prior to its removal and towing away. (Ord. 168, 12-8-1981)
6-2-8: PRIMA FACIE PROOF:
The fact that a vehicle which is illegally parked is registered in the name of
a person shall be considered prima facie proof that such person was in control
of such vehicle at the time of such parking. (Ord. 168, 12-8-1981)
6-2-9: PENALTY:
Each violation of sections
6-2-3 through 6-2-8 of this chapter shall subject the violator to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that a violation occurs shall be considered a
separate violation. (Ord. 168, 12-8-1981; amd. 1998 Code)
6-2-10: PARKING PROHIBITED ON ROUTE 6:
   A.   Automobiles, trucks and other vehicles shall be prohibited from parking
along either side of U.S. Route 6 within the limits of the proposed improvement
in the village of Annawan with the exception of designated parking lanes
between N. West Street and Illinois Route 78. Parking in this area shall be
parallel parking only, with the exception of diagonal parking being allowed on
the north side of U.S. Route 6 between Main Street and Depot Street. Parallel
parking shall be so executed that the wheels of the vehicles nearest the curb
shall be not farther away from the curb than twelve inches (12"). Parking will
not be permitted within the limits of intersections as determined by the state
from intersection studies.
   B.   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) for each offense.
   C.   This section is prepared in connection with the proposed improvement of
U.S. Route 6, known as State Section 6RS-5, and shall go into full force and
effect at the time of the completion of said improvement. (Ord. 249, 3-16-2004)
CHAPTER 3
WEIGHT LIMITS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Limit Imposed
6-3-2: Posting Of Signs
6-3-3: Exceeding Limit Prohibited
6-3-4: Exception
6-3-5: Permit Required
6-3-6: Penalty
6-3-1: LIMIT IMPOSED:
A weight limit of five (5) tons is hereby set for Village streets and alleys
located within the Village limits. (Ord. 153, 6-12-1979)
6-3-2: POSTING OF SIGNS:
The Village Police Chief, or other person selected by the Village President, is
hereby authorized and directed to post signs in accordance with State law
showing the weight limit on Village streets and alleys. (Ord. 153, 6-12-1979)
6-3-3: EXCEEDING LIMIT PROHIBITED:
No truck or other commercial vehicle shall be driven or operated upon Village
streets and alleys which truck or commercial vehicle exceeds said weight limit
of five (5) tons. (Ord. 153, 6-12-1979)
6-3-4: EXCEPTION:
The weight limitation of this Chapter does not apply to South State Street,
South Henry Street, South West Street, Second Street, Dhamers Avenue, Railroad
Street, Third Street between Henry and State Streets, Main Street from Railroad
Street to Route No. 6, Depot Street from Second Street to Route No. 6, Main
Street from Second Street to Route No. 6, and State Highways No. 6 and No. 78.
(Ord. 153, 6-12-1979)
6-3-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   A.   Permit To Exceed: A permit to operate construction trucks, school
busses, farm wagons and other vehicles over the five (5) ton weight limit may
be granted by the Village Clerk. However, prior to granting such a permit the
Village Clerk shall give due regard to road conditions, allowable weight,
duration of usage, or other factors, so as to minimize damage to the surface of
Village streets and alleys. The granting of such a permit shall not exempt the
grantee from civil liability for damages caused to Village streets and alleys
due to operation of a vehicle in excess of the five (5) ton weight limit.
   B.   Term Of Permit: The duration of the permit shall not exceed five (5)
days. (Ord. 153, 6-12-1979; amd. 1998 Code)
6-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person who violates this Chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 153, 6-12-1979; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Vehicles Exempt From This Chapter
6-4-3: Prohibited Acts
6-4-4: Removal Of Abandoned And Inoperable Vehicles
6-4-5: Impoundment Of Abandoned And Inoperable Vehicles
6-4-6: Record
6-4-7: Reclaimed Vehicles; Expenses
6-4-8: Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicles
6-4-9: Disposal Of Unclaimed Vehicle Without Notice
6-4-10: Report After Vehicle Is Reclaimed Or Disposed Of
6-4-11: Disposition Of Proceeds Of Sale Of Unclaimed Vehicles
6-4-12: Liability
6-4-13: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
ABANDONMENT, ABANDONING AND ABANDONED AUTO: Any vehicle or part thereof which a
reasonable man would consider dumped, discarded, or abandoned under the
circumstances.
ANTIQUE VEHICLE: Any vehicle twenty five (25) years of age or older which is in
a restored and well maintained condition.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any vehicle which cannot presently be operated on a street
or highway of the village either due to physical defects in the vehicle or due
to legal prohibitions including, but not limited to, want of licenses, lack of
insurance coverage, defective parts, absence of required parts, etc.
LAWFULLY OCCUPIED: Premises occupied under a lease, contract, license or other
consent.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the village which is not a street or
highway.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: An auto, car, motorcycle, truck, truck trailer, auto trailer, camper,
agricultural tractor, or implement, or any other vehicle for use on the streets
or highways or off highways, as well as any constituent part thereof. (Ord.
310, 11-11-2008)
6-4-2: VEHICLES EXEMPT FROM THIS CHAPTER:
The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to:
   A.   Vehicles specifically exempt from local licensing pursuant to the laws
of the United States or this state.
   B.   Vehicles owned or operated by the village, provided that the vehicles
are so designated "Village of Annawan" and lawfully registered.
   C.   Antique vehicles. (Ord. 310, 11-11-2008)
6-4-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
No person shall engage in any of the following acts:
   A.   The abandonment of any vehicle on any street, highway, alley or other
public way within the village;
   B.   The abandonment of any vehicle on any public property or on any private
property within the village;
   C.   The parking of any inoperable vehicle on any street, highway, alley, or
other public way within the village where the same constitutes a hazard or
dangerous condition for persons and property lawfully using the highway;
   D.   The parking of any inoperable vehicle on any street, highway, alley, or
other public way within the village for more than ten (10) hours;
   E.   The parking of any inoperable vehicle on any other public property for
more than twenty four (24) hours;
   F.   The parking of any inoperable vehicle on any private property, except
property owned or lawfully occupied, or without the consent of the owner or
lawful occupant for more than twenty four (24) hours;
   G.   The parking of any inoperable vehicle on private, residentially zoned
property and allowing the vehicle to remain there for more than seven (7) days,
if the vehicle is open to the view of the public. All such inoperable vehicles
must be in a closed building. No tarps will be allowed. (Ord. 310, 11-11-2008)
6-4-4: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES:
   A.   Whenever any act prohibited by this chapter is perpetrated, the village
enforcement officer shall have the right of authorized removal of the auto
concerned by towing at the time the prohibited act becomes violative of this
chapter. Whenever any citizen is the victim of an act done in violation of this
chapter, he shall have the right to request the village to remove the vehicle
as if they had initiated the removal.
   B.   In lieu of making the determination himself, the village enforcement
officer may apply to the circuit court for a determination that a vehicle has
been abandoned or is inoperative.
      1.   The proceeding held pursuant to this subsection B shall be an in rem
proceeding against the vehicle.
      2.   No hearing shall be held on an application under this section until
twenty four (24) hours' notice has been given. Notice shall be given by
securely fastening to the vehicle a notice, or by notice in writing, stating
that a proceeding has begun by the village in a named branch of the circuit
court, the hour set for the hearing, and the relief requested from the court.
      3.   The application to the court shall be verified and shall state facts
sufficient to allow the court to make a determination that there is probable
cause to consider the vehicle abandoned or inoperative, and that the vehicle is
parked in violation of this chapter.
      4.   In the proceedings under this subsection, the sole questions before
the court shall be: Is there probable cause to believe the vehicle is abandoned
or inoperable, and, is it parked in violation of this chapter?
      5.   If the court enters an order finding that there is probable cause to
believe the vehicle is abandoned or inoperable and that this chapter is being
violated, the village enforcement officer shall thereafter proceed in
accordance with this chapter as regards to towing. (Ord. 310, 11-11-2008)
6-4-5: IMPOUNDMENT OF ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES:
   A.   The person who abandons the vehicle or parks an inoperative vehicle in
violation of this chapter shall be responsible for all towing, storage,
advertising, disposal, and related costs. In the event such person cannot be
found, the bill shall be paid by the village.
   B.   After impounding a vehicle, the local law enforcement agency shall deal
with the towed vehicle as follows:
      1.   Within ninety six (96) hours of having a vehicle towed pursuant to
this section, the officer initiating the tow shall cause a complaint to be
filed charging the registered owner thereof with a violation of this code; and
the registered owner shall be responsible for said violation in all cases
except when, and only when, a stolen auto report has been filed prior to the
said tow occurring with an authorized law enforcement agency.
      2.   When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away pursuant to this
chapter, the village enforcement officer shall keep and maintain a record of
the vehicle towed, listing the color, the year of manufacture, the
manufacturer's trade name, the manufacturer's series name, the body style, the
vehicle identification number, and the license plate year and number displayed
on the vehicle. The record shall also include the date and hour of the tow, the
location towed from, the location towed to, the reason for the towing, and the
name of the officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. 310, 11-11-2008)
6-4-6: RECORD:
   A.   When the local law enforcement agency does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, it will cause the vehicle
registration records of the state to be searched and direct communication to
the secretary of state for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership
information.
   B.   The local law enforcement agency will cause the stolen vehicle files of
the state police to be searched and direct communication to the state police
for stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the state police files
are searched with negative results, the information contained in the national
crime information center (NCIC) files will be searched by the state police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the local law
enforcement agency in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or
legally entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a
disposition be made, and setting forth public sale information.
   C.   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle impounded pursuant to this chapter cannot be identified
from the registration files of this state or from the registration files of a
foreign state, if applicable, the local law enforcement agency shall notify the
state police for the purpose of identifying the vehicle's owner or other person
legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by
the state police will be immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency
having custody of the vehicle for notification of the owner. (Ord. 310, 11-11-
2008)
6-4-7: RECLAIMED VEHICLES; EXPENSES:
Any time before a vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed
of as provided in this chapter, the owner or other person legally entitled to
its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the local law
enforcement agency proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of
the vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner or other person under
this chapter until all towing and storage charges have been paid. (Ord. 310,
11-11-2008)
6-4-8: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
   A.   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen, or unclaimed vehicle seven (7)
years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered owner or other person
legally entitled to its possession for a period of thirty (30) days after
notice has been given as provided in this chapter, the local law enforcement
agency having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at public
sale to the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be
posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on
the premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior
to the sale, the local law enforcement agency shall cause a notice of the time
and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner or
other person known by the local law enforcement agency or towing service to be
legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a
complete description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by
any legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
   B.   When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is
impounded as specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a
minimum of ten (10) days for the purpose of determining ownership, the
contacting of the registered owner by U.S. mail, public service, or in person
for a determination of disposition, and an examination of the state police
stolen vehicle files for theft and wanted information. At the expiration of the
ten (10) day period, without the benefit of disposition information being
received from the registered owner, the local law enforcement agency will
authorize the disposal of the vehicle as junk only.
   C.   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the local law enforcement agency
due to the addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from
the registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified
notice will not be required. (Ord. 310, 11-11-2008)
6-4-9: DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLE WITHOUT NOTICE:
When the identity of the registered owner or other person legally entitled to
the possession of an abandoned, lost, or unclaimed vehicle of seven (7) years
of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided for in this chapter,
the vehicle may be sold as provided herein or disposed of in the manner
authorized by this chapter without notice to the registered owner or other
person legally entitled to the possession of the vehicle. (Ord. 310, 11-11-
2008)
6-4-10: REPORT AFTER VEHICLE IS RECLAIMED OR DISPOSED OF:
When a motor vehicle in the custody of the local law enforcement agency is
reclaimed by the registered owner or other legally entitled person or when the
vehicle is sold at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this
chapter, a report of the transaction will be maintained by the village
enforcement officer for a period of one year from the date of the sale or
disposal. (Ord. 310, 11-11-2008)
6-4-11: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the village is authorized
to be towed away by the village enforcement officer and disposed of as set
forth in this chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the
deduction of towing, storage, and processing charges shall be deposited in the
village treasury. (Ord. 310, 11-11-2008)
6-4-12: LIABILITY:
The village enforcement officer, any law enforcement officer, towing service
owner, operator, or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for
damages in any action brought by the registered owner, former registered owner,
or his legal representative, or other person legally entitled to the possession
of a vehicle when the vehicle was processed, sold, or disposed of as provided
by this chapter. (Ord. 310, 11-11-2008)
6-4-13: PENALTY:
Any person or business convicted of any offense under this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00). A person shall be guilty of a separate offense
for each and every day during any portion of which any offense occurs. (Ord.
310, 11-11-2008)
CHAPTER 5
SNOWMOBILE TRAFFIC
SECTION:
6-5-1: Definitions
6-5-2: Operation
6-5-3: Operation On Highways
6-5-4: Permitted Routes
6-5-5: Accordance With Traffic Laws
6-5-6: Notice Of Permitted Routes
6-5-7: Violation
6-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter.
HIGHWAY: Means the entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular traffic.
OPERATE: Means to ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control the
operation of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is under
way.
OPERATOR: Means any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
ROADWAY: Means the portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, elusive to the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways the term "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
SNOWMOBILE: Means a self-propelled device designed for travel on snow or ice or
natural terrain steered by skis or runners, and supported in part by skis,
belts, or cleats. (Ord. 370, 11-8-2016)
6-5-2: OPERATION:
It is unlawful for a person to operate a snowmobile within the limits of the
Village of Annawan, Illinois in the following ways:
   A.   At a rate of speed exceeding twenty five (25) mph. The twenty five (25)
mph speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed as
may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle or object within
legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use due care.
   B.   In a careless and reckless, or negligent manner.
   C.   At any time without at least one lighted headlamp and one lighted tail
lamp on the snowmobile.
   D.   On the tracks or right-of-way of an operating railroad.
   E.   On private property, without the written or verbal consent of the owner
or lessee thereof. Any person operating a snowmobile upon lands of another
shall stop and identify himself upon the request of the landowner or his duly
authorized representative, and, if requested to do so by the landowner shall
promptly remove his snowmobile from the premises.
   F.   Between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. This provision shall not apply on private property where verbal or written
consent of the owner or lessee has been granted to the snowmobile upon such
private property or frozen waters of this State. (Ord. 370, 11-8-2016)
6-5-3: OPERATION ON HIGHWAYS:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile on a highway
in this State except for as follows:
   A.   On highways other than tollways, interstate highways and fully or
limited access-controlled highways snowmobiles may make a direct crossing
provided:
      1.   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately ninety degrees
(90°) to the direction of the highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing; and
      2.   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing a
roadway; and
      3.   The operator yields the right-of-way to all on-coming traffic which
constitutes a hazard.
   B.   On highways other than tollway, interstate highways and fully or
limited access-controlled highways, snowmobiles may be operated not less than
ten feet (10') from the roadway and in the same direction as traffic however,
snowmobiles may be operated on a roadway, not State highways, or within ten
feet (10') of a roadway to avoid an obstruction(s) or hazardous terrain which
may prevent the safe passage.
   C.   Any person who operates a snowmobile on a highway as provided in this
section and section
6-5-2 of this chapter and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 40/5 shall: 1) possess
a valid vehicle driver's license; or 2) possess a safety certificate as
provided for. Any person less than the age of sixteen (16) shall also be under
the immediate supervision of a parent or guardian or a person at least eighteen
(18) years of age designated by the parent or guardian. (Ord. 370, 11-8-2016)
6-5-4: PERMITTED ROUTES:
   A.   The following streets shall be designated as specific public streets
within the jurisdiction of the Village of Annawan, Illinois, Henry County, for
the purpose of ingress and egress for the use of snowmobiles and on such
streets, the snowmobiles may be operated within ten feet (10') of a roadway in
accordance with this chapter and the Illinois Vehicle Code and Illinois
Compiled Statutes as it pertains to snowmobiles. Said streets are as follows:
Commencing on W. South Street at the west Village boundary then continuing to
S. State Street. Continuing on S. State Street to W. 2nd Street then onto W.
2nd Street to Route 78 (S. East Street) or continuing on S. State Street to N.
State Street to North Avenue. Continuing onto North Avenue to Route 78 (Canal
Street). Snowmobiles may also be driven within ten feet (10') of a roadway
along Howe Street and Patriot Way staying within the Village of Annawan,
Illinois, Henry County limits. (Ord. 370, 11-8-2016)
6-5-5: ACCORDANCE WITH TRAFFIC LAWS:
Any snowmobile operated within the jurisdiction of the Village limits of
Annawan, Illinois shall be operated in accordance with all the rules and
traffic regulations as provided by the governmental authority including the
Village of Annawan ordinances and the Illinois Statutes including the Illinois
Vehicle Code and the Illinois Compiled Statutes. (Ord. 370, 11-8-2016)
6-5-6: NOTICE OF PERMITTED ROUTES:
The Village Clerk shall cause to be erected and maintained official signs
giving proper notice of the specific highways and streets within the
jurisdiction of the Village of Annawan, Illinois of the use of the ingress and
egress for the use of snowmobiles. (Ord. 370, 11-8-2016)
6-5-7: VIOLATION:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than the maximum
allowed under the general penalty, section
1-4-1 of this Code, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day on which the violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 370, 11-8-2016)
CHAPTER 6
RECREATIONAL NON-HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
6-6-1: Definitions
6-6-2: General Authorization
6-6-3: Procedure
6-6-4: Penalty
6-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
GOLF CART: A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purpose of
transporting one or more person and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for the
purpose of vehicular travel or located on public school property.
INTERSECTION: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of the two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately
at, right angles or the area within which vehicles travel upon different
roadways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
RECREATIONAL OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any motorized off-highway device designed to
travel primarily off-highway, sixty four inches (64") or less in width, having
a manufacturer's dry weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or less, traveling
on four (4) or more non-highway tires, designed with a non-straddle seat and a
steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such as lawnmowers.
ROADWAY: That portion of the highway improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder. In the event a highway
includes two (2) or more separate roadways the term, "roadway" as used herein
shall refer to any such roadway separately but not to all such roadways
collectively.
STREET: The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained, when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for the
purpose of vehicular traffic. (Ord. 362, 5-12-2015)
6-6-2: GENERAL AUTHORIZATION:
   A.   Except as otherwise prohibited in this chapter, it shall be lawful for
any person who holds a valid driver's license issued in this or any other state
to operate a recreational off-road vehicle and golf cart on any street
maintained by the Village of Annawan with posted speed limit of less than
thirty five (35) mph. (Ord. 362, 5-12-2015)
6-6-3: PROCEDURE:
   A.   As used in this chapter "non-highway vehicles" means a motor vehicle
not specifically designed to be used on a public highway, including golf carts,
as defined in section
6-6-1 of this chapter and "recreational off-highway vehicle" as defined in
section
6-6-1 of this chapter.
   B.   A person may operate a non-highway vehicle or golf cart on the streets
of the Village of Annawan, Illinois where the posted speed limit is thirty five
(35) miles per hour or less.
   C.   The operator of a non-highway vehicle or golf cart may cross a roadway
or highway at an intersection where the road or street has posted speed limit
of more than thirty five (35) miles per hour.
   D.   A person may not operate a non-highway vehicle or golf cart upon any
street in the Village of Annawan, Illinois unless he or she has a valid
driver's license issued in his or her name by the Secretary of State or a
foreign jurisdiction.
   E.   No non-highway vehicles or golf carts may be operated on a roadway
unless, at minimum, it has the following: brakes, a steering apparatus, tires,
a rearview mirror, red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear, a
slow moving emblem on the rear of non-highway vehicles and golf carts, a
headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet
(500') to the front, a tail lamp that emits a red light visible from at least
one hundred feet (100') from the rear, brake lights, and turn signals.
   F.   When operating a non-highway vehicle on a roadway, a non- highway
vehicle or golf cart shall have its headlight and tail lamps lighted as
required in accordance with the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   G.   A person who drives or is in actual physical control of a non- highway
vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is subject to sections 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501 through 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-502 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   H.   Any person who operates a non-highway vehicle on a street, highway, or
roadway shall be subject to mandatory insurance requirements under 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/7-601 of the Illinois Vehicle Code.
   I.   A person may not operate a non-highway vehicle or golf cart on Route 6
or Front Street, Route 78 and S. East Street unless only to cross, at an
intersection, Route 6 or Front Street, Route 78 and S. East Street.
   J.   No person operating a non-highway vehicle or golf cart shall make a
direct crossing upon or across a toll road, interstate highway, or controlled
access highways in this State. No person operating a non-highway vehicle shall
make a direct crossing upon or across any other highway under the jurisdiction
of the State except at an intersection of the highway with another public
street, road, or highway.
   K.   No person shall drive a non-highway vehicle or golf cart upon a
sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly authorized temporary
driveway. (Ord. 362, 5-12-2015)
6-6-4: PENALTY:
A person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be required to pay a
fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first offense. A fine of seventy
five dollars ($75.00) shall be imposed for a second or a subsequent violation.
(Ord. 362, 5-12-2015)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
SIDEWALKS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Petition Of Landowners
7-1-2: Cost; Construction
7-1-3: Sidewalk Construction
7-1-1: PETITION OF LANDOWNERS:
No sidewalk shall be built in the Village unless petitioned for by the property
owners owning not less than seventy five percent (75%) of the lineal frontage
fronting upon such proposed sidewalk; and no sidewalk shall be built unless
petitioned for as herein provided, nor unless so ordered by the Village
President and Board of Trustees at a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees,
and nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as creating an obligation upon
the Village to build such sidewalk or walks. (Ord., 5-3-1899)
7-1-2: COST; CONSTRUCTION:
No such sidewalk shall be built unless the property owners fronting upon the
street along which walk is to be built, shall agree with the Village President
and Board of Trustees, and bind themselves to pay one-half (1/2) of the entire
cost of building said walk; provided, however, that when any walk has been
ordered built according to the provisions of this Chapter, any owner may be
permitted to construct his portion of such walk of like materials and in the
like manner as specified in the order laying such walk, and under the direct
supervision and control of the President and Board of Trustees. (Ord., 5-3-
1899)
7-1-3: SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Design: Sidewalks must be designed to meet or exceed the most stringent
requirements of either Federal or State design for handicapped accessibility.
   B.   Obstruction: Sidewalks must be unobstructed. (1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
STREETS, ALLEYS, PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Use For Sewer System
7-2-2: Obstructions
7-2-3: Encroachments
7-2-1: USE FOR SEWER SYSTEM:
The use of village owned property, streets, and alleys for the construction and
maintenance of the sewer system of the village is hereby authorized. (Ord. 158,
7-8-1980)
7-2-2: OBSTRUCTIONS:
   A.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   Fences; Barriers: It shall be unlawful for any person other than
officials of the village when acting in their official capacity or persons
acting under their direction, to place any fence, barrier, or other object in
any of the streets, alleys or other public places in the village.
      2.   Control Of Lands Laid Out As Public Way: It shall be unlawful for
any person other than officials of the village when acting in their official
capacity or persons acting under their direction, to attempt to or control any
lands or attempt to exercise possession of any lands which have been laid out
as streets, alleys or other public places in the village.
      3.   Possession Claimed By Another: It shall be unlawful for any person
other than officials of the village when acting in their official capacity or
persons acting under their direction, claiming possession of any part of the
streets, alleys or other public places in the village to suffer or permit any
fence, barrier or other obstruction to remain in said streets, alleys or other
public places in the village when such fence, barrier or other obstruction is
upon lands whose possession is claimed by said person.
      4.   Disturbing Surface: It shall be unlawful for any person other than
officials of the village when acting in their official capacity or persons
acting under their direction, to plow, dig or otherwise disturb the surface of
any street, alley or other public place in the village.
   B.   Violation: Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be subject to the fine and penalties hereinafter prescribed and
the continuation of violation after five (5) days' notice by the street
commissioner, that each day thereafter shall constitute and be a separate
offense.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section, or
who neglects or refuses to comply with or resists in any manner the enforcement
of any of the provisions of this section shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord., 2-4-1941; amd. 1998 Code)
7-2-3: ENCROACHMENTS:
   A.   Definitions:
   ENCROACHMENT: Any building, fence, sign, or any other structure or object of
any kind (with the exception of utilities and public road signs), which is
placed, located or maintained in, on, or over any portion of the roadway right
of way.
   ROADWAY RIGHT OF WAY: Those areas existing or acquired by dedication or by
fee simple for highway purposes; also, the areas acquired by temporary easement
during the time the easement is in effect.
   B.   Prohibited: It shall unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
erect or cause to be erected, to retain or cause to be retained, an
"encroachment" (as herein defined), within the limits of the roadway right of
way.
   C.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation violating this section shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed for each and every day during which a violation continues or exists.
(Ord. 248, 3-16-2004)
CHAPTER 3
TREES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Prohibited Species
7-3-2: Prohibited Planting Areas
7-3-3: Restricted Planting Areas And Tree Spacing
7-3-4: Authorization To Plant Trees On Village Property
7-3-1: PROHIBITED SPECIES:
It shall be unlawful to plant any of the following species anywhere within the
right of way of Village streets and alleys: poplars (Populus sp.), willows
(Salix sp.), box elder (Acer negundo), silver maple (Acer saccharinum), tree-
of-heaven (Ailanthus altissims), elm (Ulmus sp.) or any evergreens (Coniferous
species). (Ord. 74, 5-7-1963)
7-3-2: PROHIBITED PLANTING AREAS:
   A.   No trees shall be planted on the terrace (strip between curb and
sidewalk) within twenty five feet (25') of the intersection of street right-of-
way lines of any corner lot. Neither shall shrubs be planted in this area if
their mature height is more than three feet (3').
   B.   No trees or shrubs shall be planted on terraces less than four and one-
half feet (41/2') in width. This measurement is to be taken between the inside
of the curb and outer edge of the sidewalk.
   C.   On wider terraces trees shall be centered within a strip and a line
which is one-third (1/3) of the distance between the sidewalk and the curb.
(Ord. 74, 5-7-1963)
7-3-3: RESTRICTED PLANTING AREAS AND TREE SPACING:
   A.   Overhead Utility Lines: No tree species, with normal mature height over
thirty feet (30'), shall be planted under existing overhead utility lines.
   B.   Spacing: Trees shall be planted no closer than fifty feet (50') from an
adjacent live tree on the same terrace. The only allowable variances to the
fifty foot (50') spacing will be:
      1.   Where adjacent lots are narrow and owner would be deprived of one
tree under the fifty foot (50') spacing rule.
      2.   Where location of driveway prohibits the ideal fifty foot (50')
spacing.
      3.   Where maximum height of tree is thirty feet (30') or under, they may
be spaced at thirty foot (30') intervals.
Wherever one or all of the above conditions exist, the spacing may be reduced
to thirty feet (30').
      4.   No trees should be planted closer than three feet (3') from the
inside of property line. (Ord. 74, 5-7-1963)
7-3-4: AUTHORIZATION TO PLANT TREES ON VILLAGE PROPERTY:
No trees shall be planted on rights of way of Village streets and alleys
without first receiving permission in writing from Village Board. (Ord. 74, 5-
7-1963)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATERWORKS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Water Department Created
8-1-2: Superintendent
8-1-3: Application For Hookup; Fees
8-1-4: Costs Of Hookup
8-1-5: Water Meters
8-1-6: Service Lines
8-1-7: Inspection; Approval
8-1-8: Tapping Main Line
8-1-9: Water And Sewer Rates
8-1-10: Billing Statements
8-1-11: Cross-Connection Prohibited
8-1-12: Obstruction Prohibited
8-1-13: Liability For Damages
8-1-14: Unauthorized Use Prohibited
8-1-15: Rules And Regulations
8-1-16: Separate Connection Required
8-1-17: Multiple-Family Dwellings
8-1-18: Building Or Construction Use
8-1-19: Lawn Fountains; Sprinkling
8-1-20: Violation; Penalty
8-1-1: WATER DEPARTMENT CREATED:
There is hereby established an executive department of this Village to be known
as the Water Department. (Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947)
8-1-2: SUPERINTENDENT:
   A.   Appointment: The Village President is hereby authorized to appoint,
subject to confirmation by the Board of Trustees, a Superintendent of the Water
Department and all other necessary employees.
   B.   Powers And Duties: The Superintendent shall have the general management
and control of the waterworks system, subject, however, to the supervision of
the Board of Trustees. (Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947)
8-1-3: APPLICATION FOR HOOKUP; FEES:
   A.   Written Application: No water shall be turned on for use on, or in, any
premises until an application therefor, in writing, has been made for that
purpose and filed with the Superintendent of the Water Department stating the
purpose for which the water is to be used. (Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947; amd. 1998
Code)
   B.   Application Fee: The filing fee for a water hookup application shall be
fifty dollars ($50.00) payable upon the filing of the application with the
Superintendent of the Water Department. (Ord. 212, 5-14-1996; amd. 1998 Code)
   C.   Deposit: In addition to any new water hookup fee, a new user of the
Village water supply shall pay a deposit of one hundred dollars ($100.00) to
ensure payment of water user charges. The one hundred dollar ($100.00) deposit
shall be returned to the user after termination of water service when the
user's account is paid in full. If the user's account is not paid in full, the
one hundred dollar ($100.00) deposit may be applied towards payment of the
water user charges. (Ord. 189, 1-12-1988)
8-1-4: COSTS OF HOOKUP:
The applicant shall pay for all labor and expenses incurred, including but not
limited to, twelve inch (12") stainless steel clamp, compression corporation
valve, K copper lines, curb valve and box connected to the water main, curb
shutoff valve and other attachments as approved by the Superintendent of the
Water Department. (Ord. 212, 5-14-1996; amd. 1998 Code)
8-1-5: WATER METERS:
   A.   Required: All water consumers supplied by the Village shall be supplied
through meters only, and shall pay for the water consumed at the rates and in
the manner hereinafter specified 1 . (Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947)
   B.   Meter Valve: Each connection at the user's meter shall be equipped with
a Mueller angle meter valve.
   C.   Reading Of Meters:
      1.   New Installations: Each new installation shall be equipped with a
device to allow outside reading of the meter. (Ord. 212, 5-14-1996)
      2.   Access: The Village and its employees shall have ready access to the
premises, places or buildings where meters are located for the purpose of
reading, examining, testing and repairing the same, and examining and testing
the consumption, use and flow of water, and it shall be unlawful for any person
to interfere with, prevent, or obstruct the Village, or its duly authorized
agent, in its duties hereunder. Every consumer of water shall take the same
upon the conditions prescribed in this subsection C2.
   D.   Meters Out Of Repair: Whenever any meter, by reason of its being out of
repair, or for any cause, fails promptly to register the water passing through
the same, the consumer shall be charged at the rate shown for the corresponding
time of the previous year under like conditions. If no record of the previous
year exists, then it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the Water
Department to estimate or determine so far as he can, the amount of water
consumed during the time such meter fails to operate, and the consumer shall
pay the amount so estimated. (Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947; amd. 1998 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  8-1-9 of this chapter.
8-1-6: SERVICE LINES:
All exterior water lines shall be installed at least four and one-half feet
(41/2') deep. The State Plumbing Code shall be followed as to each
installation. (Ord. 212, 5-14-1996)
8-1-7: INSPECTION; APPROVAL:
Prior to covering and backfilling a new water line, the user shall notify the
Superintendent of the Water Department that the new water hookup is completed.
The new line shall not be covered or backfilled, and no water service shall
commence until the Superintendent, or someone designated by the Village
President, has inspected and approved the new water hookup. (Ord. 212, 5-14-
1996; amd. 1998 Code)
8-1-8: TAPPING MAIN LINE:
   A.   Approval Required: No person shall tap into a Village water main until
he has obtained the approval of the Superintendent of the Water Department, or
someone designated by the Village President.
   B.   Licensed Plumber Required: The tap into the Village water main shall be
performed by a licensed plumber. The tapping into the Village water main by
persons other than a licensed plumber is prohibited. (Ord. 212, 5-14-1996; amd.
1998 Code)
8-1-9: WATER AND SEWER RATES:
The following shall be the rates for water supplied through meters, payable
monthly:
   WATER AND SEWER RATES
 
0 - 2,000               $12.50 $13.50
Every 1,000 after 2,000 2.75   4.75
 
(1998 Code; amd. Ord. 235, 4-9-2002; Ord. 289, 4-10-2007, eff. 5-1-2007; Ord.
382, 8-14-2018, eff. 9-1-2018; Ord. 383, 8-14-2018, eff. 9-1-2018)
8-1-10: BILLING STATEMENTS:
   A.   Monthly Statements: Bills for water service shall be rendered monthly
using the schedule in section
8-1-9 of this chapter and shall be delinquent on the fifteenth day after their
rendition. (Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947; amd. 1998 Code)
   B.   Late Charges: All unpaid charges for water, sewer and solid waste
service shall accrue a ten percent (10%) late penalty charge if not paid on or
before the twenty sixth day of the month in which the bill is rendered. (Ord.
235, 4-9-2002)
   C.   Discontinuance Of Service: Water service to any user of the Village
water supply may be shut off at any time after the water bill remains unpaid
for thirty (30) days, upon seven (7) days' written notice to the user. Notice
may be delivered personally or by mail.
   D.   Shutoff/Turn-On Fees: The user shall be charged a fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for shutoff of the water supply and another fee of twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for turning on the water supply.
   E.   Owner Responsibility: The owner of the real estate to which Village
water service is supplied shall be required to pay any water user charges for
service supplied to the real estate owned by him in the event that the user
does not pay the bill. This responsibility shall be on the landowner whether he
is a landlord renting to a tenant, or whether he is a contract seller of the
real estate. (Ord. 189, 1-12-1988; amd. 1998 Code)
   F.   Lien; Notice Of Delinquency:
      1.   Filing Of Lien: Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid for
thirty (30) days for monthly service it has been rendered, the Village shall
file with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This
statement shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the
amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the Village claims a lien for this
amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      2.   User Not Owner; Notice To Owner: If the user whose bill is unpaid is
not the owner of the premises and the Village has notice of this, notice shall
be mailed to the owner of the premises if his address be known to the Clerk
whenever such bill remains unpaid for the period of thirty (30) days for a
monthly bill after it has been rendered.
      3.   Right To Foreclosure: The failure of the Village to record such lien
or to mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall
not affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the
foregoing subsection F2.
   G.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in-equity in
the name of the Village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed
to institute such proceedings in the name of the Village in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid forty five (45) days in the case of a monthly bill after it has
been rendered. (1998 Code)
8-1-11: CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED 1 :
No user of the Village water supply is allowed to use a water supply other than
that provided by the Village. The cross- connection of a private water supply
with the Village water supply is prohibited. (Ord. 212, 5-14-1996)
 
Notes
1 1. See Chapter 2 of this Title.
8-1-12: OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED:
   A.   Access: No person shall in any manner obstruct the access to any
stopcock, hydrant or valve, or any public faucet or opening for taking water in
any street, alley, public way, public ground or place connected with or part of
said waterworks system, nor pile or place any lumber, brick or building
material or other article, thing or hindrance whatsoever within twelve feet
(12') of the same, or so as to in any manner hinder, delay or obstruct the
members of the Fire Department in reaching the same.
   B.   Flow, Retention Or Storage: It shall be unlawful for any person in any
manner to interfere with or obstruct the flow, retention, storage or authorized
use of water in said waterworks system, reservoir or plant, or any part
thereof, or to injure, deface, remove or displace any water main, hydrant,
service pipe, water meter, shutoff box, public fountain, valve, engine or
building connected with said waterworks system or plant, or to cause, suffer,
or permit any of said things to be done. (Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947; amd. 1998 Code)
8-1-13: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES:
All connections and water applied for hereunder, and all water used hereunder,
shall be upon the express condition that the Village shall not be liable, nor
shall any claim be made against it, for damages or injury caused by reason of
the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes, apparatus or appurtenances
connected with such waterworks system or plant, or any part or portion thereof,
or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of machinery,
or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or renewals. (Ord. 19A, 10-
14-1947)
8-1-14: UNAUTHORIZED USE PROHIBITED:
No person not duly authorized shall turn the water on at any fire hydrant or
service cock, or use water therefrom when so turned on and the person so
wasting water in such unlawful manner shall be liable to pay for the same.
(Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947; amd. 1998 Code)
8-1-15: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations for the consumers of water and for plumbers
are hereby adopted and established:
   A.   Application Required: No water shall be furnished or supplied to any
consumer for any purpose whatever until such consumer shall made application
therefor. Such application shall state the location of the premises to be
served and the use to which the water will be put.
   B.   Limitations On Use: No water consumer may supply water to other
families or allow them to take it, except for use on the premises and for the
purposes specified in the application, nor after water is introduced into any
building or upon any premises shall any person make or employ any other person
to make any tap or connection with the works upon the premises for alterations,
repairs, extensions or attachments without a written permit therefor to be
issued by the Superintendent of the Water Department.
   C.   Reservation Of Right: The Village reserves the right to shut off water
at any time in the mains for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making
connections with or extensions to same, or for the concentrating of water in
any part of the Village in case of fire, and for restricting the use of the
water in case of deficiency in supply. No claim shall be made against said
Village by reason of the breaking of any service pipe or service cock, or
damage arising from shutting off of water for repairing, laying or relaying
mains, hydrants or other connections or repairing any part of the waterworks
system, or from failure of the water supply, or by increasing the water
pressure at any time, or from concentration or restricted use of water as
above. (Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947)
8-1-16: SEPARATE CONNECTION REQUIRED:
No owner or plumber shall be permitted to conduct water pipes into any two (2)
distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stopcocks shall be
placed on the outside of such premises along the sidewalk opposite the same,
nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining premises.
(Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947)
8-1-17: MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS:
In all cases where one service pipe supplies two (2) or more separate consumers
in a building, one meter may be placed at the service connection for either or
all of the consumers, and the water rent, as registered by such meter, shall be
charged to and be payable by the owner of the premises or building. (Ord. 19A,
10-15-1947)
8-1-18: BUILDING OR CONSTRUCTION USE:
   A.   Application For Permit: Persons desiring to use Village water for
building or construction purposes shall make application therefor in writing
and file the same in the office of the Village Clerk on a form provided for
that purpose.
   B.   Grant Of Permit; Connection: Upon a permit being granted (permits shall
be issued in writing and signed by the Superintendent of the Water Department),
the service pipe shall be carried at the expense of the applicant to the inside
of the curb line, where a service cock and meter shall be placed, with pipe
leading to the surface, and a faucet at the end thereof above the surface.
   C.   Completion Of Construction: When the building or construction work is
completed, the faucet and meter shall be removed and the water shut off, unless
permanent connection thereunder is made.
   D.   Cost Of Use: Charge for the use and connecting of meters shall be as
prescribed in Section
8-1-9 of this Chapter. (Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947)
8-1-19: LAWN FOUNTAINS; SPRINKLING:
The right is reserved to suspend the use of lawn fountains and hose for
sprinkling lawns and gardens whenever, in the opinion of the Board of Trustees,
public exigencies require it. (Ord. 19A, 10-15-1947)
8-1-20: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating this Chapter shall be subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code, and shall be liable for the actual damage done or caused.
In addition, the Superintendent of the Water Department is authorized to
terminate water service to any user who violates this Chapter or creates a
condition which contaminates or threatens to contaminate the Village water
supply. (Ord. 212, 5-14-1996; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 2
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Compliance With Existing Laws
8-2-3: Cross-Connection Prohibited
8-2-4: Local Cross-Connection Control Program
8-2-5: Corrections And Protective Devices
8-2-6: Piping Identification
8-2-7: Private Water Storage Tanks
8-2-8: Elimination Of Existing Cross-Connections
8-2-9: Inspection
8-2-10: Discontinuance Of Water Service
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter the following definitions shall apply:
BACKFLOW: Water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants entering
a public water supply system due to a reversal of flow.
CROSS-CONNECTION: A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenances by
which a backflow could occur.
SAFE AIR GAP: The minimum distance of water inlet or opening above the maximum
high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device or container to which
public water is furnished which shall be at least two (2) times the inside
diameter of the water inlet pipe; but shall not be less than one inch (1") and
need not be more than twelve inches (12").
SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY: A water supply system maintained in addition to a
public water supply, including but not limited to water systems from ground or
surface sources not meeting the requirements of State statute, or water from a
public water supply which in any way has been treated, processed or exposed to
any possible contaminant or stored in other than an approved storage facility.
SUBMERGED INLET: A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water supply
terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliance which may contain water of
questionable quality, waste or other contaminant and which is unprotected
against backflow.
WATER UTILITY: The Village of Annawan Water Department. (Ord. 175, 5-13-1983;
amd. 1998 Code)
8-2-2: COMPLIANCE WITH EXISTING LAWS:
A connection with a public water supply system shall comply with the existing
laws and rules and the provisions of the ordinances of the Village. (Ord. 175,
5-13-1983)
8-2-3: CROSS-CONNECTION PROHIBITED:
Cross-connection of the public water supply system and any other water supply
system or source including but not limited to the following are prohibited:
   A.   Between a public water supply system and a secondary water supply.
   B.   By submerged inlet.
   C.   Between a lawn sprinkling system and the public water supply system.
   D.   Between a public water supply and piping which may contain sanitary
waste or a chemical contaminant.
   E.   Between a public water supply system and piping immersed in a tank or
vessel which may contain a contaminant. (Ord. 175, 5-13-1983)
8-2-4: LOCAL CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM:
The Village shall develop a comprehensive control program for the elimination
and prevention of all cross-connections, and removal of all existing cross-
connections and prevention of all future cross-connections. (Ord. 175, 5-13-
1983)
8-2-5: CORRECTIONS AND PROTECTIVE DEVICES:
   A.   Approval Required: Any user of Village water shall obtain written
approval from the Water Department of any proposed corrective action or
protective device before using or installing it.
   B.   Time Limitations: The total time allowed for completion of the
necessary corrections shall be contingent upon the degree of hazard involved
and include the time required to obtain and install equipment.
   C.   Separation By Village: If the cross-connection has not been removed
within the time as hereinafter specified, the Village shall physically separate
the Village water supply from the on- site piping system in such manner that
the two (2) systems cannot be connected by any unauthorized person. (Ord. 175,
5-13-1983)
8-2-6: PIPING IDENTIFICATION:
When a secondary water source is used in addition to the Village water supply,
exposed Village water and secondary water piping shall be identified by
distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained that each pipe may be traced
readily in its entirety. The Village water supply shall be protected at the
service connection in a manner acceptable to the Water Department. (Ord. 175,
5-13-1983)
8-2-7: PRIVATE WATER STORAGE TANKS:
A private water storage tank supplied from the Village water supply system
shall be deemed a secondary water supply unless it is designed and approved for
potable water usage. (Ord. 175, 5-13-1983)
8-2-8: ELIMINATION OF EXISTING CROSS-CONNECTIONS:
Within one year from the effective date hereof, all existing cross-connections
to the Village water supply systems shall be eliminated. The expenses of such
elimination shall be that of the owner of the property on which such cross-
connection exists. (Ord. 175, 5-13-1983)
8-2-9: INSPECTION:
The Water Department, or any representative thereof, shall have the authority
to inspect any premises to determine the presence of an existing cross-
connection and to order the elimination of such cross-connection. (Ord. 175, 5-
13-1983)
8-2-10: DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE:
   A.   Authority: The Water Department is hereby authorized to discontinue
water service after a reasonable notice to any person owning any property where
a cross-connection in violation of this Chapter exists.
   B.   Precautionary Measures: The Water Department may take such other
precautionary measures as necessary to eliminate any danger of the
contamination of the Village water supply system.
   C.   Restoration Of Service: Water service to such property shall not be
restored until such cross-connection has been eliminated. (Ord. 175, 5-13-1983)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER CONNECTION AND PLUMBING
SECTION:
8-3-1: Compliance Required
8-3-2: Permit; Fees
8-3-3: Bond; Cash Deposit
8-3-4: Sewer Lateral Material
8-3-5: Sewer Joints
8-3-6: Grade
8-3-7: Trenching And Bedding
8-3-8: Backfilling
8-3-9: Depth
8-3-10: Lines Parallel To Footings
8-3-11: Valves
8-3-12: Prohibited Joints And Connections
8-3-13: Increasers And Reducers
8-3-14: Sewer Cleanouts
8-3-15: Separation Of Water And Sewer Lines
8-3-16: Separation Of Sanitary And Storm Sewers
8-3-17: Inspections
8-3-18: Testing
8-3-19: Barricades; Restoration
8-3-20: Map Or Diagram
8-3-21: Penalty
8-3-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
All sewer connections and plumbing within the Village shall be performed in
accordance with the provisions of this Chapter. If there is no provision of
this Chapter which applies to a particular sewer or plumbing matter, then the
provisions of the most recent Illinois State Plumbing Code shall apply. (Ord.
173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-2: PERMIT; FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No sewer lateral lines shall be installed prior to the
issuance of a permit by the Village Clerk. The permit shall be requested by the
landowner or sewer line installer by written application in the form attached
to Ordinance 173 on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
   B.   Additional Documentation: The permit application shall be supplemented
by plans, specifications or other information considered pertinent by the
Village Inspector.
   C.   Fees: A permit and inspection fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for a
residential or commercial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Village at
the time the application is filed. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983; amd. 1998 Code)
8-3-3: BOND; CASH DEPOSIT:
   A.   Bond Required: No person shall contract for hire within the Village to
do any work regarding the installation of a sewer lateral line without first
providing a bond in the amount of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) to secure
the faithful and proper installation of such sewer lateral line.
   B.   Form: The bond shall be in the form provided by the Village. The bond
shall be signed by a surety company authorized to do business in the State.
   C.   Cash Deposit: In the alternative, a deposit of money in the amount of
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) in an account at the State Bank of Annawan.
The account shall be accessible to the Village in the event of loss to the
Village, or the person contracting for the construction of the sewer lateral
line due to improper installation.
   D.   Term Of Bond: The bond or cash deposit shall remain in force for a
period of one year. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983; amd. 1998 Code)
8-3-4: SEWER LATERAL MATERIAL:
   A.   Definition: A "sewer lateral line" is defined as a sewer line running
from any building to the point of connection with the main sewer line of the
Village.
   B.   Construction Materials: Sewer lateral lines may be constructed from the
following materials: extra strength vitrified clay pipe, polyvinyl chloride
(PVC) plastic pipe or ductile iron pipe.
      1.   Vitrified Clay Pipe: The vitrified clay pipe shall have an inside
minimum diameter of six inches (6") conforming to the standards of ASTM numbers
C700, C425 and D1784.
      2.   PVC Lines: The PVC lines shall have a minimum inside diameter of
four inches (4") conforming to the standards of D1785, D2241, D2729, D1869 and
D1784. The PVC shall be schedule 40 or heavier.
      3.   Ductile Iron Pipe: The ductile iron pipe shall have a minimum inside
diameter of four inches (4") conforming to the standards of ASTM A377, AWWA
C151 and shall be class 50 or heavier. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-5: SEWER JOINTS:
Vitrified clay pipe joints shall conform to the standards of ASTM C425. Joints
between clay pipe and metal pipe shall be a compression coupling conforming to
ASTM C594. Joints between a metal soil pipe and clay pipe having a greater
diameter than the metal soil pipe, shall be a compression coupling increaser
conforming to ASTM C594. Joints between PVC pipe and nonPVC pipe shall be a
compression coupling conforming to ASTM C594. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-6: GRADE:
All sewer lateral lines shall be laid on a straight line and uniform grade
wherever possible. In no event shall the grade be less than one-eighth inch (1/
8") of fall per lineal foot of line. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-7: TRENCHING AND BEDDING:
   A.   Width: Trenches shall be of sufficient width to permit proper
installation of the pipe. Where shoring is required, ample allowance shall be
made in the width of the trench for working conditions.
   B.   Depth:
      1.   Bottom Of Trench Forms Bed: Where trenches are excavated to a depth
such that the bottom of the trench forms the bed for the pipe, care must be
exercised to provide solid and continuous bearing between joints. Bell holes
shall be provided at points where the pipe is joined.
      2.   Bottom Of Trench Does Not Form Bed: Where trenches are excavated to
a depth such that the bottom of the trench does not form the bed for the pipe
the trench shall be backfilled to grade with sand or fine gravel placed in
layers of six inch (6") maximum depth and compacted after each placement.
   C.   Stabilization Of Bed: The pipe shall not be supported on blocks to
grade, if soft materials of poor bearing qualities are found at the bottom of
the trench, stabilization shall be achieved by overexcavating at least two (2)
pipe diameters and bringing up to grade with fine gravel or crushed stone or a
concrete foundation. Such concrete foundation shall be bedded and sand tamped
in place so as to provide a uniform bearing for the pipe joints. (Ord. 173, 5-
13-1983)
8-3-8: BACKFILLING:
Care shall be taken to compact thoroughly the backfill under and beside the
sewer pipe to be sure the pipe is properly supported. Backfilling shall not
continue beyond the horizontal center line of the pipe until the sewer line has
been inspected by the Village Inspector. After inspection and approval of the
sewer lateral line, backfilling may be completed. Loose earth, free of rocks,
broken concrete, frozen chunks or other hard material, shall be carefully
placed in the trench in six inch (6") layers and tamped in place until the
crown of the sewer pipe is covered by at least one foot (1') of tamped earth.
Backfill shall be placed evenly on both sides of the pipe and tamped in place
in such manner as to retain proper alignment. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-9: DEPTH:
The sewer lateral line shall be installed at least three feet (3') below ground
level in order to avoid damage from freezing. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-10: LINES PARALLEL TO FOOTINGS:
Sewer lines installed parallel to footings shall not extend below the forty
five degree (45°) bearing plane of the wall or footing and shall be no closer
than three feet (3') to the footings or outside bearing wall except as may
otherwise be approved by the Village Inspector. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-11: VALVES:
There is no requirement to install a valve in a sewer lateral line. However, if
a valve is installed in a sewer lateral line, it shall be accessible for
maintenance and it shall be one of the following:
   A.   Resilient seated gate valve conforming to the latest edition of AWWA
C509.
   B.   Backwater valve, Palmer type, service weight equivalent to that as
manufactured by Tyler or U.S. Soil Pipe. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-12: PROHIBITED JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS:
Any fitting or connection which has an enlargement chamber or recess with a
ledge, shoulder or reduction of pipe area that offers an obstruction to flow
through the drain is prohibited. No fitting or connection that offers abnormal
obstruction to flow shall be used. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-13: INCREASERS AND REDUCERS:
Where different sizes of pipes or pipes and fittings are to be connected, the
proper size increasers or reducers or reducing fittings shall be used between
the two (2) sizes. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-14: SEWER CLEANOUTS:
   A.   Distance Between Cleanouts:
      1.   Lines Four Inches Or Less: Cleanouts shall be not more than fifty
feet (50') apart, including the developed length of the cleanout pipe, in
horizontal sewer lines of four inches (4") nominal diameter or less.
      2.   Lines More Than Four Inches: Cleanouts shall be not more than one
hundred feet (100') apart, including the developed length of the cleanout pipe,
in horizontal sewer lines of over four inches (4") to ten inches (10") nominal
diameter.
   B.   Full-Size Cleanout: A full-size cleanout shall be located within five
feet (5') of the building foundation, inside or outside, in direct line with
the building drain and sewer.
   C.   Change In Direction: Cleanouts shall be installed at each change of
direction of the building sewer system greater than sixty degrees (60°); the
total of the fittings between cleanouts shall not exceed one hundred twenty
degrees (120°).
   D.   Underground Sewer: Cleanouts, when installed on an underground sewer,
shall be extended to or above the finished grade level directly above the place
where the cleanout is installed; or may be extended to outside of the building
when necessary.
   E.   Opening: Every cleanout shall be installed so that the cleanout opens
in a direction opposite to the flow of the sewer line or at right angles
thereto.
   F.   Size: Cleanouts shall be of the same nominal size of the diameter of
pipes up to four inches (4") and not less than four inches (4") for larger
piping. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-15: SEPARATION OF WATER AND SEWER LINES:
Water lines and sewer lines shall be installed in separate trenches having a
minimum of ten feet (10') horizontal separation. However, water and sewer lines
may be installed in a common trench provided that the water line is placed on a
shelf at a minimum of eighteen inches (18") above the sewer line. Water and
sewer lines installed in a common trench may be installed at the same level if
ductile iron or PVC with neoprene compression gaskets is used for the sewer
line, and copper type K, with no joints, is used for the water line. If it is
not possible to use a copper line with no joints, then sweat joints shall be
used. The number of joints shall be kept to a minimum. Ductile iron or PVC
material is acceptable providing that such material meets the AWWA standard for
water piping. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-16: SEPARATION OF SANITARY AND STORM SEWERS:
Sanitary and storm sewer systems shall be separate systems. (Ord. 173, 5-13-
1983)
8-3-17: INSPECTIONS:
   A.   Inspection Required: A sewer lateral line shall not be covered up or
used until after such line has been inspected and approved by an authorized
Village Inspector.
   B.   Responsibility To Arrange For Inspection: It is the responsibility of
the landowner and installer of the sewer line to arrange for such inspection.
   C.   Tests: Tests shall be made by the landowner or sewer line installer and
observed by the Village Inspector.
   D.   Noncompliance: Sewer lines found not to be in compliance with this
Chapter or otherwise found to be defective or unsafe shall not be approved. The
use of a sewer line which is not in compliance with the provisions of this
Chapter, or is found to be defective or unsafe, is prohibited until it is
brought into compliance.
   E.   Reinspection: A reinspection is mandatory whenever a sewer line is
found to be in violation of this Chapter or otherwise defective or unsafe.
(Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-18: TESTING:
   A.   Testing Required: Sewer lateral lines shall be tested to disclose leaks
and defects. No sewer lateral line shall be covered until after it has been
tested in the presence of the Village Inspector. If a sewer line is covered or
concealed prior to being tested and approved, it shall be uncovered for
testing. It is the responsibility of the landowner and installer to expose it
for approval and testing. All equipment, material and labor required for
testing a sewer lateral line shall be provided by the landowner or installer.
   B.   PVC Or Ductile Iron Pipe: Sewer lateral lines constructed of PVC pipe
or ductile iron pipe shall be tested by insertion of a test plug or cap at the
point of connection with the public sewer. The sewer lateral line shall be
tested with a ten foot (10') head of water or air pressure of at least three
and five- tenths (3.5) psi. The line shall not be approved unless the top of
the test head of water remains at its initial level for at least fifteen (15)
minutes, or unless the line holds its initial air pressure for at least fifteen
(15) minutes.
   C.   Vitrified Clay Pipe: Sewer lateral lines constructed of vitrified clay
pipe shall be inspected by close visual inspection of the Village Inspector and
such other tests as are deemed necessary by the Inspector to determine the
watertightness of the line. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-19: BARRICADES; RESTORATION:
All excavations for sewer lateral installation shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Village Inspector. (Ord.
173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-20: MAP OR DIAGRAM:
After installation of the sewer lateral line, the landowner or the installer of
the sewer line shall provide the Village Inspector with a map or diagram giving
the following information about the sewer lateral line:
   A.   Location of the building served.
   B.   Location of the main to which the lateral is attached.
   C.   Location of the sewer lateral and any cleanouts or other fittings.
   D.   The coordinates of both ends of the sewer lateral relative to a
permanent landmark such as the corner of the building, telephone pole, fire
hydrant, etc.
   E.   The depth of the sewer lateral line at each end.
   F.   Compass orientation. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983)
8-3-21: PENALTY:
Any person who installs any sewer lateral line before obtaining a permit, or
any person who connects and uses a sewer lateral line which has not been
approved by the Village Inspector, shall be subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate
violation. (Ord. 173, 5-13-1983; amd. 1998 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WASTEWATER SERVICES
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Basis For Wastewater Service Charges
8-4-3: Measurement Of Flow
8-4-4: Payment Of Charges
8-4-5: Revenues
8-4-6: Accounts
8-4-7: Notice Of Rates
8-4-8: Effective Date Of Rates
8-4-9: Access To Records
8-4-10: Penalty
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this Chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
   Administrator: The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency.
   Federal Act: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et
seq.) as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of Amendments of
1972 (Pub. L. 92-500 and Pub. L. 93-243).
   Federal Grant: The U.S. Government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
   Approving Authority: The Board of Trustees of the Village of Annawan.
   Chapter: This Chapter.
   Village: The Village of Annawan.
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
Administrator, or, where appropriate, by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge
of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the Federal Act.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual,
firm, company, Municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
   Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, shall be no closer than three feet (3') from the inner face
of the building wall.
   Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive
wastewater, storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the
Village. It shall also include sewers within or outside the Village boundaries
that serve one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the Village
sanitary sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with Village funds.
   Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and groundwaters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
   Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
   Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   Stormwater Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into
the sewers.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
   Director: The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   State Act: The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
   State Grant: The State of Illinois' participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
TREATMENT:
   Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewater from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
   Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
TYPES OF CHARGES:
   Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public
sewer system.
   Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment
of interest, principal and coverage of outstanding loans, bonds, etc., and
shall be computed by dividing the annual debt service by the number of users
connected to the wastewater facilities.
   Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such
works were designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance"
includes replacement.
   Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues
received in the operation of the sewerage system.
   Surcharge: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt
service charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in
strength than the concentration values established in Section
8-4-2 of this Chapter.
   Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated and shall be twenty (20) years from the date
of start-up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a State grant.
   User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
   Wastewater Service Charge: The charge per quarter or month levied on all
users of the wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as
outlined in Section
8-4-2 of this Chapter and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge
and the debt service charge.
USER TYPES:
   Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes
are discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the Village
representative to sample and/or measure discharges.
   Industrial User: Any nongovernmental user of publicly-owned treatment works
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
Division A    Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing
Division B    Mining
Division D    Manufacturing
Division E    Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary
Services
Division I    Services.
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined by the Board
of Trustees that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   Residential, Commercial Or Nonindustrial User: Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user as
provided for in this definition.
   User Class: The type of user either "residential or commercial"
(nonindustrial) or "industrial" as defined herein.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
   BOD (Denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in
milligrams per liter.
   Effluent Criteria: Defined in any applicable NPDES permit.
   Floatable Oil: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. Wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   Garbage: Solid wastes from domestic and commercial preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 cm) in any
dimension.
   Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged,
permitted to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or
business establishment or process or from the development, recovery or
processing of any natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly-owned
treatment works that:
   A.   Has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average
workday; or
   B.   Has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the
Municipal system receiving the waste; or
   C.   Has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
standards issued under section 307(a) of the Federal Act; or
   D.   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with the
issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly-owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
   Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
   pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion
concentration expressed by one of the procedures outlined in "Standard
Methods".
   Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.20
pounds of suspended solids.
   ppm: Parts per million by weight.
   Sewage: Used interchangeably with "wastewater".
   Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times
the average twenty four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal
operation.
   Standard Methods: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater" published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
   Suspended Solids: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
   Unpolluted Water: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not be benefited by discharge to the sanitary sewer
and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be present.
   Water Quality Standards: Defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
   Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently. (Ord. 163, 4-14-1981; amd. 1998 Code)
8-4-2: BASIS FOR WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service supplied by the
wastewater facilities of the Village shall consist of a basic user charge for
operation and maintenance plus replacement, a debt service charge and a
surcharge, if applicable.
   A.   Debt Service Charge: The debt service charge shall be computed by
dividing the annual debt service of all outstanding revenue bonds by gallons of
water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having
the following normal concentrations.
   B.   Basic User Charge: The basic user charge shall be based on water usage
as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the
following normal concentrations:
      1.   A five (5) day, twenty degree Centigrade (20°C) biochemical oxygen
demand (BOD) of 204 mg/l.
      2.   A suspended solids (SS) content of 240 mg/l.
   C.   Operation, Maintenance, Replacement Cost: It shall consist of operation
and maintenance costs plus replacement and shall be computed as follows:
      1.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year.
      2.   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories by
volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible.
      3.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
      4.   Proportion the estimated costs to nonindustrial users by volume,
suspended solids and BOD.
      5.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength.
      6.   Compute surcharge costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons per mg/l in
excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
   D.   Surcharge: A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed
the concentrations for BOD (204 mg/l) and SS (240 mg/l). The surcharge will be
based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for all
wastes which exceed the 204 mg/l and 240 mg/l concentration for BOD and SS
respectively.
   E.   Revision Of Charges: The adequacy of the wastewater service charge
shall be reviewed annually by certified public accountants for the Village in
their annual audit report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised
periodically to reflect a change in debt service or a change in operation and
maintenance costs including replacement costs. (Ord. 163, 4-14-1981; amd. 1998
Code)
8-4-3: MEASUREMENT OF FLOW:
The volume of flow used for computing debt service charges, basic user charges
and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even
increments of ten (10) gallons.
   A.   Use Of Water From Other Sources: If the person discharging wastes into
the public sewers procures any part, or all, of his water from sources other
than the public waterworks system, all or a part of which is discharged into
the public sewers, the person shall install and maintain, at his expense, water
meters of a type approved by the Village for the purpose of determining the
volume of water obtained from these other sources.
   B.   Metering Devices:
      1.   Required: Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may
be required by the Village if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined from
the metered water consumption records.
      2.   Installation; Maintenance: Metering devices for determining the
volume of waste shall be installed, owned, and maintained by the person.
Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed, unless
service is cancelled, without the consent of the Village. (Ord. 163, 4-14-1981)
8-4-4: PAYMENT OF CHARGES:
   A.   Billings:
      1.   Payable Monthly: The rates or charges for combined water and sewer
service as set forth in Section
8-1-9 of this Title shall be payable monthly. (1998 Code)
      2.   Liability For Payment: The owner of the premises, the occupant
thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally liable to
pay for the service to such premises and the service is furnished to the
premises by the Village only upon the condition that the owner of the premises,
occupant and user of the services are jointly and severally liable therefor to
the Village.
      3.   Mailing Date: Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the
Village on the tenth day of the month succeeding the period for which the
service is billed.
      4.   Date Payable: All sewer bills are due and payable fifteen (15) days
after being sent out.
   B.   Delinquent Bills: If the charges for such services are not paid within
thirty (30) days after the rendition of the bill for such services, such
services shall be discontinued without further notice and shall not be
reinstated until all claims are settled, together with the payment made of ten
dollars ($10.00) for reinstating such service.
   C.   Lien; Notice Of Delinquency:
      1.   Filing Of Lien: Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for
thirty (30) days for monthly service it has been rendered, the Village shall
file with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This
statement shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the
amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the Village claims a lien for this
amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      2.   User Not Owner; Notice To Owner: If the user whose bill is unpaid is
not the owner of the premises and the Village has notice of this, notice shall
be mailed to the owner of the premises if his address be known to the Clerk
whenever such bill remains unpaid for the period of thirty (30) days for a
monthly bill after it has been rendered.
      3.   Right To Foreclosure: The failure of the Village to record such lien
or to mail such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall
not affect the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the
foregoing subsection C2.
   D.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in-equity in
the name of the Village. The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed
to institute such proceedings in the name of the Village in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid forty five (45) days in the case of a monthly bill after it has
been rendered. (Ord. 163, 4-14-1981; amd. 1998 Code)
8-4-5: REVENUES:
   A.   Sewerage Fund: All revenues and monies derived from the operation of
the sewerage system shall be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage
Fund.
   B.   Funds Kept Separate; Delivery To Treasurer: All such revenues and
monies shall be held by the Village Treasurer separate and apart from his
private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the Village and
all of such sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the
Village Treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at
such more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the
Village President and Board of Trustees.
   C.   Administration Of Funds: The Village Treasurer shall receive all such
revenues from the sewerage system and all other funds and monies incident to
the operation of such system as the same may be delivered to him and deposit
the same in the account of the fund designated as the "Sewerage Fund of the
Village of Annawan". The Treasurer shall administer such Fund in every respect
in the manner provided by statute of the "Revised Cities and Villages Act" 1 ,
effective January, 1942, as amended. (Ord. 163, 4-14-1981)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 10/21-0.01.
8-4-6: ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Books, Records, Accounts: The Village Treasurer shall establish a
proper system of accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in
which complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative
to the sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals, the Treasurer shall
cause to be made an audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to
show the receipts and disbursements of the sewerage system.
   B.   Annual Audit: In addition to the customary operating statements, the
annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of
the wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer
service charges under the waste cost recovery system do in fact meet these
regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown in the audit
report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users. (Ord. 163, 4-14-1981)
8-4-7: NOTICE OF RATES:
A copy of this Chapter, properly certified by the Village Treasurer, shall be
filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Henry County and shall be
deemed notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage
system of the Village on their properties. (Ord. 163, 4-14-1981)
8-4-8: EFFECTIVE DATE OF RATES:
The rates and service charges established for user charges in Section
8-4-4 of this Chapter shall be effective ninety (90) days after the sewerage
system is available and operable for use. (Ord. 164, 5-12-1981; amd. 1998 Code)
8-4-9: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the Village
which are applicable to the Village system of user charges or industrial cost
recovery for the purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and
transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance with the terms of the special and
general conditions to any State grant. (Ord. 163, 4-14-1981)
8-4-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 163, 4-14-1981; amd. 1998 Code)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS 1
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODES
SECTION:
9-1-1: Building Code Adopted
9-1-2: Electrical Code Adopted
9-1-3: Mechanical Code Adopted
9-1-4: Plumbing Code Adopted
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  3-1-8 of this code.
9-1-1: BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   There is hereby adopted as the building code of the Village, for
purposes of regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings and structures by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use, and
to provide for the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human
occupancy and use, and to provide for the demolition of such structures, and to
provide for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor, that
certain document entitled "International Building Code, 2021 Edition" (referred
to herein as the "2021 IBC") as published by the International Code Council.
Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of
said International Building Code, including appendices F, G and I thereto and
the 2021 Errata sheet, as on file in the office of the building official, are
hereby referred to, adopted and made part hereof, as if fully set out in this
article, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes as prescribed in
subsection B. of this section.
   B.   The following sections of the International Building Code 2021 Edition
are hereby revised by completion of blanks, deletions, additions, or amendments
as follows:
      1.   Section 101.1. Insert: Village of Annawan, Illinois.
      2.   Section 1612.3. Insert: Village of Annawan, Illinois.
      3.   Section 1612.3. Insert: Most recent date of issuance, from time to
time.
      4.   Any reference therein made to the "IPC-12 International Plumbing
Code" shall mean and refer to the "Illinois Plumbing Code" (77 Ill. Admin. Code
890 et seq.).
      5.   Any reference therein made to the "IPSDC-12, International Private
Sewage Disposal Code" shall mean and refer to the "Illinois Plumbing Code" (77
Ill. Admin. Code 890 et seq.).
      6.   The reference in section 105.2 of the 2021 IBC to square feet is
amended to read "144 square feet.11
      7.   Section 105.2 remove: (2), (6), (9) and (12)
      8.   Section 114.4 is amended to read "Any person who violates any
provision of this code or fails to comply with any of the requirements thereof
or who erects, constructs, alters or repairs a building or structure in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the building
official or of a permit or certificate issued under the provisions of this code
shall be punished as provided in Section
1-4-1(A) of the Annawan Village Code. In addition to the remedies provided in
Section
1-4-l(A), the Village shall also be entitled to seek injunctive or other
equitable relief to enforce the provisions of this code."
      9.   Section 901.1 is added as follows:
         Section 901.1 International Fire Code. The requirements of this
chapter shall include any additional amendments to the 2021 International Fire
Code.
      10.   Chapter 11 ACCESSIBILITY is deleted and replaced as follows:
ILLINOIS ACCESSIBILITY CODE.
      11.   Chapter 13 ENERGY EFFICIENCY is deleted and replaced as follows:
      CHAPTER 13 ENERGY EFFICIENCY
         Section 1301 GENERAL
         1301.1.1 SCOPE. The provisions of the Illinois Efficient Buildings Act
adopt the International Energy Conservation Code with State of Illinois
amendments.
      12.   Section 1807.1 of the 2021 IBC is amended to read "Pole buildings.
Pole- type buildings without permanent foundation are not permitted."
      13.   Section 113.1 In the event that the board appeals, as provided and
referred to in section 112 of the International Building Code 2021 Edition, is
not constituted and acting, any appeal shall be made to the Board of Trustees.
      14.   Section 1806.2 Exception is amended as follows by adding the
following exception: Section 1806.2. Presumptive load-bearing values.
      Exceptions:
         a.   A presumptive load-bearing capacity shall be permitted to be used
where the building official deems the load-bearing capacity of mud, organic
silt or unprepared fill is adequate for the support of lightweight or temporary
structures.
         b.   Depending on the use, the code official may accept designs based
upon an assumed soil bearing capacity of 1500 psf provided all of the following
conditions are met:
            i.   The building height does not exceed one (1) story or 20 feet
in buildings which contain masonry or concrete walls.
            ii.   The building height does not exceed one (1) story or 25 feet
in buildings which do not contain any masonry or concrete walls.
            iii.   The foundation is shallow and the building does not include
a basement.
               iv.   The building seismic use group is not Category II or III
as listed in Table 1604.5.
         v.   Footings bear on virgin soil that is not questionable including
but not limited to plastic, liquefied, highly sensitive clays, weakly cemented,
peats or organic and expansive materials.
      Prior to issuance of a building permit, a statement in accordance with
Section 1704.1.1 shall be submitted by the permit applicant including the name
of the design professional or qualified soils engineer who will be conducting
the inspection.
      Following excavations and prior to pouring of foundations, a site
inspection and written report shall be prepared by a licensed design
professional or qualified soils engineer to indicate that no questionable soils
have been discovered. A copy of inspection report shall be submitted to the
code official prior to inspection listed in Section 109.3.1.
      15.   Chapter 29 Water Supply and Distribution is deleted and replaced as
follows:
      Chapter 29 WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION
         Section 2901. General.
         Plumbing. Plumbing for new and existing structures shall comply with
the Illinois Plumbing Code.
      16.   Appendix F "RODENT PROOFING" is added as part of this Code.
      17.   Appendix G "FLOOD-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION" is added as part of this
Code.
      18.   Appendix I "PATIO COVERS" is added as part of this Code. (1998
Code; amd. Ord. 410, 3-16-2023)
9-1-2: ELECTRICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   That document published by the National Fire Protection Association and
known as NFPA 70 National Electrical Code, 2021 Edition (for purposes of this
section "the code") and as otherwise modified by the terms and provisions of
this section are hereby adopted as the code governing and controlling all
requirements for installation and use, examination and approval, access to and
spaces about electrical conductors and equipment within the Village. Two (2)
copies of the code shall be on file in the office of the building official of
the Village. Each of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of the
code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set
out in this article, except for the additions, insertions, deletions and
changes described in subsections B., C., and D. of this section.
   B.   The following provisions shall govern instead of the provisions and
conditions of the National Electrical Code, 2021 Edition:
      1.   Disconnecting means. Whenever a service entrance or a meter base is
installed, an external disconnect shall be installed. Except in commercial
service installations exceeding a rating of 200 amperes, an additional interior
disconnect shall not be required, unless otherwise specified by the National
Electrical Code, 2021 Edition.
      2.   Conduit wiring. All electrical installations within or upon any
commercial, industrial or public buildings shall be installed in approved rigid
metal conduit, metal moldings, electric metallic tubing, or flexible metallic
and nonmetallic conduit, provided that flexible conduit may only be installed
as concealed work in hollow spaces of walls and ceilings in finished buildings
where the construction is such that the concealed lengths between outlets may
be withdrawn and new lengths drawn in without injury to the branch circuit
conductors. Flexible conduit shall not extend more than two feet into the
basement, nor shall it be imbedded in plastic or masonry walls.
      3.   Underground wiring. All underground service cable shall be of
approved type and suitably protected from mechanical injury by metal conduit or
otherwise.
      4.   Communications circuit. The use of electrical nonmetallic tubing
shall be prohibited for other than communications circuits.
      5.   Roof brackets. Roof brackets for the attachment of electrical
services are prohibited.
      6.   100 amp service required. 100 ampere electrical service or greater
shall be installed whenever major remodeling is performed on a building (50
percent or more of fair market home value), whenever major fire repairs are
being performed, or upon the installation of additional electrical appliances
that would overload existing service. All services of less than 100 amps
capacity shall be removed from all buildings within the electric service and
franchise area of the Village upon sale, transfer or conveyance of that
building, and such service shall be replaced with electrical service in
accordance with the National Electrical Code, 2021 Edition (or such later
edition as may be in force at the time the work is performed) before the date
of the sale, transfer or conveyance of the building. All service panels
installed pursuant to this subsection (6) shall be of the circuit breaker type,
and shall have a minimum 20-circuit capacity. The capacity shall be measured
without the use of tandem ("split") circuit breakers. All buildings shall have
a minimum service panel of at least a 100 amp capacity and a minimum of a 20
circuit breaker panel, and a 200 amp service must have a minimum of a 40
circuit breaker panel with the exception that an existing 200 amp service may
have less than a 40 place circuit breaker panel as long as the panel has 25%
open circuit breaker slots for expansion.
      7.   Requirements for grounding electrodes systems. Number four copper
wire (minimum) shall be used at the grounding electrode conductor on 100- or
200-amp services, and shall be connected to the grounding electrode by an
approved means. All ground wires to outside grounding electrodes above grade
shall be enclosed in conduit. A concrete encased electrode shall be required to
be installed in the footings of all commercial and industrial buildings.
      8.   Photovoltaic systems. All photovoltaic systems shall have a
disconnecting means located within sight and readily accessible from the
arrays. An additional disconnecting means shall be located at ground level on
the exterior of the building. Where installed on a rooftop of buildings,
photovoltaic systems must provide a minimum four foot clearance around all
edges, peaks, valleys and other obstructions. When the disconnecting means is
not located within sight of the utility disconnecting means, a label shall be
placed at the disconnect location for the utility serving the premises to
indicate the presence of a photovoltaic system and the location of the
disconnect.
      9.   Article 230.11 shall be added as follows:
         230.11 Service Modifications. When any part of the service entrance
equipment, branch circuit panel, or service conductor is replaced, modified, or
required to be repaired, the service in its entirety must be installed to
comply with the current codes. The main branch circuit panel shall be at least
20 spaces.
         Exception: Replacement or addition of a branch-circuit overcurrent
protective device.
      10.   Article 310.106(B) shall be deleted and replaced as follows:
         310.106 Conductors. (B) Conductor Material. Conductors in this article
shall be aluminum, copper-clad aluminum, or copper unless otherwise specified.
         Aluminum and copper-clad aluminum conductors shall be prohibited to be
installed in sizes smaller than 4 AWG, Stranded aluminum conductors 4 AWG
through 1000 kcmil marked as Type RHH, RHW, XHHW, THW, THHW, THWN, THHN,
service-entrance Type SE Style U and SE Style R shall be made of an AA-8000
series electrical grade aluminum alloy conductor material.
      11   Article 334.10 including (1) through (5) shall be deleted and
replaced as follows:
         334.10 Uses Permitted. Type NM, Type NMC, and Type NMS cables shall be
permitted to be used only in the following: R-2, R-3, and R-4 structures (as
defined by the International Building Code) not exceeding three floors above
grade.
      12.   Article 334.15(D) shall be added as follows:
         334.15 Exposed Work. (D) All Unfinished Areas. Any exposed cable 7
feet (213.36cm) or closer to the floor must be protected with a durable
building material or sleeved in an approved manner.
   C.   Section 90.4.1 of the National Electrical Code, 2021 Edition, is hereby
revised as follows:
      "The board of trustees of the Village of Annawan shall serve as the
electrical board of the Village of Annawan, hereinafter designated as the
board. The board shall, acting in its capacity as the board, exercise the
duties and have the authority as provided in section 80.15(F), (G), and (H)."
   D.   Section 90.42 of the National Electrical Code, 2021 Edition is hereby
deleted, and in lieu thereof, the following is adopted:
      "Any person who violates any provisions of the National Electrical Code,
2021 Edition, or any person who fails to carry out an order made pursuant to
the code or who violates any condition attached to a permit, approval or
certificate, shall be punished as provided in Section
1-4-l(A) of the Annawan Village Code. In addition to the remedies provided in
Section
1-4-l(A), the Village shall also be entitled to seek injunctive or other
equitable relief to enforce the provisions of this code. (1998 Code; amd. Ord.
410, 3-16-2023)
9-1-3: MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   There is hereby adopted as the mechanical code of the Village, for
purposes of regulating and governing the design, construction, quality of
materials, erection, installations, alteration, repair, location, relocation,
replacement, addition to, use or maintenance of mechanical systems as provided
therein and providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor, that certain document entitled "International Mechanical Code, 2021
Edition" (referred to herein as "2021 IMC") as published by the International
Code Council including thereto appendix A and the 2021 Errata sheet. Each and
all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
2021 IMC, as on file in the office of the building official, are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
article, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes as prescribed in
subsection B. of this section.
   B.   The following sections of the 2021 IMC are hereby revised by completion
of blanks, additions, deletions or amendments as follows:
      1.   Section 101.1. Insert: Village of Annawan, Illinois.
      2.   Section 103.1. Insert: Village of Annawan Building Department.
      3.   Section 115.4. Insert: $75.00; $750.00.
      4.   Any reference within the 2021 IMC to any plumbing code shall mean
the Illinois Plumbing Code.
      5.   Section 603.6.1.1 is amended as follows:
         603.6.1.1 Duct length. Flexible air ducts shall be limited in length
to 8 feet overall from termination point and contain no more than the
equivalent of one 90 degree turn with no offset greater than 45 degrees. All
flexible air ducts shall be of the insulated type. Flexible ducts shall only be
used for branches.
      6.   Section 603.2.1 is amended as follows:
         603.6.2.1 Connector length. Flexible air connectors shall be limited
in length to 12 feet overall from termination point and contain no more than
the equivalent of one 90 degree turn with no offset greater than 45 degrees.
All flexible air connectors shall be of the insulated type. Flexible ducts
shall only be used for branches.
      7.   Section 801.2.2 is added as follows:
         801.2.2 Fuel burning appliances. PVC vent piping for a fuel burning
appliance that is located in a concealed space shall be marked/labeled every 36
inches so as to distinguish it from plumbing or other piping.
      8.   Section 918.7 is added as follows:
         918.7 Furnace cement or welding. The use of furnace cement or welding
for the repair of furnace heat exchangers is prohibited.
      9.   Section 929 is added as follows:
      SECTION 929 ROOM HEATERS
         929.2 General. Unvented room heaters and/or fireplaces are prohibited.
      10.   Section 1002.1.1 is added as follows:
         1002.1.1 Installation. Water heaters greater than 5 gallons shall not
be elevated more than 18" above finished floor (AFF). When elevated, the
appliance shall be secured in an approved manner.
      11.   Appendix A "Chimney Connector Pass-Throughs" is added as part of
this Code. (1998 Code; amd. Ord. 410, 3-16-2023)
9-1-4: PLUMBING CODE ADOPTED:
There is adopted as the plumbing code of the village the minimum code of
standards published by the state department of public health pursuant to 225
ILCS 320/35, as such code shall be from time to time amended. (1998 Code; amd.
Ord. 410, 3-16-2023)
CHAPTER 2
MOBILE OR TRAILER HOMES
SECTION:
9-2-1: Allowed
9-2-2: Application For Installation
9-2-3: Required Conditions
9-2-4: Prohibited Locations
9-2-5: Permission Of Surrounding Property Owners
9-2-6: Approval Of Application
9-2-7: Noncompliance Prohibited
9-2-1: ALLOWED:
Mobile homes or trailer homes shall be allowed in the Village when the
conditions contained in this Chapter have been met. (Ord. 118, 6-1-1970)
9-2-2: APPLICATION FOR INSTALLATION:
All applications for the installation of mobile homes shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and shall be in writing, shall be signed by the applicant and
shall contain the following:
   A.   Name and address of applicant, and
   B.   The location and legal description of the property upon which said
mobile home is to be installed. (Ord. 118, 6-1-1970)
9-2-3: REQUIRED CONDITIONS:
   A.   Lot: Standard platted lots in the original residential area of the
Village may be used for mobile homes.
   B.   Number Allowed: There shall be no more than one trailer or mobile home
permitted per lot.
   C.   Permanent Foundation: Mobile homes shall be installed on a permanent
foundation of concrete, concrete block, or concrete and brick, meeting the same
standards and requirements as the foundation for a home of standard frame and/
or masonry construction.
   D.   Minimum Living Area: Any mobile home installed in the permitted area
shall have five hundred (500) square feet or more of living space, exclusive of
porches, garages and carports.
   E.   Connection To Water And Sewer: Mobile homes shall be connected to the
Village sewer and water system. (Ord. 118, 6-1-1970)
9-2-4: PROHIBITED LOCATIONS:
No mobile homes or trailer homes shall be located in Outlot Six of Atkinson's
Subdivision in the Village, being in the Southwest Quarter of Section 3,
Township 16 North, Range 5 East of the 4th P.M., and further, no mobile homes
or trailer homes shall be installed in any location south of Patey Street in
the Village. (Ord. 118, 6-1-1970)
9-2-5: PERMISSION OF SURROUNDING PROPERTY OWNERS:
Before any mobile home or trailer home shall be installed, any person wishing
to install same must have the written permission of the owners of all adjoining
tracts of property and owners of all other property within a radius three
hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the proposed location of the mobile
home, with such written permission signed and notarized and filed with the
Village Clerk. (Ord. 118, 6-1-1970)
9-2-6: APPROVAL OF APPLICATION:
   A.   Board Approval: Before any mobile homes are installed, there must be
approval by a majority vote of the Village Board and such vote can only be
taken after written permission of the property owners, as hereinbefore provided
for, are on file with the Village Clerk.
   B.   Objection To Application: If any such adjoining property owner or owner
of property within the three hundred foot (300') radius shall refuse to give
their permission or shall object to the placement of a mobile home, a majority
of the Village Board may still vote approval after a hearing is conducted in
the same manner that a hearing would be heard on an application for a zoning
variance 1 . (Ord. 118, 6-1-1970)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10, Chapter 11 of this Code.
9-2-7: NONCOMPLIANCE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use or maintain a trailer coach or
mobile home within the corporate limits of the Village except as is set forth
in this Chapter or in a trailer coach camp as set forth in Title 3, Chapter 5
of this Code. (Ord. 118, 6-1-1970)
CHAPTER 3
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
9-3-1: Property Maintenance Code Adopted
9-3-1: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED:
   A.   There is hereby adopted as the property maintenance code of the
Village, for purposes of regulating and governing the conditions and
maintenance of all property, buildings and structures by providing the
standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things and
conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for
occupation and use, and to provide for the condemnation of buildings and
structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and to provide for the demolition
of such structures, and to provide for the issuance of permits and collection
of fees therefor, that certain document entitled "International Property
Maintenance Code, 2021 Edition" (referred to herein as "2021 IPMC") as
published by the International Code Council including thereto appendix A and
the 2021 Errata sheet. Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said 2021 IPMC, as on file in the office of the
building official of the Village, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
pa1t hereof, as if fully set out in this article, with the additions,
insertions, deletions and changes as prescribed in subsection B. of this
section.
   B.   The following sections of the 2021 IPMC are hereby revised by
completion of blanks, addition or deletion therein as follows:
      1.   Section 103.1. Insert: Village of Annawan Building Department
      2.   Section 109.4 is amended to read as follows:
         Any person who violates any provisions of the 2021 IPMC, or any person
who fails to carry out an order made pursuant to the 2021 IPMC or who violates
any condition attached to a permit, approval or certificate thereunder, shall
be punished as provided in Section
1-4-1(A) of the Annawan Village Code. In addition to the remedies provided in
Section
1-4-l(A), the Village shall also be entitled to seek injunctive or other
equitable relief to enforce the provisions of the 2021 IPMC."
      3.   Section 302.4. Six inches.
      4.   Section 304.14. Insert: From April 1 each year to December 1 each
year.
      5.   Section 602.3. Insert: From October 1 each year to June 1 each year.
      6.   Section 602.4. Insert: November 1 each year to May 1 each year.
      7.   Any reference within the 2021 IPC to any plumbing code shall mean
the Illinois Plumbing Code.
      8.   Appendix A "BOARDING STANDARD" is added as part of this Code. (Ord.
410, 3-16-2023)
TITLE 10
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND PURPOSE
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Nature
10-1-4: Authority
10-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known as the zoning title of the village. (Ord. 244, 6-10-
2003)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The chapters, sections, and use districts created by this title are adopted for
the purpose, among others, of:
Promoting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, and general welfare;
Helping to achieve greater efficiency and economy of land development by
promoting the grouping of those activities which have similar needs and are
compatible;
Encouraging such distribution of population, land use, and land development
that will facilitate adequate and economic provisions of transportation,
communication, water supply, drainage, sanitation, education, recreation, and
other public requirements;
Lessening or avoiding congestions in the public streets and highways;
Protecting against fire, explosion, noxious fumes, and other hazards in the
interest of the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
Helping to prevent hazards to people and damage to property from the
accumulation of runoff storm water;
Helping to ensure that all residential, commercial, and manufacturing
structures, as well as other types of structures, will be accessible to
firefighting and other emergency equipment;
Prohibiting the formation or expansion of nonconforming uses of land,
buildings, and structures adversely affecting the character and value of
desirable development in each district;
Promoting the development of residential neighborhoods which are free of noise,
dust, fumes, and heavy traffic volumes in which each dwelling unit is assured
of light, air, and open spaces;
Helping to prevent land development activities which lead to roadside blight
and to minimize the effects of nuisance producing activities;
Conserving the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the village;
Defining and limiting the powers and duties of the administrative officer and
bodies as provided herein;
Preserving the architectural features and general architectural character of
the village as stated in the Chipman design study and accompanying manual.
(Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-1-3: NATURE:
This title classifies and regulates the use of land, buildings, and structures
within the corporate limits of the village of Annawan, Illinois. The
regulations contained herein are necessary to promote the health, safety,
convenience, and welfare of the inhabitants by dividing the village into zoning
districts and regulating the use of land and the use and size of buildings as
to height and number of stories, the coverage of the land by buildings, the
size of yards and open spaces, the location of buildings and the density of
population, and the historic preservation and design of buildings. (Ord. 244,
6-10-2003)
10-1-4: AUTHORITY:
This title is adopted in pursuance of the authority granted by the Illinois
Compiled Statutes and the Illinois historic preservation act 1 . (Ord. 244, 6-
10-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-48.2-1 et seq.
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Interpretation
10-2-2: Words Defined
10-2-1: INTERPRETATION:
For the purpose of this title and in order to carry out the provisions
contained herein, certain words, terms, and phrases are to be interpreted as
defined herein.
Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense; the singular
number includes the plural and the plural number the singular. The word "lot"
includes the word "plot" or "parcel". The word "shall" is mandatory and the
word "may" is permissive.
The following words, terms, and phrases are hereby defined as follows and shall
be interpreted as such throughout this regulation. Terms not herein defined
shall have the meanings customarily assigned to them. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-2-2: WORDS DEFINED:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this title, they shall have
such meaning as ascribed to them below unless the context specifically
indicates otherwise:
ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE, OR USE: A subordinate building, structure, or
use which is customary and incidental to the principal building or use and
which is located on the same lot or parcel of land with the principal building
or use. Parking lots or spaces shall not be considered as accessory uses under
this definition. Accessory buildings shall not be used for dwelling purposes.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER: The individual designated by this title to administer
the provisions of this zoning title.
ADULT BOOKSTORE: An establishment having any portion of its stock in trade,
books, magazines, films, or other electronically recorded material for sale or
viewing on premises by use of motion picture device or any other means, and
other periodicals which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to "specified anatomical areas" or
"specified sexual activities" including instruments, devices, or paraphernalia
that are designed for use in connection with specified sexual activities.
ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT: Any activity involving the presentation of live
models displaying lingerie, or otherwise presenting live artistic modeling with
said modeling displaying the human body in a nude or seminude state,
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis of "specific anatomical areas"
for observation by patrons therein and including, but not limited to, topless
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar entertainment.
ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATERS: An enclosed building with a capacity for
less than fifty (50) persons, predominately used for presenting materials
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to "specified anatomical areas" or "specific sexual activities" for
observation by paying patrons therein. "Predominately" shall mean all
presentations.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS: An enclosed building with a capacity for fifty
(50) or more persons, predominately used for presenting materials distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
"specific anatomical areas" or "specific sexual activities" for observation by
paying patrons therein. "Predominately" shall mean all presentations.
ADVERTISING DEVICE: Banners affixed on poles, wires, or ropes; and streamers,
wind operated devices; flashing lights; and other similar devices.
ALLEY: A trafficway dedicated to public use which affords a secondary means of
vehicular access to the back side of properties otherwise abutting a street.
ALTERATION: Any appreciable change in the external architectural features of
any structure or building, visible from a public way or from adjoining
property.
APARTMENT: A room or suite of rooms in a multiple- or two-family dwelling or
where more than one living unit is established above nonresidential uses,
intended or designed for use as a residence by a single family, as defined
herein, and providing essential housekeeping facilities, kitchen and cooking
facilities, bath and sleeping quarters.
APARTMENT HOUSE: See definition of Dwelling, Multiple-Family.
AUTO LAUNDRY: A building, or portion thereof, containing facilities for washing
automobiles using production line methods with a chain conveyor, blower, steam
cleaning device or other mechanical devices; or providing space, water,
equipment, or soap for the complete or partial hand washing of such automobiles
whether by operator or by customer.
AUTO PARTS RECYCLER: A person who is in the business of acquiring previously
owned vehicles for parts for the primary purpose of disposing of vehicles'
parts for reuse, in a manner other than by shredding or melting.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: One or more buildings or premises where gasoline,
oil, and grease may be supplied and dispensed at retail and incidental repair,
batteries, tires, accessories, and maintenance may be obtained. Uses
permissible at a service station do not include major mechanical and body work,
straightening or replacement of body parts, painting, welding, storage of
automobiles not in operating condition, or other work involving greater than
normally found in service stations. A service station is not a repair garage or
a body shop. All activities incidental to the sale of gasoline or oil shall be
conducted within a building and there shall be no storage or accumulation of
equipment or motor vehicles outside of the principal structure.
BASEMENT: A story having part, but not more than fifty percent (50%) of its
height below the average grade of the adjoining ground (as distinguished from a
"cellar"). A basement shall be counted as a story for the purpose of height
measurement.
BED AND BREAKFAST HOUSE: An operator occupied building providing accommodations
for a charge to the public and by prearrangements for definite periods. Only
one meal, breakfast, shall be served to guests.
BILLBOARD: A type of sign having more than fifty (50) square feet of display
surface which is either erected on the ground or attached to or supported by a
building or structure.
BOARD OF APPEALS: The zoning board of appeals of the village.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls built for
support, shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any
kind, but not including any vehicles, trailer, or mobile home (with or without
wheels), or any movable device such as furniture, machinery or equipment, or
portable hog houses.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof, or the deck line of a mansard roof, or the
mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable, hip, and gambrel roofs.
BUILDING SETBACK LINE: A line within a lot or other parcel of land so
designated on the plat or as required by this title which denotes the area
between such line and the adjacent street right of way line where structures
are prohibited, except those that are permitted by the zoning title.
BULK STORAGE: As set forth in the rules and regulations of the Illinois state
fire marshal.
CELLAR: A story having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below grade. A
cellar is not included in computing the number of stories for the purpose of
height measurements.
CHILDCARE CENTER: Any licensed place, home, or institution which receives three
(3) or more children under the age of sixteen (16) years and not of common
parentage for care apart from their natural parents, legal guardian, or
custodians when received for regular periods of time for compensation.
CLINIC: An establishment used for the care, diagnosis, and treatment of sick,
ailing, infirm, or injured persons (those who are in need of medical,
psychiatric, chiropractic, or surgical attention, but who are not provided with
board or room or kept overnight on the premises). A clinic may include an
apothecary, pharmacy, or drugstore as an integral part of the clinic.
CLUB OR LODGE, PRIVATE: Building and facilities owned or operated by a
corporation, association, person, or persons for a social, educational, or
recreational purpose, but not primarily for profit or to render a service which
is customarily carried on as a business.
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BOARD: The community development board of the village.
DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT OR REFRESHMENT STAND: Any licensed place or premises
principally used for the sale, dispensing, or serving food, refreshments, or
beverages in automobiles, including those establishments where customers may
serve themselves and may eat or drink the food, refreshments, or beverages on
or off the premises.
DWELLING: A building, or portion thereof, designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, but not including home trailers, mobile homes, hotels,
motels, boarding and lodging homes, tourist courts or tourist homes.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A residential building designed for occupancy by
four (4) or more families.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A detached residential dwelling unit other than a
mobile home designed for occupancy by one family only.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A detached residential building containing two (2)
dwelling units designed for occupancy by not more than two (2) families
(duplex).
DWELLING UNIT: Residential living area which consists of one or more rooms
which are arranged, designed, or used as living quarters for one family only.
EASEMENT, ACCESS: The vested right to use property for the purpose of access by
abutting property, such right being held by someone other than the owner who
holds title to the land over which the easement of access is granted.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Includes the erection, alteration, or maintenance by public
utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground or
overhead gas, electrical communications, supply or disposal systems, retention
ponds, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables,
traffic signals, hydrants, and other similar equipment and accessories in
connection therewith, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate
service by such public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or
for the public health or safety or general welfare, but not including
buildings.
EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL FEATURE: The architectural style, color, and general
arrangement of the exterior of the structure, including the type and texture of
building materials, all windows, doors, lights, signs, and other fixtures
appurtenant thereto.
FAMILY/HOUSEHOLD: One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a
single housekeeping unit, related to each other by blood, adoption, or
marriage. Unrelated groups consisting of not more than five (5) persons
occupying a premises and living as a single housekeeping unit shall be known as
a household. These are distinguished from a boarding house, lodging house, or
"hotel", as defined herein.
FARM: An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products such as
vegetables, fruit, trees, and grain and their storage on the area, as well as
for raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm animals such as horses,
cattle, and sheep (in accordance with applicable village ordinance). The term
"farming" includes the operation of such an area for one or more of the above
uses, including dairy farms with the necessary accessory uses for treating or
storing the products; provided, however, that the operation of any such
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal farming activities. A
"farm" shall contain an area of five (5) acres of more.
FARMSTEAD: The buildings and adjacent service areas of a farm, including one
dwelling unit whose occupants earn a substantial part of their livelihood from
the farm operation, plus a second dwelling unit if used by farm help whose
livelihood is derived in substantial part from the farm operation.
FENCE: Structure which is a barrier used to mark a boundary or as a means of
protection, confinement, screening, or decoration.
FLOODPLAIN OR SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Those lands within the
jurisdiction of the village that are subject to inundation by the flood having
a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or exceeded in any given year
(also known as the 100-year flood).
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of the street between two (2) intersecting
streets (crossing or terminating) measured along the line of the street, or, if
the street is dead ended, then all of the property abutting on one side between
an intersection street and the dead end of the street.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building housing motor driven vehicles which are
the property of and for the private use of the occupants of the lot on which
the private garage is located and not more than one of the vehicles may be a
commercial vehicle of not more than three (3) ton capacity. Space may be rented
for the occupancy of a private vehicle in accordance with this definition.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: Any building or premises except those used as a private or
storage garage used for equipping, hiring, selling, or storing motor driven
vehicles.
GARAGE, STORAGE: Any building or premises used for housing only motor driven
vehicles other than trucks and commercial vehicles pursuant to previous
arrangements and not to transients and at which automobile fuels and oils that
are not sold and motor driven vehicles are not equipped, repaired, hired or
sold.
GASOLINE: As set forth in the rules and regulations of the Illinois state fire
marshal.
GRADE: The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of the building, except when any nonconforming wall
approximately parallels and is not more than five feet (5') from a road line,
then the elevation of the road at the corner of the wall adjoining the road
shall be the grade.
GUESTROOM: A sleeping room intended to serve no more than two (2) guests per
night.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation or activity incidental to residential use when
carried on in the main building by immediate family residing on the premises in
connection with which there is used not other than a nonilluminated name plate
not more than one square foot in area and no display used that will indicate
from the exterior that the building is being used for any purpose other than
that of a dwelling. No person is employed other than a member of the immediate
family residing on the premises.
HOTEL: A building in which lodging and possible food services are provided and
offered to the public for compensation and in which ingress and egress to and
from all rooms are made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a
person in charge at all hours. As such, it is open to the public in
contradistinction to the boarding house or multiple-family dwelling as herein
separately defined.
INSTITUTION: A building occupied by a nonprofit corporation or nonprofit
establishment for public use.
JUNKYARD: A lot, land, or structure, or part thereof, used primarily for the
collection, storage, and sale of waste, paper, rags, scrap metal, or discarded
materials or for the collection, storage, dismantling and salvaging of
machinery or vehicles not in running condition, and for the sale of parts
thereof. The term "junkyard" shall include auto wrecking yards.
KENNEL: Any lot or premises on which are kept two (2) or more dogs more than
six (6) months of age for compensation, sale, or personal use.
LAUNDROMAT: An establishment providing home type washing, drying, or ironing
machines for hire to be used by customers on the premises.
LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS: As set forth in the rules of the Illinois state fire
marshal.
LODGING AND ROOMING HOUSE: Operator occupied building providing accommodations
for a charge to the public and by prearrangement for definite periods; meals
are not provided for guests, not open to transient guests in contradistinction
to hotels, motels, and camps, which are open to transient guests.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted in
this title, including one main building together with its accessory buildings,
the open spaces and parking spaces required by this title, and having its
principal frontage upon a street or upon an official approved place.
LOT AREA: The total horizontal area included within lot lines.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more streets at their intersection.
LOT, DEPTH OF: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
streets as distinguished from a corner lot.
LOT, FRONTAGE: That dimension of a lot or portion of a lot abutting on a
street, excluding the side dimension of a corner lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: Any lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage street.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot which is part of a subdivision, the map of which has been
recorded in the office of the recorder of deeds for Henry County, Illinois,
prior to June 13, 1972.
LOT WIDTH: The distance between straight lines connecting front and rear lot
lines at each side of the lot. Where side lot lines are not continuously
parallel or at right angles to the abutting street, the average of the rear and
front widths shall be used.
MOBILE HOME: A portable or mobile living unit (either single or double width)
used or designed for human occupancy on a permanent basis. A travel trailer is
not to be considered a mobile home.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A parcel of land under single ownership which has been
designed or improved or is intended to be used or rented for occupancy by one
or more mobile homes or house trailers on a relatively permanent basis and in
contradistinction to a transient or camper park.
MOTEL: A building primarily for transients traveling by motor driven vehicles
with parking space on the premises for each lodging unit and with access to
each such unit directly from the outside.
NEIGHBORING STRUCTURE: Any existing structure or any structure for which a
building permit has been issued which is situated on any one of the following
lots:
   A.   Any lot within one lot on the same side of the street on either side of
the proposed construction, without regard to intersecting street lines; or
   B.   Any lot within one lot of the property directly across from the
proposed construction on the opposite side of the street, without regard to
intersecting street lines; or
   C.   Any lot within one lot of the proposed construction providing such lot
is abutting a street intersecting the street upon which the proposed
construction will be located and that the front elevations of the subject
structures will be approximately ninety degrees (90°) to each other.
NONCONFORMING USE, ILLEGAL: Buildings or premises whose use is changed after
the adoption date hereof for purposes which do not meet the requirements of the
district in which said building or premises are located. Such nonconforming
uses are violations of this zoning title (see
chapter 14 of this title).
NONCONFORMING USE, LEGAL: Continued use of buildings or premises for purposes
which, prior to the adoption date hereof, do not meet the requirements of the
zoning district in which such building or premises are located.
NURSING HOME INCLUDING CONVALESCENT HOME, REST HOME AND HOME FOR THE AGED: An
establishment used as a dwelling place by the aged, infirm, chronically ill or
incurably afflicted persons in which not less than three (3) persons live or
are kept or provided for on the premises for compensation excluding clinics and
hospitals and similar institutions devoted to the diagnosis, treatment, or care
of the sick or injured.
OPERATOR OCCUPIED: The owner or the owner's manager of an establishment who is
required to reside within the main building of the establishment.
OVERLAY DISTRICT: The districts do not change the zoning of the underlying
area, but impose additional regulations because of location in the floodplain
and historic preservation district or grant relief from certain zoning
requirements for mutual benefit of the village and development for a planned
unit development (PUD).
PARKING LOT: An enclosed area providing space for the storage or parking of two
(2) or more automobiles with the necessary access driveways and aisle space to
permit ingress and egress of automobiles to the lot and individual designated
parking spaces without moving other automobiles. Each parking space therein
shall be at least eleven feet (11') wide and contain one hundred seventy six
(176) square feet per parking space. The same shall be paved in accordance with
subsection
10-7-1F of this title.
PARKING SPACE: A durably surfaced area enclosed in the main building, in an
accessory building, or enclosed, sufficient in size to store one standard
automobile and, if the space is unenclosed, comprising an area of not less than
one hundred seventy six (176) square feet, exclusive of a driveway, connecting
the parking space with the street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress
and egress of any automobile.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A development which may involve the creative location
and intermixing of various types of residential housing and a limited amount of
business use, if desired, on one tract of land.
PREMISES: A lot, together with all buildings and structures thereon.
PRINCIPAL BUILDING, STRUCTURE, OR USE: A building, structure, or use which
comprises the main or primary occupation and focus of a lot. Although the size
of a building shall be a factor in determining whether it is the principal
building, size shall be considered in conjunction with all other factors,
including the actual use and intent of the occupant in making the
determination.
ROADSIDE STAND: A licensed, temporary structure with a floor area of not more
than four hundred (400) square feet enclosed and so designed and constructed
that is easily portable and can be readily removed.
SATELLITE DISH: A signal receiving device characteristically shaped like a
saucer or dish, the purpose of which is to receive communication or other
signals from orbiting satellites.
SERVICE STATION: See definition of Automobile Service Station.
SIGN: An identification, description, illustration, or device which is affixed
to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or land and
which directs attention to a product, place, activity, person, institution, or
business.
SIGN AREA: The total area of the space to be used for advertising matter,
including the spaces between open type letters and figures, including the
background structure or other decoration or addition which is an integral part
of the sign. Sign supports shall be excluded in determining the area of a sign.
A double faced sign shall have twice the total area of a single faced sign.
SIGN, FRONTAGE: The dimension and feet off the ground floor level of a building
front or of a side which faces the street which a business occupies. A single
building can have more than one sign frontage; corner sites must have separate
frontages.
SIGN, GROUND: Any sign erected, constructed, or maintained for the purpose of
displaying outdoor advertising by means of posters, pictures, pictorial, and
reading matter when such sign is supported by uprights, posts, or braces placed
upon or affixed in the ground and not attached to any part of a building;
includes billboards.
SIGN, MARQUEE: Any sign affixed to a marquee over the entrance to a building
and supported from the building.
SIGN, OFF SITE: A sign other than an on site sign.
SIGN, ON SITE: A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on which
it is located or to products, accommodation services, or activities on the
premises. On site signs do not include billboards.
SIGN, PORTABLE: Any ground sign which is not affixed or imbedded into the
ground and is capable of being moved or transported from one site to another.
SIGN, ROOF: Any sign erected, constructed, or maintained upon the roof of any
building.
SIGN, WALL: Any painted sign or poster on any surface or plane that may be
affixed to the front, side or rear wall of any building.
SIGN, WINDOW: A sign placed inside a building next to a window so as to be
visible to the outside of the building.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above or the ceiling or roof next
above such floor; provided that, for the purpose of determining the required
dimensions of yards and courts, when the average story height of a building
exceeds twelve feet (12'), each twelve feet (12') or fraction thereof of the
total building height shall be considered a separate full story or fractional
story respectively, except the first story, which may be fifteen feet (15')
high.
STORY, HALF: A partial story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than
five feet (5') above the floor of such story; provided, however, that any
partial story used for residential purposes shall be deemed a full story. A
half story may be used for occupancy only in conjunction with the occupancy of
the story immediately below.
STREET: A general term used to describe a public right of way which provides
designated improved areas for vehicular and pedestrian movement and may provide
for vehicular and pedestrian access to properties adjacent to it and which may
also provide space for the location of utilities (both above and below ground).
STREET LINE: The line separating the public right of way from property abutting
thereon.
STREET, MAJOR: A trafficway connecting communities or connecting to limited
access trafficways which, in turn, connect to other communities.
STREET, THOROUGHFARE: A limited access trafficway connecting two (2) or more
communities.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any changes that would prolong the life of the
supporting members of a building or structure such as the bearing walls,
columns, beams, or girders, not including openings in bearing walls as
permitted by other chapters.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent location on
the ground including, but not limiting, the generality of the foregoing,
advertising signs, billboards, backstops for tennis courts, and pergolas.
TOURIST OR TRAILER CAMPS: An area designated or designed and equipped to
accommodate two (2) or more trailers, tents, or other temporary living or
dwelling units and intended to service automobile transients in
contradistinction to a mobile home park or court, which is intended for a more
permanent occupancy.
TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed to
be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes, having a
body width not exceeding eight feet (8').
VOLATILE OILS: As set forth in the rules and regulations of the Illinois state
fire marshal.
YARD: Require open space at-grade unoccupied and unobstructed by any structure
or portion of a structure other than projections of uncovered steps, uncovered
balconies or uncovered porches; provided, however, that fences, walls, poles,
posts, and other customary yard accessories, ornaments, and furniture may be
permitted in any yard subject to height and visibility requirements. In
measuring a yard for the purposes of determining the width of side yard, depth
of a front yard or rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot
line and the main building shall be used.
YARD, FRONT: Any open space extending the full width of a lot between a
building and the front lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as hereinafter specified.
YARD, REAR: An open space extending the full width of a lot between a building
and the rear lot lines, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward,
except as hereinafter specified.
YARD, SIDE: An open space extending the front yard to the rear yard between a
building and the side lot line, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground
upward, except as hereinafter specified.
ZONING DISTRICT: Any area or areas within the limits of the village for which
the regulations and requirements governing use, lot, and bulk of buildings and
premises are uniform.
ZONING MAP: See
chapter 3 of this title. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
10-3-1: Establishment Of Districts
10-3-2: Zoning Map
10-3-3: Rules For Interpretation Of District Boundaries
10-3-4: Annexed Territory
10-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
In order to classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades, businesses,
industries, residences and other land uses and the location of buildings
designed for specific uses; to regulate and limit the height and bulk of
buildings hereafter erected or structurally altered; to regulate and limit the
intensity of the use of lot areas and to regulate and determine the areas of
yards, courts and other open spaces within and surrounding such buildings, the
incorporated area of the village is hereby divided into the following zoning
districts:
 A     Agricultural district
 OTR-1 Old town residential district
 R-1   Residential district (single-family)
 R-2   Residential district (2 or less units)
 R-3   Residential/multi-family district
 B-1   Business district (restricted)
 B-2   Business district (nonrestricted)
 I-1   Light industrial district
 I-2   Heavy industrial district
 F     Floodplain overlay district
 PUD   Planned unit development overlay district
 Wireless communication facility overlay district 1
 Wireless communication facility overlay district 2
 
(Ord. 314, 3-23-2009)
10-3-2: ZONING MAP:
The location and boundaries of the zoning districts established by this chapter
are set forth on the map entitled "zoning map" which is herein and hereby made
a part of this title. Said map, together with everything shown thereon and all
amendments thereto, shall be as much a part of this title as though fully set
forth and described herein. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-3-3: RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the precise location of any of the
aforesaid districts shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply:
   A.   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following streets,
highways, or alleys shall be constructed to follow the centerlines of such
streets, highways, or alleys.
   B.   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and where the
property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and lots, such
boundaries shall be constructed to be the lot lines and, where the districts
are bounded approximately by lot lines, lot lines shall be constructed to be
the boundary of such districts unless said boundaries are otherwise indicated
on the zoning map.
   C.   Where a boundary line is shown as being located a specific distance
from a street or road line or other physical feature, this distance shall
control.
   D.   Boundaries shown as following or approximately following the
centerlines of streams, rivers, or other continuously flowing watercourses
shall be constructed as following the channel centerline of such watercourses
taken at a mean low watermark.
   E.   Boundaries shown as following or closely following the village limits
shall be constructed as following such limits.
   F.   In unsubsidized property, unless otherwise indicated, the district
boundary line shall be determined by the use of the scale contained on the
zoning map.
   G.   Where the application of the aforesaid rules leaves a reasonable doubt
as to the boundaries between two (2) districts, the regulations of the more
restrictive district shall govern the entire parcel in question, unless
otherwise determined by the zoning board of appeals in accordance with
provisions contained in chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-3-4: ANNEXED TERRITORY:
All territory which may hereafter be annexed to the village shall be classified
automatically as being in an agriculture district until such classification
shall have been changed by amendment of this chapter as provided hereafter or
as provided in a preannexation agreement. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Zoning Affects Every Structure And Use
10-4-2: Lot Requirements
10-4-3: Accessory Buildings
10-4-4: Required Yard Cannot Be Reduced Or Used By Another Building
10-4-5: Conversion Of Dwellings
10-4-6: Traffic Visibility
10-4-7: Mobile Homes
10-4-8: Validity Of Existing Building Permits
10-4-9: Residential Use Of Basements And Cellars
10-4-10: Flood Hazard And Obstruction Of Watercourse Channels
10-4-11: Fences
10-4-12: Adult Live Entertainment
10-4-13: Severability
10-4-1: ZONING AFFECTS EVERY STRUCTURE AND USE:
Except as hereinafter provided, no building, structure, or land shall be
erected, constructed, reconstructed, occupied, moved, altered, repaired, or
used except in conformity with the regulations hereinafter specified for the
class of district in which it is located. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-4-2: LOT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Minimum Street Frontage: No lot shall be created after the adoption
date hereof unless it abuts on a public street and has access thereto of that
minimum frontage set forth by section
10-6-3 of this title.
   B.   Lot Of Record: In any residential district on a lot of record at the
time of enactment of this title, one single-family dwelling may be established
regardless of the size or width of the lot, provided all other requirements of
this title are complied with.
   C.   Number Of Buildings On A Lot: Except in the case of planned unit
developments, motels, or mobile home parks, not more than one principal
detached building shall be located on a lot nor shall a principal detached
residential building be located on the same lot with any other principal
building.
   D.   Lots Unserved By Sewer And/Or Water: In any district where neither
central water supply nor central sewerage system is available within two
hundred feet (200') of the proposed lot, one single-family detached dwelling
may be constructed, provided the otherwise specified lot area and width
requirements shall be a minimum of one acre and two hundred feet (200')
respectively. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-4-3: ACCESSORY BUILDINGS:
   A.   Time Of Construction: No accessory buildings, structures, or uses shall
be permitted on any lot prior to the time of construction of the principal
building to which it is accessory.
   B.   Percentage Of Yard Occupied: No detached accessory building or
buildings shall occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of a side or
rear yard.
   C.   Height Of Accessory Building: No detached accessory building or
structure shall be exceeding ninety percent (90%) of the height of the
principal building or structure or seventeen feet (17'), whichever is less.
   D.   Size Of Accessory Buildings: A lot may contain more than one accessory
building, as long as the terms of this and all other sections of the zoning
ordinance are complied with. No single accessory building larger than nine
hundred sixty (960) square feet of ground or floor area shall be permitted in
the R-1 through R-2 districts, except private garages may be provided four
hundred eighty (480) square feet per unit on multi-family lots.
   E.   Location On Lot: No accessory building shall be erected in any front
yard. Accessory buildings shall be no closer than eight feet (8') from all lot
lines adjoining lots which are in any residential district and at least fifteen
feet (15') from alley lines. It shall not encroach upon the required side yard.
No accessory building is permitted on easement areas. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-4-4: REQUIRED YARD CANNOT BE REDUCED OR USED BY ANOTHER BUILDING:
No lot, yard, or other open space shall be reduced in area or dimension as to
make any such area or dimension less than the minimum required by this chapter
and, if already less than the minimum required, it shall not be further
reduced. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-4-5: CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS:
The conversion of any building into a dwelling or the conversion of any
dwelling so as to accommodate an increased number of dwelling units or families
shall be permitted only within a district in which a new building for similar
occupancy would be permitted under this title and only when the resulting
occupancy will comply with the requirements governing new construction in such
district with respect to minimum lot size, lot area per dwelling unit,
dimensions of yards and other open space, and off street parking. Each
conversion shall be subject also to such further requirements as may be
specified hereinafter within the chapter applying to such districts. (Ord. 244,
6-10-2003)
10-4-6: TRAFFIC VISIBILITY:
In a residential district, no fence, structure, or planting which obstructs
vehicular visibility shall be erected or maintained within a required front
yard setback area. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-4-7: MOBILE HOMES:
All uninhabited mobile homes or house trailers shall be located in a mobile
home court or park that has received a conditional use permit as required by
chapter 11 of this title. No mobile home or house trailer outside an approved
mobile home court or park shall be connected to utilities except those mobile
homes or house trailers being offered for sale by a licensed dealer or
manufacturer and not inhabited which may be connected to electrical outlets on
the dealer's sales lot. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-4-8: VALIDITY OF EXISTING BUILDING PERMITS:
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the overall layout, plans,
construction, size or designated uses of any development, building structure or
part thereof for which the official approvals and required building permits
have been granted before the enactment of this title, the construction of
which, conforming with such plans, shall have been started prior to the
effective date of this title and the completion thereof carried on in a normal
manner within the subsequent six (6) month period and not discontinued until
completion except for reasons beyond the builder's control. (Ord. 244, 6-10-
2003)
10-4-9: RESIDENTIAL USE OF BASEMENTS AND CELLARS:
The residential use of buildings or structures consisting solely or primarily
of a basement or cellar which is part of a conventionally designed building
shall comply with all other applicable building, health, fire, safety, and
housing regulations. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-4-10: FLOOD HAZARD AND OBSTRUCTION OF WATERCOURSE CHANNELS:
   A.   Flood Hazard: In any district which is subject to flood hazard, a
building permit of any structure shall be issued only when the construction
meets the requirements of the floodplain regulations.
   B.   Obstruction Of Watercourse Channel: To prevent encroachment upon or
construction in river or creek channels and thereby avoid obstruction to the
natural conveyance of water flow in such rivers, creeks, and other natural
watercourses, there shall not be placed, erected, or located within the
designated floodplain of such watercourses any building or structure, pier, or
marina, retaining or revetment wall, except authorized bridges or dams. In
addition, there shall not be placed any filling of earth, ashes, rubbish,
rubble, concrete, masonry, or any other kind of fill, except as provided by the
Annawan flood control regulations. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-4-11: FENCES:
   A.   Definition: A "fence" is a structure which is a barrier used to mark a
boundary or as a means of protection, confinement, screening, or decoration.
   B.   Fences In Residential Yards: Fences, walls, hedges, and other plantings
are permitted in residential yards under the following restrictions:
      1.   Front yard and side yard to the rear of the house shall be no more
than three feet (3') in height. From the rear of the house no more than six
feet (6'), up to the front boundary of the yard. No hedges, fence or other
plantings (or any portion thereof) will exceed three feet (3') in height within
three feet (3') of any street or sidewalk.
      2.   All other fences, walls, hedges, and other plantings shall not
exceed six feet (6') in height above the natural grade level in any yard. No
such fence, wall, hedge, or other planting shall be permitted to obstruct
traffic visibility on corner lots or other alley or driveway entrances, and
hedges, fence and other planting shall be maintained.
      3.   All fences, walls, hedges, and other plantings shall specifically
comply with any state statues regarding height and positioning along roads,
streets, and highways within the jurisdiction of the state of Illinois.
   C.   Security Fences: Security fences are permitted in nonresidential yards
up to the property line of a lot with a one foot (1') setback. Such fences
shall not exceed ten feet (10') in height. No such fences shall be permitted
which would obstruct traffic visibility on corner lots or other alley or
driveway entrances.
   D.   Barbed Wire Fences: No fence consisting or made of barbed wire, or of
which barbed wire is a part, or any wire which is charged with electrical
current, shall be built or used in residential zones. In business and
industrial zones, barbed wire may be placed seven feet (7') or more above the
ground when placed in conjunction with a woven wire security fence.
   E.   Swimming Pools: Every person who owns or is in possession of any
premises on which there is situated a swimming pool, either inground or
aboveground, with a filtration system, which has a water depth of eighteen
inches (18") or more in any portion thereof, shall maintain on the lot or
premises upon which such swimming pool is situated a fence, wall, or other
adequate structure completely surrounding the pool and constructed so as to
make it inaccessible to small children. The fence, wall or other structure must
be not less than four feet (4') in height, with no openings large enough to
admit a child except through doors or gates. However, this minimum height
requirement shall not be constructed to permit swimming pool fences with a
maximum height higher than six feet (6'), as set forth in this title. All doors
and gates in fences surrounding swimming pools shall be of such a size to
completely fill any opening in the fence, wall, or other structure and shall be
equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices capable of keeping such
gate or door securely closed. The closing or latching devices shall be located
not less than four feet (4') above grade or be otherwise inaccessible from the
outside to small children. In lieu of self-closing and self-latching devices,
the doors and gates must be equipped with locks which shall be kept locked at
all times when the pool is not in actual use.
   F.   Nonapplicable Provisions: The provisions of this section shall not be
applicable to fences, walls, hedges, or other plantings which are in existence
when this title is adopted, unless the building inspector of the village of
Annawan determines that such fence, wall, hedge, or other planting constitutes
a danger to public health or safety. The determination of the building
inspector shall be in writing and set forth the reasons the fence, wall, hedge,
or other planting constitutes such a danger. A copy of written determination
shall be mailed to the owner of the premises on which the fence, wall, hedge,
or other planting is situated. Such owner may appeal the determination in
accordance with the provisions of chapter 11 of this title. (Ord. 244, 6-10-
2003)
10-4-12: ADULT LIVE ENTERTAINMENT:
No establishment or business shall permit adult live entertainment nor conduct
business as an adult mini-motion picture theater or adult motion picture
theater within the boundaries of the village of Annawan. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-4-13: SEVERABILITY:
If any provisions or part of this title should be held unenforceable by a court
of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the provisions herein contained
shall be deemed to continue in full force and effect. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICTS; USE OF PREMISES
SECTION:
10-5-1: Uses
10-5-2: A Agricultural District
10-5-3: OTR-1 Old Town Residential District
10-5-4: R-1 Residential District
10-5-5: R-2 Residential District
10-5-6: R-3 Residential/Multi-Family District
10-5-7: Business Districts
10-5-8: B-1 Business District; Restricted
10-5-9: B-2 Business District; Nonrestricted
10-5-10: I-1 Light Industrial District
10-5-11: I-2 Heavy Industrial District
10-5-12: F Floodplain Overlay District
10-5-13: PUD Planned Unit Development Overlay District
10-5-14: Nonconforming Uses
10-5-1: USES:
   A.   Permissive Uses: Those uses permitted in a particular zoning district
without any special action or approval.
   B.   Conditional Uses: Those uses in a particular zoning district which may
be recommended by the zoning board of appeals and granted by the village board
in accordance with the procedures and other conditions set forth in
chapter 11 of this title.
      1.   Granting A Conditional Use: When a conditional use permit is granted
by the village board, the usage for which the conditional use was sought shall
begin within one year of the meeting date or be null and void unless a
different date is specified in the permit. All permits granted under the
provisions of the previous chapters shall fall under the provisions of this
subsection B with the meeting date being the date of passage of this title.
      2.   Discontinuance Of A Conditional Use: No building or premises used in
whole or part under a conditional use permit which remains idle or unused for a
continuous period of one year, whether or not the equipment or fixtures are
removed, shall again be used for that purpose unless a new permit be granted.
Temporary buildings for construction purposes are permitted in any district
during periods of construction.
      3.   Conditional Use Contingent On License: The village shall not be
obliged to grant a conditional use for a lodging and rooming house, boarding
house, or bed and breakfast house merely because the owner has obtained a
license from the Henry County health department, but shall consider all
pertinent factors as set forth in the Annawan zoning ordinance with relation to
conditional uses. However, a conditional use may be granted to an owner who has
not yet obtained a license from the Henry County health department, subject to
such a license being obtained within a reasonable time approved by the village,
not to exceed two (2) weeks from the granting of the conditional use. In the
event that the owner does not obtain the license within the required period or
any extension thereof granted by the village, or in the event the owner's
license is revoked by the Henry County health department for any reason, the
conditional use shall be automatically revoked and terminated. (Ord. 244, 6-10-
2003)
10-5-2: A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: This district is intended to preserve a rural setting of very
low density and high quality for "estate" or gentleman's farm type development,
while providing also for the continuance of commercial agriculture on
properties of sufficient area to permit compatibility with surrounding
residential development, in areas not served or immediately intended to be
served by municipal services, such as sewer and water systems.
   B.   Permissive Uses:
      Cemetery.
      Controlled uses of agricultural or farming nature.
      Farm of not less than five (5) acres in size.
      Farmstead.
      Plant nursery and greenhouse.
      Publicly owned or operated park or playground.
      Roadside stand offering for sale only farm products on the premises,
which stand shall be removed during any period when not in use or not in season
after appropriate permits and licenses are obtained.
   C.   Height, Yard, Lot Width And Area Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 6 of this title.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 7 of this title.
   E.   Conditional Uses:
      Church and school, including college and junior college.
      Country club or golf courses, except miniature golf course or golf
driving range for commercial purposes.
      Home occupation.
      Hospital, nursing home, and educational, licensed religious and
philanthropic institution on sites of not less than five (5) acres, provided
not more than twenty percent (20%) of the site area may be occupied by the
buildings and, provided further, that the buildings shall be set back from all
required yard lines an additional two feet (2') for each foot of building
height above that required of the A agricultural district.
      Privately operated outdoor recreational facility, including riding
stable, lake, swimming pool, tennis court, and golf course, provided they are
located on sites of five (5) acres or more.
      Railroad trackage.
      Single-family dwelling.
      Veterinary hospital or clinic provided that any building or enclosure so
used shall be located not less than one hundred feet (100') from any street or
lot line or residential district.
(Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-5-3: OTR-1 OLD TOWN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The principal use of land is for single-family dwellings. These
residential areas are intended to be defined and protected from encroachment of
uses which are not appropriate to a residential environment. Internal
stability, attractiveness, order, and efficiency are encouraged by providing
for adequate light, air, and open space for dwellings and related facilities.
   B.   Permissive Uses:
Accessory building or use as follows:
Private garage and parking areas for the sole use of the occupants.
Tennis court, swimming pool, garden house, pergola, ornamental gate, barbecue
oven, fireplace, and similar uses customarily accessory to residential use.
Vegetable and flower garden.
Farm of not less than five (5) acres in size.
Single-family dwelling.
   C.   Height, Yard, Lot Width And Area Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 6 of this title.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 7 of this title.
   E.   Conditional Uses:
Any residential business shall be allowed as a conditional use after public
hearing of the zoning board of appeals as provided under this chapter, and only
after licenses have been obtained.
Barber or beauty shop.
Branch telephone exchange, transformer station, and booster or pressure
regulating station, without service yard storage.
Church or temple.
Community center.
Home occupation.
Public library and similar public culture uses, located not less than twenty
feet (20') from any side lot line in any residential district.
Public school or school offering general educational courses the same as
ordinarily given in a public school, private preschool, play, special, and
other private school.
Publicly owned or operated park or playground. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-5-4: R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The principal use of land is for single-family dwellings. These
residential areas are intended to be defined and protected from encroachment of
uses which are not appropriate to a residential environment. Internal
stability, attractiveness, order, and efficiency are encouraged by providing
for adequate light, air, and open space for dwellings and related facilities.
   B.   Permissive Uses:
Accessory building or use as follows:
Private garage and parking areas for the sole use of occupants.
Tennis court, swimming pool, garden house, pergola, ornamental gate, barbecue
oven, fireplace, and similar uses accessory to residential use.
Vegetable and flower garden.
Single-family dwelling.
   C.   Height, Yard, Lot Width And Area Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 6 of this title.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 7 of this title.
   E.   Conditional Uses:
Home occupation.
Publicly owned or operated park or playground. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-5-5: R-2 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The principal use of land may range from single-family to
medium density multi-family units. Internal stability, attractiveness, order,
and efficiency are encouraged by providing for adequate light, air, and open
space for dwellings and related facilities.
   B.   Permissive Uses:
Accessory building or uses as follows:
Private garage and parking areas for the sole uses of the occupants.
Tennis court, swimming pool, garden house, pergola, ornamental gate, barbecue
oven, fireplace, and similar uses customarily accessory to residential uses.
Vegetable and flower garden.
Duplex dwelling not to exceed two (2) units. Village meeting of adjoining
property owners within five hundred feet (500') with a seventy five percent
(75%) majority necessary.
Single-family dwelling.
   C.   Height, Yard, Lot Width And Area Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 6 of this title.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 7 of this title.
   E.   Conditional Uses:
Branch telephone exchange, transformer station, and booster or pressure
regulating station, without service yard storage.
Childcare center, not to exceed five (5) children.
Church or temple.
Community center.
Country club with golf course, swimming pool, tennis court, and similar
recreational uses, provided that any principal building or swimming pool shall
be located not less than one hundred feet (100') from any lot in any
residential district.
Home occupation.
Hospital, clinic, nursing home, housing for the elderly, and educational,
philanthropic, and licensed religious institution, provided not more than fifty
percent (50%) of the site area may be occupied by buildings.
Public library and similar public culture uses, located not less than twenty
feet (20') from any side lot line in any residential district.
Public school or school offering general educational courses the same as
ordinarily given in a public school, private preschool, play, special, and
other private school.
Publicly owned or operated park or playground. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-5-6: R-3 RESIDENTIAL/MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: The principal use of land may range from single-family to
medium density multi-family units. Internal stability, attractiveness, order,
and efficiency are encouraged by providing for adequate light, air, and open
space for dwellings and related facilities.
   B.   Permissive Uses:
Accessory building or uses as follows:
Private garage and parking areas for the sole use of the occupants.
Tennis court, swimming pool, garden house, pergola, ornamental gate, barbecue
oven, fireplace, and similar uses customarily accessory to residential use.
Vegetable and flower garden.
Farm of not less than five (5) acres in size.
Multi-family dwelling no less than four (4) units per building.
Single-family dwelling.
   C.   Height, Yard, Lot Width And Area Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 6 of this title.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 7 of this title.
   E.   Conditional Uses:
Barber or beauty shop in accordance with the provisions of section
10-5-3 of this chapter.
Bed and breakfast house, in accordance with the provisions of section
10-5-4 of this chapter.
Boarding house, in accordance with the provisions of section
10-5-4 of this chapter.
Branch telephone exchange, transformer station, and booster or pressure
regulating station, without service yard storage.
Cemetery.
Childcare center.
Church or temple.
Civic theater.
Community center.
Country club with golf course, swimming pool, tennis courts, and similar
recreational uses, provided that any principal building or swimming pool shall
be located not less than one hundred feet (100') from any lot in any
residential district.
Greenhouse, florist shop, and nursery.
Home occupation.
Hospital; clinic; nursing home; housing for the elderly; and educational,
philanthropic, and religious institution, provided not more than fifty percent
(50%) of the site area may be occupied by buildings.
Lodging and rooming house, in accordance with the provisions of section
10-5-4 of this chapter.
Parking area accessory to a use in an adjoining less restricted district when
abutting or directly across an alley, subject to the applicable conditions
contained herein and such further conditions as may be stipulated by the zoning
board of appeals.
Physicians' and dentists' office and private clinic for human care;
professional office of architects, engineers, lawyers and the like; office
devoted to real estate, insurance, management, and similar enterprises when not
displaying or handling merchandise on the premises. The buildings permitted
under this use shall be of a design and location compatible with the permitted
residential use.
Private club or lodge, except those whose chief activity is a service
customarily carried on as a business, provided any building is located not less
than twenty feet (20') from any lot in any residential district.
Public library and similar public culture uses, located not less than twenty
feet (20') from any side lot line in any residential district.
Public school or school offering general educational courses the same as
ordinarily given in a public school, private preschool, play, special, and
other private school.
Publicly owned or operated park or playground.
Studio including, but not limited to, artist, photographer, sculptor, or
musician.
The conversion of existing older and large single-family dwellings shall be
subject to providing a minimum of six hundred (600) square feet of living space
per apartment and each apartment shall contain sleeping, cooking (kitchen),
toilet, and bathing facilities and comply with the current uniform housing
code. Off street parking shall be provided in accordance with
chapter 7 of this title.
Two-family dwelling (duplex). (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-5-7: BUSINESS DISTRICTS:
   A.   General: The following districts are intended to provide for a wide
range of commercial and light industrial uses. However, any commercial or
industrial use shall observe the following environmental performance standards:
      1.   Noise: All noise shall be muffled so as not to be objectionable due
to intermittence, beat frequency, or shrillness, and, as measured at any
property line, shall not exceed the most current noise regulations adopted by
the Illinois pollution control board.
      2.   Smoke: The emission of smoke by any use shall be controlled so to be
less dark in shade than that designated as no. 2 on the Ringelmann chart,
published and used by the United States bureau of mines; provided, however,
that smoke of a density equal to that designated as no. 2 on the Ringelmann
chart may be permitted for not more than eight (8) minutes during any thirty
(30) minute period and smoke of a density not exceeding that designated as no.
3 on the Ringelmann chart may be permitted for not more than six (6) minutes
during any eight (8) hour period while starting or cleaning a fire.
      3.   Dust And Other Particulate Matter: The emission of dust, fly ash,
and other particulate matter shall not exceed eighty five one hundredths (0.85)
pound per one thousand (1,000) pounds of flue gas, measured at a convenient
point in the stack and under conditions not exceeding fifty percent (50%) of
excess air. The amount of solids in such gases shall be determined according to
the test for dust separation apparatus of the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers, revised and amended to date.
      4.   Odor: The emission of odorous matter in such quantity as to be
offensive at a point along or outside any lot line shall not be permitted. In
determining such quantities of offensive odors, table III (odor thresholds) in
chapter 5 of the "Air Pollution Abatement Manual" (copyright 1951 by
Manufacturing Chemists Association, Inc., Washington, DC) shall be used as a
guide.
      5.   Glare And Heat: Any operation producing intense heat and glare shall
be conducted within an enclosed building or with other effective screening in
such manner as to be completely imperceptible from any point along or outside
the lot lines. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-5-8: B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT; RESTRICTED:
   A.   Intent: This district is intended to provide for individual or small
groups or retail and customer service establishments serving primarily the
convenience of an individual residential neighborhood and the character,
appearance, and operation of which are compatible with the character of the
surrounding neighborhood. It is further intended to be incidental to the
neighborhood in which located.
   B.   Permissive Uses:
Accessory use of buildings as follows:
Parking lot.
Apothecary and pharmacy.
Bakery whose products are sold at retail on the premises.
Bank and savings and loan institutions.
Barbershop and beauty parlor.
Bed and breakfast house, adequate parking necessary.
Cleaner and laundry.
Florist and greenhouse as a retail business.
Mortuary or funeral home.
Movie theater.
Physicians' and dentists' office and clinic for human care; professional office
of architects, engineers, lawyers, and the like; offices devoted to real
estate, insurance, management, and similar enterprises.
Repair shop for household items, including clothing.
Store for sale of goods and products at retail.
Studio including, but not limited to, photographer, sculptor, or musician.
   C.   Height And Yard Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 6 of this title.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Loading Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 7 of this title.
   E.   Conditional Uses:
Restaurant, except drive-in restaurants. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-5-9: B-2 BUSINESS DISTRICT; NONRESTRICTED:
   A.   Intent: This district is intended to provide for the total service
needs of the motoring public using the major highway system through and
adjacent to Annawan and to require adequate space provisions to accommodate
peculiar needs of the motorists. It is further intended to provide areas in
close proximity to the major highway network and discourage through traffic on
minor, local residential streets within the village.
   B.   Permissive Uses:
Accessory use of buildings as follows:
Incidental storage and light industrial use of buildings; provided, however,
that these uses do not exceed forty percent (40%) of the floor space.
Parking lot.
Apothecary and pharmacy.
Bakery whose products are sold at retail on the premises.
Bank and savings and loan institutions.
Barbershop and beauty parlor.
Boarding house.
Bowling alley, dance hall, skating rink, and other commercial recreational
uses.
Civic theater.
Cleaner and laundry.
Farm implement sales, storage, and repair.
Florist and greenhouse as retail business.
Mortuary or funeral home.
New and used car sales lot.
Office and office building.
Physicians' and dentists' office and clinic for human care; professional office
of architects, engineers, lawyers, and the like; offices devoted to real
estate, insurance, management, and similar enterprises.
Repair shop for household items, including clothing.
Restaurant.
Store for sale of goods and products at retail.
Store, shop, laundromat, and retail business or service.
Studio including, but not limited to, artist, photographer or musician.
Theater and assembly hall.
   C.   Height And Yard Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 6 of this title.
   D.   Off Street Parking And Lot Regulations: In accordance with
chapter 7 of this title. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-5-10: I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   General Description: This industrial district is established to provide
areas in which the principal use of land is for light manufacturing and
assembly plants, processing, storage, warehousing, wholesaling, and
distribution. It is the intent that permitted uses are conducted so that noise,
odor, dust and glare of each operation is completely confined within an
enclosed building or structure. Although these industries may require direct
access to transportation routes, the size and volume of the raw materials or
finished products involved should not produce the volume of freight generated
by the use of the heavy industrial districts. These regulations are intended to
prevent friction between uses within the district and protect nearby A or R
districts.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Property and buildings in an I-1 light industrial
district shall be used only for the following purposes:
      1.   Any use, except dwellings, permitted in the B-1 business district
and B-2 business district. No dwelling use, except sleeping facilities required
by caretakers or night watchmen employed on the premises, shall be permitted in
an I-1 light industrial district.
      2.   Those uses which employ more than ten (10) employees on the
premises, such as: bakeries, dry cleaning and commercial laundries, lumber
supply houses, printing establishments and plumbing shops.
      3.   Freighting or trucking yard or terminal.
      4.   The following uses when conducted within a completely enclosed
building:
         a.   The manufacturing, compounding, assembling, or treatment of
articles prepared from bone, cellophane, canvas, cloth, cork, feathers, felt
fibre, fur, glass, hair, leather, paper, plastic, stone, shell, textiles,
tobacco, wood, yarn, and paint not employing a boiling process.
         b.   The manufacture of pottery and similar ceramic products.
         c.   The manufacture and maintenance of electric and neon signs, light
sheet metal products including heating and ventilating ducts and similar
products.
         d.   Automobile assembling, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
reconditioning body and fender works, truck repairing and overhauling, tire
retreading or recapping, and battery manufacturing.
         e.   Machine shop.
         f.   Foundry casting lightweight nonferrous metal not causing noxious
fume or odors.
         g.   Assembly of electrical appliances, electronic instruments and
devices, radio and phonographs, including the manufacture of small parts only,
such as coils, condensers, transformers and similar such equipment.
      5.   Buildings, structures, and uses accessory and customarily incidental
to any of the above uses.
      6.   Warehouse and storage buildings, including feed and seed stores.
      7.   Frozen food locker.
The uses permitted under this subsection shall be conducted in such a manner
that no noxious odor, fumes or dust will be emitted beyond the property line of
the lot on which the use is located.
   C.   Height Regulations: No building shall exceed three (3) stories or forty
feet (40') in height except as herein provided.
   D.   Area Regulations: All buildings within the I-1 light industrial
district shall comply with the following yard requirements:
      1.   Intensity Of Use: No building or buildings shall cover more than
eighty percent (80%) of the lot area.
      2.   Front Yard: All buildings shall be set back from the street or
highway right of way a depth of not less than ten feet (10').
      3.   Side Yard: No side yard shall be required, except if an I-1 light
industrial district abuts an R or A district in which case a side yard of not
less than ten feet (10') shall be required on the side abutting the R or A
district.
      4.   Rear Yard: No rear yard shall be required, except if an I-1 light
industrial district abuts an R or A district or a building is to be serviced
from the rear in which case a rear yard of twenty five feet (25') shall be
required. If a rear yard is required, this area may be used for an alley or
service court if an adequate maneuvering area can be provided.
When a rear or side yard is required because an I-1 light industrial district
abuts an R or A district, a screening fence of not less than four (4) nor more
than six feet (6') maintained in good condition shall be required, or a
screening hedge or other landscaping of not less than four (4) nor more than
six feet (6') maintained in good condition shall be required.
   E.   Off Street Parking Requirements: All buildings within the I-1 light
industrial district shall provide off street parking spaces of not less than
one hundred eighty (180) square feet for every three (3) employees on any one
working shift. In addition to these spaces, adequate area for trucks and
vehicles used in the conduct of the enterprise shall be provided.
   F.   Off Street Loading Requirements: All buildings within the I-1 light
industrial district shall provide off street loading spaces of not less than
twelve feet (12') wide, thirty five feet (35') in length and have a minimum
vertical clearance of fourteen feet (14') and may occupy all or part of any
required yard. One such loading space shall be provided for the first ten
thousand (10,000) square feet of gross floor area, and one additional loading
space for each additional fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet or fraction
thereof. (Ord. 314, 3-23-2009)
10-5-11: I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   A.   General Description: This industrial district is intended to provide
for heavy industrial uses and other uses not otherwise provided for in the
districts established in this title. The intensity and type of use makes it
most desirable that the uses in the I-2 heavy industrial district be separated
and/or located downwind from residential and commercial uses.
   B.   Permitted Uses: Property and buildings in an I-2 heavy industrial
district may be used for any of the following:
Any use, except dwellings, permitted in the I-1 light industrial district. No
dwelling use, except sleeping facilities required by caretakers or night
watchmen employed on the premises, shall be permitted in an I-2 heavy
industrial district.
Petroleum or its products, refining and bulk storage of.
Ready-mix cement plant.
The manufacturing, compounding, storage or treatment of such products as dairy
products and foodstuffs. This shall include grain elevators and related uses.
   C.   Uses Permitted On Review: The following uses may be permitted upon
review by the zoning board of appeals in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter:
Acid manufacture.
Adult bookstores, except that no such establishment shall be permitted within
one thousand feet (1,000') of any church, school, public park or other adult
bookstore.
Any use not otherwise authorized by this title.
Distillation of bones and glue manufacture.
Explosives manufacture and storage.
Fat rendering and fertilizer manufacture.
Garbage, offal, or dead animals, reduction or dumping of.
   D.   Height Regulations: No building shall exceed three (3) stories or forty
feet (40') in height.
   E.   Area Regulations: All buildings within the I-2 heavy industrial
district shall comply with the following yard requirements:
      1.   Intensity Of Use: No building or buildings shall cover more than
eighty percent (80%) of the lot area.
      2.   Front Yard: All buildings shall be set back from the street or
highway right of way a depth of not less than ten feet (10').
      3.   Side Yard: No side yard shall be required, except if an I-2 heavy
industrial district abuts an R or A district in which case a side yard of not
less than ten feet (10') shall be required on the side abutting the R or A
district.
      4.   Rear Yard: No rear yard shall be required, except if an I-2 heavy
industrial district abuts an R or A district or a building is to be serviced
from the rear in which case a rear yard of twenty five feet (25') shall be
required. If a rear yard is required, this area may be used for an alley or
service court if an adequate maneuvering area can be provided.
When a rear or side yard is required because an I-2 heavy industrial district
abuts an R or A district, a screening fence of not less than four (4) nor more
than six feet (6') maintained in good condition shall be required, or a
screening hedge or other landscaping of not less than four (4) nor more than
six feet (6') maintained in good condition shall be required.
   F.   Off Street Parking Requirements: All buildings within the I-2 heavy
industrial district shall provide off street parking spaces of not less than
one hundred eighty (180) square feet for every three (3) employees on any one
working shift. In addition to these spaces, adequate area for trucks and
vehicles used in the conduct of the enterprise shall be provided.
   G.   Off Street Loading Requirements: All buildings within the I-2 heavy
industrial district shall provide off street loading spaces of not less than
twelve feet (12') wide, thirty five feet (35') in length and have a minimum
vertical clearance of fourteen feet (14') and may occupy all or part of any
required yard. One such loading space shall be provided for the first ten
thousand (10,000) square feet of gross floor area, and one additional loading
space for each additional fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet or fraction
thereof. (Ord. 314, 3-23-2009)
10-5-12: F FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   Intent: This district is intended to provide a direct link between the
zoning ordinance and the flood control regulations by identifying those areas
subject to flood hazard because of their location within the 100-year flood
year.
   B.   Permissive Uses: Any use permitted in the underlying zone provided it
complies with the Annawan flood control regulations.
   C.   Conditional Uses: Any conditional use permitted in the underlying zone
provided it complies with the Annawan flood control regulations. (Ord. 244, 6-
10-2003; amd. Ord. 314, 3-23-2009)
10-5-13: PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   A.   General Requirements: Whenever optional methods of residential land
development are created which are more imaginative in design, allowances in
requirements may be granted if the following provisions are fulfilled:
No planned unit development, including single-family or mixed single- and
multiple-family dwellings, shall be established to occupy less than five (5)
acres. Multiple- family unit developments may be established in zoning
districts of not less than four (4) acres. In no case shall either type of
planned unit development be allowed which does not provide either a public or
private sewage system approved by the state of Illinois department of public
health.
   B.   Permitted Principal And Accessory Uses And Structures:
Community facilities such as churches and other religious institutions and
nonprofit organizations.
Educational uses.
Multiple-family dwellings.
Recreational uses. Recreational uses may include community center, swimming
pools, parks, playgrounds, and related uses not of a strict commercial nature.
Any structure erected for recreational use shall not be located closer than
twenty five feet (25') to all property lines.
Single-family attached and detached dwellings.
Two-family dwellings.
   C.   Uses Permitted On Review: Any uses permitted on review in a planned
development area shall coincide with those uses permitted on review in the R-
1 and R-2 residential districts.
   D.   Area Regulations: All buildings shall be set back from street right of
way lines and periphery of the project to comply with the following
requirements:
      1.   Front Yard: There shall be a front yard of a depth not less than
twenty five feet (25') for any single-family dwelling. Front yard requirements
for multiple-family dwellings shall be determined by the administrative
officer.
      2.   Periphery Boundary: All buildings shall have a setback requirement
from the periphery boundary of not less than twenty five feet (25').
      3.   Lot Area And Frontage: In no case shall a lot for a single- family
dwelling be created with an area of less than four thousand five hundred
(4,500) square feet or a frontage of less than fifty feet (50') at the front
building line.
   E.   Off Street Parking: The requirements for off street parking shall be
the same as those required in the R-1 or R-2 districts depending on the type of
development.
   F.   Administrative Procedure:
      1.   The developer of any tract of land suitable for a planned
development area may submit an application to the administrative officer. The
development plan shall be referred to the board of appeals by the
administrative officer for study and report and public hearing. The board of
appeals, following the public hearing, shall make recommendations to the
village board, said recommendations shall be accompanied by a statement that
the proposed planned unit development meet the following conditions:
         a.   The application must be accompanied by an overall development
plan showing use or uses, dimensions, and locations of proposed streets, parks,
playgrounds, school sites, and other open spaces, with the pertinent
information as may be necessary to determine the contemplated arrangement or
use which makes it desirable to apply regulation requirements different from
those ordinarily applicable under this title.
         b.   The proposed development plat shall be prepared by a registered
professional engineer.
         c.   That property adjacent to the area included in the plan will not
be adversely affected.
         d.   The plan is consistent with the intent and purpose of this title
to promote public health, safety and welfare.
         e.   The buildings shall be used only for single-family or multiple-
family dwellings and the usual accessory uses such as garages, open spaces,
educational and other community facilities.
         f.   The tract or parcel of land involved must be either in one
ownership or the subject of an application filed jointly by the owners of all
the property included or filed by any governmental agency.
      2.   The village board shall take action on the approval or disapproval
of a proposed planned unit development following the receipt of the board of
appeals recommendation on said planned unit development.
      3.   If the village board approves the plans for a planned development,
certificates of occupancy may be issued in accordance with the plan even though
the use of land and the location of the buildings to be erected in the area,
and the yards and open spaces provided in the plan do not conform in all
respects to the district regulations of the district in which it is located.
      4.   Upon abandonment of a particular project authorized under this
section or upon the expiration of three (3) years from the issuance of a
planned development authorization which has not been completed (or commenced
and an extension of time for completion granted), the authorization shall
expire and the area allotted for a planned development shall revert to the
zoning district which governed prior to the planned development authorization.
The land and structures thereon may be used without such approval for any other
lawful use permissible within the use, height, and area district regulations of
the previous district.
      5.   Failure to file an application for review and approval of the
planned unit development within one year of the planned development
authorization shall render such authorization null and void and the area so
authorized shall return to its prior district classification. (Ord. 313, 3-12-
2009; amd. Ord. 314, 3-23-2009)
10-5-14: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.   Intent: If within the districts established by this code or amendments
that may later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, uses of land or
structures, and characteristics of use which were lawful before this title was
passed or amended but which would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted, it
is the intent of this title to permit these nonconformities to continue until
they are removed but not to encourage their survival under the terms of this
title. It is further the intent of this title that nonconformities shall not be
enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other
structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district, except as
provided.
Nonconforming uses are declared by this title to be incompatible with permitted
uses in the districts involved. A nonconforming use of structure and land in
combination shall not be extended or enlarged after the passage date hereof by
attachment on a building or by the addition of other uses of a nature which
would be prohibited generally in the district involved, except as provided.
   B.   Nonconforming Lots Of Record: In any district in which single-family
dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on a lot of record which becomes nonconforming as to
lot area or lot width or both by the adoption or subsequent amendment of this
title or in any other residential district a building and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on a lot of record which becomes nonconforming as to
lot width by the adoption of subsequent amendment of this title, provided that
the building, housing, mechanical, electrical, plumbing, and other construction
standards and requirements can be met and provided further that if such
nonconforming lot of record is at the time of adoption of this title or
hereafter vacant and has contiguous lots of record which are in common
ownership or unified control, then such contiguous lots of record or at least
such portion thereof as is necessary to meet or exceed the minimum lot area and
width requirements of the district in which they are located shall be used and
developed only as a single lot. Any person who conveys property or terminated
the unified control of such contiguous lots of record so as to frustrate the
purpose of the foregoing provision shall be deemed to have violated the
provisions of this title.
   C.   Nonconforming Uses Of Land: Where at the time of passage of this title
or subsequent more restrictive amendment thereto, a lawful use of land exists
which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed, the use may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, provided:
      1.   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date hereof.
      2.   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by such use at the
effective date hereof.
      3.   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than thirty (30) consecutive days, any subsequent use of such
land shall conform to the regulations specified by this title for the district
in which such land is located.
      4.   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
title shall be erected in connection with such nonconforming use of land.
   D.   Nonconforming Structures: Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date hereof that could not be built under the terms of this title by
reasons of restrictions on the area, lot coverage, height, yards its location
on the lot or other zoning requirements concerning the structure, such
structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful.
   E.   Nonconforming Uses Of Structures: If a lawful use involving individual
structures with a fair cash market value cost one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
or more, or of structure and land in combination, exists at the effective date
hereof that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this
chapter, the lawful use may be continued as long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      1.   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      2.   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which is manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this title, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside such building.
      3.   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises
in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six (6) consecutive months or
for eighteen (18) months during any three (3) year period (except when
government action impeded access to the premises) the structure, or structure
and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformity
with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
      4.   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. "Destruction" for the purpose of this
subsection E4 is defined as damage to an extent of more than fifty percent
(50%) of the fair cash market value at the time of destruction.
   F.   Nonconforming Off Street Parking And Loading Areas:
      1.   In any district where off street parking or loading areas or four
(4) or more spaces are provided, such areas and private drives or accessways
from the public right of way to or through these parking areas, shall be
required to fully comply with the design and construction requirements of this
title for off street parking and loading.
      2.   In any residential zoning district, all off street parking areas of
three (3) or fewer spaces and private drives or accessways from the public
right of way to or through these parking areas, shall be required to comply
with the design, construction, and maintenance standards provided in this
title, but only in the event a building permit is required for alteration of an
existing garage or construction of a new garage accessory to the residential
uses. This subsection is subject to the common drive.
   G.   Repairs And Maintenance: On any nonconforming structure or portion of a
structure containing a nonconforming use, ordinary repairs, or repair or
replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing may be made to an
extent not exceeding fifty percent (50%) of the fair cash market value of the
nonconforming structure provided that the cubic content existing when it became
nonconforming shall not be expanded. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003; amd. Ord. 313, 3-12-
2009; Ord. 314, 3-23-2009; Ord. 393, 8-10-2019)
CHAPTER 6
HEIGHT, YARD, LOT AND AREA REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Title
10-6-2: Exceptions
10-6-3: General Requirements
10-6-1: TITLE:
The following height, yard, lot and area requirements must be observed in
addition to those shown in section
10-6-3 of this chapter:
   A.   On lots fronting on two (2) nonintersecting streets, a front yard must
be provided on both streets.
   B.   On corner lots there must be a front yard on both streets in accordance
with setback requirements.
   C.   Where a frontage is divided among districts with different front yard
requirements, the deepest front yard required shall apply to the entire
frontage.
   D.   In the B districts there may be more than one commercial or industrial
building on a lot provided that the required yards be provided around the group
of buildings.
   E.   Where two (2) or more related multi-family, hotel, motel, or
institutional buildings are permitted on a lot, the required yards must be
maintained around the group of buildings and buildings that are parallel or
that are within forty five degrees (45°) of being parallel must be separated by
a horizontal distance that is at least equal to the height of the highest
building.
   F.   Those parts of existing buildings that violate yard regulations may be
repaired and remodeled, but not reconstructed or structurally altered.
   G.   In any district not requiring a front yard, a loading dock shall be set
back sufficiently so that a truck backed in for loading or unloading shall not
obstruct traffic on any sidewalk or street area. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-6-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The following exceptions may be made to the height, yard, lot and area
requirements:
   A.   On lots of record, a property owner may reduce his rear yard to not
less than twenty percent (20%) of the lot depth.
   B.   Prior to the effective date hereof where forty percent (40%) or more of
a frontage was occupied by two (2) or more lots upon which buildings are
situated, then the front yard setback is established in the following manner:
      1.   Where the building farthest from the street provides a front yard
setback not more than ten feet (10') deeper than the building closest to the
street, then the front yard setback for the frontage is and remains an average
of the then existing front yard.
      2.   Where subsection B1 of this section is not the case and a lot is
within one hundred feet (100') of a building on each side, then the front yard
setback is a line drawn from the closest front corners of these two (2)
adjacent buildings.
      3.   Where neither subsection B1 nor B2 of this section is the case and a
lot is within one hundred feet (100') of an existing building on one side only,
then the front yard setback is the same as that of the existing building.
   C.   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, a front yard setback greater
than the minimum as set forth in section
10-6-3 of this chapter for residential zones shall be required where sixty
percent (60%) or more of a frontage is occupied by two (2) or more lots upon
which buildings are situated. In that event, the front yard setback is and
remains an average of the then existing front yards.
This section shall not apply to any subdivision, the plat of which sets forth
specific front yard setback lines and which has been approved by the village
under the subdivision ordinance. In that event, the restrictions of the
subdivision plat shall be controlling.
   D.   Sills, belt course, cornices, and ornamental features may project not
more than one foot (1') into a required yard.
   E.   No side yards are required for residential occupancy above commercial
and industrial buildings.
   F.   Any accessory building erected within ten feet (10') of a main building
shall be considered part of the main building and shall be provided with the
same yards required of the main building.
   G.   Any accessory building more than ten feet (10') from the main building
shall be considered a separate building and may be erected no closer than eight
feet (8') from a yard line, but must be located at least sixty feet (60') back
from the front yard line.
   H.   Where an unattached garage is entered from an alley, it must be kept
fifteen feet (15') from the alley line.
   I.   Wherever a B district adjoins an R district, the final development plan
shall provide for a suitable fence, wall, or evergreen shrub border at least
five feet (5') high.
      1.   Grain elevators, silos, barns, and other farm buildings are exempt
from these requirements.
      2.   Required residential yard spaces have to be provided for residential
uses.
      3.   Required residential yard spaces required for the abutting district
are to be provided for those yards abutting residentially zoned property.
      4.   All lots served by an individual subsurface sewerage treatment
facility shall have a minimum width of two hundred feet (200') and minimum area
of one acre per residential unit. All lots served by individual water supply
wells shall have a minimum area of one acre.
      5.   Church steeples exempt. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-6-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
                  Minimum               Minimum                     Maximum
District Minimum  Area Per    Minimum   Front   Minimum   Minimum   Height In
         Lot Area Residential Lot Width Yard    Side Yard Rear Yard Stories
                  Unit                  Setback                     And Feet
                        Minimum                                        Maximum
                Minimum Area Per    Minimum Minimum    Minimum Minimum Height
District        Lot     Residential Lot     Front Yard Side    Rear    In
                Area    Unit        Width   Setback    Yard    Yard    Stories
                                                                       And Feet
                                            80 feet                    21/
A agricultural  5 acres n/a         300     from       20 feet 50 feet 2
                                    feet    centerline                 stories
                                                                       35 feet
                7,200                                                  21/
OTR-1 district  square  n/a         60 feet 25 feet    8 feet  30 feet 2
                feet                                                   stories
                                                                       35 feet
R-1 residential 9,000                                                  21/
district        square  n/a         75 feet 25 feet    8 feet  30 feet 2
(single-family) feet                                                   stories
                                                                       35 feet
R-2 residential 9,000   7,200                                          21/
district        square  square feet 75 feet 25 feet    8 feet  30 feet 2
(single-family  feet    per unit                                       stories
and duplex)                                                            35 feet
R-3 residential 10,000  3,000                                          21/
district        square  square feet 100     25 feet    10 feet 30 feet 2
(multi-family)  feet    per unit    feet                               stories
                                                                       35 feet
B-1 business                                                           2
district                            50 feet 25 feet            30 feet stories
(restricted)                                                           25 feet
B-2 business                                                           3
district                            50 feet 70 feet    15 feet         stories
(nonrestricted)                                                        50 feet
 
 
(Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 7
OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACES
SECTION:
10-7-1: Off Street Parking Spaces
10-7-2: Off Street Loading Spaces
10-7-3: Urban Section Street Standards
10-7-1: OFF STREET PARKING SPACES:
In all districts and in connection with every use, there shall be provided at
the time any use or building is erected, enlarged, off street parking for all
vehicles in accordance with the following:
   A.   Parking areas, whether open or enclosed, shall in residential districts
be on the premises intended to be served.
   B.   Adequate access to a public street shall be provided for each parking
space and driveways shall be a minimum of eleven feet (11') wide.
   C.   Size of each parking space shall be a minimum of one hundred seventy
six (176) square feet.
   D.   Curbs or barriers shall be installed where necessary to prevent parked
vehicles from extending over any lot lines.
   E.   Existing buildings not complying with parking requirements may be
remodeled, repaired, and structurally altered, but any increase in floor area,
number of employees, dwelling units, or seating capacity shall provide the
number of spaces required by the change.
   F.   All spaces shall be graded, drained, and paved with a surface equal to
the following minimum standards:
      1.   Areas for carrying passenger cars only shall have three inches (3")
of bituminous concrete on a six inch (6") base of IDOT CA6 crushed stone; or
concrete five inches (5") thick.
      2.   Areas for carrying loaded trucks shall have four inches (4") of
bituminous concrete on an eight inch (8") base of IDOT CA6 crushed stone; or
concrete six inches (6") thick.
      3.   Areas for storage only of vehicles shall have an IDOT A2 asphalt
surface on a six inch (6") base of IDOT CA6 crushed stone.
   G.   In the R districts no off street parking shall be permitted in the
front yard. In the B-1 and B-2 districts, twenty percent (20%) of the required
front yard shall be reserved and devoted to permanent landscaping and no off
street parking spaces or off street loading spaces shall be permitted within
this landscaping area.
   H.   Recreational vehicles and trucks shall not be parked or stored on any
lot occupied by a dwelling or any lot in any residential district except in
accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   Recreational Vehicles: No more than two (2) of the following types
of vehicles shall be permitted for each family living on a lot: campers,
recreational vehicles, housecars, recreational trailers, travel hauling
trailers, boats on or off trailers, and private coaches. Such vehicles shall
further conform to the following regulations:
         a.   They shall conform to all length, height and width restrictions
imposed by the statue of the state of Illinois, as they may hereafter be
amended.
         b.   No part of their length or width shall extend past the front yard
building setback line.
         c.   They shall not be occupied for a period longer than fifteen (15)
days per year while they are so parked or stored.
         d.   They shall not be in such a state of disrepair as to constitute a
danger to the public health or safety, nor shall they violate any of the terms
of any ordinance relating to abandoned vehicles.
         e.   They shall not be parked or stored within the minimum side and/or
rear yard applicable to the zoning district in which they are situated for a
period longer than ten (10) consecutive days, nor for a total period longer
than fifty (50) days per year, except as authorized by a variance granted by
the zoning board of appeals.
         f.   They shall not be parked or stored so as to block or be on the
public right of way unless the Annawan police department grants its consent.
The police department shall have discretion as to the length of time and the
location of such parking or storage on the public right of way.
      2.   Trucks: No truck exceeding one and one-half (11/2) ton capacity
shall be parked or stored in any residence district.
   I.   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall be
constructed to be the next whole number.
   J.   In the case of mixed uses, the parking spaces required shall equal the
sum of the requirements of the various uses computed separately.
   K.   The parking requirements for a use not specifically mentioned herein
shall be the same as required for a use of a similar nature.
   L.   The number of parking spaces required is shown in the following table:
                                                                             2 spaces
                                                                             for each
                                                                             chair plus
                                                                             1 space for
Barbershop                                                                   each 2
                                                                             employees
                                                                             on duty at
                                                                             the same
                                                                             time.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each dryer
                                                                             plus 1
                                                                             space for
Beauty shop                                                                  each 2
                                                                             employees
                                                                             on duty at
                                                                             the same
                                                                             time.
                                                                             1 space per
                                                                             guestroom
                                                                             and parking
                                                                             space must
                                                                             be at least
                                                                             5 feet from
                                                                             property
                                                                             line, plus
                                                                             parking
Bed and breakfast                                                            space as
                                                                             required
                                                                             for either
                                                                             residential
                                                                             districts
                                                                             or business
                                                                             districts,
                                                                             whichever
                                                                             is
                                                                             applicable.
                                                                             1 space per
                                                                             guestroom
                                                                             and parking
                                                                             space must
                                                                             be at least
                                                                             5 feet from
                                                                             property
                                                                             line, plus
                                                                             parking
Boarding house                                                               space as
                                                                             required
                                                                             for either
                                                                             residential
                                                                             districts
                                                                             or business
                                                                             districts,
                                                                             whichever
                                                                             is
                                                                             applicable.
                                                                             6 spaces
Bowling alley                                                                for each
                                                                             alley.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 100
                                                                             square feet
                                                                             of floor
                                                                             area plus 1
Commercial, except those uses otherwise listed                               space for
                                                                             each 2
                                                                             employees
                                                                             on duty at
                                                                             the same
                                                                             time.
                                                                             2 spaces
Dwelling                                                                     for each
                                                                             dwelling
                                                                             unit.
                                                                             6 spaces
                                                                             per chapel
                                                                             room or
                                                                             parlor or 1
                                                                             space for
                                                                             every 50
Funeral home                                                                 square feet
                                                                             of floor
                                                                             area used
                                                                             for
                                                                             services,
                                                                             whichever
                                                                             is less.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 500
                                                                             square feet
                                                                             of floor
                                                                             area, plus
Furniture or appliance store                                                 1 space for
                                                                             each 2
                                                                             employees
                                                                             at work at
                                                                             the same
                                                                             time.
                                                                             1 space in
                                                                             addition to
                                                                             that
Home occupation                                                              required
                                                                             for the
                                                                             family
                                                                             residence.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each
                                                                             sleeping
                                                                             unit, plus
Hotel and motel                                                              1 space for
                                                                             each 2
                                                                             employees
                                                                             on duty at
                                                                             the same
                                                                             time.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 3
                                                                             washers
                                                                             and/or
                                                                             cleaning
                                                                             machines,
Laundry and/or dry cleaning establishment                                    plus 1
                                                                             space for
                                                                             each 2
                                                                             employees
                                                                             at work at
                                                                             the same
                                                                             time.
                                                                             1 space per
                                                                             guestroom
                                                                             and parking
                                                                             space must
                                                                             be at least
                                                                             5 feet from
                                                                             property
                                                                             line, plus
                                                                             parking
Lodging and rooming house                                                    space as
                                                                             required
                                                                             for either
                                                                             residential
                                                                             districts
                                                                             or business
                                                                             districts,
                                                                             whichever
                                                                             is
                                                                             applicable.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 400
                                                                             square feet
                                                                             of floor
                                                                             space of
                                                                             the main
                                                                             building or
Manufacturing and industrial                                                 1 space for
                                                                             each 2
                                                                             employees
                                                                             on the
                                                                             maximum
                                                                             work shift,
                                                                             whichever
                                                                             is greater.
                                                                             3 spaces
                                                                             for each
Medical or dental clinic                                                     doctor plus
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 2
                                                                             employees.
                                                                             1 space for
Public and semipublic building and institution, except those uses listed     each 500
below:                                                                       square feet
                                                                             of floor
                                                                             area.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 2
                                                                             employees
                                                                             on the
                                                                             maximum
                                                                             work shift,
                                                                             plus 1
                                                                             space for
                                                                             each
                                                                             medical
                                                                             staff
                                                                             member,
   Hospital                                                               plus 1
                                                                             space for
                                                                             each
                                                                             hospital
                                                                             bed, plus 3
                                                                             spaces for
                                                                             each
                                                                             emergency
                                                                             treatment
                                                                             room and/or
                                                                             clinic
                                                                             examining
                                                                             room.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 3 beds
                                                                             plus 1
                                                                             space for
   Nursing home for extended care                                         each 2
                                                                             employees
                                                                             on the
                                                                             maximum
                                                                             shift.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 50
   Public assembly with fixed seating, including auditoriums, churches,   square feet
theaters, and stadiums                                                       in the main
                                                                             fixed
                                                                             auditorium
                                                                             or stadium.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 50
                                                                             square feet
   Public assembly without fixed seating, including meeting halls, clubs, of floor
lodges, and organizations                                                    area in the
                                                                             main
                                                                             assembly
                                                                             area.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each
                                                                             classroom,
                                                                             plus 1
   School and college                                                     space for
                                                                             each 4
                                                                             students
                                                                             over 16
                                                                             years of
                                                                             age.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 4
                                                                             seats plus
Restaurant                                                                   1 for each
                                                                             2 employees
                                                                             on duty at
                                                                             the same
                                                                             time.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 2
                                                                             seats, plus
Tavern or bar                                                                1 for each
                                                                             2 employees
                                                                             on duty at
                                                                             the same
                                                                             time.
                                                                             1 space for
                                                                             each 4
Wholesale                                                                    employees
                                                                             on the
                                                                             maximum
                                                                             work shift.
 
(Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-7-2: OFF STREET LOADING SPACES:
Off street loading spaces shall be provided as follows:
   A.   Spaces shall be located and designated as to accommodate trucks without
blocking streets, sidewalks, or other trafficways.
   B.   No building requiring off street loading shall be increased in floor
area unless off street loading space is provided to service the increase in
floor area.
   C.   Each space shall be a minimum of fourteen feet (14') wide, forty feet
(40') in length, and fourteen feet (14') in height, exclusive of access and
turning areas.
   D.   The number of spaces required are as follows:
 
                                        1 space for each 50,000 square feet of
Office building, hotels, and public     floor area up to 200,000 square feet,
buildings receiving deliveries by truck plus 1 space for each 75,000 square
                                        feet above 200,000 square feet.
                                        1 space for the first 20,000 square
                                        feet of floor area, plus 1 space for
Retail, service, wholesale,             each additional 20,000 square feet up
manufacturing, or industrial use        to 100,000 square feet, plus 1 space
                                        for each 75,000 square feet above
                                        100,000 square feet.
 
(Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-7-3: URBAN SECTION STREET STANDARDS:
Street Type ROW To Be Indicated (In Feet) ADT Pavement Width - C+G – Sidewalks
                                                                             ROW To Be        Pavement Width - C+G –
Street Type                                                                  Indicated ADT    Sidewalks
                                                                             (In Feet)
Primary (arterial streets):
                                                                                       10,000 48 feet, 4-12 foot
   4-lane divided with shoulders                                          120       plus   lanes, 20 foot median, 8
                                                                                              foot shoulder
                                                                                       10,000 67 feet, B-B, 4-12
   4-lane not divided                                                     100       plus   lanes, 14 foot
                                                                                              bidirectional
   2-lane                                                                 80        6,000  33 feet, B-B, 2-14 foot
                                                                                       plus   lanes
Secondary (collector) streets:                                                                2-8 foot parking lanes,
                                                                                              4 foot sidewalk
   Industrial                                                             66        3,500  31 feet, B-B, no
                                                                                              parking, 5 foot sidewalk
Minor streets:
                                                                                              39 feet, B-B, 11 foot
   1,000 feet or more in length for single-family development and in all  66        1,000  lanes, 2-8 foot parking,
multi-family, commercial, and industrial development                                          1-8 foot parking lanes,
                                                                                              4 foot sidewalk
   Less than 1,000 feet in length in single-family development and in all                  31 feet, B-B, 2-11 foot
multi-family development, cul-de-sac streets and frontage streets            60        400    lanes, 1-8 foot parking
                                                                                              lanes, 4 foot sidewalk
   Alleys                                                                 25        100    20 feet
 
Note: Parkways shall be a minimum of 9 feet exclusive of a 4 or 5 foot sidewalk
as indicated.
            Minimum To Minimum       Minimum    Minimum Vertical Minimum Soil
Street Type Maximum    Structural    Horizontal Curve            Support (IBR)
            Gradient   Design Number Curve
                Minimum To   Minimum       Minimum    Minimum  Minimum Soil
Street Type     Maximum      Structural    Horizontal Vertical Support (IBR)
                Gradient     Design Number Curve      Curve
                0.50 percent
Primary         to 5.0       4.0           500 feet   300 feet 3.0
                percent
Secondary       0.50 percent
(collector)     to 5.0       2.9           300 feet   200 feet 3.0
                percent
                0.50 percent
Industrial      to 5.0       3.2           300 feet   200 feet 3.0
                percent
Minor            
               0.40 percent 2.5           200 feet   100 feet 3.0
1,000 feet or   to 7.0
more            percent
   Less than 0.40 percent
1,000           to 7.0       2.5           200 feet   100 feet 2.2
                percent
                0.40 percent
Cul-de-sac      to 7.0       2.5           200 feet   100 feet 2.2
                percent
                0.40 percent
Access roads    to 7.0       2.5           200 feet   100 feet 3.0
                percent
                0.40 percent
Alleys          to 7.0       2.5           200 feet   100 feet 2.0
                percent
 
(Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 8
SIGNS
SECTION:
10-8-1: General Provisions
10-8-2: Residence Districts
10-8-3: Nonresidential Districts
10-8-4: A Agricultural District
10-8-5: B Districts
10-8-6: Additional Sign Regulations
10-8-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   No sign shall be erected or maintained at any location where by reasons
of its position, wording, illumination, size, shape, or color it may impair,
obstruct, obscure, or be confused with any authorized traffic control sign,
signal, or device, or obstruct traffic visibility.
   B.   No off site sign or billboard having flashing, intermittent, or
animated illumination shall be permitted within three hundred feet (300') of
property in any residence district unless such sign is not visible from such
property.
   C.   No off site sign or billboard shall be erected or placed within one
hundred feet (100') of any residence district.
   D.   Advertising signs of no more than four (4) square feet in area shall be
permitted in any district provided they comply with subsections A and B of this
section. These signs shall be removed within five (5) days following the event
to which they pertain. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-8-2: RESIDENCE DISTRICTS:
In any residence district the following regulations shall apply:
   A.   Nonilluminated identification sign not exceeding one square foot in
area shall be permitted for each dwelling unit. Such sign shall indicate
nothing other than name and/or address of the occupants.
   B.   One temporary, nonilluminated, on site sign not to exceed six (6)
square feet in area for the sale of real estate, which sign shall be removed
within ten (10) days after sale of the real estate.
   C.   Announcement of church, school, or other public buildings or uses,
where permitted bulletin boards or identification signs shall be permitted, not
exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area.
   D.   Signs corresponding to that normal use permitted in the zoning district
for uses given conditional uses.
   E.   All other signs are prohibited in residence districts. (Ord. 244, 6-10-
2003)
10-8-3: NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
The following signs are allowed in nonresidential districts:
   A.   Temporary signs not exceeding twelve (12) square feet in area
advertising the sale or lease of real property when located on the property to
which the sign refers and when not located closer than ten feet (10') to a lot
line, which sign shall be removed within ten (10) days of the sale or lease of
the property.
   B.   Temporary ground signs advertising future use of development or
property of which such signs are located may be maintained subject to
provisions of this section, provided such signs do not exceed two hundred fifty
(250) square feet in area or remain longer than six (6) months. "For Rent" and
"For Lease" signs in commercial and industrial districts for new buildings
shall not exceed forty eight (48) square feet in area or remain more than
ninety (90) days after the building is completed and when located not closer
than ten feet (10') to a lot line.
   C.   Church or public building bulletin boards not exceeding twelve (12)
square feet in area. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-8-4: A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT:
The following signs are permitted in the agriculture district:
   A.   Ground signs pertaining to activities conducted on the premises.
   B.   Ground or post signs, not exceeding one hundred (100) square feet in
area, advertising activities conducted within twelve (12) miles of the sign or
providing information of direct interest to the traveling public, including
points of interest, recreation, and scenic areas, places for camping, lodging,
eating, sale of farm supplies, and vehicular service and repair. (Ord. 244, 6-
10-2003)
10-8-5: B DISTRICTS:
In the B districts there may be any sign allowed in subsection
10-8-4B of this chapter, and roof signs, wall signs, projecting signs, and
awning signs when displaying no advertising matter, except pertaining to the
business conducted in the building or on the premises on which such sign is
placed. The total square foot area of roof signs, wall signs, projecting signs,
marquee signs, and awning signs shall not exceed one-fifth (1/5) of the total
square foot area of the face of the building on which they are placed. There
shall not be more than one ground sign for each one hundred feet (100') of
street frontage. No ground sign shall extend closer than ten feet (10') to a
lot line. In addition to the foregoing provisions, portable signs are permitted
by permit only. Only one such permit shall be issued per business site during
the calendar year and such permit shall be valid for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days. Permits for portable signs shall be issued by the village
clerk. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-8-6: ADDITIONAL SIGN REGULATIONS:
The following additional sign regulations shall be observed:
   A.   Ground Signs: No ground sign shall be, at any point, over twenty five
feet (25') above ground level and shall have any open space of at least three
feet (3') between the lower edge of such sign and the ground level, fifty
percent (50%) of which may be filled in with a platform and decorative
latticework of light construction. Every ground sign shall be stoutly
constructed in a secure and substantial manner. The ends of all such ground
signs shall be at least six feet (6') distant from any wall or fence or any
obstruction that would prevent a clear passage around the end and shall be at
least ten feet (10') distant from any lot line. Notwithstanding any other
provision herein, hotels or motels located in a B-2 zoning district and having
property frontage along a state or federal highway may have a ground sign not
to exceed fifty feet (50') in height above ground level.
   B.   Wall Signs: No wall sign shall extend beyond the building more than
twelve inches (12"). No wall sign shall be erected as to cover the doors or
windows of any building or otherwise prevent free ingress or egress to or from
any window, door, or any fire escape of any building.
   C.   Projecting Signs: Projecting signs may extend not more than four feet
six inches (4'6") from the building into the front yard.
   D.   Marquee Signs: Marquees may extend eight feet (8') into a front yard.
Marquees shall be not less than eleven feet (11') above the ground at its
lowest level. A sign may be placed upon a marquee provided such sign does not
extend more than three feet (3') above or one foot (1') below such marquee, but
shall be at least eight feet (8') above grade.
   E.   Portable Signs: In addition to the portable signs allowed by permit
pursuant to section
10-8-5 of this chapter, there may be such portable signs on parking lots as
permitted by the building inspector as being necessary to satisfactory
operation of the lot and except that each filling station may have one portable
sign not exceeding twelve (12) square feet of total sign area restricted solely
to stating the price of gasoline.
   F.   Paper Posters And Certain Signs Or Devices Prohibited: Paper posters
applied directly to the wall or building or pole or other support and letters
or pictures in the form of advertising printed or applied directly on the wall
of a building are prohibited. Temporary signs may be displayed in or attached
to the inside of the show or display windows provided the total sign area does
not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the show or display window area. Signs or
devices which by color, location, or design resemble or conflict with traffic
control signs or devices are prohibited. No sign shall contain flashers,
animators, or mechanical movements or contrivances of any kind, excepting
clocks.
   G.   Signs Required By Statute: Traffic or county signs, railroad crossing
signs, danger, safety, temporary, emergency, nonadvertising, community service,
or decorative signs as may be required by statute, and authorized by the
building inspector. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 9
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Certain Uses Not Covered By This Chapter
10-9-3: Interpretation And Definitions
10-9-4: Districts Established And General Requirements
10-9-5: Allowable Uses/Development Criteria
10-9-6: Review Process
10-9-7: Approval Process
10-9-8: Shared Facilities And Collection Policy
10-9-9: Removal Of Abandoned Wireless Communication Facilities
10-9-10: Nonconforming Wireless Communication Facilities
10-9-11: Revocation Of Tower Use Permits
10-9-12: Penalty
10-9-13: Annual Review
10-9-14: Jurisdiction
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The village of Annawan recognizes that the village of Annawan desires to
encourage the orderly development of wireless communication technologies for
the benefit of the village of Annawan and its citizens. The village of Annawan
also recognizes the character of the communities of the village.
As a matter of public policy the village of Annawan aims to encourage the
delivery of new wireless technologies throughout the village while controlling
the proliferation of communication towers. Such development activities will
promote and protect the health, safety, prosperity, and general welfare of
persons living in Annawan, Illinois.
Specifically, this wireless communication facility telecommunications overlay
districts chapter is designed to achieve the following:
   A.   Encourage the location of wireless communication facilities onto
existing structures to reduce the number of new communication towers needed
within the village of Annawan, Illinois;
   B.   Encourage collocation and site sharing of new and existing wireless
communication facilities;
   C.   Provide a range of locations for wireless communication facilities in
various zoning districts;
   D.   Control the type of tower facility constructed, when towers are
permitted;
   E.   Establish adequate development and design criteria to enhance the
ability of providers of telecommunications services to provide service to the
community quickly, effectively, and efficiently;
   F.   Protect residential, and scenic corridors from the uncontrolled
development of wireless communication facilities by requiring reasonable siting
conditions;
   G.   Promote the use of suitable sites (public and private) for the location
of wireless antennas, towers, and/or wireless communication facilities;
   H.   Ensure the harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development of
the village of Annawan;
   I.   Stabilize the economy of the village of Annawan through the continued
use of the village's suitable public resources;
   J.   Provide overlay districts in which the zoning regulations permit the
development of wireless communication facilities which are consistent with the
requirements of the telecommunications act of 1996 and in the best interest of
the future of the village of Annawan, Illinois;
   K.   Provide clear performance standards addressing the siting of wireless
communication facilities; and
   L.   Streamline and expedite the permitting procedures to effect compliance
with the federal telecommunications act of 1996. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-9-2: CERTAIN USES NOT COVERED BY THIS CHAPTER:
Nothing in this chapter shall reduce any of the permitted uses of any zoned
property within the village of Annawan. Nothing in this chapter shall affect
the right of a property owner to use or develop their property consistent with
existing zoning regulations. Nothing in this chapter shall affect the right of
a property owner to continue any legal nonconforming use. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-9-3: INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS:
To the extent this chapter conflicts with any other ordinance of the village of
Annawan, this chapter shall control.
For the purposes of this chapter, words used in the present tense include the
future tense; words in the singular number include the plural number, and words
in the plural number include the singular number; the word "shall" is
mandatory; the word "may" is permissive; the word "used" includes "designed"
and "intended" or arranged to be used or occupied; and the word "person"
includes a firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, foundation,
company or corporation as well as an individual.
For the purpose of this chapter, certain words, phrases, and terms used herein
shall be interpreted as stated in this section. The zoning administrator shall
define any word, phrase, or term not defined herein. The interpretation shall
be based upon its common and ordinary usage in the region.
For the purposes of this chapter, all definitions defined herein are in
addition to all definitions defined in this title.
ANTENNA ARRAY: One or more rods, panels, discs or similar devices used for the
transmission or reception of radio frequency signals, which may include
omnidirectional antenna (rod), directional antenna (panel) and parabolic
antenna (disc). The antenna array does not include the support structure.
ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: An antenna array that is attached to
an existing building or structure (attachment structure), which structures
shall include, but not be limited to, utility poles, signs, water towers,
rooftops, towers with any accompanying pole or device (attachment device) which
attaches the antenna array to the existing building or structure and associated
connection cables, and an equipment facility which may be located either inside
or outside the attachment structure.
COLLOCATION/SITE SHARING: Use of a common wireless communication facility or
common site by more than one wireless communication license holder or by one
wireless license holder for more than one type of communications technology
and/or placement of a wireless communication facility on a structure owned or
operated by a utility or other public entity.
EQUIPMENT FACILITY: Any structure used to contain ancillary equipment for a
wireless communication facility which includes cabinets, shelters, a build out
of an existing structure, pedestals, and other similar structures.
FAA: Federal aviation administration.
FCC: Federal communications commission.
FTA: Federal telecommunications act of 1996.
HEIGHT: When referring to a wireless communication facility, height shall mean
that distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the wireless
communication facility, excluding the antenna array.
SETBACK: The required distance from the property line of the parcel on which
the wireless communication facility is located to the base of the support
structure and equipment shelter or cabinet where applicable, or, in the case of
guywire supports, the guy anchors.
SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A structure designed and constructed specifically to support
an antenna array, and may include a monopole, self-supporting (lattice) tower,
guywire support tower and other similar structures. Any device (attachment
device) which is used to attach an attached wireless communication facility to
an existing building or structure (attachment structure) shall be excluded from
the definition of and regulations applicable to support structures.
TEMPORARY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: A wireless communication facility to
be placed in use for ninety (90) or fewer days.
TOWER USE PERMIT (TUP): A permit issued by the village of Annawan specifically
for the location, construction and use of a wireless communication facility
subject to an approved site plan and any special conditions determined by the
zoning administrator to be appropriate under the provision of this chapter.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: Any unstaffed facility for the transmission
and/or reception of wireless telecommunications services, usually consisting of
an antenna array, connection cables, an equipment facility, and a support
structure to achieve the necessary elevation.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS: Any personal wireless services as defined in the
telecommunications act of 1996, which includes FCC licensed commercial wireless
telecommunications services including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile radio
(ESMR), paging, and similar services that currently exist. (Ord. 244, 6-10-
2003)
10-9-4: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED AND GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
The village of Annawan shall be divided into two (2) wireless communication
facility overlay districts. Said districts shall include all lands situated
within the village of Annawan.
Wireless communication facility overlay district 1 shall include only those
areas designated by the village and any areas subsequently added thereto less
any areas subsequently deleted therefrom. Attached wireless communication
facilities with support structure shall be permitted as provided herein in the
wireless communication facility overlay district 1.
Wireless communication facility overlay district 2 shall consist of all lands
not included in the wireless communication facility overlay district 1 which
are located within the village of Annawan. Attached wireless communication
facilities shall be permitted as set out herein in the wireless communication
facility overlay district 2. Wireless communication facilities with support
structure shall not be permitted under this chapter in the wireless
communication facility overlay district 2.
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm, or corporation shall install or
construct any wireless communication facility unless and until a tower use
permit (TUP) has been issued pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Preexisting Wireless Communication Facility: Wireless communication
facilities for which a permit has been issued prior to the effective date
hereof shall be considered a nonconforming use and shall not be required to
meet the requirements of this chapter.
   C.   Amateur Radio Exclusion: This chapter shall not govern the installation
of any amateur radio facility that is owned and operated by a federally
licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive only
antennas. Such installations shall comply with any other applicable provisions
of the zoning code.
   D.   Relationship To Other Ordinances: This chapter shall supersede all
conflicting requirements of other ordinances regarding the locating and
permitting of wireless communication facilities.
   E.   Airport Zoning: Any wireless communication facility located or proposed
to be located in airport areas governed by the federal aviation administration
shall also comply with the provisions of all applicable local, state and
federal airport regulations.
   F.   Building Codes: Construction of all wireless communication facilities
shall comply with the requirements of the Annawan, Illinois building codes and
permitting process in addition to the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 244,
6-10-2003)
10-9-5: ALLOWABLE USES/DEVELOPMENT CRITERIA:
Allowable uses, subject to the limitations within each overlay district, will
include the underlying zoning district plus wireless communication facilities
in compliance with the following development criteria:
   A.   Height Standards: The following height standards shall apply to all
wireless communication facility installations:
      1.   Attached Wireless Communication Facilities: Attached wireless
communication facilities shall not add more than twenty feet (20') to the
height of the existing building structure to which it is attached (attachment
structure). However, antenna attachments to existing communication towers shall
not increase the height of the tower above the maximum permitted height of that
tower.
      2.   Wireless Communication Facilities With Support Structures: Wireless
communication facilities with support structures shall have a maximum height as
set out in appendix A, on file with the village clerk, in wireless
communication facility overlay district 1.
   B.   Setback Standards: The following setback standards shall apply to all
wireless communication facility installations:
      1.   Attached Wireless Communication Facilities: Attached wireless
communication facilities shall meet the setback provisions of the zoning
district in which they are located. However, an attached wireless communication
facility antenna array may extend up to thirty inches (30") horizontally beyond
the edge of the attachment structure so long as the antenna array does not
encroach upon an adjoining parcel.
      2.   Wireless Communication Facilities With Monopole Support Structures:
Wireless communication facilities with monopole support structure shall meet
the setback requirements for principal structures of the underlying zoning
districts in which they are located.
   C.   Landscaping: The following landscaping requirements shall apply to all
wireless communication facility installations:
      1.   New Construction: New wireless communication facilities with support
structures and attached wireless communication facilities with new building
construction shall be landscaped in accordance with the applicable provisions
of the landscape ordinance that may now or hereafter be adopted.
      2.   Land Form Preservation: Existing mature tree growth and natural land
form on the site shall be preserved to the extent feasible; provided however,
that vegetation that causes interference with the antennas or inhibits access
to the equipment facility may be trimmed or removed.
      3.   Existing Vegetation: Existing vegetation on a wireless communication
facility site may be used in lieu of required landscaping where approved by the
zoning administrator.
   D.   Aesthetics, Placement, Materials, And Colors: Wireless communication
facilities shall be designed so as to be compatible with the existing
structures and surroundings to the extent feasible, including placement in a
location which is consistent with proper functioning of the wireless
communication facility, the use of compatible or neutral colors, or camouflage
technology.
   E.   Lighting And Signage: The following lighting and signage requirements
shall apply to all wireless communication facility installations:
      1.   Artificial Illumination: Wireless communication facilities shall not
be artificially illuminated, directly or indirectly, except for:
         a.   Security and safety lighting of equipment buildings if such
lighting is appropriately down shielded to keep light within the boundaries of
the site; and
         b.   Such illumination of the wireless communication facility as may
be required by the FAA or other applicable authority installed in a manner to
minimize impacts on adjacent residences; and
         c.   Unless otherwise required by the FAA or other applicable
authority, the required light shall be red and shielded upward.
      2.   Signage: Wireless communication facilities shall not display any
signage, logos, decals, symbols or any messages of a commercial or
noncommercial nature, except for a small message containing provider
identification and emergency telephone numbers and such other information as
may be required by local, state, or federal regulations governing wireless
communication facilities.
   F.   Fencing: Wireless communication facilities with support structures
shall be enclosed by an opaque fence (excluding slatted chainlink) not less
than six feet (6') in height. Security features may be incorporated into the
buffer and landscaping requirements for the site. Nothing herein shall prevent
fencing that is necessary to meet requirements of state or federal agencies.
   G.   Radio Frequency Emissions/Sound: The following radio frequency
emissions standards shall apply to all wireless communication facility
installations:
      1.   Radio Frequency Impact: The FTA gives the FCC jurisdiction of the
regulation of radio frequency (RF) emissions, and wireless communication
facilities that do not exceed the FCC standards shall not be conditioned or
denied on the basis of RF impact.
      2.   FCC Compliance: In order to provide information to its citizens,
copies of ongoing FCC information concerning wireless communication facilities
and RF emissions standards may be requested. Applicants for wireless
communication facilities shall be required to provide information with the
application on the measurement of the effective radiated power of the facility
and how this meets the FCC standards.
      3.   Sound Prohibited: No unusual sound emissions such as alarms, bells,
buzzers or the like are permitted.
   H.   Structural Integrity: Wireless communication facilities with support
structures shall be constructed to the Electronics Industries Association/
Telecommunications Industries Association (EIA/TIA) 222 revision F standard
entitled "Structural Standards For Steel Antenna Towers And Antenna Support
Structures" (or equivalent), as it may be updated and amended. Each support
structure shall be capable of supporting multiple antenna arrays.
   I.   Collocation Agreement: All applicants for wireless communication
facilities are required to submit a statement with the application agreeing to
allow and reasonably market collocation opportunities to other wireless
communication facility uses. The statement shall include the applicant's policy
regarding collocation of other providers and the methodology to be used by the
applicant in determining reasonable rates to be charged other providers. The
collocation agreement shall be considered a condition of issuance of a TUP
(tower use permit). A TUP shall not be issued unless the applicant complies
with the collocation policy outlined in section
10-9-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-9-6: REVIEW PROCESS:
   A.   Development Criteria: The applicable development criteria referred to
herein are those set forth in section
10-9-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Permitting Procedures: Attached wireless communication facilities with
or without new building construction that meet the development criteria may be
permitted by administrative review in all zoning districts except as
hereinafter specified. All monopole type (or other tower types, if any,
specified in appendix A, on file with the village clerk) wireless communication
facilities with support structures that meet the development criteria and that
are located on properties in wireless communication facility overlay district 1
(listed in appendix A, on file with the village clerk), may be permitted by
administrative review except hereinafter specified. All others, regardless of
type or location shall be subject to the community development board hearing
process and may not be approved by the administrative review process. Any
wireless communication facility (attached or with a support structure),
regardless of type to be located within an established historic area, historic
district, or other designated overlay district will be subject to review by the
appropriate district commission and the community development board. Review by
a district commission shall be in accordance with that district's ordinance's
administrative procedures for a certificate of appropriateness. All wireless
communication facility applications that do not conform to the development
criteria or are otherwise not eligible for administrative review shall be
subject to community development board review process.
   C.   Wireless Communication Facilities As A Part Of Coordinated Development
Approval: Wireless communication facilities as part of a proposed residential
or nonresidential subdivision, planned unit development, site plan, conditional
rezoning, or other coordinated development approval shall be reviewed and
approved through those processes.
   D.   Wireless Communication Facilities For Temporary Term: Temporary
wireless communication facilities may be permitted by administrative approval
for a term not to exceed ninety (90) days. Once granted, a temporary wireless
communication facility permit may be extended for an additional ninety (90)
days upon evidence of need by the applicant. In case of emergency (e.g., storm
damage to an existing tower or other circumstances resulting in the
interruption of existing service) the administrative review shall be expedited
to the extent feasible. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-9-7: APPROVAL PROCESS:
   A.   Application Submission: All applicants for a tower use permit,
regardless of wireless communication facility type, shall submit an application
in accordance with the requirements of this subsection.
      1.   Application Contents: Each applicant requesting a TUP under this
chapter shall submit a sealed complete set of drawings prepared by a licensed
architect and engineer that will include a site plan, elevation view, and other
supporting drawings, calculations and other documentation showing the location
and dimensions of the wireless communication facility and all improvements
associated therewith, including information concerning specifications, antenna
locations, equipment facility and shelters, landscaping, parking access,
fencing and, if relevant as determined by staff, topography, adjacent uses and
existing vegetation. Applicants proposing to collocate on an existing wireless
communication facility shall include a radio frequency intermodulation study
with their application.
      2.   Submission Requirements: Application for a TUP shall be submitted to
the zoning administrator on forms prescribed by the village of Annawan. The
application shall be accompanied by a site plan containing the information
described above and a copy of the appropriate FCC license. If community
development board review is required; the application and site plan shall be
placed on the next available board agenda in accordance with the agenda
deadlines established by the board.
      3.   Application Fees: A plan review fee of five hundred dollars
($500.00) and a radio frequency intermodulation study review fee of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) (collocation applicants only) shall accompany each
application. These fees may be used by the village of Annawan to engage an
engineer(s) or other qualified consultant(s) to review the technical aspects of
the application and radio frequency intermodulation study (if required).
      4.   Technical Assistance: In the course of its consideration of an
application, the village of Annawan, the zoning administrator, the community
development board or the village board may deem it necessary, in complex
situations, to employ an engineer(s) or other consultant(s) qualified in the
design and installation of wireless communication facilities to assist the
village of Annawan in the technical aspects of the application. In such cases,
any additional reasonable costs incurred by the village of Annawan not to
exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for the technical review
and recommendation shall be reimbursed by the applicant prior to the final
hearing on the TUP.
   B.   Administrative Review: The following administrative review process
shall apply to all wireless communication facility applications eligible for
administrative review:
      1.   Review Authority: Review of wireless communication facility under
this subsection B shall be conducted by the zoning administrator or his
designee and the village's consultant upon filing a wireless communication
facility application.
      2.   Review Criteria: Each application shall be reviewed for compliance
with the development criteria specified in section
10-9-5 of this chapter.
      3.   Timing Of Decision: The zoning administrator shall render a decision
on the wireless communication facility application by written response to the
applicant within thirty (30) business days after receipt of the complete
application, except that an extension may be agreed upon by the applicant. Any
application that is not reviewed within thirty (30) business days shall be
submitted to the planning and review board.
      4.   Deferral: The zoning administrator may defer administrative approval
of wireless communication facilities for any reason. Deferral of administrative
approval shall require submission to the planning and review board.
      5.   Application Denial: If administrative approval is not obtained or is
denied due to noncompliance with the development criteria, the applicant may
appeal the denial by applying for planning and review board review.
      6.   Application Approval: If the TUP application is in compliance with
the development criteria and otherwise meets the requirements of this section,
the zoning administrator shall issue a tower use permit.
   C.   Community Development Board Review: The following shall apply to all
tower use permit applications requiring submission to the community development
board:
      1.   Review Authority: The planning and review board shall be the review
authority for TUP applications not eligible for administrative review or
otherwise referred to the commission.
      2.   Notice: Notice of the application and the public hearing by the
planning and review board shall be accomplished in the same manner as set forth
by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-1.1.
      3.   Hearing: The planning and review board shall review and consider the
TUP application at a public hearing. At the hearing, interested persons may
appear and offer information in support of or opposition to the proposed
application. The planning and review board shall consider the following in
reaching a decision:
         a.   Development Criteria: The tower use permit application shall be
reviewed for compliance with the development criteria set forth in section
10-9-5 of this chapter; provided that the applicable development criteria may
be amended or waived so long as the approval of the wireless communication
facility meets the goals and purposes of this chapter. The planning and review
board may recommend alternative development criteria by specific inclusion in a
motion for approval.
         b.   Tower Siting Conditions: The planning and review board may impose
conditions and restrictions on the application or on the premises benefited by
the TUP as it deems necessary to reduce or minimize any adverse effects and to
enhance the compatibility of the wireless communication facility with the
surrounding property, in accordance with the purposes and intent of this
chapter. The violation of any condition shall be grounds for revocation of the
TUP. The planning and review board may recommend such conditions in addition to
the development criteria upon the following findings:
            (1)   The wireless communication facility would result in
significant adverse visual impact on nearby residences.
            (2)   The conditions are based upon the purpose and goals of this
chapter.
            (3)   The conditions are reasonable and capable of being
accomplished.
         c.   Action: Following the public hearing and presentation of
evidence, the planning and review board shall take one of the following
actions:
            (1)   Recommend the application as submitted;
            (2)   Recommend the application with conditions or modifications;
            (3)   Defer the application for additional information or neighbor
input; or
            (4)   Deny the application in writing.
      4.   Findings: All decisions rendered by the planning and review board
concerning a tower use permit shall be supported by written findings of fact
and conclusions of law based upon substantial evidence of record.
      5.   Timing Of Decision: The planning and review board shall render its
decision within sixty (60) days or less of the final submission of all required
application documents and technical review, however, this time may be increased
due to deferrals by either the applicant or the planning and review board.
      6.   Appeals: The decision of the planning and review board may be
appealed to a hearing panel appointed by the village board consisting of three
(3) members of the village board, none of whom is a member of the planning and
review board. This hearing panel shall conduct the hearing in conformance with
the Illinois administrative review law 1 , under the following circumstances:
         a.   An appeal shall be filed no later than thirty (30) days after the
final action by the zoning administrator or the planning and review board. Only
the applicant and those who registered an objection to the TUP in the record of
the planning and review board shall have standing to appeal.
         b.   Only such evidence or testimony in support of or in opposition to
the issuance of the TUP which was provided to the planning and review board may
be presented to the hearing panel appointed by the village board unless the
hearing panel, by majority votes, decides to hear new information.
         c.   Notice of appeal shall be accomplished by the appellant in the
same manner as set forth by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-1.1.
         d.   Any further appeals shall conform to the requirements of the
Illinois administrative review law. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
 
Notes
1 1.735 ILCS 5/3-101 et seq.
10-9-8: SHARED FACILITIES AND COLLOCATION POLICY:
   A.   Collocation: All new wireless communication facilities shall be
engineered, designed, and constructed to be capable of sharing the facility
with other providers, to collocate with other existing wireless communication
facilities and to accommodate the future collocation of other wireless
communication facilities. A TUP shall not be issued until the applicant
proposing a new wireless communication facility shall demonstrate that it has
made a reasonable good faith attempt to locate its wireless communication
facility onto an existing structure. Competitive conflict and financial burden
are not deemed to be adequate reasons against collocation.
All wireless communication facilities with support structure up to a height of
one hundred fifty feet (150') shall be engineered and constructed to
accommodate at least three (3) antenna array. All wireless communication
facilities with support structures up to a height of more than one hundred
fifty feet (150') shall be engineered and constructed to accommodate at least
four (4) antenna array. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-9-9: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
Any wireless communication facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned, and the village of
Annawan, at its election, may require the wireless communication facility owner
to remove the wireless communication facility within ninety (90) days after
notice from the village of Annawan to remove the wireless communication
facility. If the abandoned wireless communication facility is not removed
within ninety (90) days, the village of Annawan may remove it and recover its
costs from the wireless communication facility owner. If there are two (2) or
more users of a single wireless communication facility, this provision shall
not become effective until all providers cease to use the wireless
communication facility. If the owner of an abandoned wireless communication
facility cannot be located or is no longer in business, the requirements of
this section shall be the responsibility of the landowner on whose property the
wireless communication facility is located. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-9-10: NONCONFORMING WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
Wireless communication facilities in existence on the adoption date hereof
which do not comply with the requirements of this chapter (nonconforming
wireless communication facility) are subject to the following provisions:
   A.   Expansion: Nonconforming wireless communication facilities may continue
to be in use for the purpose now used, but may not be expanded without
complying with this chapter except as further provided in this section.
   B.   Additions: Nonconforming wireless communication facilities may add
additional antennas (belonging to the same provider or other providers) subject
to administrative review under this chapter.
   C.   Repairs Or Reconstruction: Nonconforming wireless communication
facilities which become damaged due to any reason or cause may be repaired and
restored to their former use, location, and physical dimensions subject to the
provisions of this chapter; provided however, that if the damage to the
wireless communication facility exceeds fifty percent (50%) of replacement
cost, said wireless communication facility may only be reconstructed or
repaired in compliance with this chapter.
   D.   Abandonment: Any wireless communication facility not in use for six (6)
months shall be deemed abandoned and all rights as a nonconforming use shall
cease. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-9-11: REVOCATION OF TOWER USE PERMITS:
Any tower use permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked after a
hearing as provided hereinafter. If the zoning administrator finds that any
permit holder has violated any provision of this chapter or has failed to make
good faith reasonable efforts to provide or seek collocation, the zoning
administrator shall notify the permit holder in writing that the TUP is
revocable due to the permit holder's noncompliance with the conditions of the
permit and the zoning administrator shall convene a meeting with the permit
holder no later than thirty (30) days from the date of the letter. The zoning
administrator may require the permit holder to correct the violation within a
reasonable amount of time or the zoning administrator may recommend to the
village of Annawan that the tower use permit be revoked. After the appropriate
public hearing, the president and village board may revoke the tower use permit
(TUP) upon such terms and conditions, if any, that the president and village
board determine. Prior to initiation of revocation proceedings, the zoning
administrator shall notify the permit holder, in writing, of the specific areas
of noncompliance and specify the date by which such deficiencies must be
corrected. The time for correction of deficiencies shall not exceed sixty (60)
days. The permit holder shall provide the zoning administrator with evidence
that the required corrective action has been taken. Should the permit holder
fail to correct any deficiencies in the time required, the president and
village board shall convene a public hearing to consider revocation of the
tower use permit. The hearing shall be conducted pursuant to notice by
publication in a newspaper with general circulation in the village of Annawan
not less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing and by written notice to the
permit holder. At any such hearing, the permit holder may be represented by an
attorney and may cross examine opposing witnesses. Other interested persons may
comment. The president and village board may impose reasonable restrictions
with respect to time and procedure. The proceedings shall be recorded;
provided, however, those stenographic services, if desired, shall be provided
by the requesting party at that party's expense. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-9-12: PENALTY:
The fine or penalty for violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction in the municipal court, not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
any one specific offense of violation. Further, that if a thing prohibited or
rendered unlawful is, in nature, continuous in respect to time, the fine or
penalty for allowing the continuous thereof in violation of this chapter shall
not exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each day that it may be unlawfully
continued. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-9-13: ANNUAL REVIEW:
The president and village board may review this chapter on an annual basis and
shall alter or amend the same as required in the manner provided by law. (Ord.
244, 6-10-2003)
10-9-14: JURISDICTION:
This agreement shall be interpreted and enforceable under the laws of the state
of Illinois. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMING USES (BUILDINGS AND LAND)
SECTION:
10-10-1: Nonconforming Uses Regulated
10-10-1: NONCONFORMING USES REGULATED:
   A.   Nonconforming Use Of Land: In the R districts where open land is being
used as a nonconforming use and such use or uses in the principal use or uses
and not accessory to the main use conducted in a building, such use shall be
discontinued not later than five (5) years from the passage date hereof. During
the five (5) year period, such nonconforming use or uses shall not be extended
or enlarged either on the same or adjoining property. Any building incident and
subordinate to such use or uses of land, such as a shed, tool house, storage
building is so constructed as to permit the issuance of a permit for a use not
excluded from the district, such building may remain as a conforming use;
thereafter, both land and building shall be used only as conforming uses. Such
nonconforming uses of open land shall specifically include, but not be limited
to, billboards, poster boards, automobile wrecking yards, scrap from and junk
storage, trailer camps (unless they receive a conditional use permit), auction
yards, contractor's yards, racetracks, stockyards, golf driving ranges, and
miniature golf courses.
   B.   Nonconforming Use Of Buildings: Except as otherwise provided herein,
the lawful use of a building existing at the effective date hereof may be
continued, although such use does not conform to the provisions hereof. If no
structural alteration is made, a nonconforming use of a building may be changed
to another restricted classification. Whenever a nonconforming use has been
changed to a less restricted use, the nonconforming use of a building may be
hereafter extended throughout those parts of a building which were lawfully and
manifestly arranged or designed for such use at the time of the enactment of
this title.
   C.   Discontinuance Of Nonconforming Uses: No building or portion thereof
used in whole or in part for a nonconforming use in an R district which remains
idle or unused for a continuous period of two (2) years, whether or not the
equipment or fixtures are removed, shall again be used except in conformity
with the regulations of the R district in which it is located.
   D.   Destruction Of A Nonconforming Use: No building which has been damaged
by any cause whatsoever shall be restored except in conformity with the
regulations of this title. If a building is damaged it may be repaired or
reconstructed and used as before the time of damage, provided that such repairs
or reconstruction be substantially completed within twelve (12) months of the
date of such damage.
   E.   Intermittent Use: The casual intermittent, temporary, or illegal use of
land or buildings shall not be sufficient to establish the existence of a
nonconforming use on a part of a lot or tract and shall not be construed to
establish a nonconforming use on the entire lot or tract.
   F.   Existence Of Nonconforming Use: Whether a conforming use exists shall
be a question of fact and shall be decided by the zoning board of appeals after
public notice and hearing and in accordance with the rules of the board.
   G.   Nonconforming Uses Not Validated: A nonconforming use in violation of a
provision of ordinance which this title repeals shall not be validated by the
adoption of this title.
Nonconforming uses may be extended or expanded only after public hearing before
the zoning board of appeals and where such expansion would result in a
nonconforming use being sought closer to conformance. Such expansions or
extensions would include the addition to a building to provide accessory
storage, where said storage was unenclosed on the premises and off street
parking either on the same lot or adjoining lots, where such off street parking
would meet the parking requirements of this title for said nonconforming use if
it were conforming and where such off street parking would eliminate, or reduce
substantially, a serious traffic hazard in the streets abutting such
nonconforming use. Expansion or extension of a nonconforming use shall not be
granted if the only reason for such extension or expansion is for the sole
purpose of perpetuating the nonconforming use. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 11
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Board Created
10-11-2: Members; Term Of Office
10-11-3: Oath
10-11-4: Organization
10-11-5: Duties
10-11-6: Duties Of The Village Clerk's Office
10-11-7: Minutes And Records Kept
10-11-8: Compensation
10-11-9: Conflict Of Interest By Members
10-11-1: BOARD CREATED:
There is hereby created and established and shall hereafter be maintained and
recognized in and for the village of Annawan a zoning board of appeals, and
said board shall be under the jurisdiction of the village board. (Ord. 244, 6-
10-2003)
10-11-2: MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE:
The board shall consist of seven (7) members as stated below:
   A.   The seven (7) members of the board shall be citizens of the village who
are not members of the village board. The seven (7) citizen members shall be
appointed by the president and approved by the village board. Said members
shall serve a term office of five (5) years each from the first village board
meeting in April of the year they are appointed or until such time as their
successors take office. The term for which each said member is appointed shall
be designated in his appointment. At the April village board meeting of each
year, the member shall be appointed for a five (5) year term to succeed the
member whose term expired in said month.
   B.   Members shall be eligible for reappointment and it is desirable that
members rendering good service be reappointed in order that the zoning board of
appeals may have the benefit of their experience and that there may be a
continuity policy. If any member should during the term of his office die, move
from the village, or for any reason be unable to act, the vacancy so created
shall be filled in the same manner as an original appointment and shall be for
the remainder of the unexpired term. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-11-3: OATH:
All citizen members of the board do not have to take an oath. (Ord. 244, 6-10-
2003)
10-11-4: ORGANIZATION:
The board shall organize as soon as possible after the appointment and
qualification of its members, by the election of one of its members as
chairman, said chairman to be elected yearly by a majority of said board
members.
All hearings conducted by said board shall be open to the public. The board
shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon
every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact and shall
also keep records of its hearings and other official actions. Findings of fact
shall be included in the minutes of each case, and the reasons for recommending
approval or denial of the request shall be specified. Every rule or regulation,
every amendment or repeal thereof, and every order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the board shall be filed within ten (10) days in the office of
the village clerk and shall be public record. The board shall adopt its own
rules and procedures not in conflict with the ordinances or with the Illinois
statutes in such case made and provided. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-11-5: DUTIES:
   A.   Powers And Duties: The powers and duties of the board are:
      1.   To hold public hearings and recommend to the village board approval
of conditional use permits.
      2.   To hold public hearings and grant variances and expansions of
nonconforming uses.
      3.   To hold public hearings and decide upon requests for determination
of the existence of a nonconforming use and request for the extension of a
nonconforming use.
      4.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
an order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the building
inspector in the enforcement of the zoning ordinance or the building code and
fee schedule.
      5.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot held in a single ownership at the time of passage of the
zoning ordinance.
      6.   To interpret the provisions of the zoning ordinances in such a way
as to carry out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the map
fixing the several districts accompanying and made a part of this title where
the street layout on the ground varies from the layout as shown on the map
aforesaid.
   B.   Granting Variances: The board may grant the following variances:
      1.   Vary the yard regulations where there is an exception or unusual
physical condition on a lot, which condition is not generally prevalent in the
neighborhood and which condition when related to the yard regulations of this
title would prevent a reasonable or sensible arrangement of buildings on the
lot. Applicants for a side or rear yard variance must be able to show the
distance of the proposed improvement from the lot line by way of lot corner
stakes in the neighborhood. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a variance may be
granted for the parking or storage of recreational vehicles in side yards.
Before granting such a variance, the board shall consider such factors as the
closeness of neighboring buildings, adequate light, sunshine and airspace and
fire hazard potential.
      2.   Vary the parking regulations where an applicant demonstrated
conclusively that the specific use of a building would make unnecessary the
parking spaces required by this title, but providing that such a reduction not
be more than fifty percent (50%) of the usual requirement.
      3.   Use of premises for public utilities and railroad purposes (other
than track right of way) or for radio and television tower or broadcasting
station.
      4.   Vary the parking regulations for parking in the R districts for
churches, temples, public schools, public libraries, community centers, public
parks, and public playgrounds. In the R districts twenty percent (20%) of the
required front yard shall be reserved and devoted to permanent landscaping and
no off street parking spaces or off street loading spaces shall be permitted
within this landscaping area.
   C.   Conditional Use Permits: The zoning board of appeals shall conduct
public hearings and make recommendations to the village board upon applications
for conditional permits, specifically listed in the district regulations of
this title. Conditional uses of areas to be annexed shall be detailed in an
annexation agreement. A public hearing on the conditional use and annexation
agreement shall be conducted by the planning and review board. In such cases it
shall be the planning and review board rather than the zoning board of appeals
which shall make recommendations to the village board. No recommendation for a
conditional use permit shall be forwarded to the village board within the same
week as the public hearing is completed. Before recommending approval of such a
conditional use permit, the board shall satisfy itself that the conditional use
requested will meet conditions that will, with the board's judgment, ensure
that:
      1.   The establishment, maintenance, or operation of a conditional use
will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, morals,
comfort, or general welfare.
      2.   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of the property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already permitted nor
substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood.
      3.   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding property uses permitted
in the district.
      4.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage, and other necessary
facilities will be provided.
      5.   Adequate measures will be taken to provide ingress and egress so
designed as to minimize traffic congestions in the public streets.
      6.   Duration of conditional uses shall be for that period of time as set
forth.
   D.   Appeals To The Board: An appeal may be taken to the zoning board of
appeals by a person or by an officer, department, board or bureau of the
village affected by a decision of the building inspector.
An appeal shall state all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the building inspector certifies to the zoning board of appeals
after the notice of appeal has been filed with him that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the zoning board
of appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the building
inspector, and on due cause shown.
The board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing of the
appeal and give fifteen (15) days' notice thereof to the parties and shall
render a decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may
appeal and testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent
or attorney.
   E.   Appeals From Decision Of The Board: Any review of the decisions of the
zoning board of appeals shall be subject to the Illinois administrative review
act. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-11-6: DUTIES OF THE VILLAGE CLERK'S OFFICE:
For conditional uses, variances, and extension or expansions of nonconforming
uses, or for the determination of the existence of a nonconforming use, the
village clerk's office shall:
   A.   Obtain the name of the property owners within a radius of five hundred
feet (500') of the property of the stated case and notify each property owner
of the public hearing by a letter.
   B.   Have the legal notice published in the official newspaper fifteen (15)
days prior to the public hearing.
   C.   Have recorded in the Henry County recorder's office all conditional
uses, variances, and expansions of nonconforming uses, including any
restrictions thereof.
   D.   Receive a fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) with applications
for conditional uses, variances, and expansions of nonconforming uses. No fee
shall be received with applications for other meetings or hearings of the
zoning board of appeals. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-11-7: MINUTES AND RECORDS KEPT:
The board shall keep full and accurate minutes of its proceedings. The village
clerk shall designate a member of his staff to be present to take full and
accurate minutes. All records of the board shall be kept at the village hall
and shall be open to the public. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-11-8: COMPENSATION:
Each citizen member of the board shall serve without compensation for his
service. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-11-9: CONFLICT OF INTEREST BY MEMBERS:
No member of the board shall be interested, directly or indirectly, in any
contract or job for work, or material or any work for himself or family, or the
profits therefrom, or services to be furnished or performed in the carrying out
of the Annawan zoning code. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 12
ENFORCEMENT OF TITLE
SECTION:
10-12-1: Administrative Officer
10-12-2: Appeals; General
10-12-1: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER:
The administrative officer shall enforce this title in accordance with the
penalties and remedies set forth in this title. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-12-2: APPEALS; GENERAL:
Any appeals which may be made from the actions of the administrative officer
shall be taken to the zoning board of appeals in accordance with chapter 11 of
this title. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 13
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-13-1: Amendment Of Zoning Regulations
10-13-2: Administrative Or Procedural Changes
10-13-1: AMENDMENT OF ZONING REGULATIONS:
   A.   Procedure: The village board may from time to time amend this title in
the manner prescribed by the statutes of the state. No such amendment shall be
made until it shall have been referred to the planning and review board and a
report received from said board of the effect of said amendment upon the
village and the welfare of the inhabitants thereof. The planning and review
board shall hold one public hearing upon such amendment as required by law and
is hereby designated as the body to hold such hearings. If no report is
received from the planning and review board in sixty (60) days, said board has
approved the amendment. No report for an amendment shall be forwarded to the
village board within the same week as the public hearing is completed.
   B.   Meetings Of The Board: All meetings of the planning and review board
shall be at the call of the chairman and at such other times as the board may
determine. An application of any type of amendment to this title must be
submitted to the village clerk's office three (3) weeks prior to the scheduled
planning and review board meeting.
   C.   Duties Of The Village Clerk's Office: For amendments to the zoning
district boundaries, the village clerk's office shall:
      1.   Obtain the names of property owners within a radius of five hundred
feet (500') of the property of the stated case and notify each property owner
of the public hearing by letter.
      2.   Have the legal notice published in the official newspaper fifteen
(15) days prior to the public hearing.
      3.   Receive a fee of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) from the party
or parties proposing or recommending a change in the district regulations or
district boundaries. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-13-2: ADMINISTRATIVE OR PROCEDURAL CHANGES:
   A.   The village board of the village of Annawan, Illinois shall have the
power to make any administrative or procedural changes to the Annawan zoning
ordinance without first submitting such change to a public hearing held by the
planning and review board.
   B.   "Administrative or procedural changes" as set forth in the above
paragraphs shall mean any of the following changes:
      1.   The name of any board, committee, commission, or individual.
      2.   The composition of any board, committee, commission, or position
including, but not limited to, the number of members, length of term, or
proportionment by residential location or other category.
      3.   The transfer of duties between board, committee, or commission.
(Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
CHAPTER 14
VIOLATION AND PENALTY
SECTION:
10-14-1: Zoning Violations And Penalty
10-14-2: Remedies
10-14-1: ZONING VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
The owner or agent of a building or premises in or upon which a violation of
any provision of this title has been committed or shall exist, or the lessee or
tenant of an entire building or entire premises in or upon which violation has
been committed or shall exist, or the agent, architect, building contractor or
any other person who commits, takes part in, or assists in any violation or who
maintains any building or premises in or upon which such violation shall exist
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a
fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00). Each and every day that such
violation continues may constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
10-14-2: REMEDIES:
In the event that any building or structure is or is sought to be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted, or maintained or any
building, structure, or land is sought to be used in violation of this title,
the administrative officer or the village board, in addition to other remedies,
shall have the power to withhold or revoke any necessary permit and shall
institute appropriate action or proceedings to prevent such unlawful erection,
construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair, conversion, maintenance or
use, or to correct or abate such violation, or to prevent the occupancy of said
building, structure, or land. (Ord. 244, 6-10-2003)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISIONS  1
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Authority
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-4: Restrictions
11-1-5: Separability
11-1-6: Amendments
11-1-7: Repealer
11-1-8: Effective Date
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  3-1-8 of this Code.
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Title shall be known as the ANNAWAN SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 226, 2-
11-2000)
11-1-2: AUTHORITY:
This Title was recommended by the Zoning Board of the Village and serves as a
functional part of the Village's Comprehensive Plan. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
This Title governs the division of land within the corporate limits and
contiguous territory of the Village. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-1-4: RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Whenever this Title conflicts with any Village, State, or Federal laws
and regulations regarding the recording of plats or public improvements, the
more stringent restrictions imposed shall prevail.
   B.   Whenever the subject matter is the same, contiguous territories
governed by this Title are exempt from less restrictive regulations of
ordinance(s) adopted by the County Board of Henry County. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-1-5: SEPARABILITY:
The provisions of this Title shall be separable and the invalidity of any
provision shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions of this
Title. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-1-6: AMENDMENTS:
This Title may be amended by the Village Board provided no amendment shall be
adopted that has not been submitted to the Zoning Board and for which a public
hearing has not been held. The amendment procedure shall be as follows:
   A.   The Village Board shall submit a request for amendment to the Zoning
Board which shall make a report and recommendation within ninety (90) days from
the date of the request.
   B.   The Zoning Board shall schedule a public hearing and publish a public
notice in a newspaper of general circulation of the Village. The public notice
must give the time and place of the informal hearing and be published not less
than fifteen (15) days prior to the hearing. The public notice must inform the
public of the purpose of the hearing and that interested persons may submit
their statements orally, in writing, or both.
   C.   No later than ninety (90) days after the conclusion of the public
hearing the Zoning Board must submit its report and recommendation to the
Village Board. The Village Board may adopt, in whole or in part, any of the
amendment or reject the entire amendment. An amendment must be enacted by an
ordinance.
   D.   If the Zoning Board fails to make a report and recommendation within
ninety (90) days of Village Board's request, Village Board may proceed to
consider its request and schedule a public hearing.
   E.   If the Village Board fails to take action after ninety (90) days of the
adjournment of a public hearing, no action shall be taken without again holding
a public hearing. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-1-7: REPEALER:
This Title repeals Ordinance 144, as amended. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-1-8: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Title shall be in full force after its passage, approval, and due
publication required by law. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Word Usage And Definitions
11-2-1: WORD USAGE AND DEFINITIONS:
The words or group of words, unless the context otherwise requires, shall have
their usage applicable only to this Title and to mean or to include:
APPROPRIATE VILLAGE OFFICIAL: Includes the officer, employee, or hired
consultants of the Village designated to assist with the administration or
enforcement of the "Annawan Subdivision Ordinance".
COLLECTOR STREET: A street which carries traffic of average volume between
minor streets and other sections of the Village, or between minor streets and
major streets.
CONTIGUOUS TERRITORY: Land situated not more than one and one- half (11/2)
miles beyond the corporate limits and not included in any municipality.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street terminated at one end with a permanent turnaround
and an open end being the only means of access to a collector street.
DIVISION OF LAND: The separation of land into two (2) or more parts, any of
which is less than five (5) acres by tracts, parcels, lots, or blocks; and the
land is under one ownership.
EASEMENT: A grant or donation by an owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation, or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
FINAL PLAT: The plat and information or documents required within the "Annawan
Subdivision Ordinance".
LOT: A part of the division of land intended for the transfer of ownership.
MAJOR STREET: A street which carries traffic of high volume between sections of
the community and connects the Village to rural areas and to other communities.
All streets under the jurisdiction of the State and Federal government are
major streets.
MINOR STREET: A street intended primarily as access to abutting properties.
OWNER: An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, or any other legal entity
or agent thereof having the legal control of the land.
PLAT: A survey of the division of land, prepared by an Illinois registered land
surveyor, which describes and sets forth all public improvements and public
service and utility easements.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: The plat and information or documents required within the
"Annawan Subdivision Ordinance" and serves as an introduction of the proposed
subdivision and is subject to change after review, thereby not qualifying for
recording.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS: Public streets, highways, alleys, curbs, gutters,
sidewalks, streetlights, parks, playgrounds, storm water drainage system, water
supply and distribution system, sewage collection and treatment, sanitary
sewers, or any other facility necessary for the general use of the public.
PUBLIC SERVICE: Includes the Village services of electricity supply and
distribution, water supply and distribution, sewage collection system and
sewage treatment, storm water drainage system, or any other utility offered by
the Village.
REPLAT: A division of land along a public street which involves altering a
platted block or lot and does not involve: a) the dedication of land for public
improvements or for public service and utility easement, or b) the opening,
widening, closing, or extension of any street or alley, or c) any construction
of public improvements.
SUBDIVISION: A division of land along a public street which involves natural
land or developed land and involves the dedication of land for public
improvements and for public service and utility easements; the construction of
public improvements, public service and utilities; and the opening, widening,
closing, or extension of any street or alley.
UTILITY: Includes the supply of gas, oil, steam, telephone, telegraph, cable
television, transportation lines or other commodity or service by publicly or
privately owned businesses.
VILLAGE ENGINEER: Includes the person or engineering firm or engineering hired
consultant designated to act in the review of engineering data.
ZONING BOARD: The duly created Board of the Village of Annawan assigned the
duty to make recommendations regarding the development of the Village. (Ord.
226, 2-11-2000)
CHAPTER 3
PUBLIC ACT
SECTION:
11-3-1: Owner Restrictions
11-3-2: Exceptions
11-3-3: Minor Subdivision
11-3-4: Preexisting Plats
11-3-5: Enforcement
11-3-6: Penalty
11-3-1: OWNER RESTRICTIONS:
Except as provided in Section
11-3-2 of this Chapter, no owner within the corporate limits and contiguous
territory shall:
   A.   Record any plat at the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Henry County
until the plat has been approved by the Village Board as prescribed in this
Title;
   B.   Sell, or offer to sell, or lease for any time exceeding five (5) years
any part of land before which all the requirements of this Title have been
complied;
   C.   Construct upon land conveyed for public use in fee simple by the
recording of a plat at the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Henry County any
public improvements until the required information or documents of the final
plat have been approved by the Village Board. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-3-2: EXCEPTIONS:
The act shall not apply to, and no plat is required to be approved by the
Village Board for, division of land:
   A.   That is exempted from the Illinois Plat Act, provided the division of
land meets the requirements of the Village's Zoning Ordinance; and
   B.   That does not involve any public improvements or public service and
utility easements, or egress or ingress, or extension or connection of Village
services. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-3-3: MINOR SUBDIVISION:
The final plat of any proposed subdivision of a parcel of land under one
ownership and that does not involve any public improvements or public service
and utility easements, or egress or ingress, or extension or connection of
Village services, and which results in creating no more than three (3) lots,
may be submitted in the first instance to the Administrative Officer for their
examination. In such case, no preliminary plat need be filed and no charge or
filing fee levied. If the Administrative Officer is satisfied that the proposal
is not contrary to applicable platting, subdividing or zoning regulations, they
may approve said plat by affixing their signature thereto. Such approval shall
be effective for all purposes and shall entitle said plat to be recorded.
Following recording, the owner or developer shall furnish a Mylar copy of the
plat containing all signatures and recording data to the appropriate Village
official. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-3-4: PREEXISTING PLATS:
The provisions of this act do not affect the validity of any plat recorded at
the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Henry County prior to the effective date
hereof. Construction and acceptance of public improvements of such plats shall
be approved by the Village Board as prescribed in this Title. (Ord. 226, 2-11-
2000)
11-3-5: ENFORCEMENT:
The enforcement of this Title shall consist of:
   A.   No building, electrical, plumbing, excavation, or occupancy permits
will be issued until all public improvements have been accepted by the Village
Board.
   B.   No Village services will be offered, extended, or connected to any
building or structure within a subdivision until all public improvements have
been accepted by the Village Board.
   C.   Any lawful action to prevent or remedy any violation or to require
compliance to this act, such as the issuance of a stop order, application to
the Circuit Court for an injunction requiring compliance, etc. (Ord. 226, 2-11-
2000)
11-3-6: PENALTY:
Any owner violating any provision of this act shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and
each day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
CHAPTER 4
PRELIMINARY PLAT
SECTION:
11-4-1: Application Required
11-4-2: Board Review
11-4-3: Requirements
11-4-4: Preliminary Plat Standards
11-4-4-1: Plat Layout Requirements
11-4-4-2: Subdivision Layout Requirements
11-4-4-3: Public Street And Alleyway Layout Requirements
11-4-4-4: Public Service And Utility Service Easements Layout Requirements
11-4-5: Supportive Maps
11-4-6: Reports And Studies
11-4-7: Submittal Of Preliminary Plat
11-4-8: Review
11-4-9: Action
11-4-10: Possible Cause For Disapproval
11-4-11: Status Of Approved Preliminary Plat
11-4-1: APPLICATION REQUIRED:
An owner desiring to subdivide and record a plat must present a preliminary
plat to the Zoning Board. The preliminary plat consists of an application,
plat, supportive maps, and reports or studies. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-2: BOARD REVIEW:
The Zoning Board and the appropriate Village official are granted the authority
to request any change of the proposed subdivision or additional information
from the owner. This authority is granted to assist in the review whenever
unique circumstances are not known until after a complete preliminary plat has
been submitted. Changes of the subdivision proposed or additional information
may include, but is not limited to:
   A.   Soil boring data and/or seepage test.
   B.   Reservation of land for parks, schools, or public grounds.
   C.   Additional rights of way to provide adequate earth slopes.
   D.   Additional public service and utility easements.
   E.   Buffer zones. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-3: REQUIREMENTS:
The applicant must, at minimum, include:
   A.   The name, address, and phone number of the owner.
   B.   The name, address, and phone number of the Illinois registered land
surveyor and the Illinois registered professional engineer whose services were
engaged by the owner.
   C.   The legal description of the land, the property tax ID number, and the
most current assessed valuation.
   D.   The name of the proposed subdivision.
   E.   The type of subdivision, i.e., residential, retail commercial,
industry, or any combination.
   F.   The number of acres to be subdivided, the number of acres to be
dedicated for public use, and the number of lots.
   G.   The types, number of each, and total estimated construction cost for
houses, for multi-family dwellings, and for nonresidential buildings.
   H.   The types of businesses that will be encouraged to locate within the
proposed subdivision.
   I.   The estimated time and cost to complete the total construction of
public improvements (estimated cost includes engineering, surveying, and
inspection fees).
   J.   The width and name of each proposed street.
   K.   An estimate of annual gallons of water and an estimate of annual
kilowatts of electricity that will be required within the subdivision.
   L.   The proposed zoning.
   M.   A brief description of natural barriers, flood plain boundaries, or
environmental concerns which may require special attention or prevent
development of the land in accordance to this Title.
   N.   On a separate page, a sketch (to scale, north point, and 1/4 section
line references) showing the external boundaries with dimensions of the
proposed subdivision and showing existing public improvements, natural
features, zoning classification, and land development within a quarter mile.
   O.   A statement assuring that the application is complete and true and that
the owner possesses a copy of the "Annawan Subdivision Ordinance".
   P.   The signature of the owner, date signed, and signature notarized. (Ord.
226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-4: PRELIMINARY PLAT STANDARDS:
The plat must be prepared by an Illinois registered land surveyor who surveyed
the land. The owner must instruct the surveyor to prepare the plat according to
the prescribed layouts. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-4-1: PLAT LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Plat not less than eight and one-half inches by fourteen inches (81/2"
x 14") and not more than thirty inches by thirty six inches (30" x 36").
   B.   Location and dimensions of proposed and existing parks, school grounds,
or other public grounds (dimensions to the nearest one-tenth of a foot).
   C.   Angular and linear data along the exterior boundaries of the
subdivision, and all radii, internal angles, parts of curvatures, tangents,
bearing, and length of all curves must be shown (dimensions to the nearest one-
tenth of a foot).
   D.   References to known and permanent monuments, location of surveyor's
monuments, and location and references to external boundary monuments.
   E.   Quarter section lines and quarter corners, and corporate limit lines.
   F.   Meander line of proposed or existing lakes, ponds, streams, creeks, or
other bodies of water with distance and bearings given (meander line
established at not less than 20 feet back from normal water elevation of a lake
or pond or from the bank of a stream, creek, or river; and reference of
monuments at all angle points along a meander line).
   G.   Date the map was prepared, revision dates, and signature and seal of
preparer; and must note the existence of any flood plain areas.
   H.   A standard legend; i.e., north point, scale, etc. (a scale less than 1
inch equals 100 feet or larger).
   I.   Name of proposed subdivision (proposed name of subdivision which
resubdivides or replats an existing plat must make reference to the recorded
plat). (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-4-2: SUBDIVISION LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   By lots with:
      1.   The lots progressively numbered.
      2.   The precise dimension of each lot given (to the nearest one-tenth of
a foot).
      3.   Side lot lines at right angles to straight street's right- of-way
lines; at radial to curved street right-of-way lines.
      4.   Side lot lines at radial to the center of a cul-de-sac turnaround.
      5.   Distance given between the point of intersection of meander lines
with lot lines.
   B.   A lot must:
      1.   Abut a public street with a minimum access to the public street of
fifty feet (50').
      2.   Not abut two (2) public streets, except corner lots.
      3.   Conform to the minimum lot area and dimension of the zoning district
in which said subdivision is located (areas under water; on watercourses,
drainageways, channels, streams; within the meander line; or within a flood
plain shall not be counted to satisfy minimum zoning requirements).
      4.   Have setback lines established and the distance of the setback line
shall conform to the requirements of the zoning district in which said
subdivision is located.
      5.   Be in reference to not less than two (2) monuments. (Ord. 226, 2-11-
2000)
11-4-4-3: PUBLIC STREET AND ALLEYWAY LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   No dead-end streets or alleys.
   B.   No private streets.
   C.   No half-streets or half-alleys.
   D.   No alleys in residential-zoned districts.
   E.   No more than two (2) streets to intersect at a point.
   F.   No street to intersect any other street at less than sixty degrees
(60°).
   G.   Street and alley rights of way of:
               Residential      Nonresidential
   Major streets         80 feet      100 feet
   Collector streets      60 feet      80 feet
   Minor streets         50 feet      66 feet
   Alleys            20 feet      20 feet
   Cul-de-sacs, radius      50 feet      60 feet
(Opposite side is zoned nonresidential, then the proposed street's right of way
must be nonresidential.)
   H.   Right-of-way widths rounded with a radius of ten feet (10') whenever
the right of way is less than sixty six feet (66') (comparable cutoffs or
chords in place of such rounded corners are permitted).
   I.   Rights of way deflecting from each other at any one point by more than
ten degrees (10°) must be joined by curves with the inner radius of:
            Residential      Nonresidential
   Major streets      not less than 350 feet   same
   Collector streets   not less than 250 feet   same
   Minor streets      not less than 100 feet   same
   J.   No street jogs with center line offsets of less than one hundred twenty
five feet (125').
   K.   A tangent or portion of a right of way in straight alignment and of not
less than one hundred feet (100') in length must be introduced between reverse
curves on proposed major and collector streets.
   L.   Name of all proposed public streets, subject to approval by the
Village, and existing streets.
   M.   The length of a proposed cul-de-sac, excluding the turnaround, must not
exceed five hundred feet (500').
   N.   The width, course, and extent of all proposed public streets and alleys
given (dimension to nearest one-tenth of a foot). (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-4-4: PUBLIC SERVICE AND UTILITY SERVICE EASEMENTS LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Storm water and/or drainage easements must conform substantially with
the watercourse whenever the land is traversed by a watercourse or channel or
stream or natural drainage.
   B.   Public service and utility easements located along the rear and/or side
of lots.
   C.   No public service and utility easement jogs with center line offset of
less than one hundred twenty five feet (125').
   D.   Lot easement width of:
      1.   Twenty feet (20') when located on the rear of a lot and the lot does
not abut the rear of another lot.
      2.   Ten feet (10') when located on the rear of a lot and the lot abuts
the rear of another lot such that the total of abutting lots incorporate a
width of twenty feet (20').
      3.   Twelve feet (12') when located on the side of a lot and the lot does
not abut the side of another lot.
      4.   Six feet (6') when located on the side of a lot and the lot abuts
the side of another lot such that the total of abutting lots incorporate a
width of twelve feet (12'). (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-5: SUPPORTIVE MAPS:
Supportive maps must be prepared, sealed, and signed by an Illinois registered
land surveyor or an Illinois registered professional engineer, whomever
prepared the supportive map. Each supportive map must be prepared in such a
manner as will permit the supportive map to be used as an overlay to the plat.
   A.   A topographical map showing the topography and profile of the elevation
of the land (at vertical intervals of not more than 2 feet) prior to the
commencement of any change in elevation.
   B.   A topographical map showing the topography and profile of the elevation
of the land (at vertical intervals of not more than 2 feet) and the flow of
surface water after the commencement of any change in elevation.
(Note: This map is only required if it is contemplated that elevations or flow
of surface water from the development of the proposed subdivision will be
changed as a result of development.)
   C.   A water distribution map showing the location of the proposed water
supply distribution system within the subdivision, the connection to the
existing water supply distribution system, and the location of water service
lines to each lot.
   D.   A sanitary sewer map showing the location of the proposed sanitary
sewer system within the subdivision, the connection to existing sanitary sewer
system, and the location of sanitary sewer service lines to each lot.
   E.   A storm water drainage system map showing the location of the proposed
storm sewer system within the subdivision and the connection to existing storm
sewer system or outfall or retention area, the location of watercourses,
marshes or any other body of water to be used for outfall.
(Note: Retention areas are acceptable but are not encouraged; if a retention
area is to be located within the subdivision, sufficient data, dimensions,
depth, cross section, and description of purpose must be provided with the
storm water drainage system.) (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-6: REPORTS AND STUDIES:
Reports or studies must be prepared, sealed, and signed by an Illinois
registered land surveyor or an Illinois registered professional engineer,
whomever prepared the report or study.
   A.   A profile study explaining the topographic map(s) submitted. The
profile study must explain proposed changes in the elevations and proposed
changes in the flow of surface water from the land if the development of the
land will or may cause any changes to elevations or flow of surface water. The
profile study must have attached a signed statement of the registered
professional engineer, and the owner or a duly authorized attorney, that states
if such water surface will not change:
   to the best of their knowledge and belief the drainage of surface waters
will not be changed by the construction of such subdivision or any part
thereof,
   or,
   if such surface water drainage will be changed:
   To the best of their knowledge and belief reasonable provision has been made
for collection and diversion of such surface waters into public areas or
drains, which the owner of land has a right to use, and that such surface
waters will be planned for in accordance with generally accepted engineering
practices so as to reduce the likelihood of damage to the adjoining property
because of the construction of the subdivision.
   B.   A report or study regarding the effectiveness, need, and design of
retention area(s). (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-7: SUBMITTAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The owner must submit a complete application; seven (7) full- sized copies of
the plat; ten (10) photocopies, eleven inches by seventeen inches (11" x 17")
in size; and seven (7) copies of all supportive maps and reports required to
the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk shall distribute copies of the application
as follows: two (2) copies to the Mayor, one copy each to the superintendents
of the electric utility, Water and Sewer Department, Street Department, and
Village Engineer (or engineering consultant), and one copy to the chair of the
Zoning Board. No preliminary plat review shall be undertaken until all required
information or documents of the preliminary plat have been submitted by the
owner. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-8: REVIEW:
Within fifteen (15) days from the date of submittal of the preliminary plat or
from the date the last required part of the preliminary plat was submitted, the
Village Clerk, superintendents of the electric utility, Water and Sewer
Department, Street Department, and Village Engineer (or engineering consultant)
shall make a report of findings relevant to their areas of responsibility to
the Mayor and the Zoning Board. The report must provide the Mayor and Zoning
Board with at least:
   A.   Does the preliminary plat meet the design standards set forth in this
Chapter?
   B.   Does the subdivision conflict with applicable zoning district
requirements in which said subdivision is located?
   C.   Are there any sufficient concerns regarding the development of the
subdivision such as flood plain, natural barriers, storm water drainage,
possible erosion or sediment damage to connecting developed or natural land, or
the environment in general?
   D.   Do the proposed streets connect properly with existing streets and are
the proposed streets and alleys laid out to serve the subdivision, surrounding
area, and future development of the surrounding area?
   E.   Do the proposed easements connect properly with existing easements and
are the public service and utility easements laid out to serve the subdivision,
surrounding area, and future development of the surrounding area?
   F.   Are Village services, such as snow plowing, water pumping, sewage
treatment, electrical output, storm water outlets, recreational facilities,
etc., capable of the additional demand required of this subdivision?
   G.   Any other information or data to assist in the review of the
preliminary plat. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-9: ACTION:
Within ninety (90) days from the date of submittal of the preliminary plat or
from the date the last required part of the preliminary plat was submitted, the
Zoning Board shall take one of the following actions:
   A.   Approval Of Preliminary Plat: Upon approval, the Zoning Board must
submit the plat to the Village Board. The Zoning Board must also attach to the
plat a statement that it is the Board's belief that the proposed subdivision:
      1.   Coordinates with existing streets and provides continuity of
extension of streets to surrounding area.
      2.   Relates to adjoining property.
      3.   Will not place a financial burden upon the Village and additional
revenue expected to be generated from the subdivision or resubdivision may be
adequate to provide Village services.
      4.   Coordinates with the long and short range development plans of the
Village.
   B.   Disapproval Of Preliminary Plat: Upon disapproval, the Zoning Board
must submit the preliminary plat to the Village Board. The Zoning Board must
attach to the plat a statement stating the reason for disapproval, particularly
specifying the aspects in which the plat fails to conform and the recommended
action(s) that must be taken.
   C.   Notification: The Village Board, within thirty (30) days after its next
regularly scheduled meeting following the action of the Zoning Board, shall
accept or reject the plat. If rejected, the Village Clerk must send a letter by
certified mail to the owner within ten (10) days setting forth the cause(s) of
the disapproval and the remedial action(s) that must be taken before the
preliminary plat will be reconsidered. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-10: POSSIBLE CAUSE FOR DISAPPROVAL:
The preliminary plat may be disapproved for any reason, but not limited to:
   A.   The documents of the preliminary plat or application contained a false
statement.
   B.   The owner failed to comply with the design standards of the Village,
State, or County.
   C.   The owner failed to submit requested information or failed to change a
layout.
   D.   The proposed subdivision did not provide for the future development of
adjacent natural or developed land.
   E.   Proposed public streets and alleys and/or proposed public service and
utility easements are incompatible with existing streets and alleys and/or
public service and utility easements.
   F.   The plat was disapproved by either the Illinois Department of
Transportation, Annawan Road District, Henry County Highway Department, or
Henry County Health Department.
   G.   The zoning request is not suitable for the area.
   H.   The owner failed to formulate methods to protect unsuitable land for
development within the proposed subdivision and/or surrounding area.
   I.   The owner failed to comply with Federal, State, or County regulations.
(Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-4-11: STATUS OF APPROVED PRELIMINARY PLAT:
Approval of the preliminary plat only states to the owner that the Village is
willing to consider review of a final plat within six (6) months of the date of
approval. Preliminary plat approval does not qualify the plat for recording.
Failure to submit a final plat within the six (6) month period voids the
preliminary plat approval and the owner must begin the process again. (Ord.
226, 2-11-2000)
CHAPTER 5
FINAL PLAT
SECTION:
11-5-1: Final Plat; Fee Required
11-5-2: Fee Established
11-5-3: Submittal Of Plat
11-5-4: Documents Required
11-5-4-1: Public Improvements
11-5-4-2: Additional Requirements
11-5-4-3: Bonds
11-5-5: Notification Of Submittal
11-5-6: Final Plat Review
11-5-7: Resolution Of Approval
11-5-8: Bond And Insurance
11-5-9: Disapproval
11-5-10: Status Of Disapproved Plat
11-5-11: Examples Of Certificates And Statements
11-5-1: FINAL PLAT; FEE REQUIRED:
No plat shall be reviewed by the Village Board unless the owner has submitted a
complete final plat and has paid the required fee. (The final plat consists of
the plat, plans and specifications of the public improvements, other documents,
and bonds.) (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-5-2: FEE ESTABLISHED:
The fee shall be paid to the Village Treasurer at the time of submission of the
final plat. The established fee is:
   A.   For Nonresidential Subdivision Or Resubdivision:
      Number Of Acres         Fee
   Up to and including 10 acres      $ 25.00
   More than 10, to and including 20      50.00
   More than 20, to and including 50      75.00
   More than 50, to and including 100   100.00
   More than 100, to and including 200   200.00
   More than 200            400.00
   B.   For Residential Subdivision:
      Number Of Lots      Fee
      1 to 10 lots         $ 25.00
      11 or more lots      25.00 plus $1.00
      for each lot over 10
   C.   For Nonresidential And Residential Subdivision: A combination of the
above fee and the nonresidential area does not equal a lot. (Ord. 226, 2-11-
2000)
11-5-3: SUBMITTAL OF PLAT:
The owner must file with the Village Clerk one Mylar and seven (7) full-sized
copies (original signatures on each) and ten (10) reduced copies, eleven inches
by seventeen inches (11" x 17") in size, of the plat. The Village Clerk shall
distribute copies of the application as follows: two (2) copies to the Mayor,
one copy each to the superintendents of the electric utility, Water and Sewer
Department, Street Department, Village Engineer (engineering consultant), and
one to the chair of the Zoning Board. The plat must be identical to the
approved plat of the preliminary plat. The plat must have placed upon it or
attached to it as allowed for proper recording, the following:
   A.   A statement from a registered land surveyor acknowledged by the owner
of land or duly authorized attorney, in the same manner as deeds of land are
required to be acknowledged.
   B.   The applicable statements of certification and notary (see Section
11-5-11 of this Chapter). (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-5-4: DOCUMENTS REQUIRED:
The owner must file with the Village Clerk seven (7) copies of each of the
required documents with original signatures as prescribed or as necessary to
meet the intent of the requirement. The Village Clerk shall distribute copies
of the required documents as follows: two (2) copies to the Mayor, one copy
each to the superintendents of the electric utility, Water and Sewer
Department, Street Department, Village Engineer (or engineering consultant),
and one to the chair of the Zoning Board. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-5-4-1: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Plans and specifications for all public improvements, except the street
lighting and directional sign, to be constructed within or in conjunction with
the proposed subdivision must be submitted. These plans and specifications must
be signed and sealed by the Illinois registered professional engineer who
prepared the plans and specifications. The plans and specifications convey the
owner's compliance to this Title and obligate the engineer and the contractor
to this Title. The plans and specifications must include:
   A.   For Street Or Alley Construction:
      1.   Designed in accordance with the Illinois Department of
Transportation design policies stated in the current edition of "Standard
Specifications For Road and Bridge Construction".
      2.   Street name signs shall be installed at the appropriate locations.
Nameplates shall be single face, 18 gauge steel with baked-on enamel finish
having four inch (4") embossed black characters on a six inch (6") white
background with an embossed black border; commonly known in the industry as a
B-4P assembly. Signs shall be mounted on a round aluminum 2 1/4 O.D. standard
ten foot (10') post. Post shall be set in a minimum one foot (1') diameter by
three foot (3') deep hole backfilled with concrete. The Village shall install
street name signs with the owner responsible for one hundred percent (100%) of
material costs of installation.
   B.   Minimum Street Improvements: The subdivider shall grade, drain and
surface the roadway of all roads and streets within the platted area at his own
expense and in accordance with engineering surveys and the following minimum
requirements:
      1.   Surface:
         a.   Composition; Dimensions: The surface shall be gravel or crushed
stone at least twenty two feet (22') in width and eight inches (8") compacted
uniform thickness and shall be centered upon and trenched into the earth grade
having a minimum shoulder to shoulder width of at least thirty feet (30') and a
total crown from center to shoulder of six inches (6").
         b.   Side Ditches: The roadway shall have side ditches at least
eighteen inches (18") in depth and located at least four feet six inches (4'6")
from the shoulder with backslopes not steeper than one and one-half horizontal
to one vertical (11/2:1). Ditches are to be sculptured and seeded prior to
acceptance.
         c.   Embankments: Embankments shall have slopes from the shoulder line
no steeper than one and one-half horizontal to one vertical (11/2:1).
         d.   Compaction: The surface material shall be mechanically compacted
in place in two (2) equal layers with a pneumatic or tamping roller. Material
for surface shall meet the requirements of Illinois State Specifications for
No. 7 grade level or No. 8 grade level crushed stone.
         e.   Surface Materials: The subdivider, at his expense, will apply a
minimum bituminous surface equal to Illinois State specification subclass A-1,
which shall include one prime coat and one seal coat. Material for surface base
and method of compaction shall be as required above. In the event that
sufficient moisture is not present in the material for proper compaction, then
water shall be added sufficient to provide such compaction.
      2.   Curb And Gutter: In the event the subdivider elects to construct a
curb and gutter street improvement then the following minimum requirements
shall apply:
         a.   Width; Fill Slopes: The minimum width between face of curbs shall
be thirty feet (30') and the cut of fill slopes from the top of curbs shall be
no steeper than two horizontal to one vertical (2:1).
         b.   Drainage: The subdivider shall provide adequate and proper
drainage along and across all streets and roads in the platted area including
extensions to and connections with all existing streets and roads through the
installation of ditches, culverts, storm sewers, inlets, or other drainage
facilities. The type, size, length, and grade of materials of all such drainage
facilities shall be approved, before installation, by the authorities having
jurisdiction over the right of way of such roads and streets.
         c.   Surface: The subdivider, at his expense, will apply a minimum
bituminous surface course equal to State specifications subclass A-3, which
shall include one prime coat, two (2) cover coats and one seal coat.
      3.   Entrance Culverts, Crossings: Entrance culverts or crossings or
additions to existing entrance culverts or crossings along an existing public
road or street where there is a ditch, may be made with the consent of the
Village, provided the applicant for such entrance culvert or crossing
constructs, at the applicant's expense, a good and sufficient culvert or other
convenient crossing of the type and size specified by the Village, which
structure shall then become the property of the public.
      4.   Acceptance: When all of the streets, roads and other facilities
above detailed are completed within the platted area in accordance with the
above provisions and approved by authorities having jurisdiction, they shall be
accepted for maintenance by the Village.
      5.   Approval Fee: For the approval of any map, plat or subdivision, as
is hereinabove required, the subdivider shall pay into the General Corporate
Fund of the Village as a fee for such approval, the sum of one dollar ($1.00),
which shall be uniform, for each lot, sublot or tract of land shown upon any
such map, plat or subdivision to be so approved; and provided, further, that
the minimum fee for the approval of any map, plat or subdivision hereunder,
shall not be less than ten dollars ($10.00).
   C.   For Water Distribution System Construction:
      1.   The standard specifications for water and sewer main construction in
Illinois shall be complied with.
         a.   Designed to provide a minimum water pressure of thirty five (35)
pounds per square inch in the top floor of every structure or building to be
constructed within the subdivision.
         b.   Construction will not commence until grade is within four inches
(4") of final grade.
         c.   Water mains of ductile iron pipe cement lined, or of PVC SDR 18
(C900).
         d.   Diameter of water mains not less than six inches (6").
         e.   All water mains looped.
         f.   Service lines of one inch (1") type "K" copper.
         g.   Service line extends from the water main to the lot line of each
lot.
         h.   Service lines of each lot are clearly marked after completion of
the improvements.
         i.   Typical cross section of the water supply and distribution
system.
   D.   For Fire Protection Construction:
      1.   Designed to provide minimum flow of six hundred (600) gallons/minute
at each hydrant.
      2.   Fire hydrants to include auxiliary valves and valve boxes.
      3.   Installed at intervals not to exceed four hundred feet (400').
      4.   Located not less than four feet (4') from the edge of the street's
or alley's pavement.
   E.   For Sanitary Sewer Construction:
      1.   The standard specifications for water and sewer main construction in
Illinois shall be complied with.
      2.   Designed to meet or exceed the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency's standards and construction requirements.
      3.   Type of lift stations and location must be approved by the Water and
Sewer Superintendent.
      4.   Service line extends from the sanitary sewer system to the lot line
of each lot.
      5.   Service lines of each lot are clearly marked after completion of the
improvements.
      6.   Typical cross section of the sanitary sewer system.
   F.   For Retention Area Construction:
      1.   Designed for gradual release of stored runoff so as not to damage
public or private property.
      2.   All runoff stored in a manner which discourages public invitation
and not be a threat to public health or cause a public nuisance.
      3.   The release of stored runoff be operable without human intervention
and without an outside source of electricity.
   G.   For Construction In General:
      1.   Description of the protection methods for the site and adjacent land
from soil erosion, for downstream land from sedimentation deposits, and for
streets and alleys from the deposit of soil or debris during construction.
      2.   Must state the type and amount of insurance the contractor must
provide and insurance amount for their employees and subcontractors; must
provide that the Village is named additional insured; and indemnify the Village
against any loss or damage to persons or property during the construction of
public improvements.
      3.   Change orders required when the actual construction differs from the
approved plans and specifications, and all change orders must be approved by
the Village Engineer.
      4.   The contractor must give the Village Engineer at least forty eight
(48) hours' notice of any tests required of the public improvements.
      5.   The contractor will not deny access to any Village inspector or
Village Engineer for inspection of public improvements.
      6.   The contractor must submit a tentative construction schedule to the
Village Engineer.
      7.   The contractor must pay for Village engineering fees and test fees
related to the project. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-5-4-2: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Required information or documents submitted must be signed and sealed by the
Illinois registered professional engineer who prepared the documents and the
owner or duly authorized attorney. Whenever required information or documents
are not applicable to the subdivision, the owner must state such in writing.
The required information or documents:
   A.   For Public Easements: A document stating that all easements shown on
the plat have been obtained for the purpose they were created and provisions
within the easement reserve usage by the Village.
   B.   For Land To Be Dedicated For Public Use: An irrevocable dedication of
land in fee simple absolute for the land described upon the plat to be held by
the Village in trust until acceptance or rejection of such offer of dedication
is made by the Village Board. The dedication shall run with the land and shall
be binding on all assigns, grantees, successors, or heirs of the owner.
   C.   For Privately Owned Land: A copy of all executed ownership agreements
or the document stating who is responsible for maintenance of property which
will not be dedicated for public use but is used, directly or indirectly, by
abutting property owners within the subdivision, such as boulevards, landscape
areas, retention areas, open space, etc.
   D.   For Recording Of Plat: A signed statement of the Illinois registered
land surveyor that all monuments and markers required to be established and
placed have been done so in compliance with the Illinois Plat Act.
   E.   For Covenants: Copies of any existing or proposed covenants of the
subdivision. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-5-4-3: BONDS:
Letters guaranteeing the issuance of types of bonds required:
   A.   Title Insurance: A letter from a licensed title insurance company
authorized to do business in the State that guarantees a title insurance policy
in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) and certifies that the
premises to be dedicated for public use is free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances.
   B.   Performance Bond: A letter from a licensed insurance company authorized
to do business in the State that guarantees a performance bond will be issued
and will:
      1.   Be issued in a penal sum sufficient to cover the estimate made by
the Village Engineer to cover the cost of the required public improvements
within or in conjunction with the subdivision, survey work, all engineering
fees, and Village inspection fees, plus twenty five percent (25%);
      2.   Irrevocably bind the principal, surety, their heirs, executors,
administrators, or assigns, jointly and severally;
      3.   Provide that all public improvements will be constructed within two
(2) years after recording the subdivision;
      4.   Provide a description of the public improvements;
      5.   Provide that construction of described public improvements will be
in a good and workmanlike manner; and
      6.   Will provide payment of Village inspection fees, if the owner or the
contractor fails to pay the fees. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-5-5: NOTIFICATION OF SUBMITTAL:
The Village Clerk shall record the date of the filing of each part of the final
plat. The Village Clerk shall inform the Mayor and chair of the Zoning Board of
such filing, and shall inform the president of the School Board within three
(3) business days by certified return mail, return receipt requested, or by
personal delivery;
   A.   That a plat has been submitted for review;
   B.   The date which Village Board will be presented the plat for
consideration; and
   C.   The plat is available for inspection and subject to change prior to
Village Board's consideration. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-5-6: FINAL PLAT REVIEW:
The Zoning Board is hereby authorized to conduct the review of the final plat
and make its recommendation to Village Board. However, the Zoning Board shall
make its recommendation in order that the Village Board shall take action
within sixty (60) days from the date of filing the final plat or within sixty
(60) days from the date of filing the last required document, whichever is
later. Prior to making any recommendation, the Zoning Board must encourage
participation and take into consideration the reports, findings, and
recommendation of the:
   A.   Mayor;
   B.   Street Superintendent and Zoning Board;
   C.   Water and Sewer Superintendent and the Water and Sewer Board;
   D.   Village Attorney;
   E.   Village Engineer(s); and
   F.   Appropriate Village official(s). (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-5-7: RESOLUTION OF APPROVAL:
The Village Board shall approve the final plat by resolution. The resolution
shall direct the Mayor to sign and date the plat and the Village Clerk to
attest the Mayor's signature and affix the Seal of the Village upon the plat
and shall state that the resolution may become null upon failure to comply with
submittal of required bonds. The Village Clerk shall record the final plat,
providing the cost of recording has been paid by the owner at the office of the
Recorder of Deeds of Henry County.
After recording, one original and one copy of the recorded plat and one copy of
all supporting data shall be retained in the Village Clerk's files. (Ord. 226,
2-11-2000)
11-5-8: BOND AND INSURANCE:
The resolution approving the plat shall be void after fifteen (15) days after
passage unless the owner has submitted a valid and executed:
   A.   Performance bond, and
   B.   Title insurance policy. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-5-9: DISAPPROVAL:
The Village Board shall disapprove the final plat by resolution and the
resolution shall state the reason(s) for the disapproval, specifying
particularly the aspects in which the disapproving resolution shall be recorded
with the plat so affected at the office of the County Recorder. A copy of the
resolution shall be forwarded to the owner within ten (10) business days of the
disapproval. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-5-10: STATUS OF DISAPPROVED PLAT:
A final plat which has been disapproved must be resubmitted within six (6)
months before the Village Board shall consider it for approval. However, in no
instance shall this privilege be given twice to the same final plat. Failure to
resubmit within six (6) months shall void Board's courtesy to the owner and
require the owner to submit a preliminary plat. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-5-11: EXAMPLES OF CERTIFICATES AND STATEMENTS:
Examples of Certificates and Statements to be placed upon plat.
NOTE: The owner and the surveyor are responsible for the exact language and
types of certificates required by the State and County, and to secure all
signatures.
1. Owner's Certificate
This is to certify that the undersigned is/are the owner(s) of the land bound
in the plat and described in the certificate of the surveyor, has/have caused
said land to be surveyed and subdivided, and further certify the plat as
correct and do hereby adopt the same and cause it to be known as "name of
subdivision";
The undersigned further certifies the acknowledgment that recording of the plat
at the office of the County Recorder of Deeds of Henry County is a conveyance
in fee simple of such portions of the land described in the plat by their
precise dimensions and set forth for public streets and alleys to the Village
of Annawan, Illinois to be held in trust for uses and purposes set forth or
intended
The undersigned further certifies the acknowledgment that recording of the plat
at the office of the County Recorder of Deeds of Henry County grants perpetual
If State statutes permit and certificates cannot be placed upon the plat,
certificate wording should indicate "attached plat".
 
Required, all plats
 
Required, all plats
 
The certificate should be typed with the correct proper pronoun, and not typed
as shown.
If plat is attached, change for proper reference.
 
Required only when the plat conveys to the Village of Annawan land for public
use.
 
Note: Owner should contact other government, associations, organizations,
profit or nonprofit, when granting land for their use
 
Required only when the plat grants easements to the Village of Annawan for
public service and utility services.
 
use, above, upon, along, under and through, and perpetual access and egress to
such portions of the land described in the plat by their precise dimension and
set forth as public ways for public service and utility easements to the
Village of Annawan for the purpose of constructing, operating or maintaining
water, sanitary sewer, electric, water runoff storm sewer or any public service
way, system and structures, and constructing, operating, or maintaining gas,
telephone, telegraph, television, or any other utility way, system and
structures of private or public utility operating under franchise from the
Village of Annawan, and for the purpose of maintaining drainage ways and
operating drainage way structure
The undersigned further certifies the acknowledgment that recording of the plat
at the office of the County Recorder of Deeds of Henry County reserves for one
year from date of approval of the plat by the Village of Annawan, Illinois the
right of purchase, such portions of the land described in the plat by their
precise dimension and set forth as parks, playgrounds, school grounds or other
public grounds to the government body having jurisdiction of the use of the
public purpose land, and further acknowledge that failure to purchase or
commence proceeding to acquire the land by condemnation action within one
Note: Owner should contact other government, businesses relating to granting
them easements by plat.
 
Note: The last sentence is optional, depending upon the Village's decision for
drainage way easements.
 
Required only when the plat reserves land for public grounds to be purchased
within one year of plat approval.
 
The owner may desire to specify what type of land and to whom; such as school
grounds to Annawan Community Unit School District #228; park land to Village of
Annawan or Annawan Community Park District.
 
year voids this reservation and reverts such land described in the plat to the
undersigned
 
Dated this      day of    ,
199  .
 
   
(print name of owner)
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               ) SS
COUNTY OF HENRY       )
 
I,                    , a Notary Public in and for the County and State
aforementioned do hereby certify that    
   
is/are personally known to me to be the same person(s) whose name(s) is/are
subscribed to the foregoing and that he/she/they appeared before me this day in
person and acknowledged that he/she/they signed the same as his/her/their own
free and voluntary act for the uses and purposes therein set forth.
 
Given under my hand and notarial seal this       day of    ,
199  .
 
   (SEAL)
 
   
Notary Public
 
Required signature of owners.
Additional signatures required if the land is owned by more than one person.
The signatures should be changed if owner is corporation as prescribed by law
or its by-laws.
 
Required to follow the owner's signature.
 
The body should be typed to reflect the proper pronoun and should not be typed
as shown
 
2.   Surveyor's Certificate
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
            )
COUNTY OF HENRY    )
 
I,                , an Illinois Registered Land Surveyor, hereby certify that
the plat is a true and correct representation of a survey made by me of the
"name of subdivision" and particularly described as:
 
   (legal description)
 
I further certify that the plat was surveyed and prepared according to the
surveying and plat laws of the State of Illinois and all monuments required to
be set in accordance to the Illinois Plat Act or other State statutes were set
or will be set within 30 days after the completion of the required
improvements.
 
I further certify that (no) part of the land bounded by the plat is located
within a special flood hazard area as delineated by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
 
Given under my hand and official seal this       day of    ,
199  .
 
   (SEAL)
 
BY:    
ILLINOIS REGISTERED LAND
SURVEYOR
ILLINOIS REGISTRATION NO.    
Required all plats; must follow owner's notarized certificate.
 
If plat is attached change for proper reference.
 
If survey was not done by the surveyor replace "me" with "under my direction".
 
 
Type as either yes or no to what is being certified.
 
3.   Village Collector's Certificate
 
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
COUNTY OF HENRY      ) SS
VILLAGE OF ANNAWAN      )
 
I,                , Village Collector of the Village of Annawan do hereby
certify that there are no delinquent or unpaid current or forfeited special
assessments or any deferred installments thereof that have been appropriated
against the land bounded in the plat.
 
In witness whereof, I hereunto set my hand this       day of       , 199  .
   
Village Collector
 
   (SEAL)
 
Attest:
 
   
Village Clerk
4.   County Clerk's Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
COUNTY OF HENRY      )
 
I,                , County Clerk of Henry County, Illinois do hereby certify
that there are no delinquent general taxes, no unpaid forfeited taxes, and no
redeemable sales tax against any land bounded by the plat.
 
Required, all plats within the corporate limits as shown. If subdivision is
contiguous territory, change for County Collector.
 
If plat is attached change for proper reference.
 
Note: Village will not sign until all others have been signed, except
Recorder's certificate.
 
Required, all plats
Given under my hand and official seal this       day of               , 199 .
   (SEAL)
   
County Clerk
5.   Owner and Professional Engineer Statements
To the best of our knowledge and belief the drainage of surface waters will not
be changed by the construction of "name of subdivision" or any part thereof,
   or
To the best of our knowledge and belief the drainage of surface water will be
changed by the construction of "name of subdivision" or any part thereof and
reasonable provision has been made for collection and diversion of such surface
waters into public or private areas, or drains which the owner has a right to
use and that such surface waters into areas or drains were planned in
accordance with generally accepted engineering practices so as to reduce the
likelihood of damage to the adjoining property because of the construction of
"name of subdivision" or parts thereof.
 
I hereunto set my hand and official seal this       day of    ,
199  .
   (SEAL)
   
ILLINOIS REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER
ILLINOIS REGISTRATION NO.    
 
Required, all plats.
 
The statement to be used will depend upon the condition; in no event should
both statements be typed.
 
Dated this       day of    ,
199  .
 
   
(print name of owner or name of duly authorized attorney)
 
6.   Roadway Access Statement
This plat of "name of subdivision" is approved by the "name of agency" as
required to be approved by the Illinois Plat Act.
 
In witness whereof, I hereunto set my hand this       day of    ,
199  .
 
   
TITLE
 
Witness:
 
   
7.   Public Sewerage Disposal System Statement
This plat of "name of subdivision" is approved by the Henry County Health
Department as required to be approved and acknowledged by the Illinois Plat
Act.
 
In witness whereof, I hereunto set my hand this       day of    ,
199  .
 
Additional signatures required if the land is owned by more than one person.
The signatures should be changed if the owner is a corporation to meet the
required signatures of corporations as prescribed by law or its by laws. The
owner's duly authorized attorney may sign in place of owner.
 
Required on all plats when any platted street must have access to state,
township, or county road.
 
"Name of agency", e.g., Illinois Department of Transportation, Annawan Township
Road District, Henry County Highway Department.
 
A plat could have more than one roadway access statement.
 
Required on all plats if any part within the platted land will not be served by
a public sewerage disposal system.
 
   
TITLE
 
Witness:
 
   
8.   Planning Department Statement
This plat of "name of subdivision" was approved at a meeting of the Zoning
Board held            , 199  , and in accordance with the Annawan Subdivision
Ordinance.
 
In witness whereof, I hereunto set my hand this       day of    ,
199  .
 
   
Zoning Board Chairman
 
   (SEAL)
Attest:
 
   
Village Clerk
9.   Village Board Statement
This plat of "name of subdivision" was approved by Resolution No.              
at a meeting of the Village Board of the Village of Annawan held       ,
199   , and in accordance with the Annawan Subdivision Ordinance.
 
In witness whereof, I hereunto set my hand this       day of          , 199  .
 
Required on all plats. Additional acknowledgment of approval and compliance to
Henry County Subdivision may be required for contiguous territory.
 
Note: Village will not sign until all others have been signed, except
Recorder's certificate.
 
Required on all plats. Additional acknowledgment of approval and compliance to
Henry County Subdivision may be required for contiguous territory.
 
   
Mayor
 
   (SEAL)
 
Attest:
 
   
Village Clerk
10.   Henry County Recorder's Certificate
STATE OF ILLINOIS      )
               ) SS
COUNTY OF HENRY       )
This plat of "name of subdivision" was filed for record in the office of the
County Recorder of Deeds of Henry County, Illinois on this       day of
               , 199   and recorded as Document No.      on page      , book
      of plats.
 
Given under my hand and official seal this       day of    ,
199  .
 
   (SEAL)
   
Henry County Recorder of Deeds
11.   Appropriate Village Official's Statement for Replats
This replat of "name of subdivision" was approved by me in accordance with the
Annawan Subdivision Ordinance.
 
Note: Village will not sign until all others have been signed, except
Recorder's certificate.
 
Required on all plats and must be the final certificate upon the plat.
 
Required only if owner wants to record replat.
 
Must include owner's certificate, surveyor's certificate.
 
In witness whereof, I hereunto set my hand this       day of               ,
199  .
 
   
Appropriate Village Official
 
   (SEAL)
 
Attest:
 
   
Village Clerk
 
(Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Completion Required
11-6-2: Acceptance Of Public Improvements
11-6-3: Return Of Bond
11-6-4: Notification Of Acceptance
11-6-1: COMPLETION REQUIRED:
If the owner fails to complete the public improvements in accordance with the
plans and specifications within two (2) years of the issuance of the
performance bond, the Village shall proceed to take all necessary legal action
upon the owner and insurance company that issued the performance bond and all
necessary legal action necessary to complete the public improvements. (Ord.
226, 2-11-2000)
11-6-2: ACCEPTANCE OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
Public improvements are required to be accepted and no public improvements
within or in conjunction of the subdivision shall be accepted by the Village
Board until all public improvements are completed and the owner requests
acceptance in writing and submits:
   A.   An executed maintenance bond issued by an insurance company authorized
to do business in the State in the amount of one- third (1/3) the total
construction cost of the public improvements. The maintenance bond must:
      1.   Be for a two (2) year term beginning with the date after the
completion of all public improvements;
      2.   State that in the event the owners, assigns, successors, or heirs
fail to or refuse to replace sidewalk damage by the construction of the
building or structure within ninety (90) days after the Village demands such
repairs, the Village shall be entitled to use proceeds of the maintenance bond
to make the necessary repairs;
      3.   State that in the event the owners, assigns, successors, or heirs
fail to or refuse to pay costs to repair or replace defective improvements or
workmanship within ninety (90) days after the Village demands such repairs or
replacements, the Village shall be entitled to use proceeds of the maintenance
bond to make the necessary repairs or replacements.
   B.   All final lien waivers of the public improvements.
   C.   "As-built drawings" of all public improvements.
   D.   Warranties of all products used for public improvements and the
warranties must be valid for a two (2) year period beginning with the date
after the completion of all public improvements.
   E.   Copies of all inspection reports given to the owner by the owner's
engineer.
   F.   A statement from the owner's engineer stating the public improvements
were constructed as stated in accordance with all the plans and specifications
approved by the Village Board and all change orders approved by the Village
Engineer. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-6-3: RETURN OF BOND:
The Village Board shall accept the public improvements by resolution and the
resolution shall state:
   A.   That passage of this resolution accepts all public improvements and is
not a partial acceptance of public improvements by the Village;
   B.   The description of each public improvement and dollar value is given;
and
   C.   The passage of this resolution relinquishes the performance bond issued
to the Village by the owner. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-6-4: NOTIFICATION OF ACCEPTANCE:
The Village Board shall furnish a copy of the resolution to each
superintendent, inspector, and any other official. Notification hereby grants
the authorization to issue permits and connect Village services to buildings or
structures within the subdivision. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
CHAPTER 7
RELATED PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Development Criteria
11-7-2: Vacation Of Recorded Plats
11-7-3: Replat Of Recorded Plats
11-7-4: Dedication Of Land For Public Use
11-7-5: Annexation Required For Services
11-7-5-1: Annexation Exceptions
11-7-6: Contiguous Territory
11-7-6-1: Additional Requirements
11-7-7: Village Participation Statement
11-7-8: Variances
11-7-1: DEVELOPMENT CRITERIA:
The owner may request to submit a final plat of only part of the approved
preliminary plat. The Zoning Board shall not recommend nor shall the Village
Board approve the request whenever:
   A.   The owner fails to assert by sufficient information that public
improvements within part of the plat will not inhibit the public improvements
of the total proposed subdivision or the continuity of the remaining public
improvements, e.g., dead-end collector, major, or minor streets with no
turnaround; collector streets not serving their intended purpose; dead-end
water mains; unnecessary laying of underground utilities; half-streets;
unnecessary public improvements not serving any purpose; construction of
retention areas in each part when one will serve the entire subdivision or
resubdivision; etc.
   B.   The owner fails to provide a performance bond in the sum to cover the
cost of the remaining public improvements and guarantees that the final plat
for the remaining part will be presented within two (2) years of approval of
the partial plat.
(Note: This does not replace the performance bond required for the final plat
of the partial requested plat.)
If final plat approval is given for part of the proposed subdivision, only such
part of the plat that received final approval shall be entitled to be recorded.
(Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-7-2: VACATION OF RECORDED PLATS:
The Village Board may reject any instrument that abridges or destroys any
public rights to land dedicated within the corporate limits or contiguous
territory by the recording of a plat at the office of the County Recorder of
Deeds, whenever the owner or property owners exercise the right to vacate a
plat in accordance to the Illinois Plat Act. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-7-3: REPLAT OF RECORDED PLATS:
A proposed sketch of a replat may be filed with the Village Clerk. The
appropriate Village official after review and satisfaction that the proposed
replat is not contrary to applicable subdivision, zoning, and flood plain
ordinance provisions may declare to the owner that the replat is exempt from
the Annawan Subdivision Ordinance. If the owner desires to file a plat at the
office of the Recorder of Deeds of Henry County and desires the appropriate
Village official to certify the plat, the owners shall prepare the plat in
accordance with the Illinois Plat Act and place upon it the proper
certification statement of the Village and the owner must submit a copy of the
recorded plat to the Village. If the proposed replat is declared a subdivision,
the appropriate Village official shall not sign any plat and must convey to the
owner the reason for the declaration. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-7-4: DEDICATION OF LAND FOR PUBLIC USE:
The Village Board, upon recommendation of the Zoning Board, may require that
land be designated for public purpose. School site, park site, or other public
land are considered land for public purpose.
   A.   Whenever there is land designated for public purpose on a plat approved
by the Village Board, the government body (School Board, Park Board, Fire
District, Village, etc.) having jurisdiction of the use of the public purpose
land must:
      1.   Within one year from the date of approval of the plat acquire the
land by purchase or commence proceedings to acquire the land by condemnation.
   B.   If the government body fails to acquire the public purpose land within
one year from the date of approval of the plat, the land so designated may then
be used by the owner. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-7-5: ANNEXATION REQUIRED FOR SERVICES:
No Village services shall be extended, offered, or allowed to be connected to
any subdivision situated in the contiguous territory of the Village unless the
land has been annexed to the Village. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-7-5-1: ANNEXATION EXCEPTIONS:
The prohibition of extension, offer, or connections to Village services is not
applicable when:
   A.   The owner has entered into an annexation agreement with the Village; or
   B.   The street to be connected is part of the Federal or State highway
system. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-7-6: CONTIGUOUS TERRITORY:
Proposed subdivision in contiguous territory must include additional
information and documents and the additional requirements must be approved by
the Village Board. Some information or documents of this Title may not be
required for proposed subdivision within contiguous territory and it is the
duty of the owner to inform the Village of why information or documents are not
required. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-7-6-1: ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
Additional information and documents:
   A.   The design and plans and specifications of any proposed street lighting
system.
   B.   The design and plans and specifications of any proposed water source.
The water source to serve the entire subdivision must meet the requirements of
the Henry County Health Department and the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, and the owner must include on the plat that the system will be
abandoned upon annexation to the Village and must provide the Village with the
operation and maintenance agreement and covenants of the system.
   C.   The design and plans and specifications of any proposed sewerage
treatment. The sewerage treatment facility must meet the requirements of the
Henry County Health Department and the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency, and the owner must include on the plat that the treatment facility will
be abandoned upon annexation to the Village and must provide the Village with
the operation and maintenance agreement and covenants of the system.
   D.   If the proposed subdivision contains not more than ten (10) lots and
the Zoning Board declares that future development is not likely, individual
sewage disposal systems may be used provided:
      1.   The owner submits the results and percolation test of the area,
prepared by an Illinois registered professional engineer.
      2.   The minimum lot area must meet the applicable requirements of the
Henry County Health Department and the Illinois Environmental Protection
Agency.
      3.   The design and placement must meet the requirements of the Henry
County Health Department and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
(Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-7-7: VILLAGE PARTICIPATION STATEMENT:
The "Annawan Subdivision Ordinance" and the owner's desire for financial
assistance in the development of a proposed development are not related. The
"Annawan Subdivision Ordinance" governs the division of land and public
improvements. An owner who desires financial assistance of public improvements
must convey their desire with Village Board. The Village Board will determine
the owner's request upon the advice of its Board whose duties include
recommendations regarding Village finances.
   A.   No action which involves the altering of the "Annawan Subdivision
Ordinance" to accommodate financial assistance shall be made unless provisions
of an amending ordinance are provided. Prohibited actions include, but are not
limited to:
      1.   Reducing the performance bond amount by the amount financed by the
Village.
      2.   Accepting a protective ordinance that ensures payment is made to the
owner to recover part or all of the subdivision costs in place of a performance
bond.
      3.   Granting any variance to any design standard or public improvement
construction requirements so that the owner may increase the number of lots
available for sale or lessen the cost to construct public improvements.
      4.   Granting a variance to the maintenance bond requirement.
      5.   Not requiring construction of streets or utilities, or not requiring
easements within the subdivision which may be needed for future development of
adjoining land. (Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
11-7-8: VARIANCES:
Whenever the owner believes the regulatory provisions regarding the design of
the proposed subdivision or construction of public improvements are not
reasonable or place a hardship on the land of the proposed subdivision or
surrounding land because of the soil or topographical conditions, the owner may
apply in writing to the Zoning Board for a variance.
The Zoning Board shall review the request for a variance and shall submit its
recommendation to the Village Board. However, the Zoning Board shall not make a
recommendation to grant a variance without providing the Village Board a report
containing:
   A.   An exceptional hardship would result to the land within and adjacent to
the proposed subdivision. Because of the particular physical surroundings,
shape, or topographical condition, hardship to the land would result as
distinguished from mere inconvenience.
   B.   The variance request is the minimum necessary.
   C.   The purpose or intent of the variance is not based upon a desire for
financial gain.
   D.   There will be no additional threat to public health or safety or
creation of a nuisance to other property or improvements.
   E.   There will be no additional public expense for providing Village
services, policing, repair to streets, utilities, or other public facilities.
   F.   The conditions creating the need for the variance are unique and are
not applicable generally to other property and have not been created by a
person having an interest in the property.
The Village Board may by resolution grant a variance upon the recommendation of
the Zoning Board and may attach any conditions to the variance as it deems
necessary per the intent of this Title.
The appropriate Village official must attach a copy of the resolution to every
copy of the plat of the preliminary plat or final plat that is distributed.
(Ord. 226, 2-11-2000)
