CITY CODE
of
ATHENS, ILLINOIS
2017
Code current through:
Ord. 07-2025, passed 7-14-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the City of Athens, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to
and including ordinance 07-2025, passed July 14 , 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 06-2017
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE CITY OF ATHENS, IL CITY CODE
BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and Aldermen of the City of Athens, Illinois, as
follows:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this ordinance, the city
code of the city of Athens, Illinois prepared by Sterling Codifiers, containing
the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with the changes
made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body of the city,
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the city as enacted by the president and board of trustees.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the official city code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, one copy of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, certified as to correctness and
available for inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly
open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this official city
code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said official city code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the city code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the official city code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the city to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This ordinance and the code adopted by the same shall be recorded
and shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage, approval and
publication in pamphlet form as provided by law.
PASSED by the City Council and the Mayor this 10th day of July, A.D. 2017.
/s/   
Bob G. Dowell II,
Mayor - City of Athens
ATTEST:
/s/         
Cindy L. McFarland
City Clerk
NAYS:    0   
AYES:    6   
ABSENT:    0   
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
ATHENS CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of Athens. This code of ordinances
shall be known and cited as the ATHENS CITY CODE and is hereby published by
authority of the city council and shall be supplemented to incorporate the most
recent legislation of the city as provided in section
1-1-3 of this chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title headings, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this code by title in any legal documents. (2017 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of the
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (2017 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
numbers of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifier, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of this code.
(2017 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the clerk. Any
person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall make every
effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner. He shall
see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city clerk.
Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other interested
persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be returned to
the office of the clerk when directed so to do by order of the city council.
(2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Court Proceedings
1-2-3: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this code or are by
necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
   A.   Tax levy ordinances;
   B.   Appropriation ordinances;
   C.   Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
   D.   Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
   E.   Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
   F.   Salary ordinances;
   G.   Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
   H.   Improvement ordinances;
   I.   Bond ordinances;
   J.   Ordinances relating to elections;
   K.   Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
   L.   All special ordinances. (2017 Code)
1-2-2: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2017 Code)
1-2-3: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this code,
or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is for any
reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause or
phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared
unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
   B.   Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirement adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   C.   Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
   D.   Gender: The use of any gender based pronoun should not be construed to
be gender biased, but is only used for grammatical simplicity.
   E.   May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
   F.   Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
   G.   Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
   H.   Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Athens".
   I.   Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
   J.   Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2017 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
CITY: The city of Athens, county of Menard, state of Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of
Athens.
CODE: The city code of the city of Athens.
COUNTY: The county of Menard, state of Illinois.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
STATE: The state of Illinois. (2017 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2017
Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Nonliability Of Officers And Employees
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.   General Penalty Imposed:
      1.   Fine; Imprisonment: Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this
code, any person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and
provisions of this code shall be fined in an amount not more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for any one offense. No imprisonment for failure to pay
such fine, penalty or cost shall exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each
day that a violation continues shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
      2.   Additional Penalties: In addition to the fine described in
subsection A1 of this section, the circuit court may impose a period of
"conditional discharge", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-4,
or "court supervision", as defined in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-1-21,
for a period of up to six (6) months, an order of restitution, an order to
perform community service, an order to complete an education program and/or any
other appropriate penalties or conditions authorized in any section of this
code or stand alone ordinance or any conditions for conditional discharge set
forth in 730 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3 or for court supervision in 730
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5-6-3.1, as the foregoing are amended from time to
time.
      3.   Costs And Fees: Any person violating the terms or provisions of this
code shall be subject, in addition to the penalties set out in this subsection,
to the payment of court costs and reasonable attorney fees.
      4.   Default In Payment: A default in the payment of a fine or any
installment of a fine may be collected by any means authorized for the
collection of monetary judgments. The city attorney may retain attorneys and
private collection agents for the purpose of collecting any default in payment
of any fine or installment of that fine. Any fees or costs incurred by the city
with respect to attorneys or private collection agents retained by the city
attorney under this subsection shall be charged to the offender.
   B.   Acts Consistent With Criminal Laws Of State: If, by the terms of this
code or any ordinance, an act that would be consistent with the criminal laws
of the state, is declared to be a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be
for a period of incarceration in a penal institution other than a penitentiary
not to exceed six (6) months, and the matter shall be prosecuted under the
rules of criminal procedure of the state, and the city shall be required to
establish guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. This subsection shall not apply to
city code provisions adopted pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-5-
1, 5/11-5-2, 5/11-5-3, 5/11-5-4, 5/11-5-5, 5/11-5-6, 5/11-40-1, 5/11-40-2, 5/
11-40-2a, 5/11-40-3, 5/11-80-9 and 5/11-80-16.
   C.   Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2017 Code)
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section unless otherwise indicated. Any person
convicted of a violation of any section of this code where a duty is prescribed
or obligation imposed, or where any action which is of a continuing nature is
forbidden or is declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such
duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
   B.   Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this chapter shall apply. (2017 Code)
1-4-3: NONLIABILITY OF OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intent of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2017
Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-5-1: Election And Term
1-5-2: Bond And Oath
1-5-3: Powers And Duties Generally
1-5-4: Appointment Of Officers; Designation Of Duties
1-5-5: Mayor Pro Tem And Acting Mayor
1-5-1: ELECTION AND TERM:
The mayor shall be elected for a term of four (4) years and shall serve until
his successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute. (2017 Code)
1-5-2: BOND AND OATH:
Before entering upon the duties of his office, the mayor shall give a bond with
sureties to be approved by the city council conditioned upon his faithful
performance of his duties, in the sum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00),
and he shall take the oath of office as prescribed by statute. (2017 Code)
1-5-3: POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY:
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city and shall perform
all such duties as may be required of him by statute or ordinance. He shall
have supervision over all of the executive officers of the city and over all of
the employees of the city. He shall have the power and authority to inspect all
books and records kept by any city officer or employee at any reasonable time.
(2017 Code)
1-5-4: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS; DESIGNATION OF DUTIES:
   A.   Appointment Of Officers; Terms:
      1.   The mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the
city council, all officers of the city whose election or appointment is not
otherwise provided for. Any vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall
be filled in the same manner.
      2.   Unless otherwise provided, each such appointive officer shall hold
office until the Tuesday after the second Monday in May following his
appointment or until his successor is appointed and qualified.
   B.   Designation Of Duties: Whenever there is a question as to the
respective powers or duties of any appointed officer of the city, this shall be
settled by the mayor; and he shall have the power to delegate to any such
officer any duty which is to be performed when no specific officer has been
directed to perform the duty. (2017 Code)
1-5-5: MAYOR PRO TEM AND ACTING MAYOR:
   A.   Mayor Pro Tem: If the mayor is temporarily absent because of an
incapacity to perform official duties, but the incapacity does not create a
vacancy in the office, the city council shall elect one of its members to act
as mayor pro tem. The mayor pro tem, during this absence or disability, shall
perform the duties and possess all the rights and powers of the mayor but shall
not be entitled to vote both as mayor pro tem and as alderman.
   B.   Acting Mayor: In the event of a vacancy in the office of mayor, the
city council may appoint one of its members as acting mayor, to serve until the
vacancy is filled at a regular or special election as provided by law. (2017
Code)
CHAPTER 6
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election And Terms; Functions
1-6-2: Oath Of Office
1-6-3: Meetings
1-6-4: Rules And Order Of Business
1-6-1: ELECTION AND TERMS; FUNCTIONS:
The city council shall consist of six (6) aldermen to be elected for a four (4)
year term, according to the method provided by statute. The council shall be
the legislative department of the city government and shall perform such duties
and have such powers as may be delegated thereto by statute. (2017 Code)
1-6-2: OATH OF OFFICE:
The members of the city council shall take the oath of office prescribed by
statute. (2017 Code)
1-6-3: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The city council shall hold its regular meetings on
the Monday following the second Thursday of each month at seven o’clock (7:00)
P.M. If the regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take
place a day on a day published well in advance at the same hour.
   B.   Committee of the Whole: The city council shall hold its Committee of
the Whole meetings on the second Thursday of each month at seven o’clock (7:00)
P.M. If the regular meeting falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take
place a day on a day published well in advance at the same hour.
   C.   Adjourned Meetings: Adjourned meetings may be held at such times as the
council may determine.
   D.   Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the mayor or any
three (3) aldermen upon such notice as provided by statute.
   E.   Meeting Place: The meeting place of the city council shall be at the
city hall unless otherwise ordered by the council.
   F.   Presiding Officer: The mayor shall be the presiding officer of all
regular and special meetings of the city council and at all times when the
council meets as a committee of the whole. (2017 Code; amd. Ord. 11-2024, 12-9-
2024)
1-6-4: RULES AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
   A.   Order Of Business: The order of business of the city council shall be
as follows:
      1.   Roll call.
      2.   Public Participation (This takes place here during regular meetings
and during Committee Meetings it shall be after 'Other business’)
      3.   Minutes of the preceding meeting.
      4.   Communications, resolutions, ordinances and bills.
      5.   Reports of officers.
      6.   Reports of committees.
      7.   Other business.
   B.   Rescinded Action: No vote or action of the city council shall be
rescinded at any special meeting of the city council unless there is present at
such meeting as many of the city council as were present at the meeting when
such vote or action was taken, as provided by statute.
   C.   Suspension Of Rules: The rules of order, other than those prescribed by
statute, may be suspended at any time by the consent of a majority of the
aldermen present at any meeting.
   D.   Robert's Rules Of Order: "Robert's Rules Of Order" shall govern the
deliberation of the city council except when in conflict with any of the
foregoing rules.
   E.   Quorum: A majority of the aldermen shall constitute a quorum to do
business, but no ordinance or measure for the expenditure of money shall be
passed except upon the favorable vote of a majority of the elected aldermen, as
provided by statute.
   F.   Committees:
      1.   The following shall be the standing committees of the city council:
      Cemetery.
      Public Safety.
      Liquor Committee.
      Library Committee.
      Commerce & Community Affairs.
      Public Works.
      Internal Affairs.
      2.   All standing and special committees shall consist of three (3)
members each, including the chair, unless the council shall direct otherwise.
All committees shall be appointed by the mayor.
   G.   Disturbing Meetings: It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb any
meeting of the city council or of any committee thereof. (2017 Code; amd. Ord.
05-2025, 5-12-2025)
 
CHAPTER 7
CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Compensation
1-7-2: Participation In Illinois Risk Management Association
1-7-3: Participation In Illinois Municipal Retirement Fund
1-7-1: COMPENSATION:
   A.   Compensation For Certain City Officials:
      1.   Commencing the next term of each of the following city officials (to
be commenced not less than 6 months from the effective date hereof), the
following salaries are established and shall be paid:
         a.   Mayor: Eighteen thousand dollars ($18,000.00) annually (payable
$1,500.00 per month).
         b.   City clerk: Four thousand eight hundred dollars ($4,800.00)
annually (payable $400.00 per month).
         c.   City treasurer: Four thousand eight hundred dollars ($4,800.00)
annually (payable $400.00 per month).
         d.   Aldermen: Two thousand seven hundred dollars ($2,700.00) annually
(payable $225.00 per month).
      2.   In addition, city officers and aldermen shall receive twenty five
dollars ($25.00) for each special meeting attended. (Ord. 06-2016, 7-11-2016)
   B.   Reimbursement Policy Adopted: The city council hereby adopts by
reference the "reimbursement of travel, meal and lodging expenses policy"
attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein. (Ord. 01-2017, 1-9-
2017, eff. 1-9-2017)
1-7-2: PARTICIPATION IN ILLINOIS RISK MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION:
   A.   The city council hereby authorizes and approves membership in the
Illinois Municipal League Risk Management Association for membership for a
period of one year beginning the date the association commences providing risk
coverage to its members and each year thereafter unless this section is
repealed.
   B.   The city hereby agrees to contribute to the association a sum of money
to be determined by the association at the time of application based on the
needs of the association and the loss experience of the city, which sum shall
constitute the cost of the city's first year contribution for membership in the
association. Membership contributions for second and subsequent years shall be
calculated in accordance with the loss experience of the city and the needs of
the association including total losses and expenditures of the self-insured
retention fund of the association. (Ord. 14-2003, 9-8-2003; amd. 2017 Code)
1-7-3: PARTICIPATION IN ILLINOIS MUNICIPAL RETIREMENT FUND:
The city does hereby elect to participate in the Illinois municipal retirement
fund. The standard for IMRF participation shall be a position normally
requiring performance of duty for one thousand (1,000) hours per year. (Ord.
04-2015, 6-11-2015)
CHAPTER 8
ETHICS
SECTION:
1-8-1: State Regulations Adopted
1-8-2: Definitions
1-8-3: Interpretation
1-8-4: Prohibited Acts
1-8-5: Penalties
1-8-6: Amendments
1-8-7: Unconstitutionality Of Provisions
1-8-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
The regulations of section 5-15 1 and article 10 2 of the state officials and
employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter
referred to as the "act" in this chapter), are hereby adopted by reference and
made applicable to the officers and employees of the city to the extent
required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5. (Ord. 02-2004, 6-10-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 - 10-40.
1-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall be
defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c). (Ord. 02-
2004, 6-10-2004)
1-8-3: INTERPRETATION:
This chapter does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this chapter, however, the provisions of this chapter shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a). (Ord. 02-2004, 6-10-2004)
1-8-4: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.   Gifts:
      1.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited
or accepted under the act by any officer or any employee of the city is hereby
prohibited.
      2.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to
an officer or employee of the city under the act is hereby prohibited.
   B.   Political Activities: The participation in political activities
prohibited under the act by any officer or employee of the city is hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 02-2004, 6-10-2004)
1-8-5: PENALTIES:
The penalties for violations of this chapter shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act. (Ord. 02-2004, 6-10-2004)
1-8-6: AMENDMENTS:
Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective date hereof
shall be incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to
the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to prohibited
political activities. However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional
for adoption by the city shall not be incorporated into this chapter by
reference without formal action by the corporate authorities of the city. (Ord.
02-2004, 6-10-2004)
1-8-7: UNCONSTITUTIONALITY OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this chapter shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This chapter shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the act is found unconstitutional by
the Illinois supreme court.
   B.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act, as adopted by
this chapter, shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
chapter relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city. (Ord.
02-2004, 6-10-2004)
CHAPTER 9
CITY FINANCES AND TAXATION
SECTION:
1-9-1: Dishonored Checks Fee
1-9-1: DISHONORED CHECKS FEE:
Whenever a check payable to the city is tendered for the payment of fees,
charges or any other sum due the city and is dishonored by a financial
institution upon which it is drawn because of insufficient funds in the account
against which it was drawn, or any other lawful reason, a processing charge of
twenty five dollars ($25.00) shall be imposed by the city and added to the fee,
charge or other sum due the city and thereon shall be due and payable as any
other delinquency. (Ord. 05-2015, 6-11-2015)
ARTICLE A. TAXES
SECTION:
1-9A-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
1-9A-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
1-9A-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the business
of selling tangible personal property at retail in the city at the rate of one
percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of
section 8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Report Required: Every such person engaged in such business in the city
shall file on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the
state department of revenue required by section three of "an act in relation to
a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property to purchasers for use or consumption", approved June 28, 1933, as
amended.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(Ord. O-69-5, 9-2-1969, eff. 10-1-1969)
1-9A-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
business of making sales of services in the city at the rate of one percent
(1%) of the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by such
servicemen either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of
real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of section 8-11-5 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Report Required: Every supplier or serviceman required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of the city shall file, on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department
of revenue required by section nine of the service occupation tax act, approved
July 10, 1961, as amended.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. O-
69-4, 9-2-1969, eff. 10-1-1969)
ARTICLE B. TAX INCREMENT FINANCING INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRIES AND RULES
SECTION:
1-9B-1: Recitals Incorporated
1-9B-2: Authority To Create Registries
1-9B-3: Rules Adopted; Amendments
1-9B-1: RECITALS INCORPORATED:
The recitals set out in the ordinance codified herein are incorporated herein
and made a part hereof. (Ord. 01-2000, 1-10-2000)
1-9B-2: AUTHORITY TO CREATE REGISTRIES:
The city clerk is hereby authorized and shall create an "interested parties
registry" in accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the TIF act for each
redevelopment project area created under the TIF act, whether now existing or
created after the effective date hereof. (Ord. 01-2000, 1-10-2000)
1-9B-3: RULES ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS:
In accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the act, the city hereby adopts the
registration rules attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein as
registration rules for each interested parties registry. The city clerk, with
the consent of the city council, as to form and legality, shall have the
authority to amend such registration rules from time to time as may be
necessary or desirable to comply with and carry out the purposes intended by
the TIF act. (Ord. 01-2000, 1-10-2000)
TITLE 2
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
SECTION:
2-1-1: Purpose
2-1-2: Definitions
2-1-3: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
2-1-4: State Regulations Adopted
2-1-5: License And Compliance Required; Prohibitions Regarding Distributors
2-1-6: Separate License For Each Location
2-1-7: Ineligibility For License
2-1-8: Application For License
2-1-9: Bond Requirements
2-1-10: Classification Of Licenses
2-1-11: Number Of Licenses
2-1-12: Term Of License; Privilege Granted By License
2-1-13: Nontransferability Of License
2-1-14: Posting License
2-1-15: Renewal Of License
2-1-16: Change Of Location
2-1-17: Hours Of Operation; Presence And Consumption On Premises After Hours
2-1-18: Building And Premises Requirements
2-1-19: Approval Of Sales
2-1-20: Sales To Certain Persons Prohibited
2-1-21: Minors
2-1-22: Beer Gardens
2-1-23: Restricted And Prohibited Acts And Conditions
2-1-24: Existing Establishments On Annexed Property
2-1-25: Sale Of Licensed Business
2-1-26: Fees
2-1-27: Emergency Closing Of Establishment
2-1-28: Hearings And Enforcement Procedures
2-1-29: Responsibility Of Licensee For Violations
2-1-30: Duties Of City Clerk
2-1-31: Penalty
2-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter shall be liberally construed, to the end that the health, safety
and welfare of the people of the city shall be protected and temperance in the
consumption of alcoholic liquors shall be fostered and promoted by sound and
careful control and regulation of the sale and distribution of alcoholic
liquor. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall, for the
purpose of this chapter, have the meanings ascribed to them in this section
unless the context requires otherwise:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. The term does not include denatured alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes alcohol, spirits, wine and beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this
chapter shall not apply to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol
produced in accordance with acts of congress and regulations promulgated
thereunder, nor to any liquid or solid containing one-half of one percent
(0.5%) or less of alcohol by volume.
BEER: A beverage obtained by the alcoholic fermentation of an infusion or
concoction of barley or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
CLUB: A. A patriotic or veterans society organized under the laws of the United
States or the state of Illinois; or
B. A corporation organized under the laws of the United States or the state of
Illinois but not for pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common
object other than the sale or consumption of alcoholic liquors kept, used, and
maintained by its members through the payment of annual dues and owning, hiring
or leasing a building or space in a building of such extent and character as
may be suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and
accommodation of its members and their guests and provided with suitable and
adequate kitchen and dining room space and equipment and maintaining a
sufficient number of servants and employees for cooking, preparing and serving
food and meals for its members and guests; provided, that such club files with
the mayor at the time of its application for a license under this chapter two
(2) copies of a list of names and residences of its members and similarly
files, within ten (10) days of the election of any additional member, his name
and address; and provided further, that its affairs and management are
conducted by a board of directors, executive committee, or similar body chosen
by the members at their annual meeting and that no member or any officer,
agent, or employee of the club is paid, or directly or indirectly receives in
the form of salary or other compensation, any profits from the distribution or
sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or the members of the club or its guests
introduced by members beyond the amount of such salary as may be fixed and
voted at any annual meeting by the members or by its board of directors or
other governing body out of the general revenue of the club.
CONTINUOUS OPERATION: Operation of the licensed business for at least five (5)
hours a day for a period of at least five (5) days a week.
HIM/HER: Any pronoun indicating a particular gender shall be construed to mean
either the male or female gender unless the context requires that a specific
gender is intended.
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL ACT: An act passed by the 58th Illinois general
assembly entitled "an act relating to alcoholic liquors", approved January 31,
1934, as amended.
ILLINOIS LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION; STATE COMMISSION: The commission created by
article III, section I of the Illinois liquor control act.
INTOXICATING LIQUORS: See definition of Alcoholic Liquor.
LICENSED PREMISES: The premises described in the application for the license or
in the license as the place where the business to be covered or covered by the
license is to be or is carried on. The term shall include only the permanent
structure housing the licensed business as distinguished from parking lots and
the remainder of the property outside such structure but on the owned or rented
property, unless a different definition is logically required.
LICENSEE: Includes all persons who are owners or are in control of any place
where the sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor is carried on, whether they
be individuals, partners, corporations, joint stock companies, fiduciaries or
officers, directors, stockholders or corporations or otherwise. This definition
excludes an employee or manager.
MANAGER: A person employed by a licensee for the purpose of overseeing the
operation of a licensed business and exercising discretionary authority on
behalf of the licensee during the hours that the manager is on duty.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, barrel, keg, hogshead or other
receptacle or container whatsoever, used, corked or capped, sealed and labeled
by the manufacturer of an alcoholic liquor to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
PACKAGE SALE: The sale or offering for sale at retail of alcoholic liquor, in
the original package, and not to be consumed or in fact consumed in whole or in
part on the premises where sold.
RETAILER: A person who sells or offers for sale alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: A transfer, exchange, or barter in any manner or by any means whatsoever
for a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by a person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee.
SELL AT RETAIL; SALE AT RETAIL: Sales for use or consumption and not for resale
in any form.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin, or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
TO SELL: Includes to solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for
sale and to keep with intent to sell.
WINE: Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages
when fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits" as defined in this
section. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. 2017 Code)
2-1-3: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
   A.   Mayor Serve As: The mayor of the city shall be the local liquor control
commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of the appropriate
provisions of the Illinois liquor control act, this chapter, and such
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations relating to alcoholic liquor as
hereafter may be adopted.
   B.   Powers And Duties Generally: The local liquor control commissioner
shall have the following powers and duties: (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
      1.   To grant and/or suspend for not more than thirty (30) days or revoke
for cause all local licenses issued to persons for premises within the city.
      2.   To enter or to authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any
time upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the
provisions of the liquor control act, this chapter or any rules or regulations
adopted by commissioner or by the state commission have been or are being
violated, and at such time to examine said premises of said licensee in
connection therewith.
      3.   To notify the secretary of state where a club incorporated under the
general not for profit corporation act of 1986 or a foreign corporation
functioning as a club in this state under a certificate of authority issued
under that act has violated the liquor control act or this chapter by selling
or offering for sale at retail alcoholic liquors without a retailer's license.
      4.   To receive complaint from any citizen within the city that any of
the provisions of the liquor control act, this chapter, or any rules or
regulations adopted pursuant hereto, have been or are being violated and to act
upon such complaints in the manner hereinafter provided.
      5.   To receive local license fees and pay the same forthwith to the city
treasurer. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. 2017 Code)
      6.   To suspend or revoke any license issued under this chapter or assess
a fine for each violation of law or ordinance including, but not limited to,
the following reasons:
         a.   The licensee has violated any of the laws of the United States
relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor, or any of the provisions of the
Illinois liquor control act, or any ordinance enacted by the city council,
including this chapter, or any applicable rules and regulations adopted by the
local liquor control commissioner or the state commission.
         b.   The wilful making of any false statement as to a material fact
made by the licensee in the application for such license.
         c.   The refusal of any licensee to testify under oath to all relevant
and material questions propounded to him at any hearing conducted thereby.
         d.   The refusal of any licensee or his employee or agent to produce
for inspection by the local liquor control commissioner any document requested
which may be relevant to any hearing or investigation of alleged violations of
the state liquor control act, this chapter, or any rule or regulation of the
commissioner.
         e.   The state commission has suspended or revoked the license of the
licensee.
         f.   The licensee has failed to operate the business at the location
referred to in said license for a period of sixty (60) days subsequent to the
date of the issuance of said license or for any extension period as shall be
granted by order of the local liquor control commissioner within such sixty
(60) day period.
         g.   The licensee has failed to keep the business referred to in the
license in continuous operation after the business has been opened pursuant to
the time limitations set forth in subsection B6f of this section. This
provision shall not apply to a temporary permit issued under the terms of this
chapter, and this provision shall not apply when a licensee ceases continuous
operation for one consecutive period, not to exceed thirty (30) consecutive
days during the one year period for which the license is issued, for any of the
following reasons: remodeling of the licensed premises, fire damage to the
licensed premises, or sickness or vacation of the licensee. The number and
length of periods during which the licensee may cease continuous operation may
be extended by the liquor control commissioner upon showing of good cause by
the licensee.
         h.   Failure to make formal application to have a background
investigation completed on any new manager within seven (7) days after any such
manager begins working.
         i.   Interference, by himself or any agent or employee, with a police
officer or disobedience of any reasonable order of such officer.
         j.   Allowing a coin operated amusement device on the premises which
has no valid license issued by the city.
         k.   The failure to obey any lawful order of the commissioner.
         l.   Employment of any manager who would not be eligible to receive a
license hereunder except for the reason of citizenship.
         m.   The licensed premises constitutes a nuisance as defined in
subsection 2-1-28E of this chapter.
      7.   To examine or cause to be examined under oath any applicant for a
local license or for a renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice of
hearing has been served, to hear testimony and take proof for his information
in the performance of his duties, and for such purposes, to issue subpoenas
which shall be effective in any part of the state.
      8.   To receive the complaint of any person and to investigate, upon such
complaint, or to investigate upon his own initiative, any alleged violation of
any law of the United States relating to the sale of alcoholic liquor, or any
of the provisions of the Illinois liquor control act, or any ordinance of the
city including this chapter, or any applicable rules and regulations adopted by
the local liquor control commissioner or by the state commission.
      9.   To make, promulgate, alter, amend, repeal and enforce such
reasonable rules and regulations relating to the administration and enforcement
of the provisions of this chapter as may be deemed by him to be desirable to
facilitate the duties enumerated in this subsection; such rules and regulations
to be adopted only after being placed on file in the city clerk's office for a
period of thirty (30) days after notice to the public.
   C.   Public Hearings: For the purpose of administering and enforcing the
provisions of this chapter, the local liquor control commissioner may, in his
discretion, hold public hearings at any time concerning any matters embraced
within this chapter. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-4: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED:
All of the provisions of the Illinois liquor control act and of the rules and
regulations issued by the Illinois liquor control commission which are or may
hereafter be in force are hereby incorporated into and declared to be a part of
this chapter the same as if they were expressly set forth herein. (Ord. 06-87,
11-2-1987)
2-1-5: LICENSE AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED; PROHIBITIONS REGARDING DISTRIBUTORS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person, either by himself or through an
agent, or any person acting as an agent, barkeeper, clerk, or servant of
another, to dispense, sell or offer for sale at retail any alcoholic beverage
or engage in any "sale" as defined in section
2-1-2 of this chapter within the corporate limits without first having obtained
a license to do so as provided in this chapter.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any
intoxicating liquors or alcoholic liquors, or engage in any "sale" as defined
in section
2-1-2 of this chapter, in violation of the terms and conditions of such
license.
   C.   Persons licensed by the state of Illinois as distributors are
specifically prohibited from selling at retail any alcoholic beverages in any
quantity whatsoever.
   D.   The punishment for violation of this section shall be not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00)
per each separate violation. Each sale on a given date shall be deemed a
separate violation. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. 2017 Code)
2-1-6: SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH LOCATION:
A separate license must be obtained for each location desired by an applicant
for a license under the provisions of this chapter. No more than one license
may be issued for any one licensed premises. Each license for the sale of
alcoholic beverages must be issued for a separate street address as determined
by the address supplied by the applicant and confirmed by the local liquor
control commissioner; except, that more than one license may be issued for one
address if no licensee is a landlord or tenant of any other licensee at the
same address. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-7: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
   A.   No license authorized by this chapter may be issued to:
      1.   An applicant under the age of twenty one (21) years.
      2.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the
community in which he resides.
      3.   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
      4.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or
state law, unless the commissioner determines that such person has been
sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering
matters set forth in such person’s application and the commissioner’s
investigation. The burden of proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the
applicant.
      5.   A person who has been convicted of keeping a place of prostitution
or keeping a place of juvenile prostitution, promoting prostitution that
involves keeping a place of prostitution, or promoting juvenile prostitution
that involves keeping a place of juvenile prostitution.
      6.   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
      7.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked
for cause.
      8.   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
      9.   A copartnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than five percent (5%) of the aggregate
limited partner interest in such copartnership would not be eligible to receive
a license hereunder.
      10.   A corporation or limited liability company, if any member, officer,
manager or director thereof, or any stockholder or stockholders owning in the
aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such corporation, would
not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any reason other than
citizenship and residency within the city.
      11.   A corporation or limited liability company unless it is
incorporated or organized in Illinois, or unless it is a foreign corporation or
foreign limited liability company which is qualified under the business
corporation act of 1983 or the limited liability company act to transact
business in Illinois. The commissioner shall permit and accept from an
applicant for a license under this chapter proof prepared from the secretary of
state’s website that the corporation or limited liability company is in good
standing and is qualified under the business corporation act of 1983 or the
limited liability company act to transact business in Illinois.
      12.   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required by the
licensee.
      13.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor or
has forfeited his bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such
violation.
      14.   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued.
      15.   Any law enforcing public official, the mayor, any alderman, or any
member of the city council; except, that a license may be granted to such
official in relation to premises that is not located within the city if the
issuance of such license is approved by the state liquor control commission;
and except, that a license may be granted to any alderman or member of the city
council in relation to premises that is located within the city if: a) the sale
of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is incidental to the selling of
food; b) the issuance of the license is approved by the state commission; c)
the issuance of the license is in accordance with all applicable city
ordinances; and d) the official granted a license does not vote on alcoholic
liquor issues pending before the city council. Notwithstanding any provision of
this subsection to the contrary, an alderman or member of the city council may
have a direct interest in the sale of alcoholic liquor as long as he or she is
not a law enforcing public official or the mayor. To prevent any conflict of
interest, the elected official with the direct interest in the sale of
alcoholic liquor shall not participate in any meetings, hearings, or decisions
on matters impacting the sale of alcoholic liquor. Furthermore, the mayor may
have an interest in the sale of alcoholic liquor as long as the city council
has made a local liquor control commissioner appointment that complies with the
requirements of 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-2.
      16.   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be
operated by the licensee.
      17.   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense as proscribed
by any of 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1(a)(3) through (a)(l 1), or as
proscribed by 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/28-1.1 or 5/28-3 (the criminal
code of 1961 or the criminal code of 2012), or as proscribed by a statute
replaced by any of the aforesaid statutory provisions.
      18.   A person or entity to whom a federal wagering stamp has been issued
by the federal government, unless the person or entity is eligible to be issued
a license under the raffles and poker runs act or the Illinois pull tabs and
jar games act.
      19.   A person who intends to sell alcoholic liquors for use or
consumption on his or her licensed retail premises who does not have liquor
liability insurance coverage for that premises in an amount that is at least
equal to the maximum liability amounts set out in 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-21(a).
      20.   The sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet
(1001) of any church, school, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or
for veterans, their spouses or children, or any military or naval station;
provided, that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant
service, regularly organized clubs, or restaurants, food shops or other places
where the sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on,
if such place of business so exempted shall have been established for such
purposes prior to the effective date hereof; nor to the renewal of a license
for the sale at retail of alcoholic liquor on premises within one hundred feet
(100') of any church or school where such church or school has been established
within such one hundred feet (1001) since the issuance of the original license.
   B.   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the issuance of a license to a
church or private school to sell, at retail, alcoholic liquor if any such sales
are limited to a period when groups are assembled on the premises solely for
the promotion of some common object other than the sale or consumption of
alcoholic liquors. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. Ord. 89-91, 7-10-1989; 2017
Code; Ord. 2025-02, 4-14-2025)
2-1-8: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.   Any person desiring a license authorized by this chapter shall make
application therefor to the local liquor control commissioner. A separate
application shall be made for each license desired by the applicant. Such
application shall be typed upon forms prepared and furnished by the city. Each
application shall be signed by the applicant and verified by him by oath or
affidavit and shall be filed with the city clerk. In case the applicant is a
partnership, all participating partners must sign and verify the application.
In case the applicant is a corporation or club, all officers, directors and any
stockholders owning more than fifty percent (50%) of the stock of such
corporation must sign and verify the application and indicate their official
position. All stockholders owning more than five percent (5%) of the corporate
stock must be listed along with the percentage of stock owned. In case any
other person is to conduct the place of business as manager or agent of the
licensee, he also must sign and verify the application. The application shall
contain the following information and statements: (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
      1.   In the case of an individual, the name, address and date of birth of
the applicant; in the case of a partnership, the names, addresses and dates of
birth of all partners and of all persons entitled to share in the profits
thereof; in the case of a corporation or club, the objects for which organized,
the names, addresses and dates of birth of the officers, directors and any
stockholder owning more than five percent (5%) of the stock of such
corporation; and in every case, the name and address and date of birth of each
manager or agent who is to conduct or work in the place of business for which
the license is sought. A club shall attach to its application two (2) copies of
the list of names and residences of its members. This list must be updated
every six (6) months from the date of issuance of any license, and the list of
managers must be constantly up to date.
      2.   The citizenship of the applicant, and if a naturalized citizen of
the United States, the date and place of naturalization. If a partnership, the
same information for each partner. In the case of a corporation, this
information must be supplied as to each officer and stockholder owning more
than fifty percent (50%) of the corporate stock.
      3.   The location where he proposes to engage in the business for which
the application was submitted, and whether or not the proposed location is
within one hundred feet (100') of any church or school.
      4.   Whether food for human consumption is to be sold in such place of
business if the application is allowed. Whether the business is a restaurant,
and whether fifty percent (50%) of the gross receipts of the licensed business
will be, or has been, from the sale of such food with documentation as
available and required by the local liquor control commissioner.
      5.   Whether the applicant owns the premises for which a license is
sought, and if he does not, the name of the landlord and the term of the lease.
In the event the property is leased, a copy of the lease shall be attached to
the application. If the lease is not written, an affidavit executed by the
landlord may be substituted in place of the lease.
      6.   The character of the business of the applicant; in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed, the date and state of
incorporation, and a copy of the articles of incorporation.
      7.   Whether the applicant has made application for another or similar
license and the disposition of any such other application.
      8.   Whether or not any license or permit issued to him under this
chapter, previous ordinances, similar ordinances in other counties or
municipalities, or by the state of Illinois or any other state of the United
States, relating to alcoholic liquor has ever been suspended or revoked.
      9.   Whether or not the applicant, any manager or bartender, partner or
majority stockholder has ever been convicted of being the keeper or an inmate
of a house of prostitution, or pandering or of any other crime or misdemeanor,
with the exception of a traffic offense. However, traffic offenses connected
with the misuse of alcoholic beverages must be listed.
      10.   A statement that the applicant is not, at the time of making the
application, connected with a house of ill fame and that no such connection
will exist during the life of any license issued.
      11.   Whether or not the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony,
and whether or not the applicant is disqualified to receive the license sought
by reason of any matter or thing contained in this chapter, the laws of the
state of Illinois or those of the United States.
      12.   A statement that should the licensed premises become or constitute
a nuisance to the neighborhood of its location that any license approved for
that location may be suspended or revoked at the discretion of the local liquor
control commissioner so as to abate the nuisance. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd.
Ord. 89-91, 7-10-1989)
      13.   A statement that the applicant will testify under oath to all
relevant and material questions propounded to him in any hearing conducted by
the local liquor control commissioner either before or after the issuance of a
license. That he will provide, upon receipt of a lawfully authorized subpoena
by the local liquor control commissioner, any book or record of his licensed
business in connection with any investigation conducted by the commissioner,
and that his failure to so testify or provide such books or records shall be
sufficient reason for the refusal to issue a license or revocation of any such
license which has been issued to him; and a statement that the applicant, any
partner, stockholder, manager, or employee, if requested by the local liquor
control commissioner, will permit a record of his or her fingerprints to be
made by the city police department for the purpose of additional investigation
to determine whether the application should be granted. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987;
amd. Ord. 89-91, 7-10-1989; 2017 Code)
      14.   A statement that neither the applicant, partner, stockholder,
manager nor any employee has accepted, received or borrowed money, or anything
else of value, or accepted credit (other than merchandise credit in the
ordinary course of business for a period not to exceed 30 days) directly or
indirectly from any manufacturer, importing distributor, or wholesaler of
alcoholic liquor, or from any stockholder or officer of any corporation engaged
in, or any other person connected with, any such business.
      15.   A statement listing all persons and corporations financing the
purchase or construction of the business to be licensed and, if requested, a
statement detailing the financial background of the applicant and business to
be licensed.
      16.   A statement that neither the applicant, nor any member of
applicant's household, nor any partner, nor any stockholder of a corporation is
a member or employee of the city police department or mayor of the city, nor is
any such person interested in any way, directly or indirectly, in the license
applied for, the premises or the profits or proceeds from the sale of alcoholic
liquor under the license applied for except as provided in subsection 2-1-7A16
of this chapter.
      17.   A statement authorizing the local liquor control commissioner to
have performed an investigation of the applicant's credit rating and background
prior to the issuance of any license. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. Ord. 89-91,
7-10-1989)
   B.   All information required must be supplied at the time of application
and clearly typed. It is the applicant's responsibility to supply on the
application the name and address of each manager to be employed and to ensure
that a background investigation is completed on each, including the submission
of fingerprints. The requirement of supplying all of the above information is a
continuing one. If any supplied information or statements become invalid, it is
the duty of the licensee to provide updated information to the local liquor
control commissioner. This includes changes in the makeup or control of
partnerships or corporations. In the case of corporations, specifically, the
local liquor control commissioner must be informed within thirty (30) days of
the replacement of any officer or of the sale or acquisition of twenty five
percent (25%) of the corporate stock by any one stockholder or upon any person
or corporation becoming a majority stockholder but not listed as such on prior
application or subsequent renewals. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   The local liquor control commissioner may request additional
information which is necessary to effectuate the purposes of this chapter.
   D.   Each original application and each renewal application will be
accompanied by the nonrefundable fee set out in subsection 2-1-26A of this
chapter. Each approved license may be issued upon the payment of the
classification license fee, in full or in two (2) payments due on January 1 and
July 1 of each year. If payment is made in two (2) installments, an
administrative fee as set out in subsection 2-1-26K of this chapter shall be
paid with the first installment. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-9: BOND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Each person desiring a liquor license shall execute a penal bond in the
sum of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) and file it in the city clerk's office
with the application for the license. The bond must be with a solvent surety
company licensed to do business in the state of Illinois, and approved by the
local liquor control commissioner or by cashier's check. The bond shall be made
payable to the city of Athens and conditioned on the faithful observance of the
licensee with the provisions of this chapter, this code, and the laws of the
state of Illinois and of the United States Of America applying to the sale and
possession of intoxicating liquor and shall be further conditioned upon the
payment of all fines and costs which may be assessed against the licensee for
the violation of any of the provisions hereof.
   B.   If a licensee shall be convicted of the violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter or of the Illinois liquor control act, or his
license shall be revoked by the local or state liquor commissioner and no
appeal is taken from said order of revocation or any appeal taken therefrom is
decided adversely to the licensee, the bond required by this section shall
thereupon be forfeited, and the local liquor control commissioner shall
institute suit upon such bond in the name of the city of Athens for the entire
amount of said bond and costs. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-10: CLASSIFICATION OF LICENSES:
Licenses to sell alcoholic liquor at retail shall be of the following classes:
   A.   Class A: A class A license shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic
liquor, at retail, for consumption either on the premises by the drink or off
the premises where sold in the original package. The annual fee for such
license shall be as set by the city council.
   B.   Class B: A class B license shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic
liquor, in the original package only, for consumption off the premises, but
shall not authorize consumption on the premises. The annual fee for such
license shall be as set by the city council. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
   C.   Class C: A class C license shall entitle the licensee to sell alcoholic
liquor for consumption on the premises in the city on the property formerly
known as the Athenian Park (in a location designated in advance by the local
liquor control commissioner); further, the class C license shall only entitle
the licensee to sell said alcoholic liquor for not more than forty eight (48)
hours and only at organized events which are fully described in the application
for the license. No alcoholic liquor sales shall be made prior to the licensee
providing proof to the local liquor control commissioner of adequate applicable
insurance for each event. (Ord. 03-2007, 5-14-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
2-1-11: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
   A.   By separate ordinance, the city council may set a limitation upon the
number of licenses to sell alcoholic liquor at retail to be issued for each
classification of license, or may increase the number of classifications. This
restriction upon the number of licenses shall not limit the right to renewal of
any existing license nor to the issuance of a license to the purchaser of an
established licensed business as a going concern, but as licenses are revoked,
expire without renewal or for any reason cease to exist, then the total number
of licenses for each classification shall be reduced until the total of each
class shall not exceed the number authorized by the city council. (Ord. 06-87,
11-2-1987)
   B.   The following limits are hereby established on the number of licenses
to sell alcoholic beverages in the city:
 
Class Of License Number Of Licenses
A                Not more than 6
B                Not more than 3
C                Not more than 1
 
(Ord. 03-93, 2-8-1993; amd. Ord. 09-95, 8-14-1995; Ord. 01-2012, 1-9-2012; Ord.
02-2017, 1-9-2017; Ord. 04-2017, 3-13-2017; Ord. 2023-01, 3-13-2023)
2-1-12: TERM OF LICENSE; PRIVILEGE GRANTED BY LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance, unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall
not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale of alcoholic liquor under order
of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or
insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such
insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of such license but not longer
than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee.
A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for any period
in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such license in
accordance with the provisions of this section. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd.
2017 Code)
2-1-13: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under this chapter shall be considered personal and no
license may be transferred to any person. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-14: POSTING LICENSE:
Every licensee under the provisions of this chapter shall cause his license to
be framed and hung in plain view in a conspicuous place on the licensed
premises visible to customers. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-15: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
   A.   Each licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof;
provided, that he or she is then qualified to receive said license, and the
premises for which such renewal license is sought is suitable for the purpose;
provided further, that the renewal privilege herein contained shall not be
construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the City Council
from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within the City.
   B.   The requirements and procedures for obtaining a renewal of a license
shall be the same as that provided in case of an original application for a
license.
   C.   Any request for renewal must be received with the appropriate renewal
fee not later than November 1 of the year prior to the year for which a license
is being requested. Failure to apply by this date shall result in such renewal
being denied unless good cause is shown to excuse such failure.
   D.   The annual license fee, as distinguished from the renewal fee provided
in section
2-1-26 of this chapter, must be paid at the time the license is issued by the
City Clerk.
   E.   The failure to renew a license as prescribed or to pay the required
annual license fee before the expiration date shown on the license being
renewed shall result in the lapse of said license. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
   F.   No licensee may sell liquor after the expiration of his or her license
until the license has been reissued after payment of the annual license fee.
Failure to pay the annual license fee or the second installment thereof shall
be grounds to revoke said license if the appropriate fee is not paid in full
within five (5) working days of the date due, along with the late payment fee
as set out in section
2-1-26 of this chapter. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. 2017 Code)
2-1-16: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
Any license issued under this chapter shall be for a single and particular
location. Upon application being filed with the City Clerk for a change of
location, and upon payment of an investigation fee in the amount as shall now
or as hereafter may be required by this chapter, the Local Liquor Control
Commissioner may allow the location authorized by the particular license to be
changed. In case the applicant has not personally operated his business at the
particular location for at least ninety (90) days prior to the business at the
change of location, such application shall be rejected. The application blank
shall be similar to that required of an original application for license under
this chapter. After investigation, the change of location may be approved or
rejected, as in the case of original license applications, and if approved, the
authorized change of location shall be shown by endorsement upon the face of
the existing license. Nothing herein contained shall be construed to permit any
licensee to change the location of his business, or to operate his business or
a portion thereof, as a subtenant or otherwise, at a site or place of business
which, under this chapter, would be prohibited or denied to an original
applicant. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-17: HOURS OF OPERATION; PRESENCE AND CONSUMPTION ON PREMISES AFTER HOURS:
   A.   Hours Established:
      1.   Except as provided below, it shall be unlawful for any liquor
licensee, or employee of such licensee, to sell or offer for sale at retail, on
the premises, any alcoholic liquor during the following hours:
         Monday through Saturday (inclusive) 12:01 A.M. to 6:00 A.M.
      2.   Provided, however, the following shall apply to Class A licenses: It
shall be unlawful for any liquor licensee, or employee of such licensee, to
sell or offer for sale at retail on the premises, any alcoholic liquor during
the following hours:
         Monday through Friday (inclusive) 12:01 A.M. to 6:00 A.M.
         Saturday 1:00 A.M. to 6:00 A.M.
         Sunday 1:00 A.M. to 10:00 A.M. for pouring on site consumption, 1:00
A.M. to 8:00 A.M. for retail sales.
         Sunday 9:00 P.M. to 12:00 midnight.
      3.   Provided, however, the following shall apply to Class B licenses: It
shall be unlawful for any liquor licensee, or employee of such licensee, to
sell or offer for sale at retail on the premises, any alcoholic liquor during
the following hours:
         Monday through Friday (inclusive) 12:01 A.M. to 6:00 A.M.
         Saturday 1:00 A.M. to 6:00 A.M.
         Sunday 1:00 A.M. to 8:00 A.M.
         Sunday 9:00 P.M. to 12:00 midnight.
      4.   Provided, however, as to all liquor licensees, if December 31 shall
fall upon a Sunday, then said sales shall not be prohibited from one o’clock
(1:00) P.M. on December 31 to one o’clock (1:00) A.M. the following Monday.
   B.   Presence And Consumption On Premises After Hours:
      1.   No patron shall remain or be permitted to remain or be admitted to
any licensed premises more than thirty (30) minutes after the sale of alcoholic
liquor is prohibited for the remainder of the closed hours described therein.
      2.   Consumption of liquor is prohibited, without exception, more than
thirty (30) minutes after the sale of alcoholic liquor is prohibited for the
remainder of the closed hours described therein.
      3.   The doors of each licensed premises shall be locked, and no person
not in the employ of the licensee shall be admitted to or upon the premises
during the times when patrons are prohibited from being on the licensed
premises. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. Ord. 03-2013, 6-10- 2013; Ord. 09-2017,
7-10-2017)
2-1-18: BUILDING AND PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sanitation Facilities: In the case of a Class A license, the licensee
shall provide separate toilets and washstands for male and female patrons, and
shall maintain the same in a clean and sanitary condition, and shall comply
with the health ordinances of the City.
   B.   Principal Business Not The Sale Of Alcoholic Beverages: Where the sale
of alcoholic liquor is not the principal business of the licensee, such
alcoholic liquor shall be offered for sale only at designated locations or
enclosures within the licensed premises which shall be solely restricted to the
sale of alcoholic liquor. Such locations or enclosures shall be separated from
the remainder of the premises devoted to the sale of items other than alcoholic
liquors by doors, slides, screens, counters, shades or other apparatus clearly
identifying a separate section of the premises; provided, that alcoholic
beverages known as "wine", as that term is defined in section
2-1-2 of this chapter, shall be exempt from the provisions of this subsection
in establishments where the primary business is the sale of food as a grocery
or market. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-19: APPROVAL OF SALES:
Every licensee operating under the provisions of this chapter shall so conduct
his licensed premises that every sale of alcoholic beverages is approved on
behalf of the licensee by an adult competent person so designated by the
licensee. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-20: SALES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED:
It is unlawful for any licensee or any officer, associate, member,
representative, agent or employee of such licensee to sell, give, deliver or
serve any alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years
or to any intoxicated person, except as provided in 235 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-16.1. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. 2017 Code)
2-1-21: MINORS:
   A.   Purchase By Or For Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to purchase, accept or procure or to attempt to purchase, accept or
procure any alcoholic liquor from any retail liquor dealer in the City or from
any other person.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain
alcoholic liquor and then to sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to
another person under the age of twenty one (21) years unless in the performance
of a religious ceremony or service.
   B.   Possession, Consumption By Prohibited; Exemptions:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall have any
alcoholic beverage in an open container in his possession on any street or
highway or in any public place or in any place open to the public.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift, delivery
or service of any alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age to consume or
to possess in any manner, including by consumption, any such alcoholic liquor,
except as otherwise provided by law. The violation referred to in this
subsection which relates to the possession of alcohol after it has been
consumed may be identified as the "illegal possession of alcohol by
consumption" or by the section number of this chapter. This violation may be
proven by evidence which indicates that the breath of the person charged with
such offense had a smell associated generally or specifically with any
alcoholic liquor. No additional evidence relating thereto shall be necessary to
find the defendant to be in violation of this chapter. It shall not be
necessary to show that the person charged with an offense hereunder was, at the
time in question, under the influence of any alcoholic liquor in any manner,
but such evidence shall be admissible to prove a violation of this chapter.
      3.   The possession, dispensing or consumption by a minor of alcoholic
liquor in the performance of a religious service or ceremony or the consumption
of alcoholic liquor by a minor under the direct supervision and direct approval
of the parents or parent of such minor in the privacy of a home is not
prohibited by this chapter, and this subsection shall be considered only as a
defense for which the burden of proving that it applies to and was reasonably
relied upon in a particular case shall be on the person charged with an offense
under this chapter.
   C.   Identification Requirements:
      1.   a.   A licensee or any officer, associate, member, representative,
agent or employee of such licensee may demand written evidence and may not rely
on oral evidence of the prospective recipient's age and identity before making
a sale, gift, delivery or service to a prospective recipient of any alcoholic
liquor. The decision whether or not to demand such evidence rests with the
licensee and his agents and employees. However, if no evidence is demanded,
such decision is made at the licensee's peril.
         b.   Any person from whom such written evidence is demanded shall
forthwith display his/her motor vehicle operator's license, secretary of
state's identification card, federal selective service card, federal armed
forces identification card or other written evidence of age and identity issued
by a public officer in the performance of his official duties.
         c.   If any such person fails to present such written evidence, he
shall be considered to be an underage person who is not entitled to any such
alcoholic liquor. However, if such written evidence of age and identity is
produced and shows the prospective recipient to be of the age required to
purchase such alcoholic liquor and if such a sale, gift, delivery or service of
alcoholic liquor is made in reasonable reliance thereon, then the licensee and
his representatives shall not be subject to any penalty provisions of this
chapter.
         d.   The burden of proving that a demand of written evidence of the
age and identity was made, that such written evidence was shown, the content of
the written evidence presented, and the reasonableness of the reliance thereon
shall be on the person charged with an offense under this chapter.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to present or offer to any
licensee or to any officer, associate, member, representative, agent or
employee of a licensee or to any other person any written, printed, or
photostatic evidence of his age and identity or that of any other person which
is false or fraudulent, for the purpose of ordering, purchasing, attempting to
purchase, or otherwise procuring or attempting to procure any alcoholic liquor
of any kind or description in violation of this chapter, or to have in his
possession any false or fraudulent written, printed or photostatic evidence of
age and identity.
   D.   Warning Sign Posted: In every premises upon which the sale of alcoholic
liquor is licensed hereunder, a sign, clearly visible to the public, shall be
posted at the entrance and at the cash register, by the licensee thereof, to be
furnished by said licensee, which shall read substantially as follows:
      WARNING TO MINORS
         You must be 21 years old to purchase any liquor and you must be able
to prove it. You are subject to prosecution and fine for the purchase of
alcoholic beverages or misrepresentation of your age for the purpose of
purchasing alcoholic beverages.
   E.   Employment:
      1.   No licensee, agent or employee shall permit any person under the age
of eighteen (18) years to draw, pour, or mix any alcoholic liquor in the
premises either as an employee or gratuitously.
      2.   No licensee, his agent or employee shall permit any person under the
age of eighteen (18) years to sell, serve or dispense or in any other way
handle alcoholic liquor, including packaged liquor, upon his licensed premises.
   F.   Presence On Premises:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years to be or remain in any premises which is licensed hereunder; except, that
any person under the age of eighteen (18) years may be or remain in such
premises:
         a.   If accompanied by his or her parent or legally appointed
guardian; or
         b.   If more than fifty percent (50%) of the gross business income
received therein results from the sale of services or commodities other than
alcoholic liquor.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any licensee hereunder or his officer,
partner, associate, representative, agent or employee to suffer or permit any
person under the age of eighteen (18) years to be on or remain in any premises
which is licensed hereunder; except, that any person under the age of eighteen
(18) years may be or remain in such premises:
         a.   If accompanied by his or her parent or guardian; or
         b.   If more than fifty percent (50%) of the gross business income
received therein results from the sale of services or commodities other than
alcoholic liquor.
   G.   Responsibility Of Parent Or Guardian: It shall be unlawful for any
parent or guardian to suffer or permit his or her child or ward under the age
of eighteen (18) years to violate any provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 06-87,
11-2-1987; amd. Ord. 01-2001, 3-12-2001; 2017 Code; Ord. 04-2021; Ord. 05-2024,
9-9-2024)
2-1-22: BEER GARDENS:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to promote the safety, health
and general welfare by creating certain conditions and restrictions on, and to
otherwise provide for the regulation of, beer gardens in the city.
   B.   Definition: A “beer garden” is defined as an open air, roofed, or
unroofed area adjacent to or accessory to a class A intoxicating liquor and/or
fermented malt beverage licensed premises, where beer and other alcoholic
beverages are served and consumed.
   C.   License Required; Fee: No person shall hereafter keep, maintain,
conduct or operate any “beer garden” as defined in subsection B of this section
without first obtaining a beer garden license and payment of the fee as
provided in subsection
2-1-26 J of this chapter.
   D.   Investigation Of Applicant; Approval Or Denial Of License: All
applications for beer garden licenses shall be referred to the zoning
administrator for investigation. The zoning administrator shall furnish the
city council with a recommendation in writing as to whether the license should
be granted. Upon approval by the city council, and confirmation of payment of
the liquor license fee, the city clerk shall issue the license authorizing a
beer garden license to the applicant. The city council shall have discretion to
refuse the granting of any license or transfer thereof if, in its judgment and
sole discretion, the granting or transfer of such license shall be against the
public interests, either because of the unsuitability of the location,
undesirability or unreliability of the applicant or applicant’s manager or
because of the failure of the applicant or applicant’s manager to observe the
provisions of the city ordinances in the prior conduct of business.
   E.   Conditions Of License: No beer garden shall be permitted, maintained,
or operated except in conformity with the following:
      1.   There shall be constructed and maintained at least a six foot (6')
high fence on all sides of the beer garden area. The fence shall contain such
fire exit(s) as directed by the zoning administrator and the city council. The
gate(s) or exit(s) of the fence shall be the same height as that required of
the beer garden fence, shall swing to egress, shall be equipped with proper
hardware, and shall not fully obstruct a public sidewalk when said gate or exit
is opened.
      2.   If the beer garden has a stage adjacent to the perimeter of the beer
garden, the stage shall not be taller than two feet (2') and the fence at the
stage must be eight feet (81) high surrounding the stage. The stage must have
steps that conform to all national, state, and local codes, as well as railings
approved by the zoning administrator. The exits and the beer garden shall have
adequate lighting and shall conform to all safety regulations that apply. The
beer garden shall be accessible only from the main building to which it is
attached and shall not be accessible from the outside.
      3.   All electrical and plumbing work shall comply with national, state
and local codes.
      4.   The ground shall be of a fire resistant material and shall not be
subject to mud or other slippery conditions in the event of rain.
      5.   The operation of the beer garden shall be restricted to the hours
applicable to a class A liquor license per subsection
2-1-17A of this chapter.
      6.   The beer garden shall have a maximum capacity of one person for each
ten (10) net square feet of the floor area of the beer garden. The capacity of
the beer garden shall be posted in the beer garden.
      7.   Any noise emanating from the beer garden shall not violate the
ordinances of the city or any other regulations pertaining to noise and
disturbances. Noise from the beer garden shall not interfere with neighbors’
enjoyment of their property.
   F.   Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Penalties: Any violations of this
section, including disturbances of the peace, may result in the suspension or
revocation of the owner’s or operator’s license(s) and, in addition, shall
result in a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first
offense and not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
subsequent offense. Each day during which a violation continues beyond the
specified time for correction shall constitute a separate punishable offense.
(Ord. 02-2012, 3-12-2012; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 2025-02, 4-14-2025)
2-1-23: RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
   A.   Curbside Service: No licensee, or his agent or employee, shall serve,
give or in any manner be concerned with placing any alcoholic liquor in or upon
or about any motor vehicle or to any occupant of a motor vehicle whether such
vehicle is moving or parked or is at the curb or in a public place or on the
licensee’s premises or other private place except in the original package and
with the seal unbroken.
   B.   Removal Of Open Containers From Premises: Except as provided hereafter,
no licensee, or officer, employee or agent of a licensee, shall permit and is
obligated to attempt to prevent without causing a breach of the peace, any
person on the licensed premises from leaving the licensed premises with any
open container of any alcoholic beverage. Any person removing an open container
of any alcoholic beverage from a licensed premises shall be subject to a fine
of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred dollars
($100.00); provided, however, that upon written application therefor to the
mayor of the city as local liquor control commissioner, a licensee, or employee
or agent of a licensee, may obtain temporary authority for special organized
community events to permit the consumption from open containers of alcoholic
beverages in a cordoned off, outside area contiguous to the licensed premises,
which area must be acceptable to and preapproved by the mayor and the chief of
police.
   C.   Extension Of Credit Or Trade Of Merchandise: No licensee, or his agent
or employee, shall sell or furnish alcoholic liquor at retail to any person on
credit, or order in a store, or in exchange for any goods, wares or
merchandise; provided, that a bona fide check, money order or generally
recognized credit card may be accepted in payment for any services rendered;
provided, that nothing herein contained shall be construed to prevent any club
from permitting checks or statements for alcoholic liquor to be signed by
members or bona fide guests of members and charged to the account of such
member or guest in accordance with the bylaws of the club.
   D.   Soliciting Drinks: No licensee shall employ or permit any person to
solicit any other person to purchase the solicitor a drink or drinks in or
about any licensed premises offering alcoholic beverages for sale.
   E.   Disorderly Conduct: No riotous, disorderly, indecent or offensive
conduct of any kind shall be allowed in or about said premises.
   F.   Transporting Alcoholic Beverages:
      1.   Except as provided in subsection F2 of this section, no person shall
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a public way including, but not limited to,
public highways, alleys and/or sidewalks, except in the original package and
with the seal unbroken.
      2.   This subsection F shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine
when it is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used,
the passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used or on a motor home or mini-motor home as
defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-145.01. However, the driver of
any such vehicle is prohibited from consuming or having any alcoholic liquor in
or about the driver’s area. Any evidence of alcoholic consumption by the driver
shall be prima facie evidence of such driver’s failure to obey this subsection.
For the purposes of this subsection, a limousine is a motor vehicle of the
first division with the passenger compartment enclosed by a partition or
dividing window used in the for hire transportation of passengers and operated
by an individual in possession of a valid Illinois driver’s license of the
appropriate classification pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-104.
(Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. Ord. 08-2006, 7-10-2006; 2017 Code)
2-1-24: EXISTING ESTABLISHMENTS ON ANNEXED PROPERTY:
Whenever the city annexes land upon which a licensed premises is situated, the
local liquor control commissioner, notwithstanding the limitations imposed
under section
2-1-11 of this chapter regarding the number of licenses permitted, may issue a
license of substantially the same classification as the license that the
licensee of the annexed premises had prior to annexation; provided, that the
license and the licensed premises meet the requirements of all laws and
ordinances applicable to the regulation of the sale of alcoholic liquors. The
licensee of any such annexed premises shall make application for such license
not less than thirty (30) days before the effective date of the annexation of
the licensed property. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-25: SALE OF LICENSED BUSINESS:
   A.   Upon application being filed with the city clerk, and upon payment of
an investigation fee in the amount as now or hereafter may be required by this
chapter, the local liquor control commissioner may issue a license to the
purchaser of an established licensed business as a going concern. In case the
business sold, or proposed to be sold, has in fact no goodwill or other value
as a going concern, in addition to the value of its physical assets, such
application shall be rejected. Any such sale shall include all furniture,
fixtures, and equipment used in such business or on such premises or place of
business for sale, offering for sale or dispensing of alcoholic liquor.
   B.   Such application must be for exactly the same class of license as that
held by the seller, and such application shall be only for the same location as
the previously licensed business.
   C.   Any such purchaser shall make application for the issuance of a new
license thereto, and in such application, he shall state the actual facts in
respect to his purchase of such business. Such application must be accompanied
by a letter, signed and notarized by the current licensee, evidencing his
intent to relinquish his license, should the applicant's request for a license
be granted. The applicant shall also complete an application blank and furnish
the information and make the statements required of any other licensee under
this chapter.
   D.   Such application shall be investigated and approved or rejected as in
the case of applications for an original license, and if approved, a license
shall be issued to such purchaser, and the license of the prior licensee
terminated upon payment to the city clerk of the license fee then due. Such
license fee, if received after commencement of any semiannual period, shall be
prorated to include the month in which said license is issued.
   E.   Upon prior application after approval of the transfer of the license
and payment of the license fee by the purchaser of said established business,
the holder of an expiring license may make application, within sixty (60) days
of the issuance of the new license, for refund of that portion of the annual or
semiannual license fee paid. No refund shall be paid for the month within which
the new license is issued, nor shall any refund be made of more than nine (9)
months in any annual period or for more than three (3) months in any semiannual
period. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-26: FEES:
The following fees will accompany applications authorized by this chapter:
   A.   Nonrefundable fees:
      1.   Original application: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
      2.   Renewal application: Fifteen dollars ($15.00). (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-
1987)
   B.   Application for license: Five hundred forty dollars ($540.00).
   C.   Annual renewal of license: Five hundred forty dollars ($540.00).
   D.   Application for change of location: Forty dollars ($40.00).
   E.   Background investigation of a manager or new partner: One hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00).
   F.   Transfer of licensed business from one form of ownership to another or
new partner (if no background investigation needed): Forty dollars ($40.00).
   G.   Late payment: Fifty dollars ($50.00).
   H.   Duplicate license certificate: Fifteen dollars ($15.00).
   I.   Each pool table/coin/bill operated amusement machine: Fifty dollars
($50.00). (Ord. 01-2002, 4-8-2002)
   J.   Beer garden license: Twenty five dollars ($25.00). (Ord. 02-2012, 3-12-
2012)
   K.   Administrative fee: Fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-27: EMERGENCY CLOSING OF ESTABLISHMENT:
In all cases where, in the opinion of the mayor, or if the mayor is
unavailable, the acting mayor, the public peace or the safety of any person is
likely to be endangered by the keeping open of such places where intoxicating
liquor is sold at retail or dispensed, it shall be lawful for the mayor or
acting mayor, without a hearing, to close such place or places. Such closing
shall be by proclamation under the seal of the city. Such proclamation shall
state the reasons for such closing, commanding and enjoining any or all persons
so licensed by the city, and their servants and agents, to neither sell, give
away, nor suffer to be consumed any alcoholic liquors in or about their
premises during the time mentioned in said proclamation or order. In any event,
no such emergency order shall be valid beyond seven (7) days without a hearing
granted to any affected licensee. The chief of police may order, at his
discretion, a licensed premises to be closed without hearing for a period of
twenty four (24) hours if the premises constitutes a crime scene and such
closing could prevent the loss or destruction of evidence and facilitate a
police investigation, or if the premises was the scene of a violent disturbance
involving injury or threat to citizens or the use of firearms. Such closing and
the reasons therefor will be documented by the chief of police and a report
submitted to the mayor. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-28: HEARINGS AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Hearings:
      1.   Except in the case of any emergency closing as provided in section
2-1-27 of this chapter, a licensee shall be entitled to a hearing before the
local liquor control commissioner before a licensed business is closed, or a
license is revoked or suspended, or a transfer or renewal denied for cause. But
in any case, the licensee shall receive a copy of the order of the commissioner
which shall give reasons for any action taken by the commissioner. No hearing
may convene, over the objection of the licensee, with less than three (3) days'
written notice of such hearing.
   2.   At any hearing, irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence
shall be excluded. The rules of evidence and privilege as applied in civil
cases in the circuit courts of this state shall be followed. However, evidence
not admissible under such rules of evidence may be admitted if it is of a type
commonly relied upon by reasonable prudent persons in the conduct of their
affairs. Objections to evidentiary offers may be made and shall be noted in the
record. Subject to these requirements, when a hearing will be expedited and the
interest of the parties will not be prejudiced, any part of the evidence may be
received in written form. Subject to the evidentiary requirement of this
section, a party may conduct cross examination required for a full and fair
disclosure of the facts. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
   B.   Findings Of Fact And Order: Within five (5) working days following a
hearing, the local liquor control commissioner shall receive findings of fact
and recommendations from the state liquor commission and issue and serve an
order. Failure to meet this schedule shall not constitute a jurisdictional
defect, and an order may be issued by the commissioner within any reasonable
time. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Costs:
      1.   In the event that the local liquor control commissioner shall find a
licensee guilty of violating any provision of this chapter, he may order the
licensee to pay to the city any one or more of the following:
         a.   A fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each
violation;
         b.   Reasonable attorney fees incurred by the city and/or the local
liquor control commissioner; and
         c.   Reasonable costs, including court reporter fees, incurred at the
hearing.
      2.   The aforesaid remedies shall be in addition to all other remedies
and penalties available to the city or the local liquor control commissioner,
both at law or in equity and not in lieu thereof.
      3.   Any penalties, costs or fees assessed under this section shall be
payable upon the order of the commissioner unless notice of appeal has been
filed by the licensee, in which case, payment is stayed until the final
decision of the Illinois liquor control commission.
   D.   Appeal: Whenever any order or action of the local liquor control
commissioner granting or refusing to grant a license, revoking or suspending or
refusing to revoke or suspend a license or refusing for more than thirty (30)
days to grant a hearing upon a complaint to revoke or suspend a license is
appealed to the state liquor control commission, the appeal shall be limited to
a review of the official record of the proceedings of the local liquor control
commissioner.
   E    Places Used In Violation; Nuisance Declared And Abated: Every lot,
parcel or tract of land, and every building, structure, establishment or place
whatsoever, together with all furniture, fixtures, and ornaments located
thereon, wherein there shall be conducted any unlawful distribution or sale of
any alcoholic liquor, or whereon or wherein there shall be kept, stored,
concealed or allowed any alcoholic liquor intended for illegal sale or to be
sold, disposed of or in any other manner used in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, or a place used for purposes of lewdness,
assignation, or prostitution, or premises which is detrimental to the peace and
well being of the neighborhood, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
shall be abated and may be enjoined as provided by the laws of this state for
the abatement of public nuisances. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-29: RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE FOR VIOLATIONS:
In all prosecutions or commission hearings held under this chapter, it shall
not be necessary to show the knowledge of the principal to hold him responsible
for the acts of any agent or servant. Every act or omission of any nature
constituting a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter by an
officer, director, manager, agent or employee of any licensee shall be deemed
and held to be the act of the licensee, and said licensee shall be punishable
in the same manner as if such acts or omissions had been done or omitted by him
personally. In all cases, persons to whom intoxicating liquors shall be sold in
violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be competent witnesses. (Ord.
06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-30: DUTIES OF CITY CLERK:
The city clerk shall receive all license applications and shall issue all
licenses when directed to do so by the local liquor control commissioner, and
perform such other duties and functions as are assigned by the commissioner.
(Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987)
2-1-31: PENALTY:
Unless specifically provided elsewhere in this chapter, any person, firm or
corporation violating any provision of this chapter shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues or for each
separate violation occurring on the same day. This penalty is in addition to,
not in lieu of, any administrative action taken by the local liquor control
commissioner. (Ord. 06-87, 11-2-1987; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
VIDEO GAMING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
2-2-1: Fee
2-2-2: Compliance With State Regulations
2-2-1: FEE:
   A.   Fee Established: A fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for the
operation of each video gaming terminal operated within the city limits shall
be imposed by the city.
   B.   Payment Of Fee: The fee set forth in subsection A of this section shall
be payable by the terminal operator to the city treasurer commencing on or
before the date of operation of each said video gaming terminal and on each
anniversary of said date that the video gaming device remains in operation. The
city treasurer shall provide proof of payment of the fee. (Ord. 11-2012, 9-10-
2012)
2-2-2: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS:
Operation of a video gaming terminal pursuant to the Illinois video gaming act
shall be prohibited within the city limits unless all requirements of said act
are met and the payment of the fee set forth in subsection 2-2-1A of this
chapter is timely paid with proof thereof prominently displayed on the
terminal. (Ord. 11-2012, 9-10-2012)
CHAPTER 3
SOLICITORS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Definition; License Required
2-3-2: Application For License
2-3-3: Investigation Of Applicant
2-3-4: Issuance Of License
2-3-5: Display Of License
2-3-6: License Fees
2-3-7: License Prohibitions
2-3-8: Hours
2-3-9: Penalty
2-3-1: DEFINITION; LICENSE REQUIRED:
A "solicitor" is defined as a canvasser, peddler, salesman or any other person,
either as principal or agent, whether a resident of the City or not, traveling
from house to house, or to any other place in the City, soliciting, taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares, merchandise or personal
property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or for services to be
furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such individual has,
carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of the sale, or he or she
is collecting advance payments on such sales or not; provided, that such
definition shall include any person, who for himself or another, hires, leases,
uses or occupies any building, structure, tent, vehicle, hotel room, apartment,
shop or any other place within the City for the sole purpose of exhibiting
samples and taking orders for future delivery. Before engaging in such business
in the City, a solicitor shall obtain a license for himself and for each of his
associates or assistants, if any, so engaged. Any person meeting this
definition that solicits on behalf of any civic, charitable, and/or nonprofit
group shall not be defined as a solicitor nor be required to obtain a license
for the same. (Ord. 04-2024, 9-9-2024)
2-3-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applicants for a solicitor's license under this chapter must file at least one
week prior to the desired start date of solicitation with the City Clerk with a
sworn application, on a form to be furnished by the City Clerk, which shall
include the following information:
   A.   Full name, permanent home address, no post office box and local address
of the applicant. Driver's License (or State I.D. Card) and social security are
required in addition to the previous information for the purposes of background
checks.
   B.   Brief description of the nature of the business and the product to be
sold.
   C.   If employed, the name and address of the employer, the name and address
of any local or state office or manager, together with credentials establishing
exact relationship or authority.
   D.   Length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
   E.   The place where the product proposed to be sold, or orders taken for
the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such goods or products
are located at the time such application is filed and the proposed method of
delivery.
   F.   Evidence that applicant has a photograph and fingerprints on file with
the City police department.
   G.   Last three (3) cities or towns where the applicant carried on business
immediately preceding the date of application, and the address, if any, from
which such business was conducted in those cities or towns.
   H.   Statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of any
crime, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed
therefor.
The Mayor is empowered to approve such application and to grant such license
upon satisfying himself of the moral fitness of the applicant to receive such
license. (Ord. 04-2024, 9-9-2024)
2-3-3: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
Upon receipt of the application, the chief of police shall make an
investigation of the applicant's business responsibility and moral character
for the protection of the public welfare and safety. If the applicant's
character and business responsibility is not good, the chief of police shall
endorse on such application his disapproval and his reasons therefor and return
the same to the city clerk, who shall notify the applicant that his application
is disapproved, and no permit or license will be issued. Any person aggrieved
by the action of the chief of police or city clerk and the denial of the
application for license shall have the right to appeal to the city council at
their next regular meeting after the grievance occurs.
If, as a result of the investigation of the applicant, the applicant's
character and business responsibility is found to be good, the chief of police
shall endorse on the application his approval and shall transmit it to the city
clerk. (Ord. 04-2024, 9-9-2024)
2-3-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon receipt by the city clerk of the application for license, which has been
approved by the chief of police, the city clerk, upon payment of the proper
license fee, shall issue the requested license, deliver said license to the
applicant; provided, however, that no license shall issue to any applicant who
has been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws of the state of
Illinois or any other state or federal law of the United States within five (5)
years of the date of the application; nor to any person who has been convicted
of the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter; nor to any person
whose certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously been revoked
as herein provided.
The license issued hereunder shall state the expiration date thereof. (Ord. 04-
2024, 9-9-2024)
2-3-5: DISPLAY OF LICENSE:
Any person receiving a license hereunder shall prominently display said license
on his person at all times when engaged in business in the city. The license
will consist of a badge and lanyard. The badge/lanyard is acquired at City Hall
upon payment of the twenty five dollars ($25.00) refundable fee. (Ord. 04-2024,
9-9-2024)
2-3-6: LICENSE FEES:
The license fees to be charged for licenses to solicit in the City, each
payable in advance, are hereby fixed at one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
person per day of solicitation.
No license shall be issued to extend beyond April 30 of the fiscal year in
which the license is issued. (Ord. 04-2024, 9-9-2024)
2-3-7: LICENSE PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Soliciting Without License: It shall be unlawful for any person to
solicit the sale of goods, wares, merchandise, produce or other articles or
things in the City without first having obtained a license from the City to
solicit and having a license in force at the time of pursuing such business.
   B.   Stands Prohibited: It shall be unlawful and it is hereby prohibited for
any person to assume a place or to establish a temporary or fixed stand upon
any of the streets, avenues, alleys, sidewalks or other public places of the
City to sell or for the purpose of selling therefrom any goods, wares,
merchandise, produce or other article or thing.
   C.   Entering Private Houses; Fraud: No person or solicitor shall enter any
private house in the City without being admitted by some occupant thereof, nor
shall be insist upon remaining on the premises or on showing his goods, wares
or merchandise to any person, after being told by such person that he does not
wish to see or purchase the same. No licensed solicitor shall practice fraud
nor shall be misrepresent his wares or cheat or impose upon any person. (Ord.
04-2024, 9-9-2024)
2-3-8: HOURS:
Solicitors shall only operate within the City of Athens between the hours of
nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M. There will be no
solicitation of residents on Saturdays and Sundays. (Ord. 04-2024, 9-9-2024)
2-3-9: PENALTY:
Any solicitor or person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be fined a minimum amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) and not to exceed
two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for each offense; and each day
such violation shall occur or continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 04-2024, 9-9-2024)
TITLE 3
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
3-1-1: Definitions
3-1-2: Nuisances Enumerated
3-1-3: Sound Device Restrictions
3-1-4: Enumeration Of Nuisances Not Exclusive
3-1-5: Abatement By Owner Or Occupant
3-1-6: Chronic Nuisances
3-1-7: Emergency Property Closing Procedures
3-1-8: Penalty; Lien Provisions
3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
CONTROL: The ability to regulate, restrain, dominate, counteract or govern
conduct that occurs on property.
OWNER: Any person, agent, firm or corporation having any legal or equitable
interest in the property. Owner includes, but is not limited to, a mortgagee in
possession in whom is vested all or part of the legal title to the property or
all or part of the beneficial ownership and the right to the present use and
enjoyment of the premises; or an occupant who can control what occurs on the
property.
PERMIT: To suffer, allow, consent to, acquiesce by failure to prevent, or
expressly ascent to agree to the doing of an act.
PERSON: Any natural person, association, partnership or corporation capable of
owning or using property in the city of Athens.
PERSON IN CHARGE: Any person in actual or constructive possession of a property
including, but not limited to, an owner or occupant of property under his or
her domain, ownership or control.
PROPERTY: Any real property, including land which is affixed, incidental or
pertinent to the land, including, but not limited to, any premises, room,
house, building, or structure or any separate part or portion thereof. (Ord.
19-2005, 11-14-2005)
3-1-2: NUISANCES ENUMERATED:
   A.   The presence of the following within the city is declared to be
detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare and constitutes a
nuisance:
      1.   Disturbing The Peace: Sound, animal, or things which interfere with
the peace and comfort or disturb the quiet enjoyment of any person in the city.
      2.   Dangerous, Offensive Conditions: Anything which is made, permitted,
used, kept, maintained, or operated, or any building or any animal that is kept
in a manner which is offensive, nauseous, dangerous to life, limb, or property,
or detrimental to the health and/or safety of the persons residing in or
traveling through that area.
      3.   Offensive Discharges: Any filthy, foul, or offensive matter or
liquid of any kind discharged into any street, alley, or public place, or on
any adjacent lot or ground.
      4.   Stagnant Water:
         a.   Any lot, ground, or premises within the city on which stagnant
water may be standing so as to become or is likely to become foul, putrid,
offensive, harborage for insects and rodents or detrimental to the health and
comfort of persons residing in the vicinity thereof.
         b.   To create any condition, through the improper maintenance of a
swimming pool or wading pool or by causing any action which alters the
condition of a natural body of water so that it harbors mosquitoes, flies, or
other animal pests that are offensive, injurious or dangerous to the health of
individuals or to the public.
      5.   Smoke Emissions: The emission of dense smoke from the chimney or
smokestack of any building or premises.
      6.   Spoiled Or Diseased Food Products: Any spoiled, tainted, or diseased
perishable agricultural commodity.
      7.   Vegetation Obstructing View Of Public Ways: Trees, shrubs, bushes,
weeds, or plants permitted to grow or accumulate on premises adjacent to any
street or alley or other public way in a manner as to obstruct the view and
endanger traffic conditions.
      8.   Garbage And Rubbish: Accumulation of rubbish or garbage, disposal of
rubbish, rubbish storage facilities, disposal of garbage, garbage facilities,
and containers, all as set out in the international property maintenance code,
as published by the International Code Council.
   B.   In addition to what is herein declared to be a nuisance, those offenses
known to the common law or of the state or federal statutes as nuisances may,
in case the same exist within the city, be treated as such and proceeded
against as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
3-1-3: SOUND DEVICE RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   No person shall play, use, operate, or permit to be played, used or
operated, any radio, tape recorder, cassette player or other device for
receiving broadcast sound or reproducing recorded sound if the device is
located:
      1.   On the public way; or
      2.   In any motor vehicle on the public way;
if the sound generated by the device is clearly audible to a person with normal
hearing at a distance greater than seventy five feet (75'). This section shall
not apply to any person participating in a special event for which a permit has
been obtained.
   B.   Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a first offense and not more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation; provided, that for
the second conviction of any violation of this section within one calendar
year, the mandatory minimum fine shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
Each day during which a violation continues beyond the specified time for
correction shall constitute a separate punishable offense. If court proceedings
are necessary to enforce the fine assessed, then court costs shall be assessed
in addition to the fine. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005)
3-1-4: ENUMERATION OF NUISANCES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The various nuisance described and enumerated in this chapter shall not be
deemed to be exclusive, but shall be in addition to all other nuisances
described and prohibited by this chapter. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005)
3-1-5: ABATEMENT BY OWNER OR OCCUPANT:
Any person causing a nuisance as defined in this chapter or recognized by the
common law, and the owner, occupant, or lessee of land on which any nuisance
exists, are required to correct the nuisance. The correction shall be made
within the time limit enumerated in the notice of violation from the city. In
all cases, it shall be the ultimate responsibility of the owner of the premises
on which a nuisance exists to correct the violation. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005)
3-1-6: CHRONIC NUISANCES:
   A.   Definition: Chronic nuisance property is property upon which two (2) or
more of the following criminal activities have occurred during any sixty (60)
day period as a result of any two (2) separate factual events that have been
independently investigated by any law enforcement agency:
      1.   Unlawful use of weapons, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.
      2.   Unlawful use or possession of weapons by felons or persons in the
custody of the department of corrections facilities, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-1.1.
      3.   Aggravated discharge of a firearm, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1.2.
      4.   Reckless discharge of a firearm, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-1.5.
      5.   Unlawful sale or delivery of firearms, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-3.
      6.   Unlawful possession of firearms and firearm ammunitions, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.1.
      7.   Aggravated unlawful use of a weapon, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/24-1.6.
      8.   Armed habitual criminal, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.7.
      9.   Unlawful possession of firearm by a street gang member, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/24-1.8.
      10.   Gunrunning, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3A.
      11.   Firearms trafficking, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3B.
      12.   Unlawful sale or delivery of firearms on the premises of any
school, regardless of the time of day or the time of year, or any conveyance
owned, leased or contracted by a school to transport students to or from school
or a school related activity, or residential property owned, operated or
managed by a public housing agency, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/24-3.3.
      13.   Unlawful sale of firearms by liquor licensee, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-3.4.
      14.   Unlawful purchase of a firearm, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-3.5.
      15.   Possession of a stolen firearm, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
24-3.8.
      16.   Aggravated possession of a stolen firearm, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/24-3.9.
      17.   Controlled substance trafficking, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes
570/401.1.
      18.   Unlawful possession of a controlled or counterfeit substance or
controlled substance analog, except as otherwise authorized by statute, 720
Illinois Compiled Statutes 570/402.
      19.   Prostitution, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-14.
      20.   Solicitation of a sexual act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
14.1.
      21.   Patronizing a prostitute, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-18.
      22.   Patronizing a minor engaged in prostitution, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-18.1.
      23.   Disorderly conduct, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/26-1.
      24.   Mob action, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/25-1.
      25.   Public indecency, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-30.
      26.   Assault, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-1; aggravated assault,
720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-2.
      27.   Battery, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-3; battery of an
unborn child, aggravated battery of an unborn child, 720 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/12-3.1; domestic battery, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-3.2;
aggravated battery, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-3.05.
      28.   Unlawful possession or consumption of alcohol by a minor, 235
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-20. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Violations: Any property within the city which becomes a chronic
nuisance property is in violation of this section and is subject to its
remedies. Any person in charge who permits property under his or her ownership
or control to be a chronic nuisance property shall be in violation of this
section and subject to its remedies.
   C.   Notice To Abate:
      1.   When the chief of police receives a report documenting the
occurrence of a second nuisance activity at or within a property and determines
that the property has become a chronic nuisance property, the chief of police
shall notify the person in charge in writing that the property has been
determined to be a chronic nuisance property. The notice shall contain the
following information: the street address or legal description sufficient for
identification of the property; a statement that the chief of police has
determined the property to be chronic nuisance property with a concise
description of the nuisance activities leading to his/her findings; and a
demand that the person in charge respond within ten (10) days to the chief of
police and propose a course of action that the chief of police agrees will
abate the nuisance activities giving rise to the violation.
      2.   Service shall be made either personally or by first class mail,
postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the person in charge at
the address of the property believed to be a chronic nuisance property, or such
other place which is likely to give the person in charge notice of the
determination by the chief of police.
      3.   A copy of the notice shall be served on the owner at such address as
shown on the tax rolls of the county, and/or the occupant, at the address of
the property, if these persons are different than the persons in charge, and
shall be made either personally or by first class mail, postage prepaid.
      4.   A copy of the notice shall also be posted at the property after ten
(10) days has elapsed from the service or mailing of the notice to the person
in charge if the person in charge has not contacted the chief of police.
      5.   The failure of any person to receive notice that the property may be
a chronic nuisance property shall not invalidate or otherwise affect the
proceedings under this section.
      6.   Concurrent with the notification procedures set forth herein, the
chief of police shall send copies of the notice, as well as any other
documentation which supports legal proceedings, to the corporation counsel.
   D.   Abatement By Individual:
      1.   After the notification, but prior to the commencement of legal
proceedings by the city pursuant to this section, a person in charge which
stipulates with the chief of police that the person in charge will pursue a
course of action the parties agree will abate the nuisance activities giving
rise to the violation, the chief of police may agree to postpone legal
proceedings for a period of not less than ten (10) nor more than thirty (30)
days.
      2.   If the agreed course of action does not result in the abatement of
the nuisance activity or if no agreement concerning abatement is reached within
thirty (30) days, the chief of police shall request authorization for the
corporation counsel to commence a legal proceeding to abate the nuisance.
      3.   When a person in charge makes a response to the chief of police as
required above, any conduct or statements made in connection with the
furnishing of that response shall not constitute an admission that any nuisance
activities have or are occurring. This subsection does not require the
exclusion of any evidence which is otherwise admissible or offered for any
other purpose. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005)
   E.   Abatement By City: The corporation counsel of the city may commence an
action to abate a chronic nuisance as described in this section. Upon being
satisfied by affidavit or other sworn evidence that an alleged chronic nuisance
exists, the court may, without notice or bond, enter a temporary restraining
order or preliminary injunction to enjoin any defendant from maintaining such
nuisance and may enter an order restraining any defendant from removing or
interfering with all property used in connection with the chronic nuisance.
(Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
   F.   Closing Of Property; Burden Of Proof:
      1.   In an action seeking closure of a chronic nuisance property, the
city shall have the initial burden of showing, by a preponderance of the
evidence, that the property is a chronic nuisance property. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-
14-2005)
      2.   It is a defense to an action seeking the closure of chronic nuisance
property that the owner of the property, at the time in question, could not, in
the exercise of reasonable care or diligence, determine that the property had
become a chronic nuisance property, or could not, in spite of the exercise of
reasonable care and diligence, control the conduct leading to the findings that
the property is a chronic nuisance property. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005; amd.
2017 Code)
      3.   In establishing the amount of any civil penalty requested, the court
may consider any of the following factors and shall state those found
applicable:
         a.   The action or lack of action taken by the person in charge to
mitigate or correct the problem at the property;
         b.   Whether the problem at the property was repeated or continuous;
         c.   The magnitude or gravity of the problem;
         d.   The cooperation of the person in charge with the city; or
         e.   The cost to the city of investigating and correcting or
attempting to correct the condition.
   G.   Remedies:
      1.   In the event a court determines property to be a chronic nuisance
property, the court may order that the property be closed and secured against
all use and occupancy for a period of not less than thirty (30) days, but not
more than one hundred eighty (180) days, or the court may employ any other
remedy deemed thereby to be appropriate to abate the nuisance. (Ord. 19-2005,
11-14-2005)
      2.   In addition to the remedy provided in subsection G1 of this section,
the court may impose upon the owner of the property a civil penalty in the
amount of up to one hundred dollars ($100.00) per day, payable to the city of
Athens, for each day the owner had actual knowledge that the property was a
chronic nuisance property and permitted the property to remain a chronic
nuisance property. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
      3.   In determining what remedy or remedies shall be employed, the court
may consider evidence of other conduct which has occurred on the property
including, but not limited to:
         a.   The disturbance of neighbors.
         b.   The recurrence of loud and obnoxious noises. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-
14-2005)
3-1-7: EMERGENCY PROPERTY CLOSING PROCEDURES:
   A.   In the event that it is determined that the property is an immediate
threat to the public safety and welfare, the city may apply to the court for
such interim relief as is deemed by the chief of police to be appropriate. In
such an event, there need not be compliance with the notification provisions
set forth in subsections 3-1-6C and D of this chapter, however, the city shall
make diligent effort to notify the person in charge prior to a court hearing.
(Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005)
   B.   In the event that the court finds the property constitutes a chronic
nuisance property as defined in this chapter, the court may order the remedies
set out in subsection 3-1-6G of this chapter. In addition, in the event that it
also finds the person in charge had knowledge of activities or conditions of
the property constituting or violating this chapter and permitted the
activities to occur, the court may assess a civil fine as provided in
subsection 3-1-6G2 of this chapter. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   The court may authorize the city to physically secure the property
against use or occupancy in the event the owner fails to do so within the time
specified by the court. In the event the city is authorized to secure property,
all reasonable costs incurred by the city to effect a closure shall be made and
assessed as a lien against the property. As used herein, "costs" means these
costs actually incurred by the city for the physical securing of the property,
as well as tenant relocation costs.
   D.   The city officer effecting the closure shall prepare a statement of
costs, and the city shall thereafter submit said statement to the court for its
review. If no objection of the statement is made within the period described by
the court, a lien in said amount may be recorded against the property. (Ord.
19-2005, 11-14-2005)
   E.   Any person who is assessed the costs of closure and/or civil penalty by
the court shall be personally liable for the payment thereof to the city. (Ord.
19-2005, 11-14-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
   F.   A tenant is entitled to his/her reasonable relocation costs, as those
are determined by the court if, without actual notice, the tenant moved into
the property after either:
      1.   The owner or tenant received notice as described herein of the
police chief's determination as described above; or
      2.   An unknown owner or other agent received notice of an action brought
pursuant to this section. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005)
3-1-8: PENALTY; LIEN PROVISIONS:
   A.   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punishable by a fine not to exceed seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00) for each violation. Each day during which a violation
continues beyond the specified time for correction shall constitute a separate
punishable offense. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   If the city corrects the violation itself or causes the violation to be
corrected on its behalf, a lien for the amount of time and expense involved in
correcting the violation shall be imposed against the land where the violation
occurred. A minimum charge of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each hour, or
part of an hour, shall be imposed for any work done by the city, or on behalf
of the city, in correcting a violation. This lien shall be recorded with the
county recorder of deeds within sixty (60) days after the work is done by the
city or on behalf of the city, and suit to collect the cost of the lien shall
be filed after the recording of the lien.
   C.   Where the city itself corrects the violation or causes the violation to
be corrected on its behalf, the violator shall be subject to both subsections A
and B of this section. (Ord. 19-2005, 11-14-2005)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
3-2-1: Receptacle Requirements
3-2-2: Disposal Requirements
3-2-3: Removal And Transportation Of Garbage And Refuse
3-2-4: Burning Garbage And Refuse Prohibited
3-2-5: Penalties
3-2-1: RECEPTACLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Receptacles Required: In all cases, it shall be the ultimate
responsibility of the owner, titleholder, or contract for deed buyer to provide
the proper garbage, refuse and rubbish receptacles for the premises. (Ord. 08-
2001, 9-10-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Specifications:
      1.   Less Than Three Dwelling Units: The owner or occupant, lessee or
contract for deed buyer of any single-family residence or multiple-dwelling
residence with less than three (3) dwelling units shall provide, or cause to be
provided, a receptacle or receptacles that are:
         a.   Clean and in good repair.
         b.   Galvanized metal or plastic with a close fitting metal or plastic
cover.
         c.   Watertight.
         d.   A capacity of not less than five (5) nor more than thirty five
(35) gallons.
         e.   With suitable handles for carrying.
         f.   Sufficient to contain the accumulation of waste material for a
period of at least seven (7) days. (Ord. 08-2001, 9-10-2001)
      2.   All Other Receptacles: The owner, lessee, titleholder of record or
contract for deed buyer of any multiple-dwelling residence with three (3) or
more dwelling units or such person who uses a building premises for commercial
business shall provide and maintain clean and in good repair receptacles
commonly known as dumpsters. The dumpsters shall include lids which shall be
kept closed at all times except when garbage is being deposited in the dumpster
or when the dumpster is being emptied. Dumpster capacity shall be sufficient to
contain the accumulation of waste material for a period of at least seven (7)
days. Such person as herein described may petition the chair of the health and
safety committee or the mayor of the city for an exemption from the
requirements hereof. If the chair of the health and safety committee or mayor
decides that the receptacle facilities are adequate and do not present a hazard
to the public health and safety, a permit to exempt the person's premises may
be issued. This permit may be revoked if, at any time, the receptacle
facilities become inadequate or present a hazard to the public health and
safety. (Ord. 08-2001, 9-10-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Placement: All receptacles for the collection of garbage, refuse and
rubbish shall be placed on the owner's premises in an accessible place at
ground level. No receptacle shall be placed on public property or right of way
so as to impede or interfere with pedestrian or motor vehicle traffic. (Ord.
08-2001, 9-10-2001)
3-2-2: DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any premises to
dispose of any solid waste inclusive of, but not limited to, garbage, rubbish,
and refuse in receptacles described in section
3-2-1 of this chapter.
   B.   It shall be the duty and responsibility of every construction
contractor or builder to containerize all solid waste inclusive of, but not
limited to, garbage, refuse, and rubbish in receptacles capable of preventing
its spread by natural elements or by animals onto any premises.
   C.   It shall be the duty and responsibility of every contractor or builder
to dispose of any solid waste in accordance with all local, state, and federal
laws. (Ord. 08-2001, 9-10-2001)
3-2-3: REMOVAL AND TRANSPORTATION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
   A.   The removal of any solid waste shall be accomplished in a manner which
does not create a nuisance or cause annoyance or discomfort to any person.
   B.   No person shall deposit, collect, or transport garbage or rubbish in
such a manner that it may be spread by natural elements, such as wind or rain,
or by animals onto any premises. (Ord. 08-2001, 9-10-2001)
3-2-4: BURNING GARBAGE AND REFUSE PROHIBITED:
No person shall burn or cause to be burned any garbage, rubbish or refuse.
(Ord. 08-2001, 9-10-2001)
3-2-5: PENALTIES:
Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be subject to a fine not to
exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for the first offense, one hundred dollars
($100.00) for the second offense, and seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for
the third or subsequent offense. Each day that a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 08-2001, 9-10-2001; amd. 2017 Code)
ARTICLE A.  COLLECTORS OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Definitions
3-2A-2: General Licensing And Vehicle Requirements
3-2A-3: Ineligibility For License
3-2A-4: Class A License And Fee
3-2A-5: Number Of Licenses; Nontransferability
3-2A-6: Vehicle Requirements
3-2A-7: Days And Hours Of Collection
3-2A-8: Place Of Disposal
3-2A-9: Revocation Of License
3-2A-10: Penalty And Other Remedies
3-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, for the purpose of this article, shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
ASHES: Includes the residue from the combustion of any fuel.
GARBAGE: Includes all organic household or kitchen wastes such as rejected or
unused food and food residue and paper necessarily used for wrapping.
HOUSEHOLD RUBBISH: Includes organic noncombustible household waste such as tin
cans, metalware, bottles, broken glass, crockery, stoneware, and similar refuse
resulting from the regular operating of a household and not classed as
"garbage" or "miscellaneous rubbish" as defined in this section.
MISCELLANEOUS RUBBISH: Includes combustible rubbish such as papers, boxes,
brush and leaves and any other rubbish or wastes resulting from the operation
of a domestic or business establishment, construction, repair or remodeling,
discarded equipment and similar waste. (Ord. O-6-75, 10-7-1975; amd. 2017 Code)
3-2A-2: GENERAL LICENSING AND VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   License And Fee Required: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
partnership or corporation to engage in the business of collecting, hauling, or
transporting through the streets, alleys, or public ways of the city any
"garbage", "ashes", "household rubbish" or "miscellaneous rubbish", as defined
in section
3-2A-1 of this article, without first obtaining a license from the city council
to engage in such business. The fee for such license shall be as provided in
section
3-2A-4 of this article and shall be payable into the city corporate fund.
   B.   Application For License:
      1.   The application for said license shall be filed with the city clerk.
The city clerk may not accept any application unless the appropriate fee is
paid at the time of application. In case any application for license is denied,
the city clerk shall refund to the applicant the fee previously paid.
      2.   The application for a license to operate a disposal service shall
provide the following information: name and address of the operator and/or
owner of the business, vehicle identification number and description of every
vehicle used in the business, the area in which the proposed disposal service
will operate and such other facts as the chair of the health and safety
committee of the city council may require to determine whether the granting of
a license is in the best interest of the citizens of the city.
   C.   Vehicles And Inspections: The city clerk, before issuing such a
license, shall require the owner of such vehicles as will be used in the
operation to certify in writing on penalty of fines herein established that the
vehicles to be used for such purpose are satisfactorily constructed so as to
prevent the littering of the streets of the city. The chair of the health and
safety committee of the city council shall be authorized, at his or her
discretion, to inspect any and all vehicles permitted under this article at
such reasonable times and conditions so as to verify the conformity of said
vehicles to the provisions of this article.
   D.   Term Of License: A license shall be good for the term of one year.
(Ord. 01-2003, 1-13-2003)
3-2A-3: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
   A.   No applicant shall be granted a license unless he shall have provided
himself with the proper and necessary machinery and other appliances for
properly taking care of and disposing of garbage in conformity with this
article, the license, and the health regulations of the state of Illinois, the
county of Menard and the city of Athens. (Ord. O-6-75, 10-7-1975; amd. 2017
Code)
   B.   No license shall be granted to any applicant who has been found guilty
of any wilful violation of any health or sanitation provisions of the city, or
of any section of this article, or is in default on any contract with the city.
(Ord. O-6-75, 10-7-1975)
3-2A-4: CLASS A LICENSE AND FEE:
Licenses to collect garbage, ashes, household rubbish, and miscellaneous
rubbish within the city shall be of one class and shall carry an annual fee as
follows: Class A license which shall entitle the licensee to collect garbage,
ashes, and rubbish, both household and miscellaneous, as defined in this
article, anywhere within the city. The annual fee for each class A license
shall be two hundred dollars ($200.00), payable at the time of application for
such license. (Ord. 12-2007, 11-12-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
3-2A-5: NUMBER OF LICENSES; NONTRANSFERABILITY:
There shall be issued in the city not more than ten (10) class A licenses.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit a license to be sold,
assigned or transferred. (Ord. O-6-75, 10-7-1975)
3-2A-6: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Vehicle Covers: All vehicles used in the collection of garbage, ashes,
household rubbish and miscellaneous rubbish shall have a tight cover over the
truck bed. Such cover may be of metal or canvas or similar material, but shall
be designed to prevent the dropping or falling of any part of the contents
therefrom during transportation. All truck bed covers provided for herein shall
be closed at all times while the vehicle is in transit anywhere within the
corporate limits of the city.
   B.   Vehicle Bodies: All vehicular bodies used wholly or in part for the
collection, transportation and dumping of garbage shall be of all metal
construction and shall be of at least nine (9) cubic yards in load capacity.
(Ord. O-6-75, 10-7-1975)
   C.   Insurance Requirements: All vehicles shall be fully insured as to
public liability and property damage and employees employed in the operation of
said vehicles, whether driver or helper, shall be covered by workers'
compensation insurance. (Ord. O-6-75, 10-7-1975; amd. 2017 Code)
3-2A-7: DAYS AND HOURS OF COLLECTION:
The days and hours of collection by licensees of garbage, ashes, household
rubbish and miscellaneous rubbish under this article shall be only between the
hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. to six o'clock (6:00) P.M. on Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday. (Ord. O-6-75, 10-7-1975; amd. 2017
Code)
3-2A-8: PLACE OF DISPOSAL:
The licensee must designate in his application the location of the place where
he intends to dispose of garbage collected thereby. Any change in such location
shall be at once reported to the city clerk. No garbage shall be dumped at
places which are in violation of any zoning ordinance, of either the city or
the county, or in violation of any regulations of any ordinances or resolutions
of any county or township within the state of Illinois. (Ord. O-6-75, 10-7-
1975)
3-2A-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
If, during the period covered by the license granted, the licensee shall permit
his equipment to fall into disrepair, or fail to keep the same in a sanitary
condition when not in use, or fail to keep the same up to the standard required
by this article, or fail to comply with any of the provisions of this article,
or fail to give adequate service to the citizens of the city, the license may
be revoked with the discretion of the chair of the health and safety committee
of the city council. (Ord. O-6-75, 10-7-1975)
3-2A-10: PENALTY AND OTHER REMEDIES:
   A.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction, be fined not less than twenty dollars ($20.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). Each day any violation of any provision of
this article shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   B.   Actions brought to enforce any fine, penalty, or forfeiture under this
article shall be brought in the corporate name of the city as plaintiff. (Ord.
O-6-75, 10-7-1975; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Fines for the violation of this article, when collected, shall be paid
into the treasury of the city. (Ord. O-6-75, 10-7-1975)
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
3-3-1: Restrictions And Prohibitions
3-3-2: Penalty
3-3-1: RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to burn any leaves, brush, and other refuse,
garbage, grass clippings or other waste products, of whatever kind, outside any
building, whether on private real estate or on any public street, alley or road
or other public ground at any time; except, that dried leaves and dried brush
may be burned between the hours of sunrise and one hour before sunset.
   B.   All permitted burning must be extinguished so as to prevent flames,
smoke or smoldering by one hour before sunset.
   C.   The use of a burning barrel or like kind of container for burning is
prohibited.
   D.   It shall be unlawful to leave unattended, at any time, the permitted
burning, smoking, or smoldering of any leaves or brush. (Ord. 04-97, 7-14-1997)
3-3-2: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be a class C misdemeanor. (Ord. 04-97, 7-14-
1997)
CHAPTER 4
GRASS AND WEEDS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Height Restriction
3-4-2: Nuisance Declared; Penalty For Violation
3-4-3: Notice To Abate
3-4-4: Additional Remedies
3-4-1: HEIGHT RESTRICTION:
The owner of every parcel of land within the city shall cut or cause to be cut
all grass and weeds in excess of eight inches (8") in length upon said land.
(Ord. 09-99, 7-12-1999)
3-4-2: NUISANCE DECLARED; PENALTY FOR VIOLATION:
All uncut growth as outlined in section
3-4-1 of this chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance, in that such
condition favors the harboring of mosquitoes and rodents and can constitute a
fire hazard. A violation of this section, upon conviction, shall be punishable
by a fine of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each day that said nuisance persists after notice
that the nuisance must be abated. The punishment of a fine is in addition to
all other remedies to the city available herein. (Ord. 09-99, 7-12-1999; amd.
2017 Code)
3-4-3: NOTICE TO ABATE:
   A.   Upon discovering on any premises the growth of grass or weeds in
violation of section 3-4-2 of this chapter, the mayor shall give written notice
to the owner or occupant of said parcel of land to abate said nuisance within
three (3) days. Said notice shall be in substantially the following form: (Ord.
09-99, 7-12-1999)
   NOTICE
      To the Owner or Occupant of the following described parcel of real
estate:
      You are hereby notified that there exists on the above described real
estate a growth of grass and/or weeds in violation of title 3, chapter 4 of the
Athens City Code. You are further notified that if said growth of grass and/or
weeds is not removed within three (3) days after your receipt of this Notice,
then the City of Athens, acting through an agent or employee, will enter upon
said premises and will have the same cut and removed at your cost and expense,
which will be $150 per hour ( minimum 1 hour billed) for each occurrence. If
you desire a hearing regarding this matter, please contact Athens City Hall and
a hearing will be arranged prior to action by the City. Moreover, failure to
abate this nuisance may subject you to a fine for each day that said growth is
permitted by you to remain. Upon completion of the abatement by the City of
Athens, the city office manager or duly authorized designee shall prepare and
deliver an invoice for all charges attributable to abatement and related
activity. In the event the said notice is not paid by the close of business on
the twentieth day following the date of the invoice, the city attorney shall
prepare and file a lien against the property where said abatement occurred.
      In the event that the growth is removed within said three (3) days after
receipt of this Notice, then the City will not take any further action against
you. Please avoid any action by the City of Athens by immediately addressing
this nuisance. If you have any questions regarding the matter, please call
Athens City Hall.
(Ord. 09-99, 7-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   If the owner or occupant of the premises is not known or cannot be
found, service of the foregoing notice shall be effected by posting a copy
thereof on the premises at least five (5) days before the date affixed for
cutting the grass and/or weeds, and mailing a copy by certified mail, return
request requested, to the last known address of the person owning said land.
Failure of such mailed notice to be delivered or received shall not affect the
right of the city to proceed to abate the nuisance. (Ord. 09-99, 7-12-1999;
Ord. 07-2019, 8-1-2019)
3-4-4: ADDITIONAL REMEDIES:
In addition to all other remedies and penalties provided by this chapter and
other ordinances, the city attorney may bring suit in a court of competent
jurisdiction to seek an injunction or other appropriate relief to halt any
violation of this chapter. Such action may include seeking a temporary
restraining order or temporary injunction and other appropriate temporary
relief. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to restrict a suit for damages
of the city or on behalf of any other person or entity. (Ord. 09-99, 7-12-1999)
CHAPTER 5
SMOKING IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Purpose
3-5-2: Definition
3-5-3: Application Of Provisions
3-5-4: Smoking In Public Buildings Prohibited
3-5-5: Violation; Penalties
3-5-1: PURPOSE:
Since the active smoking of tobacco and the inhalation of environmental tobacco
smoke (ETS) are dangers to human health and the most prevalent cause of
preventable death, disease, and disability, as well as are annoyances,
inconveniences, discomforts, and general health hazards to those who are
involuntarily exposed to such, and in order to serve the public health, safety,
and welfare, the declared purpose of this chapter is to protect people from
dangerous, unnecessary, and/or involuntary health risks by prohibiting the
smoking of tobacco in municipal buildings. (Ord. 03-2001, 6-11-2001)
3-5-2: DEFINITION:
The term "smoking" or "smoke", as used in this chapter, means and includes:
   A.   Carrying or placing a lighted cigarette, lighted cigar, or lighted pipe
or any other lighted smoking equipment in one's mouth for the purpose of
inhaling and exhaling smoke.
   B.   Placing of a lighted cigarette, cigar, or pipe or any other lighted
smoking equipment in an ashtray or other receptacle and allowing smoke
therefrom to diffuse into the air.
   C.   Carrying or placing a lighted cigarette, cigar, or pipe or any other
lighted smoking equipment in one's hands or any appendage or devices and
allowing smoke therefrom to diffuse into the air. (Ord. 03-2001, 6-11-2001)
3-5-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
All municipal buildings occupied, used and/or frequented by employees employed
by the city, by its officials, and/or by the public, for the purpose of doing
or furthering municipal business in the ordinary course thereof, shall be
subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 03-2001, 6-11-2001)
3-5-4: SMOKING IN PUBLIC BUILDINGS PROHIBITED:
No person shall smoke in any municipal building described in section
3-5-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-2001, 6-11-2001)
3-5-5: VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person who smokes in any municipal building described in section
3-5-3 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
a fine of not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense,
not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second offense, and not more
than three hundred dollars ($300.00) for a third or subsequent offense. (Ord.
03-2001, 6-11-2001)
CHAPTER 6
GROUNDWATER; WATER SUPPLY CONTAMINATION
SECTION:
3-6-1: Setbacks From Public Water Supply
3-6-2: Use Of Groundwater As Potable Water Prohibited
3-6-1: SETBACKS FROM PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY:
   A.   Statute Authority; Purpose; Scope: Pursuant to the authority conferred
by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-125-4, 415 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
14.2, 5/14.3 and 5/17.1, and in the interest of securing the public health,
safety, and welfare; to preserve the quality and quantity of groundwater
resources in order to assure a safe and adequate water supply for present and
future generations; and to preserve groundwater resources currently in use and
those aquifers having a potential for future use as a public water supply, the
provisions of this section shall apply to all properties located within the
minimum setback zone established under section 14.2 of the environmental
protection act ("act") and this section, and the maximum setback zone
established under section 14.3 of the act and this section.
   B.   Definitions: Except as stated in this section, and unless a different
meaning of a word or term is clear from the context, the definitions of words
or terms in this section shall be the same as those used in the act and the
Illinois groundwater protection act 1 :
    ACT: The environmental protection act 2 .
   AGENCY: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
   BOARD: The Illinois pollution control board.
   MAXIMUM SETBACK ZONE: The area around a community water supply well
established under section 14.3 of the act and this section, and described in
appendix A attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   MINIMUM SETBACK ZONE: The area around a community water supply well
established under section 14.2 of the act and this section, and described in
appendix A attached to the ordinance codified herein.
   C.   Prohibitions: With respect to well no. 4 (IEPA #52049), well no. 3
(IEPA #52048) and well no. 5 (IEPA #01527):
      1.   Except as provided in subsection D or E of this section, no person
shall place a new potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or
new potential route within the minimum setback zone.
      2.   Except as provided in subsection D of this section, no person shall
place a new potential primary source within the maximum setback zone unless the
source is placed beyond one thousand feet (1,000') from the wellhead.
      3.   Except as provided in subsection D of this section, no person shall
place a new potential primary route within the maximum setback zone.
   D.   Waivers, Exceptions And Certifications Of Minimal Hazard:
      1.   If, pursuant to section 14.2(b) of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or new potential
route is granted a waiver by the agency, such owner shall be deemed to have a
waiver to the same extent from subsection C1 of this section.
      2.   If, pursuant to section 14.2(c) of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source (other than land filling or land treating), new
potential secondary source, or new potential route is granted an exception by
the board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to the same extent
from subsection C1 of this section.
      3.   If, pursuant to section 14.2(c) of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source (other than land filling or land treating) is granted
an exception by the board, such owner shall be deemed to have an exception to
the same extent from subsection C2 of this section.
      4.   If, pursuant to section 14.5 of the act, the owner of a new
potential primary source, new potential secondary source, or new potential
route is issued a certificate of minimal hazard by the agency, such owner shall
not be subject to subsection C1 of this section to the same extent that such
owner is not subject to section 14.2(d) of the act.
   E.   Exclusion: Subsection C1 of this section shall not apply to new common
sources of sanitary pollution as specified pursuant to section 17 of the act
and the regulations adopted thereunder by the agency; however, no such common
sources may be located within the applicable minimum distance from a community
water supply well specified by such regulations. (Ord. 11-2005, 5-9-2005)
 
Notes
1 1. 415 ILCS 55/1 et seq.
2 2. 415 ILCS 5/1 et seq.
3-6-2: USE OF GROUNDWATER AS POTABLE WATER PROHIBITED:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following words and terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this subsection:
    PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
   POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes
or preparing foods.
   B.   Areas Where Use Prohibited: The use of, or attempted use of,
groundwater from within the corporate limits of the city as a potable water
supply by the installation or drilling of wells or by any other method is
hereby prohibited. This prohibition expressly includes the city. (Ord. 18-2005,
10-10-2005)
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to a fine of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
violation. (Ord. 18-2005, 10-10-2005; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 7
ABANDONED, INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Inoperable Vehicles
3-7-3: Abandonment Of Vehicles Prohibited
3-7-4: Notice Of Possible Towing; Hearing
3-7-5: Notice To Police Of Abandoned, Lost Or Other Vehicle
3-7-6: Authority To Tow; Responsibility For Costs
3-7-7: Reclamation Of Towed Vehicle
3-7-8: Newer Vehicles
3-7-9: Older Vehicles
3-7-10: Recordkeeping
3-7-11: Disposition Of Revenues
3-7-12: Nonliability Of City Or Towing Service
3-7-13: Penalty
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section:
ABANDONED VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle in a state of disrepair
rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition.
HIGHWAY: Any street, alley, or public way within the city of Athens.
INOPERABLE VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle or other vehicle incapable of or
prohibited from being driven on any highway due to disrepair or disuse. Any
vehicle not displaying valid registration plates or proper evidence of
application therefor will be presumed to be inoperable for purposes of this
chapter. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. Ord. 06-2014, 7-14-2014)
3-7-2: INOPERABLE VEHICLES:
   A.   No person shall leave any inoperable vehicle, or parts thereof, for
fourteen (14) consecutive days or more in any area, public or private, in view
of the public or outside any building. Any person in violation of this
subsection shall be fined not less than seventy five dollars ($75.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. Each day such violation
is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and
shall be punishable hereunder as such. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   An inoperable vehicle which has no readily ascertainable owner or
bailee will be presumed an "abandoned vehicle", as defined in section
3-7-1 of this chapter, for the purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-
1999)
3-7-3: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
   A.   Highways: The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any
part thereof on any highway in the city is unlawful and subject to penalties as
set forth herein.
   B.   Property Other Than Highways:
      1.   The abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle, or any part
thereof, on private or public property, other than a highway, in view of the
general public, anywhere in the city is unlawful except on the property of the
owner or bailee of such abandoned vehicle. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999)
      2.   A motor vehicle or other vehicle, not properly licensed or
registered, or any part thereof, so abandoned on private property may be
authorized for removal by or upon the order of the chief of police. If such
vehicle is properly licensed and registered, then such vehicle cannot be towed
until notice and an opportunity for hearing can be accorded to the owner
pursuant to section
3-7-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
3-7-4: NOTICE OF POSSIBLE TOWING; HEARING:
If a motor vehicle or other vehicle is properly registered and displays current
registration plates and is subject to any provision of this chapter under which
towing of such vehicle may be authorized, then notice and opportunity for
hearing on the matter must be accorded to the registered owner before towing.
The mayor shall preside at such hearing and he/she shall decide whether the
applicable city department has authority to tow the vehicle in question
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The notice of hearing shall be in
substantially the following form: (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999)
   NOTICE
NAME                                       
ADDRESS                                    
A vehicle described as:
Make                      
Year                      
Color                     
with registration plates #             is registered in your name with the
Secretary of State of Illinois. This vehicle has been located at (location) and
is in violation of title 3, chapter 7 of the Athens City Code, "Abandoned,
Inoperable Vehicles". This violation subjects your vehicle to towing and if you
are found guilty of the offense described thereunder, you are subject to a
fine. In addition, the costs of towing will be assessed against you.
If you wish to have a hearing on the matter of towing, you must notify the
Police within five (5) days of receipt of this notice. At that time, a hearing
date will be set. If you do not wish to have a hearing or fail to notify the
Police within five (5) days of receipt of this notice, then your vehicle is
subject to immediate towing.
(Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
3-7-5: NOTICE TO POLICE OF ABANDONED, LOST OR OTHER VEHICLE:
   A.   When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle comes into the temporary possession or custody of a person in the city,
not the owner of the vehicle, such person shall immediately notify the chief of
police. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Upon receipt of such notification, the chief of police shall authorize
a towing service to remove and take possession of the abandoned, lost, stolen
or unclaimed motor vehicle or other vehicle. The towing service will safely
keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the tow until the
vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally entitled to
possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999)
3-7-6: AUTHORITY TO TOW; RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS:
   A.   When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is abandoned on a highway in the
city ten (10) hours or more, its removal by a towing service may be authorized
by order of the chief of police.
   B.   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
motor vehicle or other vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its
position in relation to the highway or its physical appearance is causing the
impeding of traffic, its immediate removal by a towing service may be
authorized by order of the chief of police.
   C.   When a vehicle's removal from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the chief of police, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing charges unless acquitted of the offense charged
under this chapter. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999)
3-7-7: RECLAMATION OF TOWED VEHICLE:
Any time before a motor vehicle or other vehicle is sold at public sale or
disposed of as provided herein, the owner, lienholder or other person legally
entitled to its possession may reclaim the vehicle by presenting to the chief
of police proof of ownership or proof of the right to possession of the
vehicle. No vehicle shall be released to the owner, lienholder or other person
under this section until all towing, storage and processing charges have been
paid. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
3-7-8: NEWER VEHICLES:
   A.   Whenever an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed motor vehicle or other
vehicle seven (7) years of age or newer remains unclaimed by the registered
owner, lienholder or other person legally entitled to its possession for a
period of thirty (30) days after notice has been given as provided herein, the
police department shall cause it to be sold at public sale to a person licensed
as an automotive parts recycler, rebuilder or scrap processor or the towing
operator which towed the vehicle.
   B.   Notice of the time and place of the sale shall be posted in a
conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the sale on the premises
where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10) days prior to the sale,
the police department shall cause a notice of the time and place of the sale to
be sent by certified mail to the registered owner, lienholder or other person
known by the police department or towing service to be legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete description of
the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any legally entitled
person to reclaim the vehicle. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the police department due to the
addressee having moved or being unknown at the address obtained from the
registration records of this state, the sending of a second certified notice
will not be required. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999)
   D.   When the identity of the owner, lienholder or other person legally
entitled to the possession of an abandoned, lost or unclaimed vehicle of seven
(7) years of age or newer cannot be determined by any means provided in this
chapter, the vehicle may be sold as provided in this chapter or disposed of in
the manner authorized herein without notice to any person whose identity cannot
be determined. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
3-7-9: OLDER VEHICLES:
When an abandoned vehicle of more than seven (7) years of age is impounded as
specified by this chapter, it will be kept in custody for a minimum of ten (10)
days for the purpose of determining the ownership and contacting the owner by
the U.S. mail, public service or in person for a determination of disposition.
At the expiration of the ten (10) day period, without the benefit of
disposition information being received from the owner, the police department
may authorize the disposition of said vehicle as in subsection 3-7-8D of this
chapter for the disposal of the vehicle as junk only. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999;
amd. Ord. 17-2003, 11-10-2003)
3-7-10: RECORDKEEPING:
   A.   Towed Vehicles: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle is authorized to
be towed, the police department shall keep and maintain a record of the vehicle
towed, listing the color, year of manufacture, manufacturer's trade name,
manufacturer's series name, body style, vehicle identification number, and
license plate year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also
include the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to,
reason for towing, and the name of the officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. 03-
99, 4-12-1999)
   B.   Reclaimed Or Sold Vehicles: When a motor vehicle or other vehicle in
the custody of the police department is reclaimed by the registered owner,
lienholder or other legally entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold at
public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided in this chapter, a report of
the transaction will be maintained by the police department for a period of one
year from the date of sale or disposal. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
3-7-11: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of the city is authorized to
be towed by the police department and disposed of as set forth in this chapter,
the proceeds of the public sale or disposition after the deduction of towing,
storage and processing charges shall be deposited in the municipal treasury.
(Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
3-7-12: NONLIABILITY OF CITY OR TOWING SERVICE:
No authorized city employee or towing service owner, operator or employee shall
be held to answer or be liable for damages in any action brought by the
registered owner, former registered owner, or his legal representative,
lienholder or any other person legally entitled to the possession of a motor
vehicle or other vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of
as provided by this chapter. (Ord. 03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
3-7-13: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter, except
subsection 3-7-2A of this chapter, shall be fined in an amount not less than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). Each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable hereunder as such. (Ord.
03-99, 4-12-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 4
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE OFFICERS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Part Time Police
4-1-2: Auxiliary Police
4-1-1: PART TIME POLICE:
   A.   Training: All police officers, other than those officers who shall be
employed on a full time basis, shall be required to be qualified and
successfully complete any training mandated by the Illinois law enforcement
training and standards board.
   B.   Hiring Standards: Part time police officers may be hired by the city,
as authorized by statute, in accordance with the following hiring standards:
      1.   The applicant must be a U.S. citizen;
      2.   The applicant must be twenty one (21) years of age or older;
      3.   The applicant must possess a high school diploma or GED equivalency;
      4.   The applicant must have a valid driver's license;
      5.   The applicant must have no felony convictions; and
      6.   The applicant must meet all standards set forth in 430 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/0.01 et seq., pertaining to the firearms owners
identification act.
   C.   Responsibilities: A part time police officer shall have all the
responsibilities of a full time police officer, but the number of hours a part
time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted.
   D.   Submission Of Provisions To State: The aforesaid hiring standards,
particularly with respect to part time police officers employed by the city,
shall be submitted to the Illinois law enforcement training and standards
board, as required by statute. (Ord. 12-2012, 8-13-2012)
4-1-2: AUXILIARY POLICE:
   A.   Appointment: The mayor may, with the advice and consent of the city
council, appoint auxiliary police officers, not to exceed eight (8) in number,
from names furnished the mayor by the chief of police. (Ord. 10-2007, 9-10-
2007)
   B.   Conservators Of The Peace: Auxiliary police officers shall not be
members of the regular police department and shall possess conservator of the
peace powers as defined in section 3.1-15-25 of the Illinois municipal code 1 .
(Ord. 10-2007, 9-10-2007; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Powers And Duties: Auxiliary police officers shall serve at the
direction and control of the chief of police and shall have the following
powers and duties:
      1.   To aid or direct traffic in the city.
      2.   To aid in the control of natural or manmade disasters.
      3.   To aid in case of civil disorder.
      4.   To act at the direction and control of the chief of police in any
other activity, other than those activities traditionally reserved to those who
are vested with conservator of the peace powers.
   D.   Uniforms And Identification: Auxiliary police officers may wear
uniforms. Uniforms and identification symbols worn by auxiliary police officers
must be different and distinct from those worn by regular police officers.
   E.   Firearms:
      1.   Auxiliary police officers may, with prior permission of the chief of
police, carry firearms while on duty.
      2.   All auxiliary police officers shall successfully complete the forty
(40) hour mandatory firearms training course before being permitted to carry a
firearm, as specified in section 3.1-30-20 of the Illinois municipal code 2 .
Upon completion of the course of training, the chief of police shall file a
certificate attesting to the auxiliary police officer's successful completion
of the required forty (40) hour mandatory firearms training course.
   F.   Compensation: Auxiliary police officers shall receive no compensation
for services rendered. (Ord. 10-2007, 9-10-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.11-15-25.
2 2. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-20.
CHAPTER 2
ANIMAL CONTROL
ARTICLE A.  DOGS
SECTION:
4-2A-1: Definitions
4-2A-2: Rabies Inoculation Requirements
4-2A-3: Number Of Dogs Restricted
4-2A-4: Restraint Of Dogs
4-2A-5: Nuisance Dogs
4-2A-6: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
4-2A-7: Enforcement Official
4-2A-8: Penalties
4-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
AT LARGE: Off the premises of the owner or custodian of the dog and not under
the immediate control of the owner or custodian.
COUNTY BOARD: The county board of Menard County, Illinois.
DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE: The department of agriculture of the state of
Illinois.
DOG: All members of the family Canidae.
INOCULATION AGAINST RABIES: The injection of an antirabies vaccine approved by
the department of agriculture.
LEASH: A cord, rope, strap or chain which shall be securely fastened to a
collar or harness of a dog and shall be of sufficient strength to keep such dog
under control.
OWNER: Any person having a right of property in a dog, or who keeps or harbors
a dog, or who knowingly permits a dog to remain on or about any premises
occupied by him or her.
POUND: Any facility approved by the county board or the mayor and city council
for the purpose of enforcing the animal control act of the state of Illinois
and used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned, or unchained
dogs.
RESTRAINT: A dog is under restraint within the meaning of this article if he is
controlled by a leash; at heel beside a responsible person, or obedient to that
person's commands; within a vehicle being driven or parked on the streets; or
within the property limits of his owner or custodian. (Ord. 04-98, 5-11-1998;
amd. Ord. 01-2007, 3-12-2007)
4-2A-2: RABIES INOCULATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Inoculation And Tag Required: Each calendar year, or at such intervals
as may hereafter be promulgated by the department of agriculture, every owner
or custodian of a dog four (4) months or more of age shall cause such dog to be
inoculated against rabies. Such owner or custodian of such dog shall cause a
serially numbered tag evidencing such inoculation to be attached to a collar or
harness worn by the dog.
   B.   Veterinarian To Inoculate And Provide Certificate And Tag: The
inoculation of dogs required by subsection A of this section shall be performed
by a veterinarian duly licensed to practice his profession in this state. Upon
performing such inoculation, the veterinarian shall issue to the owner or
custodian a certificate showing such fact and shall also deliver to such owner
or custodian a metallic or other suitable tag to be attached to the collar or
harness of such dog, which tag shall also certify to the fact of inoculation
against rabies.
   C.   Duration Of Inoculation: The inoculation performed under the provisions
of subsection B of this section shall be effective until the expiration of the
calendar year in which the vaccination was performed or the expiration of such
period of time as may be promulgated by the department of agriculture, as
evidenced by the certificate of the veterinarian.
   D.   Tag Specifications: The tag issued under the provisions of subsection B
of this section shall be in such form as shall be determined by the department
of agriculture.
   E.   Exhibition Of Certificate: At any reasonable time upon request of any
member of the police department, the owner or custodian of any unmuzzled dog
shall exhibit his certificate, issued under the provisions of subsection B of
this section, showing the inoculation against rabies of any dog owned or
controlled by him. (Ord. 04-98, 5-11-1998)
4-2A-3: NUMBER OF DOGS RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful for a person to own, harbor, keep, or shelter more than
three (3) dogs over the age of four (4) months at a residence within the city.
(Ord. 01-2007, 3-12-2007)
4-2A-4: RESTRAINT OF DOGS:
The owner or custodian of a dog shall keep the dog under restraint at all times
and shall not permit such dog to be at large off the premises of the property
of the owner or custodian unless the dog is under "restraint" as defined in
section
4-2A-1 of this article. (Ord. 04-98, 5-11-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
4-2A-5: NUISANCE DOGS:
   A.   Noise: It shall be unlawful for a person to own or harbor any dog or
dogs that, by frequent or habitual howling, yelping, barking, screeching, or
other vocalization or otherwise, shall cause serious annoyance or disturbance
to persons in the vicinity. Any unabated series of howling, yelping, barking,
screeching, or other vocalization for ten (10) or more minutes shall be prima
facie evidence that causes such serious annoyance or disturbance to any person
in the vicinity complaining thereof. (Ord. 01-2007, 3-12-2007)
   B.   Damage To Property: Any dog which shall, in any manner, destroy or
injure any animal, plant, shrub, or other property not on the premises of its
owner or custodian is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and such dog may be
taken up and impounded and may be redeemed in the manner provided in subsection
4-2A-6D of this article. (Ord. 04-98, 5-11-1998; amd. Ord. 01-2007, 3-12-2007)
4-2A-6: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
   A.   Authority To Impound: It shall be the duty of officers of the city
police department to take up and impound, in such place as may be designated
and set apart for that purpose by the county board or the mayor and city
council, any dog found running at large or unlicensed in the city contrary to
any of the provisions of this article.
   B.   Place Of Impoundment: When dogs are found running at large or
unlicensed and their ownership is known to the police officers, such dogs may
be impounded at the pound by the county board or the mayor and city council, at
the discretion of such police officers, but the police officers shall cite the
owner of such dog to answer charges of violation of this article. (Ord. 04-98,
5-11-1998)
   C.   Notice Of Impoundment And Citation Issued: In case of impounding, and
where the owner or custodian of such dog is disclosed by any rabies inoculation
tag or license tag worn thereby, or is otherwise known to the officers
impounding same, the police department shall at once give notice by mail to
such owner or keeper, informing him of the impounding of his dog, and shall
cite the owner or custodian of such dog to answer charges of violation of this
article. (Ord. 04-98, 5-11-1998; amd. 2017 Code)
   D.   Redemption Of Impounded Dogs:
      1.   Any dog impounded under the provisions of this article shall, unless
sooner redeemed, be held for the period of seven (7) days in order to afford
opportunity to the owner or custodian thereof to redeem the same. Any such
owner or custodian desiring to redeem his impounded dog shall pay to the city
clerk the ordinary impounding fee and the cost of keeping such dog.
      2.   In case the dog has not been inoculated against rabies for the
current year, the owner shall also advance the fee required to have such dog
inoculated by a duly licensed veterinarian as he or she elects, and the
poundkeeper shall forthwith cause the dog to be duly inoculated against rabies.
No dog shall be released without having been inoculated for the current
calendar year or in accordance with the requirements of the department of
agriculture. Upon payment of the required charges, the dog shall thereupon be
released to the owner or custodian.
   E.   Destruction Of Unredeemed Dogs: Any impounded dog which shall not be
redeemed within seven (7) days may be humanely destroyed or otherwise disposed
of by the poundkeeper. (Ord. 04-98, 5-11-1998)
4-2A-7: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
It shall be the duty of the Athens chief of police to enforce the provisions of
this article. (Ord. 04-98, 5-11-1998)
4-2A-8: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any owner or custodian of a dog who violates or fails to comply with
the provisions of this article shall, upon conviction, be punishable by a fine
not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first offense, two hundred
dollars ($200.00) for the second offense, and three hundred dollars ($300.00)
for each subsequent offense.
   B.   If any dog running at large causes any person or domestic animal injury
or death or causes property damage to any private or public property, the owner
of said dog shall be assessed a fine of four hundred dollars ($400.00). The
assessment of the fine shall be automatic (and not subject to the discretion of
the animal control officer or other enforcement officer), and the owner subject
thereto shall be liable therefor on a strict liability basis. It shall not be a
defense to the offense or to the assessment of the fine that the owner of the
dog took reasonable steps to prevent the dog from running at large. (Ord. 04-
2009, 6-8-2009)
ARTICLE B.  PROHIBITED AND RESTRICTED ANIMALS
SECTION:
4-2B-1: Certain Animals Prohibited
4-2B-2: Excepted Domestic Animals
4-2B-3: Penalties
4-2B-1: CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Prohibited Animals Enumerated:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, use, keep or permit to
be at large within the city any of the following animals: bees, pigeons,
rabbits, horses, cattle, sheep, goats, ponies, mules, pigs, swine, hogs, ducks,
geese, chickens, minks, skunks, foxes, chinchillas, or any other livestock or
poultry or any wild or vicious animal dangerous to mankind. (Ord. 02-88, 5-2-
1988)
      2.   Any animals mentioned in subsection A1 of this section, in number
and kind, permitted within the limits of the city as a result of having been
kept within the city limits prior to and up to the effective date of ordinance
02-88 shall be hereafter proscribed from the city limits pursuant to this
subsection if said animals are removed from and/or cease to be kept in the city
limits for a period of nine (9) continuous months. (Ord. 10-88, 6-6-1988)
   B.   Impoundment Of Animals; Authority To Kill: Any animal mentioned in
subsection A1 of this section which is found at large within the city shall be
impounded, if possible; provided, however, that whenever any police officer
believes such animal endangers any person or property, such animal may be
killed by said officer. (Ord. 02-88, 5-2-1988)
   C.   Notice Of Violation: An owner or keeper violating the provisions of
this section shall be given notice of said violation and a ten (10) day
opportunity to comply herewith. (Ord. 02-88, 5-2-1988; amd. 2017 Code)
4-2B-2: EXCEPTED DOMESTIC ANIMALS:
   A.   Excepted Domestic Animals Enumerated And Defined: Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, persons residing in a single- or multiple-
family dwelling may be permitted to keep rabbits, domestic fowl or chinchillas
(hereafter "domestic animals" and/or "excepted domestic animals"), so long as
the number of animals in each category does not exceed four (4) per family. The
term "domestic fowl" is defined as all animals included in the zoological class
Aves which include, but are not limited to, chickens, ducks, turkeys, guineas
and pigeons, but shall exclude roosters, emus, and ostriches.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   No slaughtering of domestic animals is permitted within the
territorial limits of the city. (Ord. 08-2009, 8-10-2009)
      2.   It shall be unlawful for the person or persons owning, harboring, or
otherwise having in custody (including the property owners, jointly and
severally, of the premises upon which the domestic animals are kept) domestic
animals to permit a domestic animal to run at large within the city or to be
tethered upon any street, alley or public grounds in the city. (Ord. 08-2009,
8-10-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Enclosures: The domestic animals shall be kept in a secure enclosure,
and such enclosure shall be no closer than twenty five feet (25') from the
nearest neighbor's residence.
   D.   Enforcement Official: The mayor, with the advice and consent of the
city council, shall designate and appoint a city public officer, the duties and
rights of whom shall be as follows:
      1.   To make an inventory of excepted domestic animals, ownership of the
excepted domestic animals and ownership of property where such excepted
domestic animals are kept and harbored.
      2.   To administer and enforce this section and, in the performance of
his or her duties, have the right to enter upon private property at any
reasonable time after notice for the purpose of making inquiry and inspection
to determine if a violation of this section exists. Entry shall be made so as
to cause the least possible inconvenience or disruption to any person in
possession of the premises. Denial of entry shall result in forfeiture to keep
or harbor excepted domestic animals. (Ord. 08-2009, 8-10-2009)
   E.   Notice Of Violation: Any person found by the public officer to be in
violation of this section shall be served a notice of such violation. The
notice shall be served by certified mail, return receipt requested. Refusal of
delivery shall be considered effective delivery of the notice. The notice shall
state the specific violation of this section and shall inform the person that
he shall have ten (10) days from the date of delivery of the notice to abate
the condition or conditions in violation of this section. Refusal or failure to
abate the condition or conditions shall be subject to a citation for city
ordinance violation subject to the fine(s) set forth in section
4-2B-3 of this article and shall be enforceable by the county circuit court.
(Ord. 08-2009, 8-10-2009; amd. 2017 Code)
4-2B-3: PENALTIES:
Violation of this article shall subject the owner and/or keeper to a fine of
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) for each offense; and each day of a continuing offense shall
constitute a separate violation. In addition to any other penalties imposed
upon any person violating this article, such person shall also be liable for
the costs of impounding or killing such animal, if necessary. (Ord. 02-88, 5-2-
1988)
CHAPTER 3
MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Damage To Public Property
4-3-2: Offenses Involving Alcoholic Beverages
4-3-3: Possession/Consumption And Transportation Of Cannabis
4-3-4: Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
4-3-1: DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY:
No person shall cut, injure, mark, damage or deface any public building, sewer,
water pipe, water meter or transponder, hydrant, or other city property,
fixture or personal property, or any tree, grass, shrub, or walk in any public
way or public park. Any person violating this section may be fined up to one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense and, additionally, shall be
responsible for all costs to repair and/or replace the damage to its condition
prior to the damage occurring. (Ord. 02-2015, 4-13-2015)
4-3-2: OFFENSES INVOLVING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Definitions: Words and phrases, when used in this section, shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them as stated in section
2-1-2 of this code. (2017 Code)
   B.   Offenses Enumerated:
      1.   Possession In Public: No person shall carry or possess, transport,
or have any alcoholic liquor on any public way or right of way (including, but
not limited to, public highways, streets, alleys, and/or sidewalks) except in
the original package and with the seal unbroken, within the corporate limits of
the city. (Ord. O-5-75, 9-9-1975)
      2.   Consumption On Public Property: Except as may be strictly permitted
by ordinance of the city, no person shall consume any alcoholic liquor on any
public property belonging to the city or on any public way or right of way
(including, but not limited to, public highways, streets, alleys, and/or
sidewalks) within the corporate limits of the city. (Ord. 02-2005, 2-14-2005)
   C.   Penalty And Other Remedies:
      1.   Whoever violates any of the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. O-5-75, 9-9-1975)
      2.   Actions brought to enforce any fine, penalty, or forfeiture under
this section shall be brought in the corporate name of the city as plaintiff.
(Ord. O-5-75, 9-9-1975; amd. 2017 Code)
      3.   Fines for the violation of this section, when collected, shall be
paid into the city treasury. (Ord. O-5-75, 9-9-1975)
4-3-3: POSSESSION/CONSUMPTION AND TRANSPORTATION OF CANNABIS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, cannabis includes
marijuana, hashish and other substances which are identified as including any
parts of the plant Cannabis sativa, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof;
the resin extracted from any part of such plant; and any compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, and all other cannabinol derivatives, including its naturally
occurring or synthetically produced ingredients, whether produced directly or
indirectly by extraction, or independently by means of chemical synthesis or by
a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis; but shall not include the
mature stalks of such plant, fiber produced from such stalks, oil or cake made
from the seeds of such plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt,
derivative, mixture or preparation of such mature stalks (except the resin
extracted therefrom), fiber, oil or calm, or the sterilized seed of such plant
which is incapable of germination.
   B.   Possession Prohibited:
      1.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) shall knowingly possess
ten grams (10g) or less of any substance containing cannabis.
      2.   No person under the age of twenty one (21) shall knowingly possess
between ten grams (10g) and not more than thirty grams (30g) of any substance
containing cannabis.
      3.   Possession of more than thirty grams (30g) of cannabis:
         a.   It is unlawful for any Illinois resident to knowingly possess
more than thirty grams (30g) of cannabis flower, five grams of cannabis
concentrate, and five hundred (500) milligrams of THC contained in a cannabis-
infused product.
         b.   It is unlawful for any non-Illinois resident to knowingly possess
more than fifteen grams (15g) of cannabis flower, two and one-half grams (2.5g)
of cannabis concentrate, and two hundred fifty (250) milligrams of THC
contained in a cannabis-infused product.
   C.   Unlawful Use Of Cannabis: It is unlawful for any person to consume
cannabis in any public place, within a residence or housing that is federally
assured, or on property/place where one can be viewed by the public.
Furthermore use of cannabis is not permitted in the presence of minor children
even in a private residence.
   D.   No person shall use cannabis in a motor vehicle.
   E.   No person shall possess cannabis within a private motor vehicle unless
it is in a secured, sealed container.
   F.   Penalty: For every violation of this section, a minimum three hundred
dollar ($300.00) fine shall be imposed. A violation of subsection B2 shall
incur a minimum fine of four hundred dollars ($400.00). A violation of
subsection B3 shall incur a minimum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00) All
fine monies shall be deposited into the city's drug fund account. (Ord. 09-
2016, 9-12-2016; amd. Ord. 07-2023, 9-11-2023)
4-3-4: POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms shall include
and have the following meanings:
    CANNABIS: Means and includes any substance defined as cannabis in section 3
of the Illinois cannabis control act, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 550/3.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: Any object or device used, designed for use or intended
for use in unlawfully ingesting, smoking, administering, or storing cannabis.
Drug paraphernalia includes, but is not limited to:
      1.   Metal, wooden, plastic, glass, stone or ceramic pipes, with or
without screens.
      2.   Water pipes.
      3.   Carburetion tubes and devices.
      4.   Smoking and carburetion masks.
      5.   Roach clips.
      6.   Bongs.
      7.   One hitters.
   B.   Possession Prohibited: No person shall knowingly possess any item of
drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it for the purpose of unlawfully
ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing cannabis or a controlled substance
into the human body.
   C.   Penalty: For every violation of this section, a minimum three hundred
dollar ($300.00) fine shall be imposed. All fine monies shall be deposited into
the city's drug fund account. (Ord. 07-2016, 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 4
MINORS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Curfew Regulations
4-4-2: Tobacco Prohibitions
4-4-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   A.   Age And Hour Restrictions: A curfew for all persons seventeen (17)
years old and younger shall exist and hereby does exist under this section
within the city limits from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Monday through
Thursday, inclusive, until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following day, and
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Friday, Saturday and Sunday until six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. the following day. (Ord. 13-99, 10-19-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Prohibited Presence During Curfew Hours: When a curfew exists under
this section, it shall be unlawful for any person seventeen (17) years old or
younger to be outdoors within the city unless accompanied by an adult. (Ord.
13-99, 10-19-1999)
   C.   Violation; Penalty: Anyone found guilty of violating the curfew
regulations of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 13-99, 10-19-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
4-4-2: TOBACCO PROHIBITIONS:
   A.   Definition: For the purpose of this section, "smokeless tobacco" means
any tobacco products that are suitable for dipping or chewing.
   B.   Prohibitions:
      1.   No person shall sell, buy for, distribute samples of or furnish any
cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco or tobacco in any of its forms to any minor
under eighteen (18) years of age.
      2.   No minor under eighteen (18) years of age shall possess, purchase or
attempt to purchase any cigar, cigarette, smokeless tobacco or tobacco in any
of its forms.
   C.   Penalties:
      1.   Whoever commits an offense set forth in this section shall be fined
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00).
      2.   Whoever commits an offense as set forth in subsection B1 of this
section shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00).
      3.   Any person who shall violate this section shall, on conviction
thereof, be punishable by a fine which may be reduced by no more than twenty
five percent (25%) by approved public or community service of not less than
eight (8) hours nor more than forty (40) hours for each violation. (Ord. 08-
2016, 9-12-2016)
CHAPTER 5
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Manufacture Restricted
4-5-3: Sales Prohibited
4-5-4: Display Requirements
4-5-5: Exceptions To Provisions
4-5-6: Violation; Penalty
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, phrases, and terms, whenever they occur in this chapter,
shall be interpreted as follows:
CHIEF: The chief of the Athens fire protection district.
CONSUMER DISTRIBUTOR: Any person who distributes, offers for sale, sells, or
exchanges for consideration consumer fireworks in Illinois to another
distributor or directly to any retailer or person for resale.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Those fireworks that must comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations of the U.S. consumer products
safety commission as set forth in 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and classified as
fireworks UN0336 or UN0337 by the United States department of transportation
under 49 CFR 172.101. "Consumer fireworks" shall not include snake or glowworm
pellets; smoke devices, trick noisemakers known as "party poppers", "booby
traps", "snappers", "trick matches", "cigarette loads", and "auto burglar
alarms"; sparklers; toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns, or other devices in which
paper or plastic caps containing twenty five hundredths (0.25) grain or less of
explosive compound are used, provided they are so constructed that the hand
cannot come in contact with the cap when in place for the explosion; and toy
pistol paper or plastic caps that contain less than twenty hundredths (0.20)
grain of explosive mixture, the sale and use of which shall be permitted at all
times.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS DISPLAY OR CONSUMER DISPLAY: The detonation, ignition, or
deflagration of consumer fireworks to produce a visual or audible effect.
CONSUMER OPERATOR: An adult individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup, and discharge of the consumer fireworks display and who has completed
the training required in 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 35/2.2.
CONSUMER RETAILER: Any person who offers for sale, sells, or exchanges for
consideration consumer fireworks in Illinois directly to any person with a
consumer display permit.
DISPLAY FIREWORKS: 1.3G or special effects fireworks or as further defined in
the pyrotechnic distributor and operator licensing act.
FLAME EFFECT: The detonation, ignition, or deflagration of flammable gases,
liquids, or special materials to produce a thermal, physical, visual or audible
effect before the public, invitees, or licensees, regardless of whether
admission is charged, in accordance with National Fire Protection Association
160 guidelines, and as may be further defined in the pyrotechnic operator
licensing act.
LEAD PYROTECHNIC OPERATOR: An individual who is responsible for the safety,
setup and discharge of the pyrotechnic display and who is licensed pursuant to
the pyrotechnic operator licensing act.
OSFM: The Illinois office of the state fire marshal.
1.3G FIREWORKS: Those fireworks used for professional outdoor displays and
classified as fireworks UN0333, UN0334, or UN0335 by the United States
department of transportation under 49 CFR 172.101.
PERMITTEE: Any person, firm or corporation, and/or agent of such person, firm
or corporation, who has been issued a permit for supervised displays of
fireworks in the city of Athens, Illinois.
PERSON: An individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership, company,
consortium, joint venture, or commercial entity.
PYROTECHNIC DISPLAY: The detonation, ignition, or deflagration of display
fireworks or flame effects to produce visual or audible effects of an
exhibitional nature before the public, invitees, or licensees, regardless of
whether admission is charged, and as may be further defined in the pyrotechnic
operator licensing act.
SPECIAL EFFECTS FIREWORKS: Pyrotechnic devices used for special effects by
professionals in the performing arts in conjunction with theatrical, musical,
or other productions that are similar to consumer fireworks in chemical
compositions and construction, but are not intended for consumer use and are
not labeled as such or identified as "intended for indoor use". "Special
effects fireworks" are classified as fireworks UN0431 or UN0432 by the United
States department of transportation under 49 CFR 172.101. (Ord. 02-2014, 6-24-
2014)
4-5-2: MANUFACTURE RESTRICTED:
The manufacture of fireworks within the city limits is prohibited except as
authorized under the laws of the state. (Ord. 02-2014, 6-24-2014)
4-5-3: SALES PROHIBITED:
No person shall offer for sale, distribute, or sell at retail any type of
fireworks within the city limits. The sale of sparklers on public property is
prohibited within the city limits. All violations of this section should be
reported to the city police department or to the OSFM. (Ord. 02-2014, 6-24-
2014; amd. 2017 Code)
4-5-4: DISPLAY REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Permit For Displays:
      1.   Rules And Regulations Adopted: The city council may adopt reasonable
rules and regulations for the granting of permits for fireworks displays
pursuant to the provisions and rules of the Illinois pyrotechnic use act, 425
Illinois Compiled Statutes 35/0.01 et seq. (Ord. 02-2014, 6-24-2014; amd. 2017
Code)
      2.   Permit Required; Restrictions: No person shall possess, store, use
or explode any pyrotechnic or consumer fireworks within the city jurisdiction
without a valid fireworks display permit. No person under the age of twenty one
(21) years shall be eligible to be issued such a display permit. The city
council will grant permits only for pyrotechnic fireworks displays.
      3.   Application For Permit: Written application for a pyrotechnic
fireworks display permit shall be filed on the form jointly approved by the
chief and the city and shall be available in the office of the city clerk
during regular city business hours.
      4.   Insurance Required: Each applicant must show proof of liability
insurance in a sum not less than one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) with an
insurer authorized to do business in Illinois. The permittee shall be
responsible for all damages or injuries occurring as a result of any
pyrotechnic display permitted, the amount not limited to the insurance
provided.
      5.   Proof Of Licensure: All individuals applying for a pyrotechnic
fireworks display permit must include a copy of his or her lead pyrotechnic
operator license issued by the OSFM and a copy of his or her pyrotechnic
distributor license issued by the OSFM. Alternatively, the applicant must
provide proof that the pyrotechnic display services shall be provided by a
licensed pyrotechnic distributor and that the display shall be conducted by a
licensed lead operator and that both licenses have been issued by the OSFM.
(Ord. 02-2014, 6-24-2014)
      6.   Investigation And Inspection:
         a.   The city clerk shall forward all completed application forms to
the chief within five (5) working days of receipt. The chief shall investigate
or cause to be investigated each application to determine whether the display
is of the character and so located so as not to constitute an unreasonable
hazard to any person or property and complies with all requirements for
pyrotechnic fireworks displays as contained in the Illinois pyrotechnic use
act, 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 35/0.01 et seq. (Ord. 02-2014, 6-24-2014;
amd. 2017 Code)
         b.   The chief shall inspect each display site and investigate or
cause to be investigated each application to determine whether the display is
of a character and so located so as to comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
      7.   Issuance Or Denial Of Permit:
         a.   Following the investigation and inspection of the display site,
if the chief determines that all requirements of this chapter are satisfied,
then the chief or his designee shall approve and issue the pyrotechnic
fireworks display permit. A copy of each permit shall be forwarded by the
office of the city clerk to the city chief of police not less than forty eight
(48) hours before the display.
         b.   In the event that the chief or his designee does not approve the
display permit, the applicant shall be informed by the chief or his designee in
writing of the reasons thereof.
         c.   The city has the authority to refuse to issue display permits at
any time and for any reason, and reserves the authority to choose that only
certain persons may apply for and receive pyrotechnic display permits.
      8.   Compliance With Permit: The possession and use of pyrotechnic
fireworks by the permittee shall be lawful only for the purpose and display as
contained in the pyrotechnic display permit.
      9.   Nontransferability Of Permit: No permit granted hereunder shall be
transferable. Only the permittee, pyrotechnic operator and pyrotechnic
distributor named on the permit shall be authorized to possess and display the
pyrotechnic fireworks.
   B.   Pyrotechnic Distributors And Operators:
      1.   Licenses Required: Any person who puts on a pyrotechnic display must
use or otherwise employ a licensed pyrotechnic distributor who must employ a
licensed lead operator who is present during any pyrotechnic display and acts
as a supervisor to all display assistants. A copy of the application for a
pyrotechnic distributor's license and the lead operator's license must be
obtained from the OSFM, and both licenses must be obtained prior to the display
site inspection, issuance of permit and purchase of pyrotechnic display
fireworks.
      2.   Assistants: All assistants to the lead operator must be eighteen
(18) years of age and must be registered with the OSFM.
   C.   Hours Of Display: No fireworks display shall be conducted before ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. or after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., except where prior
approval is granted by the chief and the city for special programs.
   D.   Indoor Displays: All indoor pyrotechnic displays shall be conducted in
buildings protected by automatic sprinkler systems. All display sites for
indoor pyrotechnic displays must be inspected prior to the issuance of a permit
for such display. (Ord. 02-2014, 6-24-2014)
4-5-5: EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the use of fireworks by
railroads or other transportation agencies for signal purposes or illumination,
or the sale or use of blank cartridges for a show or theater, or for use by
military forces of the state of Illinois, the United States, or authorized
emergency service agencies such as rescue squads or fire and police departments
of the city or other municipalities. (Ord. 02-2014, 6-24-2014)
4-5-6: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a class
A misdemeanor and, upon a finding of guilty, shall be punishable by a fine not
to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 02-2014, 6-24-2014)
CHAPTER 6
DISCRIMINATION IN HOUSING
SECTION:
4-6-1: Adoption Of Federal Regulations; Enforcement
4-6-2: Regulations Posted
4-6-3: Booklets And Forms Available
4-6-1: ADOPTION OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS; ENFORCEMENT:
The city hereby adopts by reference the rules and regulations regarding fair
housing issued by the department of housing and urban development and shall
enforce fair housing standards that comply with and/or in accordance with the
fair housing rules and regulations of the U.S. department of housing and urban
development. (Ord. 02-96, 5-13-1996)
4-6-2: REGULATIONS POSTED:
The city will cause to be posted, in the offices of the city and at other
places in the city hall, notices and fair housing posters advising the public
of the fair housing standards to be enforced in the city. (Ord. 02-96, 5-13-
1996)
4-6-3: BOOKLETS AND FORMS AVAILABLE:
Complaint forms and booklets will be made available to the public and will
remain on file in the city office for the benefit of the public, and the city
shall provide any member of the public complaining of discrimination in housing
sufficient complaint forms to complete the process of such complaints. (Ord.
02-96, 5-13-1996; amd. 2017 Code)
TITLE 5
TRAFFIC; PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
5-1-1: Through Streets; Stop And Yield Intersections
5-1-2: One-Way Streets And Alleys
5-1-3: Speed Limit
5-1-4: Parking
5-1-5: Truck Traffic; Vehicle Weight Limits
5-1-6: Signs Posted
5-1-7: Parking To Obstruct Prohibited
5-1-1: THROUGH STREETS; STOP AND YIELD INTERSECTIONS:
   A.   Through Streets: The driver of a vehicle shall stop at the entrance of
a through street and shall yield the right of way to other vehicles which have
entered the intersection or which are approaching so close on a through street
as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless directed otherwise by a traffic
officer or a traffic control signal. The following are declared through
streets: (Ord. 04-79, 6-5-1979)
County Highway 2, from the north city limit to the west line of Main Street.
Hargrave Street, from Illinois Route 29 to the east line of Main Street.
Jackson Street, from the east line of Lincoln Street (grade school) on the west
end to Main Street on the east.
Jackson Street, from West Barn Hollow Drive, eastwardly, to the west line of
Lincoln Street.
Main Street, from Little Street on the south to and including North Grand
Avenue on the north.
Springfield Street, from the north city limit to the north line of Hargrave
Street.
(Ord. 04-79, 6-5-1979; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Stop Intersections: The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to
a stop sign at an intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to this
chapter, at one or more entrances thereto, and shall proceed cautiously,
yielding to the vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the
intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard,
unless traffic at such intersection is controlled by a police officer on duty,
in which event, there shall be compliance with the direction of the police
officer. The following are declared stop intersections: (Ord. 04-79, 6-5-1979)
All streets intersecting with the through streets specified in subsection A of
this section.
Adams Street, northbound and southbound, at its intersection with Madison
Street.
Adams Street, southbound, at its intersection with Little Street.
Adams Street, westbound, at its intersection with Jackson Street.
Bitteroot Drive, southbound, at its intersection with Lynwood Drive.
Bunchberry Court, southbound, at its intersection with Lynwood Drive.
Circle Drive, at its intersection with County Highway 2.
Clover Court, southbound, at its intersection with Lynwood Drive.
Dottie Bednarko Drive at its intersection with County Highway 2.
Jackson Street, westbound, at its intersection with Lincoln Street.
Lincoln Street, northbound and southbound, at its intersection with Washington
Street.
Little Street and Main Street, in all directions at the four-way intersection.
Little Street, northbound, and Oak Grove Drive, westbound, at their
intersection.
Main Street and Hargrave Street, in all directions at the three-way
intersection.
Mill Street, at its intersection from both directions onto Little Street.
Polk Street, at its intersection with Eureka Street.
Polk Street, northbound and southbound, at its intersection with Jefferson
Street.
Polk Street, northbound and southbound, at its intersection with Madison
Street.
Primm Street, northbound and southbound, at its intersection with Madison
Street.
South Barn Hollow Drive, northbound, at its intersection with West Jackson
Street.
Washington Street, at its intersection with Mason Street.
Washington Street, eastbound and westbound, at its intersection with West
Street.
Washington Street, westbound, at its intersection with Wilson Road.
West Street, northbound, at its intersection with Washington Street.
(Ord. 04-79, 6-5-1979; amd. Ord. 07-95, 8-14-1995; Ord. 06-97, 9-8-1997; Ord.
06-99, 6-14-1999; Ord. 21-2002, 12-9-2002; Ord. 15-2003, 9-8-2003; Ord. 01-
2006, 1-9-2006; Ord. 10-2015, 10-12-2015; 2017 Code)
   C.   Yield Intersections: The city may, in its discretion and when traffic
conditions warrant such action, give preference to traffic upon any streets
under its jurisdiction over traffic crossing or entering such streets by
erecting appropriate yield signs. The driver of a vehicle shall yield the right
of way in obedience to a sign as required herein at an intersection and shall
proceed cautiously, yielding to all other vehicles which are within the
intersection or approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, but
then may proceed. The following are declared yield intersections: (Ord. 04-79,
6-5-1979)
Cedar Street, northbound, at its intersection with Madison Street.
Jackson Street, eastbound, at its intersection with West Street.
Jefferson Street, at all streets intersecting Jefferson Street, except those
identified as stop intersections in subsection B of this section.
Madison Street, at all streets intersecting Madison Street.
Mill Street, at its intersection with Washington Street.
Polk Street, northbound, at its intersection with Washington Street.
(Ord. 04-79, 6-5-1979; amd. Ord. 15-2003, 9-8-2003; 2017 Code)
   D.   Enforcement:
      1.   Fine: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 07-95, 8-14-1995; amd. 2017
Code)
      2.   Traffic Violation Ticket: For offenses under this section, an
appropriate law enforcement officer may issue a traffic violation ticket
notifying the offender to appear in court at the time designated for hearing
such cases.
      3.   Failure To Appear; Arrest Warrant: A warrant for arrest may issue if
the offender does not appear at the time and place so specified. (Ord. 07-95,
8-14-1995)
5-1-2: ONE-WAY STREETS AND ALLEYS:
The following are one-way streets and alleys in the city:
   Webster alley, westbound, from Main Street to Adams Street.
(Ord. 01-85, 4-1-1985)
5-1-3: SPEED LIMIT:
   A.   Established; Exceptions:
      1.   The maximum speed limit on the streets within the city limits for
which the city has maintenance responsibility and are not under the
jurisdiction of either the department of transportation of the state of
Illinois or the highway commissioner of Menard County is twenty five (25) miles
per hour.
      2.   Nothing herein shall be determined to modify, alter or amend the
designation of any highway, street, part thereof or zone as a "school zone", as
provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-605, which has been heretofore
determined as a "school zone" by the Illinois department of transportation or
the city council. (Ord. 11-2015, 10-12-2015)
   B.   Enforcement:
      1.   Fine: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
fined not less than the sentence for applicable speeding violations set forth
in the Illinois vehicle code in the Illinois Compiled Statutes.
      2.   Traffic Violation Ticket: For offenses under this section, an
appropriate law enforcement officer may issue a traffic violation ticket
notifying the offender to appear in court at the time designated for hearing
such cases.
      3.   Failure To Appear; Arrest Warrant: A warrant for arrest may issue if
the offender does not appear at the time and place so specified. (Ord. 07-2010,
9-13-2010)
5-1-4: PARKING:
   A.   No Parking Areas Designated: The mayor, in consultation with the city
council and the city police department, shall determine and designate certain
areas as "No Parking" areas by signs and/or such other markings notifying the
public that parking is not permitted in a particular space or area. Anyone
found guilty of parking in a designated "No Parking" space or area pursuant to
this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of
seventy five dollars ($75.00) for each offense. Each day that a person parks in
such designated space or area shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 02-
2001, 5-14-2001)
5-1-5: TRUCK TRAFFIC; VEHICLE WEIGHT LIMITS:
   A.   Weight Limits On Certain Streets:
      1.   No vehicle in excess of twenty eight thousand (28,000) pounds in
gross weight shall be permitted to travel upon North Main Street from the C&IM
Railroad tracks north to the city limits at North Grand Avenue. (Ord. 02-85, 4-
1-1985)
      2.   Whenever any vehicle is operated in violation of the provisions of
this section, the owner or driver of such vehicle may be prosecuted for such
violation. Any person, firm or corporation convicted of a violation hereunder
shall be fined for the first or second conviction an amount equal to or not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00), and for the third and subsequent convictions by the same person,
firm or corporation, not less than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) nor
more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 02-85, 4-1-1985; amd. 2017
Code)
5-1-6: SIGNS POSTED:
Signs shall be erected giving notice of the regulations of this chapter in
conformity with the standards and specifications as provided by statutes and
regulations. (2017 Code)
5-1-7: PARKING TO OBSTRUCT PROHIBITED:
   A.   No person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle upon any street in such
manner or under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10')
of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic, except that
a driver may stop temporarily during the actual loading or unloading of
passengers or when necessary in obedience to traffic regulations or traffic
signs or signals of a police officer.
   B.   Further, the following are declared obstructions to traffic:
      1.   The parking of a motor vehicle, camper, trailer, boat or other
personal property (hereinafter called "vehicle") upon any of the streets in the
City for longer than seventy two (72) hours consecutively without moving the
vehicle for use or cause, shall constitute an obstruction of the street.
   C.   A vehicle which constitutes an obstruction, as herein set forth, shall
he deemed to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter and is declared
to be a nuisance. It may be abated by any police officer following notice being
made to the owner or operator of the offending vehicle and allowing twenty-four
(24) hours for the owner or operator to remediate the offense following said
notice. If not properly addressed within the twenty four (24) hour period, any
police officer may impound such vehicle by removing and conveying such vehicle
or by causing such vehicle to be removed to a vehicle pound. A vehicle pound is
declared to be any suitable place designated by the police department of the
City as a vehicle pound. The owner or operator of said vehicle may have it
removed from such impoundment by paying the cost of towing and impounding of
the vehicle together with all fines and penalties as provided in this title.
The right to impound shall be in addition to any other remedy provided herein.
The registered owner of the vehicle at the time of the violation shall be
presumed to be the violator, as well as the vehicle itself, and the actual
operator thereof. Anyone found guilty of parking to obstruct pursuant to this
subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. (Ord. 2022-13, 12-12-2022)
CHAPTER 2
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND SCOOTERS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Nuisances Declared
5-2-2: Violation; Penalty
5-2-1: NUISANCES DECLARED:
The following conduct shall be deemed public nuisances:
   A.   The use of motorized skateboards, skates, or scooters on any city
sidewalks within the city.
   B.   The use of skateboards, skates, or scooters, whether motorized or not,
at the following locales in the city:
Within the area with a western boundary on the west side of the Main Street
from the north side of Clinton Alley to the south side of Washington Street;
with a northern boundary on the south side of Washington Street from the west
side of Main Street to the east side of West Street; with an eastern boundary
on the east side of West Street from the north side of Washington Street to the
south side of Jefferson Street; and with a southern boundary on the south side
of Jefferson Street from the east side of West Street to the east side of Main
Street south to Clinton Alley then west to the west side of Main Street.
   C.   The use of skateboards, skates, or scooters, whether motorized or not,
in a manner that fails to yield to pedestrians. (Ord. 12-2003, 8-11-2003)
5-2-2: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Anyone found guilty of violating this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. (Ord. 12-2003, 8-11-
2003; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
GOLF CARTS AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Compliance With City And State Regulations
5-3-3: Driver's License And Age Requirements
5-3-4: Mandatory Insurance
5-3-5: Permit And Vehicle Requirements
5-3-6: Permitted And Prohibited Areas Of Operation
5-3-7: Hours Of Operation (Rep. by Ord. 11-2017, 10-9-2017)
5-3-8: Method Of Riding; Seat Belt Required
5-3-9: Driving Under The Influence Prohibited
5-3-10: Transporting Alcoholic Beverages
5-3-11: Certain Nonhighway Vehicles Prohibited
5-3-12: Nonliability Of City
5-3-13: Penalties
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms, as used in this
chapter, shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
CITY: The City of Athens, Menard County, Illinois.
GOLF CART: A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course 1 .
A golf cart is further defined as a "nonhighway vehicle", as set forth in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1426.1.
RECREATIONAL OFF HIGHWAY VEHICLE: Any motorized off highway device designed to
travel primarily off highway, sixty four inches (64") or less in width, having
a manufacturer's dry weight of two thousand (2,000) pounds or less traveling on
four (4) or more nonhighway tires, designed with a nonstraddle seat and a
steering wheel for steering control, except equipment such as lawn mowers.
STREETS AND ROADWAYS UNDER THE JURISDICTION OF THE CITY OF ATHENS: All those
streets and roadways located within the corporate boundaries of the City of
Athens, Illinois, and under the jurisdiction of the City of Athens, Menard
County, Illinois. (Ord. 01-2013, 3-11-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-123.9.
5-3-2: COMPLIANCE WITH CITY AND STATE REGULATIONS:
   A.   No person shall ride, drive, or operate any golf cart or recreational
off highway vehicle on any roadway or street located within the corporate limit
of the City except as specifically set forth in this chapter.
   B.   Every golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle operated as
authorized in this chapter shall comply with any and all traffic regulations
found in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-1 et seq. (Ord. 01-2013, 3-11-2013)
5-3-3: DRIVER'S LICENSE AND AGE REQUIREMENTS:
A person may not operate a golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle upon
the streets and roadways unless he/she has a valid Illinois driver's license
issued in his/her name by the Illinois Secretary of State, or a valid out of
State driver's license issued in his/her name by the appropriate department/
agency of the state responsible for issuing drivers' licenses and is at least
twenty one (21) years of age. (Ord. 01-2013, 3-11-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
5-3-4: MANDATORY INSURANCE:
Any person who operates a golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle shall
be subject to the mandatory insurance requirements under article 6 of chapter 7
of the Illinois Vehicle Code 1 , and shall provide proof of such insurance at
the time the permit is requested and at the time of each annual renewal. (Ord.
01-2013, 3-11-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/7-601 et seq.
5-3-5: PERMIT AND VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
No golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle shall be operated on the City
streets or roadways unless it is inspected and a permit is issued by the City.
The Chief of Police, and/or his designee, shall be in charge of the inspection.
The golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle being inspected must meet the
specifications as set forth in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1426.1(e).
Those requirements are as follows: (Ord. 01-2013, 3-11-2013)
   A.   No "nonhighway vehicle" (golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle)
may be operated on a roadway unless, at a minimum, it has the following:
steering wheel apparatus, tires, rearview mirror, red reflectorized warning
devices in the front and rear, slow moving emblem, as required of other
vehicles in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-709, on the rear of the
"nonhighway vehicle" (golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle), headlight
that emits a white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to
the front, taillamp that emits a red light visible from at least one hundred
feet (100') from the rear, brake lights, and turn signals. (Ord. 01-2013, 3-11-
2013; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   When operated on a street or roadway within the City, the golf cart or
recreational off highway vehicle shall have its headlights and taillamps
lighted as required by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/12-201 entitled "when
lighted lamps are required".
   C.   Provided the golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle passes
inspection and proof of insurance is provided, a permit shall be issued.
Permits shall be issued for a period of one year and will renew annually.
   D.   The cost of the permit will be fifty dollars ($50.00). The permit fee
shall be waived for all governmental or recognized not for profit entities.
   E.   A "nonhighway vehicle" (golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle)
must have a decal or registration approved by the City on the rear of the
vehicle and must have a copy of the permit issued by the City, valid
registration, and proof of valid insurance in the golf cart or recreational off
highway vehicle at all times and available for production at any time as
requested by any policing agency.
   F.   The City may issue a temporary special event permit for use of golf
carts or recreational off highway vehicles that may not be in compliance with
the requirements of this chapter and that is valid and issued only during that
event. (Ord. 01-2013, 3-11-2013)
5-3-6: PERMITTED AND PROHIBITED AREAS OF OPERATION:
   A.   1. Golf carts or recreational off highway vehicles shall only be
allowed to be operated on those streets and roadways upon which the City has
jurisdiction.
      2.   Golf carts or recreational off highway vehicles may not be operated
on Illinois State Route 29 or any other Illinois Department of Transportation
road.
      3.   Golf carts or recreational off highway vehicles shall not make a
direct crossing upon or across Illinois State Route 29 or any other Illinois
Department of Transportation road.
   B.   No person shall operate a golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle
upon any sidewalk located within the jurisdictional limits of the City.
   C.   No person shall operate a golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle
in the City parks other than parking areas.
   D.   The Street Superintendent shall cause appropriate signs to be posted on
those streets and roadways where golf carts or recreational off highway
vehicles are authorized to be operated pursuant to this chapter and the State
Statutes referenced herein. (Ord. 01-2013, 3-11-2013)
5-3-7: HOURS OF OPERATION:
(Rep. by Ord. 11-2017, 10-9-2017)
5-3-8: METHOD OF RIDING; SEAT BELT REQUIRED:
Any operator or passenger of a golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle
shall be in a sitting position and wearing a seat belt. (Ord. 01-2013, 3-11-
2013)
5-3-9: DRIVING UNDER THE INFLUENCE PROHIBITED:
Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a golf cart or
recreational off highway vehicle on a roadway while under the influence is
subject to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-501 through 5/11-502. (Ord. 01-
2013, 3-11-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
5-3-10: TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES:
   A.   Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a golf cart
or recreational off highway vehicle on a roadway and who transports alcohol in
said golf cart or recreational off highway vehicle is subject to 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-502.
   B.   Any person who is a passenger in a golf cart or recreational off
highway vehicle on a roadway and who transports alcohol in said golf cart or
recreational off highway vehicle is subject to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-502. (Ord. 01-2013, 3-11-2013; amd. 2017 Code)
5-3-11: CERTAIN NONHIGHWAY VEHICLES PROHIBITED:
This chapter shall not be deemed to authorize any other nonhighway vehicles, as
defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1426.1, to be operated on any
streets or roadways within the corporate boundaries of the City upon which the
City has jurisdiction (all-terrain vehicles or off highway motorcycles). (Ord.
01-2013, 3-11-2013)
5-3-12: NONLIABILITY OF CITY:
No action by the City under this chapter or 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
11-1426.1 designates the operation of a golf cart or recreational off highway
vehicle as an intended or permitted use of property with respect to section 3-
102 of the Local Governmental and Governmental Employees Tort Immunity Act.
(Ord. 01-2013, 3-11-2013)
5-3-13: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be subject
to a fine, upon conviction, in an amount not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each separate
offense. Any second or subsequent offense shall result in the revocation of the
permit for a period of not less than one nor more than three (3) years. (Ord.
01-2013, 3-11-2013)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
5-4-1: Library Established
5-4-2: Library Board Of Trustees
5-4-3: Library Tax
5-4-1: LIBRARY ESTABLISHED:
Pursuant to 75 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/2-1, a public library is hereby
established and shall be maintained by the city. (Ord. 13-95, 11-13-1995)
5-4-2: LIBRARY BOARD OF TRUSTEES:
   A.   Appointment: Pursuant to 75 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-1 and 5/4-
1.1, the mayor shall, with the approval of the city council, appoint a board of
nine (9) trustees chosen from residents of the city with reference to their
fitness for such office. Not more than one member of the city council shall be,
at any one time, a member of the library board of trustees.
   B.   Terms Of Office: The first library trustees of the city public library
shall hold office as follows: one-third (1/3) shall serve for one year, one-
third (1/3) for two (2) years, and one-third (1/3) for three (3) years, from
July 1 following their appointment. At their first regular meeting, those
trustees shall cast lots for the respective terms. Annually thereafter, the
mayor shall, before July 1 of each year, appoint as before three (3) trustees
to take the place of the retiring trustees. The trustees appointed shall hold
office for three (3) years and until their successors are appointed. (Ord. 13-
95, 11-13-1995)
5-4-3: LIBRARY TAX:
Pursuant to 75 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-1, a tax in the amount of fifteen
hundredths percent (0.15%) of the value of all the taxable property in the
city, as equalized or assessed by the Illinois department of revenue, shall be
and hereby is levied for library purposes, the proceeds of which shall be paid
to the board of trustees of the library for expenditure for library purposes
under the direction of said board of trustees. (Ord. 13-95, 11-13-1995)
CHAPTER 5
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Permit To Excavate
5-5-2: Cash Deposits, Liquidated Damages
5-5-3: Backfilling Excavation
5-5-4: Backfill Materials
5-5-5: Trench Surface Repair
5-5-6: Permanent Patch Materials
5-5-7: Detours
5-5-8: Excavations To Be Guarded
5-5-9: Installation Of Public Utilities
5-5-10: Maintenance Of Permanent Patch
5-5-11: Additional Repair Requirements
5-5-1: PERMIT TO EXCAVATE:
   A.   It shall be unlawful to make any opening or excavation into, across or
under any street, alley or public area within the corporate limits of the City
prior to obtaining a sewer tap/street break permit from the City Clerk. The
permit shall be issued after required fees and/or deposits are received by the
Public Works Department. At the time of filing for an excavation permit, the
application shall be accompanied by a certified check or money order, payable
to the City of Athens, to cover the cost of processing the application and
inspecting the excavation and restoration, in the amount of $75.
   B.   All public utilities having franchise agreements with the City shall be
exempted from obtaining a permit prior to commencing excavation for a utility
repair. However, said utility must submit, for each excavation, one copy of the
street break permit form to the Public Works Department within seven days after
commencing each excavation. The utility shall include the dimensions of the
excavation on the bottom of the street break permit form.
   C.   A violation of any of the provisions of this chapter shall subject the
offender to a penalty of not less than $75 nor more than the cost of repair on
a time and materials basis as outlined by the Public Works Director or their
designee for each offense, and the deposit, or such part thereof as may be
necessary to put said sheet in proper condition, and reimburse the City for
superintending the excavation and the refilling of same shall be forfeited to
the City.
   D.   The attention of all the responsible person(s) and all public utilities
is directed to Sections 8-2-6 of this chapter which address the matter of
repairing brick surface pavement streets. The requirement to replace paving
bricks on brick surface streets will require that all paving bricks encountered
during any excavation covered by this chapter shall be salvaged by the entity
performing the excavation. The removal and salvage of all bricks shall be
performed with reasonable care and shall be the responsibility of the person(s)
performing the excavation. Any paving bricks which are not required to repair
the street surface shall be delivered to a location within City limits approved
by the Public Works Director or their designee. Failure to salvage said paving
bricks shall constitute a violation of this section.
   E.   "Responsible person(s)” shall be defined as the person or persons who
makes any opening or excavation in any street, alley or public area within the
corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 06-2025, 5-12-2025)
5-5-2: CASH DEPOSITS, LIQUIDATED DAMAGES:
It is hereby provided that the following regulations shall govern in the
granting of permits to break into, across or under the surface of streets,
avenues, alleys, roadways, public walks, lawns, parkways or other public places
of the City, to install, repair, renew, extend, remove or relocate water, gas,
sewer, or other service connections, in or under said streets, avenues, alleys,
roadways and other public places.
   A.   For a permit to cut, dig, excavate, or tunnel in, through or under any
improved dirt street, avenue, alley, roadway, or other public place, the
applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk the sum of $1,000 as a guarantee
that such street, avenue, alley, roadway or other public place will be restored
to its original condition upon completion of work covered by tire permit.
   B.   For a permit to cut, dig, excavate, break or tunnel in or under any
brick or concrete or similar hard surfaced pavement, applicant shall pay to the
City Clerk the sum of $1,000 as a guarantee that such street, avenue, alley,
roadway or other public place will be restored to its original condition upon
completion of work covered by the application and permit.
   C.   For a permit to cut, dig, excavate or tunnel in or under any
bituminous, blotter type surfaced street, or public place of like or analogous
surface, applicant shall deposit with the City Clerk the sum of $1,000 as a
guarantee that such street, avenue, alley, roadway or other public place will
be restored to its original condition upon completion of work covered by the
application and permit.
   D.   The City may, at its option, approve a one year performance bond for
$1.0,000 at the beginning of each year in lieu of cash deposits for each
excavation. Such bonds bond shall save and keep harmless and indemnify the City
from all actions, suits, costs, damages and expenses, including attorney fees.
   E.   Wherever work of the nature contemplated to be done under Subsections
A., B., and C. of this section, the Public Works Department shall require the
respective payment or deposit to be made even though the applicant believes or
intends that his/her work may not disturb or damage the curb, gutter or surface
or subsurface of such street or other public way; and if the work, done
actually does not so disturb or damage such street or public way, then full or
partial refund may be made to applicant as provided in Subsection F. of this
section.
   F.   No deposit shall be returned to any applicant until the work of
restoration has been approved by the Public Works Director or their designee,
by their endorsement of such approval and actual charges, if any, on
applicant's permit. This permit shall, then be surrendered to the City Clerk,
who shall take the applicant's receipt thereon for the return of their deposit
or so much thereof as shall remain due to applicant after any deductions for
necessary repairs or replacements made or to be made at the City's expense in
putting the street and surface back in good condition.
   G.   It shall be the duty of all persons or their representatives doing any
cutting, digging, excavating or tunneling in, upon or under any of the streets,
avenues, alleys, roadways or other public places of the City to carry liability
and workers' compensation insurance necessary to protect the City from damages
or liability in connection with such operations. A certificate of insurance
enumerating such coverage will be required at the time of permit. And, they
shall use due care and diligence to minimize the extent of disturbance to
roadway surfaces and subgrades and to guard and to backfill all trenches,
tunnels and excavations in the manner required by the provisions of this
chapter, under and to the satisfaction of the applicable City Department.
   H.   The fees as above provided for breaking the streets shall be so
assessed and paid, provided that application therefor and payment is made prior
to the beginning of the work of breaking the street. In the event the
application is made after work has begun, on the breaking of the street, then
the fees as above provided shall be doubled and, in addition, the owner of the
property for the benefit of which the break in the street has been made shall
pay to the City such an amount as shall be reasonable and necessary to ensure
that the break in the street has been properly backfilled. In the event the
breaking of the street has been done and completed, prior to the application
having been made, in addition to the fees and expenses immediately above
provided to be taxed to the owner for whose benefit the street has been broken,
the same owner shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in a sum not less than $500 and not more than $2500 for each
violation. (Ord. 06-2025, 5-12-2025)
5-5-3: BACKFILLING EXCAVATION:
The responsible person(s) who makes or causes to be made any opening or
excavation, for any purpose, shall without unnecessary delay, cause the same to
be filled up to the level of the adjacent surfaces, and from time to time, if
necessary, repair the same, until the trench is completely settled and the
surface conforms to the proper grade or level. The backfill material shall be
placed using one of the following options:
   A.   Uniform layers not exceeding 12 inches thick rammed and tamped with
approved tools.
   B.   Uniform layers not exceeding 12 inches thick inundated or deposited in
water.
   C.   Fill trench, with loose material then jet with water. Jetting operation
to begin 12 inches above pipe in trench. Spacing shall be approved by the
applicable City Department.
In the event an excavation is determined to require additional repair work, the
responsible person(s) shall be notified by telephone of the need of repair work
and complete such repair within 72 hours. After 72 hours, the City will make
the necessary repairs and bill the responsible person(s) for required labor,
equipment, and materials.
In the event of any emergency situation, the City may make immediate repairs
and bill the responsible person(s) for required labor, equipment and materials.
Failure to make required repairs shall constitute a violation of this section.
(Ord. 06-2025, 5-12-2025)
5-5-4: BACKFILL MATERIALS:
   A.   Any opening or excavation located in an area which does not now, nor
will not in the foreseeable future, receive vehicular traffic, shall be
backfilled with a minimum of 12 inches of black dirt, free of clods and stones
within 12 inches of the pipe and relatively clean of such clods and stones
above this and seeded.
   B.   All trenches within two feet of proposed or existing road surfaces,
shoulder, curb or sidewalk shall be backfilled with controlled low strength
material meeting the requirements of Article 1019 of the latest edition of the
Illinois Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction In Illinois" or as otherwise directed by the applicable
City Department or their designee.
   C.   No debris shall be disposed of in the trench backfill. Debris and
removed pavement which is unsuitable for backfill shall be disposed of by the
contractor in accordance with prevailing laws and ordinances. (Ord. 06-2025, 5-
12-2025)
5-5-5: TRENCH SURFACE REPAIR:
   A.   The responsible person(s) shall provide trench surface repair and
placement of the permanent patch.
   B.   Areas which have been backfilled with black dirt/topsoil to a minimum
depth of 12 inches shall, after settling is complete, be fertilized and seeded
according to normal landscape practices which have been approved by the Public
Works Director or their designee.
   C.   Areas which have been backfilled in accordance with Subsection 8-2-4(B)
of this chapter shall be prepared for placement of permanent patch immediately.
Prior to placing the permanent patch, the responsible person(s) shall make a
final saw cut or chisel in a straight line 12 inches beyond the limit of
excavation on all four sides. Saw cuts shall be at least two inches deep. The
pavement between the excavated area and this final cut shall be removed. Any
excess controlled low strength material shall be removed in order to allow
placement of the appropriate depth of permanent patch. Any backfill disturbed
below this point shall, be replaced by a method approved by the Public Works
Director or their designee. The Public Works Director Superintendent or their
designee shall approve all excavated areas prior to actual placement of
permanent patch.
   D.   If permanent patch materials are not available or if weather conditions
do not permit the placement of the permanent patch, as determined by the Street
Department Superintendent or their designee, the excavated area shall be given
a temporary patch. The temporary patch shall be kept in place and repaired if
necessary, until permanent patch materials are placed. The temporary patch
shall consist of two inches of CA-16 emulsion mix or two inches UPM cold patch.
(Ord. 06-2025, 5-12-2025)
5-5-6: PERMANENT PATCH MATERIALS:
The materials used for the permanent patch shall be based on the materials of
construction for the existing adjacent surface. The permanent patch materials
shall be as listed below:
Existing Surface Permanent Patch
Existing Surface                       Permanent Patch
Portland cement (PC) concrete sidewalk 4 inches PC concrete2
PC concrete driveway                   6 inches PC concrete2
PC concrete                            8 inches PC concrete2
Brick over sand cushion                New/used bricks of similar size or shape
                                       and color
Hot mix asphalt over PC concrete       8 inches PC concrete 1,2
Hot mix asphalt over brick             8 inches PC concretely
Hot mix asphalt                        3 inches of bituminous concrete, Class I
Aggregate surface                      8 inches CA-6 crushed stone
Notes:
      1.   For larger, more extensive repairs, or new installations, the City
has the option to require 3 inches of bituminous concrete, Class I, with tack
coat over six inches of PC concrete.
      2.   PC concrete materials shall meet the requirements of Article 1020 of
the Illinois Department of Transportation "Standard Specifications For Road And
Bridge Construction In Illinois", latest edition for the type of pavement being
placed.
All bituminous concrete, mixes, and patch material shall be adequately
compacted after placement. The permanent patches listed above are minimum
requirements. Existing pavement thickness shall govern when greater than
minimums. (Ord. 06-2025, 5-12-2025)
5-5-7: DETOURS:
When, in the opinion of the applicable City Department, a street may be
obstructed by the excavation operations to such an extent as to unduly restrict
vehicular traffic or make hazardous its use, a detour may be required and
designated by the Public Works Director or their designee. All expenses
incurred as a result of the establishment of said detour shall be borne by the
responsible person(s).
The responsible person(s) shall supply and maintain such signs at his expense
as may be necessary to clearly and safely outline the detour. (Ord. 06-2025, 5-
12-2025)
5-5-8: EXCAVATIONS TO BE GUARDED:
Any person digging any cellar, excavation, ditch or opening upon any private
premises near any street, avenue, alley or sidewalk in the City, so as to be
dangerous to persons or vehicles on the same, shall keep the same well guarded
so as to prevent the happening of any accidents thereby and in the nighttime
shall cause amber lights to be so placed as to warn off persons passing by the
same of the danger. (Ord. 06-2025, 5-12-2025)
5-5-9: INSTALLATION OF PUBLIC UTILITIES:
Public utilities shall comply with all sections of this chapter except as
exempted by franchise agreement. All new utilities not now in place shall be
approved by the applicable City Department prior to installation of same. (Ord.
06-2025, 5-12-2025)
5-5-10: MAINTENANCE OF PERMANENT PATCH:
   A.   After the responsible person(s) or public utility has completed the
permanent patch, the Public Works Director or their designee shall be notified
and shall give their acceptance of the patch by affixing his signature and date
to the street break permit form and a copy returned to the responsible person
(s) or utility.
   B.   The responsible person(s) or utility shall be responsible for
maintaining, repairing or replacing said patch for one year from date of
acceptance by the City.
   C.   The City shall notify, in writing, the responsible person(s) or utility
at such times as any permanent patch becomes defective or requires repair. Such
repairs shall be made within a reasonable amount of time as outlined by the
Public Works Director or their designee of notification. The reasonable amount
of time shall start immediately after reception of the notification letter,
failure of the responsible person(s) or public utility to make required repairs
shall constitute a violation of this section.
   D.   After the reasonable amount of time, unless other arrangements are
approved by the Public Works Director or their designee, the City will repair
or replace the permanent patch. The cost of such repair shall be billed to the
responsible person(s). In the event the responsible person(s) or public utility
fails to pay the City for such work within 30 days, the City shall revoke
street breaking privileges of said responsible person(s) or utility. (Ord. 06-
2025, 5-12-2025)
5-5-11: ADDITIONAL REPAIR REQUIREMENTS:
Additional City street cut and street repair requirements may be imposed by the
Public Works Director or their designee. At a minimum, all requirements of this
chapter will apply with tire following additional requirements:
   A.   Limits Of Pavement Patching: The responsible person(s) should not
proceed with the pavement restoration until the Public Works Director or their
designee approves the replacement limits. For hot mix asphalt (HMA) streets,
restorations will be no less than one lane width and extend no less than three
feet in the longitudinal direction from the edges of the cut. For concrete
streets, the removal limit will extend beyond the edge of the cut to the
nearest transverse contraction joint and nearest longitudinal, sawed joint. The
removal limits for concrete streets will be no less than one foot in any
direction from the edges of the cut.
   B.   Brick Streets: Saw cutting of brick streets shall not be permitted. A
concrete base shall be required for all brick street restorations and said base
shall comply with the requirements for pavement restoration of a new concrete
street.
   C.   Concrete Streets: All saw cuts or scoring for pavement removal shall
follow existing joints and shall be full depth to alleviate spalling. Equipment
and methods used for removing old pavement shall be such as to prevent
cracking, shattering or spalling of the pavement remaining in place. If the
patch is not scored with a concrete saw or wheel saw, the ends of the patch
shall be hand trimmed with handheld hammers. The general plane of the cut face
shall not deviate more than one and 1/2 inches from vertical. Should the
responsible person(s) operations cause a spall having a width or depth greater
than one inch, the patch shall be extended to the next joint to remove the
spall.
      Tie bars shall be installed along all edges of the pavement to avoid
differential settlement. Tie bars shall be epoxy coated and comply with Article
1006.11 of the Illinois Department of Transportation (IDOT) "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction". Tie bar size shall be no. 6
and should be 24 inches long spaced at 30 inches on center. Tie bars holes
shall be drilled parallel to the grade and centerline of the pavement with a
tolerance of 1/8 inch in 12 inches. The drilling operation shall not crack or
spall the pavement. The tie bars shall be placed with an IDOT approved non-
shrink grout or chemical adhesive providing a minimum pull out strength of
11,000 pounds. Holes shall be blown clean and dry prior to placing the grout or
adhesive or as conditions are required per particular grout/adhesive materials
and methods.
      If the adjacent lane has a contraction joint, pavement patches
constructed shall include transverse contraction joints in line with those in
the adjacent lane. These transverse contraction joints shall be constructed in
accordance with Article 420.05(c) of the IDOT "Standard Specifications For Road
And Bridge Construction".
   D.   Bituminous Streets: Bituminous surfaced streets, including hot mix.
asphalt streets and streets with a seal coat surface, shall be restored with
hot mix asphalt in accordance with Section 8-2-6 of this chapter. (Ord. 06-
2025, 5-12-2025)
TITLE 6
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
COMBINED WATERWORKS AND SEWERAGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
6-1-1: Systems Combined
6-1-2: Administration And Enforcement Officials
6-1-3: Damage To, Tampering With System
6-1-4: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
6-1-5: Unpaid Service A Lien
6-1-6: Notice Of Violation
6-1-7: Penalties
6-1-1: SYSTEMS COMBINED:
   A.   It is hereby found, determined and declared necessary for the best
interests of the city that the existing waterworks supply and distribution
system of the city and the proposed sanitary sewerage system to be acquired, in
the preambles of the ordinance codified herein more fully described, be
combined into a single utility to be known and designated as the "combined
waterworks and sewerage system of the city".
   B.   All properties, real, personal, and mixed, comprising the now existing
waterworks supply and distribution system and proposed sanitary sewerage
system, as in the preambles of the ordinance codified herein more fully
described, are hereby found, determined and declared to constitute the
properties of the combined waterworks and sewerage system of the city.
   C.   From and after the effective date hereof, the existing waterworks
supply and distribution system and said proposed sanitary sewerage system shall
be owned and operated by the city as a combined utility known as the "combined
waterworks and sewerage system of the city", and all improvements and
extensions to said waterworks and sewerage system, either or both, shall be
considered as improvements and extensions to said combined utility; and all the
properties, assets, obligations and liabilities of all kinds of said waterworks
supply and distribution system and of said proposed sanitary sewerage system
existing, outstanding and accruing or to accrue shall be held, used, confessed
and acknowledged as the properties, assets, obligations and liabilities of the
combined utility. (Ord. O-2-73, 2-6-1973)
6-1-2: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   Committee On Combined Waterworks And Sewerage System: A committee on
the combined waterworks and sewerage system shall be appointed by the mayor and
shall make such rules and regulations governing the management of the combined
utilities of the city and the conduct of the employees thereof as shall not be
inconsistent with this title, and shall be subject to the approval of the city
council.
   B.   Superintendent Of System And Collector Of Service Charges: The mayor,
with the consent of the city council, shall appoint a superintendent of the
combined waterworks and sewerage system, and a collector of service charges,
who shall be the superintendent and collector, respectively, of the combined
waterworks and sewerage system. The superintendent shall have the general
management and control of the combined system subject to the supervision of the
city council. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-1-3: DAMAGE TO, TAMPERING WITH SYSTEM:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is a part of the municipal waterworks and sewerage system. Any
person violating this section shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge
of disorderly conduct. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-1-4: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
The superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties subject to this title for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
title. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-1-5: UNPAID SERVICE A LIEN:
Bills remaining unpaid thirty (30) days after rendition shall constitute a lien
upon the real estate to which the service has been rendered. The city clerk is
authorized and directed to file a notice of such lien in the office of the
county recorder and to pursue such legal action as is necessary to collect the
delinquent charges. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-1-6: NOTICE OF VIOLATION:
Any person found to be violating any provision of this title, except section
6-1-3 of this chapter, shall be served by the city with written notice stating
the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-
1973)
6-1-7: PENALTIES:
   A.   Any person who shall violate provisions of section
6-1-3 of this chapter or who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided in section
6-1-6 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined in an amount up to one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for
each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973; amd. Ord. 02-2015, 4-13-
2015)
   B.   Any person violating any of the provisions of this title, in addition
to the fine provided in subsection A of this section, shall become liable to
the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the city by reason of
such violation, whether the same was caused before or after notice.
   C.   In case any violation of the provisions of this title continues beyond
the time given the user under section
6-1-6 of this chapter, the superintendent may cut off the user's connection
into the waterworks and sewerage system. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
CHAPTER 2
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
6-2-1: Compliance With Provisions
6-2-2: Application For Water Service And Tap; Deposit And Fees
6-2-3: Approval Or Disapproval Of Service
6-2-4: Water Meters
6-2-5: Construction, Extension And Maintenance Of Connections And Taps
6-2-6: Rates And Charges
6-2-7: Interference With System Prohibited
6-2-8: Waste Of Water; Water Leaks
6-2-9: Right Of Access Of Enforcement Officials
6-2-1: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
No person, corporation, or entity shall take any water from any main, hydrant
or other portion of the city's water plant, distribution system, or city mains
other than by the usual use of the city's public fountains and troughs, except
upon application to the city waterworks and sewerage system in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. No application shall be approved for any water
supply or service unless the proposed service, connection, or tap and all water
lines and appurtenances thereto are found to be in accordance with this
chapter, rules and regulations adopted hereunder, and amendments hereto. Where
a user provides more than one dwelling unit, the occupant of such dwelling unit
shall be required to file an application for water service before the same is
provided to the unit. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973; amd. 2017 Code)
6-2-2: APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE AND TAP; DEPOSIT AND FEES:
   A.   Each applicant for water service shall file with the city waterworks
and sewerage system an application therefor, in writing, setting forth the name
of the applicant, the location of the premises for which supply or service is
sought, the name of the owner of the premises, if other than the applicant, and
the nature of such service. For applicants who are not currently paying for and
receiving city water service, a one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) security
deposit with the application shall be required which shall be refundable
(unless there is a default in payment of water bills) as follows:
      1.   If the applicant is the owner in fee simple of the pertinent
premises, the deposit shall be refunded upon the cessation of ownership of the
premises unless there has been a default in timely payment of the water bill,
in which case, the defaulted sum shall be deducted from the payment due, and an
additional deposit payment so as to maintain a security deposit of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) shall then be due.
      2.   If the applicant is purchasing the pertinent premises on a contract
for deed or installment contract, the deposit shall be refunded upon cessation
of ownership of the premises unless there has been a default in timely payment
of the water bill, in which case, the defaulted sum shall be deducted from the
payment due, and an additional deposit payment so as to maintain a security
deposit of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall then be due.
      3.   If the applicant is leasing the pertinent premises, the deposit
shall be refunded at the time that the lease (or extension thereof) expires.
   B.   The owner in fee simple of any premises leased shall be jointly and
severally liable with the lessee for all sums due under this chapter.
   C.   No interest shall be payable on any refunded security deposit.
   D.   If water service for any applicant is thereafter tenninated for
nonpayment of water bills, the refund period shall recommence for the
applicable period on the date the delinquent bill is paid. The security deposit
shall be held by the city as security for payment for the water used by the
applicant and may be so applied by the city when said applicant's water bill is
in default as provided herein.
   E.   Each applicant for water service tap-on shall provide a plan of,
specifications of, cost estimate of such connection, tap-on, and all water
lines to be used in said proposed service from the point of the tap-on to the
point of use and remit a tap-on fee to the city in the following sum. Said sum
shall be in addition to the sums required for applicants for water service.
 
Tap Size (Inches) Tap Fee
3/4               $2,250.00
1                 $2,500.00
 
      Any meters to be installed over one inch (1") will be done on a time and
material basis.
   F.   A reconnection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be due prior
to any reconnection. (Ord. 04-2008, 5-12-2008; amd. Ord. 07-2014, 8-11-2014;
Ord. 01-2015, 3-9-2015; 2017 Code; Ord. 03-2024, 4-8-2024)
6-2-3: APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL OF SERVICE:
Upon receipt of an application, as provided in section
6-2-2 of this chapter, the city may approve the installation of water service
or a connection and tap in accordance with this chapter; provided, that the
application shall not be approved if the applicant is in default through
nonpayment of any past due amount owing to the city waterworks and sewerage
system for any supply, service or installation theretofore rendered or made.
(Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973; amd. 2017 Code)
6-2-4: WATER METERS:
   A.   Metered Water Required; Location: All permanent water services
hereafter installed, whether for domestic or commercial purposes, shall be
metered. The meter shall be placed outside of the building in a suitable pit,
to be located at the curb or at some other suitable location, approved by the
city waterworks and sewerage system, and if the same is impossible, the meter
shall be placed at any other location approved by the city waterworks and
sewerage system. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
   B.   Cost Of Meters: All meters and attachments thereto shall be provided to
water consumers by the city at cost, for which the consumer shall pay the city
the cost of said meter or meters, plus ten percent (10%) thereof. (Ord. O-5-73,
2-20-1973; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Installation: Meters of five-eighths by three-fourths inch (5/8 x 3/4")
shall be installed by the city waterworks and sewerage system upon payment by
the consumers of the cost of installation. All other meters shall be installed
by the consumer, and there shall be present at such installation a
representative of the system. It is further provided, that every meter shall be
preceded immediately by a shutoff valve.
   D.   Meters The Property Of City: All water meters shall remain the property
of the city, and water consumers shall be responsible for their safekeeping.
Once a meter is provided and paid for by a consumer, the consumer shall not be
responsible for payment of any repair to the meter or of any replacement meter
as long as the consumer is not in violation of any provision of this chapter or
any amendments hereto.
   E.   Damaged Meters; Costs To Property Owner: When any water meter is
damaged by fault of the consumer in any premises by any reason, the consumer
shall be required to pay the total cost of repair on all meters, whatever the
size. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-2-5: CONSTRUCTION, EXTENSION AND MAINTENANCE OF CONNECTIONS AND TAPS:
   A.   Rules And Regulations: The city council is hereby authorized to make
such rules and regulations, consistent with this chapter and the maintenance of
the public welfare, for the construction, extension and maintenance of
connections and taps of the waterworks and sewerage system, service pipes,
distribution pipes and any waterworks distribution systems, even though the
same may be located on private property. Such regulations shall specify the
quality and style of materials used, sizes of pipes, depth to which the same
must be laid, and all other necessary guidelines of constructing such water
services and may be amended from time to time as may be deemed necessary. All
house connections and taps, service pipes, distribution pipes and water
distribution systems constructed shall comply with these specifications and
rules. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
   B.   Taps And Connections: Taps and water connections to city mains and
service pipes shall be made only with the approval of the city waterworks and
sewerage system or its agents, with supervision of the system. Any connection
or opening made with the water distributions system in any manner different
than the mode prescribed herein for such opening or connection shall subject
the maker to a fine as provided in section 6-1-7 of this title. (Ord. O-5-73,
2-20-1973; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Distribution And Service Pipes; Hydrants:
      1.   Definitions: Distribution systems shall be any system of water lines
starting at the property line of the premises which shall be used to provide
water in a quantity greater than that reasonably necessary to supply one
family. Service pipes shall be those pipes starting at the property line of the
premises and intended for the purpose of supplying water to one family. None of
the above shall include water mains and water pipes which are the city's
responsibility to maintain as hereafter defined.
      2.   Specifications For Distribution Lines: All new water mains installed
after the effective date hereof shall be a minimum of six inches (6") in
diameter, and shall be constructed of SDR 26, ductile iron, or DR18C900. No
water mains shall be constructed until the plans for such construction have
been approved by the city engineer.
      3.   Fire Hydrants: All cul-de-sacs shall be required to have a fire
hydrant at the end thereof, which hydrant shall have a minimum of a six inch
(6") shoe.
      4.   Service Line Specifications: No service lines from the water main to
the user property line shall exceed fifty feet (50'). All service lines
installed from the meter to the user house after the effective date hereof
shall be at least three-fourths inch (3/4") in diameter and constructed of
schedule 40, K copper, or SDR 3/4 200 psi. All houses and buildings shall have
a water shutoff inside the house or building.
      5.   River And Creek Crossings: All river or creek crossings shall be
constructed with river crossing joint ductile iron or restrain joint ductile
iron. (Ord. 12-92, 8-26-1992)
   D.   Installing Water Service: No service shall be installed except with the
approval of the city waterworks and sewerage system or its agents, and in
accordance with their directions and recommendations. No service shall be
covered until inspected and approved by the superintendent.
   E.   Installation Costs: All costs of labor and materials for installing
water distribution systems, extensions thereof, service pipes and water
connections and taps, including the cost of water meters as provided in section
6-2-4 of this chapter, shall be paid by the applicant. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
   F.   Turning Water On And Off: Turning water on and turning water off from
all buildings and premises into and from all connections and services shall be
under the exclusive control of the city waterworks and sewerage system. No
plumber or other person shall turn water on or off from a service or connection
for any purpose without permission from the city; provided, that water may be
turned on by a plumber at the time of doing his work for testing purposes, but
shall not be allowed to remain turned on after such testing has been completed.
   G.   Joint Use Of Service Prohibited: No person shall connect a water pipe
or conduct water into any two (2) distinct premises or tenements, unless an
application, as provided in section
6-2-2 of this chapter, is submitted for each such premises or tenement and
unless separate and distinct shutoff valves are placed for each such premises
or tenement; nor shall such pipe or pipes be allowed to cross lots into
adjoining premises. Every service pipe must be provided with a stop and waste
valve, so situated that the water may be shut off to prevent its freezing.
   H.   Reinstatement Of Service After Water Shutoff: Where the water supply to
any building, structure or premises shall have been cut off or stopped on
account of the nonpayment of waterworks and sewerage system rates, or on
account of the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or for any
other reason or cause whatsoever, where such cutting off or stopping shall have
been done by the city waterworks and sewerage system, the water shall not again
be supplied to such building, structure or premises or permitted to be turned
on therein or thereto without the submission of an application as provided in
this chapter. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973; amd. 2017 Code)
   I.   Responsibility For Repairs: Every person, corporation, or entity
supplied with water from the city's waterworks system shall, at his own cost
and expense, keep in repair all pipes and fixtures leading from the property
line to the point of use. Should the city waterworks and sewerage system at any
time find it necessary for the protection of city property to repair the same,
the user of said service and the owner of the premises shall be jointly liable
to pay the cost of such repair. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-2-6: RATES AND CHARGES:
   A.   Rates And Charges Established: For each person or entity using city
water, the rates shall be as follows:
      1.   Inside City Limits: For users situated inside the city limits, the
rates are as follows: First one thousand (1,000) gallons or less, twenty-five
dollars ($25.00); seven dollars ($7.00) for each additional one thousand
(1,000) gallons or fraction thereof.
      2.   Outside City Limits:
         a.   Rates for users situated in the area outside Athens city limits
shall be as follows: First one thousand (1,000) gallons or less, thirty-five
dollars sixty-six cents ($35.66); ten dollars and fifty-three cents ($10.53)
for each additional one thousand (1,000) gallons or fraction thereof.
         b.   Bulk weight rates shall be fifty cents ($0.50) per each twenty-
five (25) gallons.
         c.   The rates established in this section shall be effective on May
1, 2024, and shall increase at a rate of the consumer price index rate or at a
minimum of four percent (4%), whichever is greater, on May 1 each year
thereafter unless otherwise amended by the Athens City Council.
   B.   Monthly Bills; Late And Delinquent Payments: Except where any deposits
are made as may be required in advance, water and other related services shall
be paid for each billing month, as fixed for each particular customer by the
city waterworks and sewerage system at the charges set forth in this section if
paid at the office of the city waterworks and sewerage system on or before the
penalty date, which shall be the fifteenth day after the billing statement is
sent (unless the fifteenth day shall fall on a Sunday or legal holiday, the
penalty date shall be the next succeeding secular day), at which time, if said
statement is not paid in full, an additional charge or penalty of ten percent
(l 0%) of the unpaid balance will be added to the amount billed. The City will
send out disconnect notices for nonpayment on the twentieth of each month. The
thirtieth day after the statement is sent shall be the delinquency date, and
should the charges not be paid by said date, the service provided thereto will
be disconnected without further notice. Water service will be shut off if not
paid by the date listed on the disconnect notice and the bill shall be paid in
full prior to water service being turned back on. Payments received after three
o’clock (3:00) p.m. will be turned on the following business day. A one hundred
dollars ($100.00) reconnect fee will be assessed for all water services turned
off/on for non-payment.
   C.   Liability Of Consumer For Charges: The consumer is responsible and
liable for paying the water service charges for service furnished to the
premises registered by the meter in accordance with the charges now or as
hereafter may be fixed by city ordinance. "Consumer" shall include both the
occupant(s) and the owner(s) of the premises, including both tenant and
landlord, such that the occupant(s) and the owner(s) shall be jointly and
severally liable for any such charges for service to the premises, Acceptance
of such joint and several liability is a condition for receipt of water
service, and payment of such charges therefor shall be a condition for
continuing service under this chapter.
   D.   Failure Of Meter To Register: If a meter at any time fails to register
the quantity of water, the quantity shall be estimated, and the charge to be
made shall be based on the average quantity registered during such reasonable
period of time prior to the date of the failure as the superintendent of the
waterworks and sewerage system may direct. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973; amd. Ord.
10-2002, 11-11-2002; Ord. 06-2007, 7-9-2007; Ord. 01-2015, 3-9-2015; 2017 Code;
Ord. 02-2019, 4-23-2019; Ord. 08-2019, 8-12-2019; Ord. 03-2024, 4-8-2024)
6-2-7: INTERFERENCE WITH SYSTEM PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere in any manner with any water
main, fire hydrant, service pipe or any other accessories thereof connected
with the city waterworks and sewerage system without application therefor as
provided in this chapter. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973; amd. 2017 Code)
6-2-8: WASTE OF WATER; WATER LEAKS:
   A.   Waste Of Water:
      1.   If it shall be found that there is an unreasonable or unnecessary
waste of water in any building, structure or premises to which water is
supplied from the city's waterworks and sewerage system, through or by means of
a leak in any water pipe located in any such building or structure or in or on
any such premises, the waterworks and sewerage system may cause the water
supply to be cut off from such building, structure or premises unless such
waste shall be stopped or shall cease within twenty-four (24) hours after there
shall have been given notice to the owner, occupant or person in possession,
charge or control of such building, structure or premises to stop such waste.
      2.   In cases where the water supply is cut off from any building,
structure or premises on account of a neglect, failure or refusal of any person
so notified to stop such leak, the water supply shall not again be turned on
until the cost and expense to the city of cutting off and again turning on the
water supply shall have been paid by such owner, occupant or person in
possession, charge or control.
   B.   Water Leaks: In the event that a leak occurs at a site between the
meter and the user premises, the expense of repairing the leak is the sole and
exclusive obligation of the user. In the event of the discovery of such a leak
or a probable leak, the user shall have the following options:
      1.   The user may repair the leak within five (5) working days from the
date the city notifies the user in writing of such leak or probable leak.
Notice sent by U.S. mail to the last address provided to the city for billing
purposes shall be considered sufficient notice. In the event that the leak is
repaired within said five (5) days, then the water bill for the user shall be
adjusted based upon average usage over the three (3) months immediately
preceding the discovery of the leak. The user must notify the city in writing
of the repair of the leak within said five (5) working days for purposes of
this subsection.
      2.   The user may notify the city in writing to cut off the water service
to the premises until the leak is repaired by the user. The water bill for the
user shall be adjusted based upon an average usage over the three (3) months
immediately preceding the cutoff of water services. Upon repair of the leak by
the user and written notification thereof to the city, water service shall be
returned to the premises at no charge to the user.
      3.   The user may disregard repairing the leak and/or notifying the city
to cut off the water service to the premises, in which case, no adjustment
shall be made to the user's water bill. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973; amd. Ord. 08-
93, 10-11-1993; Ord. 03-2024, 4-8-2024)
6-2-9: RIGHT OF ACCESS OF ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS:
   A.   No person shall, in any manner, obstruct, or cause to be obstructed,
the free access of any officer or employee of the waterworks and sewerage
system to any stopcock, meter, shutoff box or connection with any water main or
service pipe by any means, shift or device whatsoever, or refuse or prevent
free access thereto by such officer or employee whenever such officer or
employee shall desire access thereto.
   B.   The officers, agents and employees of the city waterworks and sewerage
system shall have free access to all and every part of any building, structure
or premises to which water is supplied from the city's water system for the
purpose of examining the water pipes, taps and fixtures therein or thereon
whenever such examination is deemed necessary or advisable in order to
ascertain whether there is any unnecessary waste of water or whether there is
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Any person in possession, charge or control of any such building,
structure, or premises, into which any such officer or person shall desire to
make entry or to have access for the purposes herein specified, who shall
refuse to permit such entry or access or who shall do or cause to be done any
act or thing for the purposes of preventing such entry or access, shall be
subject to a fine as provided in section 6-1-7 of this title. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-
20-1973)
ARTICLE A.CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
6-2A-1: Cross Connections Restricted
6-2A-2: Surveys And Investigations
6-2A-3: Backflow Prevention Devices
6-2A-4: Inspections
6-2A-5: Violations; Disconnection Of Water Service; Reconnection Fee
6-2A-6: Responsibility For Cleanup Costs
6-2A-1: CROSS CONNECTIONS RESTRICTED:
No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be established or
maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary
or emergency water supply other than the regular public water supply of the
city enters the supply or distribution system of the city, unless such private,
auxiliary or emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of
such supply shall have been approved by the superintendent of the waterworks
and sewerage system and the Illinois environmental protection agency. (Ord. 09-
88, 12-12-1988)
6-2A-2: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of the waterworks and sewerage
system to cause surveys and investigations to be made of commercial, industrial
and other properties served by the public water supply to determine whether
actual or potential hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys
and investigations shall be made a matter of public record and shall be
repeated at least every two (2) years, or as often as the superintendent of the
waterworks and sewerage system shall deem necessary. Records of such surveys
shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least five (5)
years. (Ord. 09-88, 12-12-1988)
6-2A-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICES:
All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in accordance with
the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code 890. If, in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the
superintendent of the waterworks and sewerage system, an approved backflow
prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water supply
system, the superintendent will give notice to the water customer to install
such an approved device immediately. The water customer shall, at his own
expense, install such an approved device at a location and in a manner in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection
agency and all applicable local regulations, and shall have inspections and
tests made of such approved devices upon installation and as required by the
Illinois plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency and local
regulations. (Ord. 09-88, 12-12-1988)
6-2A-4: INSPECTIONS:
The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying
the presence or absence of cross connections, and the superintendent of the
waterworks and sewerage system or his authorized agent shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying
information submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection
control inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property
so served shall furnish to the superintendent of the waterworks and sewerage
system any information which he may request regarding the piping system or
systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such information, when
demanded, shall, with the discretion of the superintendent, be deemed evidence
of the presence of improper connections as provided in this article. (Ord. 09-
88, 12-12-1988)
6-2A-5: VIOLATIONS; DISCONNECTION OF WATER SERVICE; RECONNECTION FEE:
The superintendent of the waterworks and sewerage system is hereby authorized
and directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof,
the water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this article is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to
such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated
or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this article, and until a
reconnection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) is paid to the city.
Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the
superintendent is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the
public water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided, that in the
reasonable opinion of the superintendent of the waterworks and sewerage system
or the Illinois environmental protection agency, such action is required to
prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the public water
supply. Neither the city nor its agents or assigns shall be liable to any
customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from
termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of
this article, whether or not said termination was with or without notice. (Ord.
09-88, 12-12-1988; amd. 2017 Code; Ord. 03-2024, 4-8-2024)
6-2A-6: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP COSTS:
The consumer responsible for back siphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs through an
illegal cross connection, or an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed must bear the cost of cleanup of
the potable water supply system. (Ord. 09-88, 12-12-1988)
CHAPTER 3
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Use Of Public Sewers Required
6-3-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
6-3-4: Application For Sewer Service And Tap; Deposit And Fees
6-3-5: Building Sewers And Connections
6-3-6: Use Of The Sewer System
6-3-6-1:    Discharges Into System
6-3-6-2:    Interceptors
6-3-6-3:    Preliminary Treatment
6-3-6-4:    Control Facility
6-3-6-5:    Measurements, Tests And Analyses
6-3-6-6:    Special Agreements
6-3-7: Rates And Charges
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
BOD (Denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20°C), expressed in parts per
million by weight.
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer that begins five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
CITY: The city of Athens, Menard County, Illinois, and any reference to within
the city shall mean all territory within the perimeter of the corporate
boundaries.
GARBAGE: Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct from
sanitary sewage derived from residences, business buildings and institutions.
mg/l: Milligrams per liter; "ppm" shall mean parts per million; "mg/l" and
"ppm" are equivalent.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface water or groundwater.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE: The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") in any dimension.
PUBLIC SEWER: An interceptor or lateral sewer tributary to the sewage treatment
works.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater, surface
water, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
SEWAGE: A combination of the water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments.
SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT: Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
SEWAGE WORKS: All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SUPERINTENDENT: The superintendent or manager of the waterworks and sewerage
system of the city, or his authorized deputy, agent or representative.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Any solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids, and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
WATERCOURSE: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-3-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   A.   Discharge Of Human And Animal Wastes: It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in an insanitary manner
upon public or private property within the city, or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal excrement, garbage, or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Discharge To Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any
natural outlet within the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
city, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with this chapter.
   C.   Private Systems: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-
1973)
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owner of all dwellings,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other human purpose, situated within the city and abutting on any street, alley
or right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located a
public sanitary sewer owned by the city is hereby required at his expense to
install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such facilities with
the proper public sewer of the city in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, within six (6) months after the date of official notice to do so;
provided, that said public sewer is within one hundred feet (100') of the
property line. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973; amd. 2017 Code)
6-3-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Private Systems Permitted: Where a public sanitary sewer of the city is
not available under the provisions of subsection 6-3-2D of this chapter, the
building's sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system
complying with the provisions of this section.
   B.   Permit Requirements:
      1.   Permits Required: Before commencement of construction of a private
sewage disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by
the superintendent of the waterworks and sewerage system. A state environmental
protection agency permit shall also be obtained when required by state law.
      2.   Application For Permit: The application for the permit shall be made
on a form furnished by the city, which the applicant shall supplement by any
plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the
superintendent.
      3.   Permit And Inspection Fee: A permit and inspection fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) shall be paid to the city treasurer at the time the
application is filed.
   C.   Installation And Inspection: A permit for a private sewage disposal
system shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
satisfaction of the superintendent. He shall be allowed to inspect the work at
any stage of construction, and in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within forty eight (48) hours of the receipt of notice by the superintendent.
   D.   Specifications: The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private
sewage disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the
environmental protection agency of the state of Illinois. No permit shall be
issued for any private sewage disposal system employing subsurface soil
absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than a size suitable
for installation of an effective system. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any public sewer or natural outlet.
   E.   Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the
city.
   F.   Availability Of Public Sewer; Connection Required: At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage
disposal system, as provided in subsection
6-3-2D of this chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
   G.   Additional Regulations: No statement contained in this section shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the city or the state of Illinois. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-3-4: APPLICATION FOR SEWER SERVICE AND TAP; DEPOSIT AND FEES:
   A.   Each applicant for sewer service shall file with the city waterworks
and sewerage system an application therefor, in writing, setting forth the name
of the applicant, the location of the premises for which service is sought, the
name of the owner of the premises, if other than the applicant, and the nature
of the service. For applicants who are not currently paying for and receiving
city sewer service and for those applicants who have been provided city sewer
service and have been more than sixty (60) days delinquent on their sewer bill,
a one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) security deposit with the application
shall be required which shall be refundable (unless there is a default in
payment of sewer bills) as follows:
      1.   If the applicant is the owner in fee simple of the pertinent
premises, the deposit shall be refunded upon the cessation of ownership of the
premises unless there has been a default in timely payment of the sewer bill,
in which case, the defaulted sum shall be deducted from the payment due, and an
additional deposit payment so as to maintain a security deposit of one hundred
fifty dollars ($150.00) shall then be due.
      2.   If the applicant is purchasing the pertinent premises on a contract
for deed or installment contract, the deposit shall be refunded upon cessation
of ownership of the premises unless there has been a default in timely payment
of the sewer bill, in which case, the defaulted sum shall be deducted from the
payment due, and an additional deposit payment so as to maintain a security
deposit of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) shall then be due.
      3.   If the applicant is leasing the pertinent premises, the deposit
shall be refunded at the time that the lease (or extension thereof) expires.
   B.   The owner in fee simple of any premises leased shall be jointly and
severally liable with the lessee for all sums due under this chapter.
   C.   No interest shall be payable on any refunded security deposit.
   D.   If sewer service for any applicant is thereafter terminated for
nonpayment of sewer bills, the refund period shall recommence for the
applicable period on the date the delinquent bill is paid. The security deposit
shall be held by the city as security for payment for the sewers used by the
applicant and may be so applied by the city when said applicant's sewer bill is
in default as provided herein.
   E.   Each applicant for sewer service tap-on shall provide a plan of,
specifications of, and cost estimate of such connection, tap-on, and all sewer
lines to be used in said proposed service from the point of the tap-on to the
point of use and remit a tap-on fee to the city in the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each tap-on within or without the city limits. Said sum
shall be in addition to the sums required for applicants for sewer service.
   F.   A reconnection fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be due prior
to any reconnection. (Ord. 07-2014, 8-11-2014; amd. Ord. 01-2015, 3-9-2015;
Ord. 03-2024, 4-8-2024)
6-3-5: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Permit To Connect:
      1.   Permit Required: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
superintendent, as per subsection
6-3-3B of this chapter. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
      2.   Classes Of Permits; Applications: There shall be two (2) classes of
building sewer permits: a) for residential and commercial service; and b) for
service to establishments producing industrial wastes. In either case, the
owner or his agent shall make application on a special form furnished by the
city. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the superintendent. (Ord. O-7-79, 8-6-1979; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building; except, where one building stands at the
rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be
conveniently constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley,
court, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be
extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   C.   Use Of Existing Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test by the
superintendent, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   D.   Installation And Connection Requirements And Specifications:
      1.   The building sewer shall be cast iron soil pipe, ASTM specification
A-74, latest revision, or equivalent; vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM
specification C-13 or C-200, latest revision, or equivalent; or other suitable
material approved by the superintendent. Joints shall be tight and waterproof.
Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet (10') of a water
service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe with leaded joints or
equal substitute. Cast iron pipe with leaded joints may be required by the
superintendent where the building sewer is exposed to damage by tree roots. If
installed in filled unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron
soil pipe; except, that nonmetallic material may be accepted if laid on a
suitable concrete bed or cradle as approved by the superintendent.
      2.   All joints in vitrified clay pipe shall be compression type joints
conforming to ASTM specification C-425, latest revision. Joints for cast iron
soil pipe shall be lead and oakum, compression joint using rubber gasket, or
no-hub joint using neoprene gasket and stainless steel clamp. Joints between
dissimilar materials or materials not mentioned shall be by suitable adapter
fitting or other method approved by the superintendent. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-
1973)
      3.   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the
approval of the superintendent, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
four inches (4") for single-family residential buildings or less than six
inches (6") for all other buildings. The slope of such pipe up to and including
six inches (6") shall be not less than one-eighth inch (1/8") per foot. For
larger sizes of pipe, the minimum slopes shall be according to all state and
local regulations. (Ord. O-8-74, 1974)
      4.   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be
laid parallel to any bearing wall if within three feet (3') of any said wall,
which might thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford
protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade and in
straight alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction or grade shall be
allowed only when a proper manhole is constructed at the location of the
change.
      5.   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer.
      6.   a. All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the superintendent. Pipe
laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with ASTM specification C-
12, latest revision; except, that no backfill shall be placed until the work
has been inspected.
         b.   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city and
any other governmental agency affected.
      7.   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the Y or T branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location.
If the public sewer is twelve inches (12") in diameter or less and no properly
located Y or T branch is available, the owner shall, at his expense, install a
Y or T branch in the public sewer at the location specified by the
superintendent. Where the public sewer is greater than twelve inches (12") in
diameter, and no properly located Y branch is available, a neat hole may be cut
into the public sewer to receive the building sewer, with entry in the
downstream direction at an angle of about forty five degrees (45°). A forty
five degree (45°) ell may be used to make such connection, with the spigot end
cut so as not to extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. The invert
of the building sewer at the point of connection shall be at the same or at a
higher elevation than the invert of the public sewer, but no higher than a
point one-half (1/2) the vertical distance between the invert and the crown of
the sewer. A smooth, neat joint shall be made and the connection made secure
and watertight by encasement in concrete. Special fittings may be used for the
connection only when approved by the superintendent. Manholes shall be
constructed at any junction of a ten inch (10") diameter line or larger into a
public sewer.
   E.   Inspections: The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the superintendent or his representative.
   F.   Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incident to
the installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
owner. The owner shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer
and the maintenance of said sewer. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-3-6: USE OF THE SEWER SYSTEM:
6-3-6-1: DISCHARGES INTO SYSTEM:
   A.   Stormwater And Surface Waters:
      1.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, footing tile or subsurface
drainage, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters into any
sanitary sewer.
      2.   A dwelling, building or other structure that requires a sump pump,
because of the infiltration of water into a basement, crawl space, or other
subsurface enclosure, so as to discharge excess water shall have a permanently
installed discharge line that shall not, at any time, discharge water into the
sanitary sewage system. A permanently installed discharge line shall consist of
a rigid discharge line, without valves or quick connections for altering the
path of discharge, and shall be a line that: a) provides for year round
discharge capability to the outside of the dwelling, building or structure; or
b) is connected to the storm sewer; or c) discharges into the street or
drainage easement.
      3.   Every person owning or occupying improved real estate that
discharges into the sanitary sewer system of the city shall, upon reasonable
prior notice, allow an authorized employee of the city or a designated
representative of the city to inspect the dwelling, building, or structure to
confirm that no prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system is
occurring, or will occur. Failure to allow inspection of the premises to assure
compliance may result in termination of sewer services to the dwelling,
building, or structure.
      4.   Any property owner or occupier of improved real estate subject to
this subsection A, who previously maintained any connection or installation
that is deemed in violation of this subsection A shall immediately remove such
connection or installation, or correct such connection or installation so as to
comply with the terms of this subsection A. Any disconnection performed so as
to comply with this subsection A shall be done in a workmanlike manner so as to
assure effective closure of the sanitary sewer system.
      5.   A violation of this subsection A shall be deemed to be a prohibited
tampering with the sanitary sewer system and subject to the penalties set forth
in section
6-1-7 of this title. (Ord. 10-2008, 7-14-2008)
   B.   Prohibited Discharges: Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following described waters or
wastes to any public sewer:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F). (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
      2.   Any water or waste which may contain more than one hundred
milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) of fat, oil or grease as determined by the
hexane extraction method. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973; amd. 2017 Code)
      3.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      4.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
      5.   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works.
      6.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or higher than 10.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      7.   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or create any hazard in the receiving
waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      8.   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such
materials at the sewage treatment plant.
      9.   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
      10.   Any of the following additional contaminants:
Pollutant Maximum
          Concentration (mg/l)
Pollutant                   Maximum
                            Concentration (mg/l)
Arsenic (total)             0.25
Barium (total)              2.0
Cadmium (total)             0.15
Chromium (total hexavalent) 0.3
Copper (total)              1.0
Cyanide                     0.025
Fluoride (total)            2.5
Iron (dissolved)            0.5
Iron (total)                2.0
Lead (total)                0.1
Manganese (total)           1.0
Mercury (total)             0.0005
Nickel (total)              1.0
Phenols                     0.3
Selenium (total)            1.0
Silver                      0.1
Total dissolved solids      3,500.0
Zinc (total)                1.0
 
   C.   Restricted Discharges:
      1.   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having:
         a.   A five (5) day biochemical oxygen demand greater than three
hundred (300) parts per million by weight; or
         b.   Containing more than three hundred fifty (350) parts per million
by weight of suspended solids; or
         c.   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in subsection B of this section; or
         d.   Having an average daily flow greater than two percent (2%) of the
average daily sewage flow of the municipal sewerage treatment plant;
shall be subject to the review and approval of the superintendent.
      2.   Where necessary, in the opinion of the superintendent, the owner
shall provide, at his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
         a.   Reduce the biochemical oxygen demand to three hundred (300) parts
per million and the suspended solids to three hundred fifty (350) parts per
million by weight; or
         b.   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits provided in subsection B of this section; or
         c.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of such waters or
wastes.
      3.   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the superintendent and of the environmental protection agency of
the state of Illinois, and no construction of such facilities shall be
commenced until said approvals are obtained in writing. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-
1973)
6-3-6-2: INTERCEPTORS:
   A.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors or retainers shall be provided when,
in the opinion of the superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of the liquid wastes containing grease, oils, or sand in excessive
amounts, or any flammable wastes, or other harmful ingredients; except, that
such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units.
   B.   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
superintendent and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
   C.   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious
materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature.
They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily
removable covers which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
   D.   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-3-6-3: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT:
Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his expense. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-3-6-4: CONTROL FACILITY:
When required by the superintendent, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable metering and
sampling facility in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such facility, when required, shall be accessibly
and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved
by the superintendent. The facility shall be installed by the owner at his
expense, and shall be maintained by him so as to be safe and accessible to the
superintendent at all times. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-3-6-5: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in subsections 6-3-6-1B and C of this chapter
shall be determined in accordance with "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Sewage", latest edition, or a method approved by the superintendent,
and shall be determined at the control facility provided for in section
6-3-6-4 of this chapter, or upon suitable samples taken at said control
facility. In the event that no special facility has been required, the control
facility shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected, provided the
superintendent shall be permitted to take samples within the premises of the
user, including lagoon, ponds and other places. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-3-6-6: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this section
6-3-6 shall be construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement
between the city and any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city for treatment,
subject to payment therefor by the industrial concern. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973)
6-3-7: RATES AND CHARGES:
A reasonable charge shall be made to the users of the sewerage system and shall
be based upon water consumption.
   A.   Rates Established: The sewer rates shall be as follows:
 
Water Consumption Per Month Monthly Charge
1,000 gallons or less       $26.39
More than 1,000 gallons     $26.39, plus $6.61 per each additional 1,000
                            gallons or part thereof
 
   B.   Bills For Service: All charges for sewerage service shall be billed on
the last day of the month following the meter reading or estimate of use, and
shall be due and payable on or before the tenth day of the month following such
reading.
   C.   The rates established in this section shall be effective on May 1,
2024, and shall increase at a rate of the consumer price index rate or at a
minimum of four percent (4%), whichever is greater, on May 1 each year
thereafter unless otherwise amended by the Athens City Council.
   D.   Late And Delinquent Payments:
      1.   There will be a ten percent (10%) penalty added to each sewer bill
that is unpaid on or before the penalty date, which shall be ten (10) days
after the due date appearing on the monthly statement to the customer, unless
said penalty date shall fall on a Sunday or holiday, in which case, the penalty
date shall be the next succeeding secular day.
      2.   If such payment is not paid on or before the penalty date, an
additional charge or penalty of ten percent (10%) will be added to the amount
billed.
      3.   Bills shall be due the fifteenth of each month. Any account not paid
by the fifteenth of each month shall be the delinquency date and should the
charges not be paid by said date, the water service will be discontinued
without notice and will not be restored until the delinquency is paid in full
with an additional one hundred dollar ($100.00) service fee to cover the cost
of restoring service.
   E.   Liability Of Consumer For Charges: The consumer is responsible and
liable for paying the sewer service charges for service furnished to the
premises registered by the water meter in accordance with the charges now or as
hereafter may be fixed by city including both tenant and landlord, such that
the occupant(s) and the owner(s) shall be jointly and severally liable for any
such charges for service to the premises. Acceptance of such joint and several
liability is a condition for receipt of sewer service, and payment of such
charges therefor shall be a condition for continuing service under this
chapter. (Ord. O-5-73, 2-20-1973; Ord. 06-2007, 7-9-2007; Ord. 01-2015, 3-9-
2015; 2017 Code; Ord. 03-2019, 4-23-2019; Ord. 03-2024, 4-8-2024)
TITLE 7
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
7-1-1: Findings Of Fact
7-1-2: Purpose And Intent
7-1-3: Application And Interpretation
7-1-4: Compliance With Provisions
7-1-5: Rules And Definitions
7-1-6: Standards
7-1-6-1: Exterior Property Areas
7-1-6-2: Maintenance Of Dwellings And Dwelling Units
7-1-6-3: Basic Equipment And Facilities
7-1-6-4: Light, Ventilation And Heating
7-1-6-5: Space, Use And Location
7-1-6-6: Rooming Houses
7-1-6-7: Security
7-1-7: Responsibilities Of Owners And Occupants
7-1-8: Enforcement
7-1-1: FINDINGS OF FACT:
It is hereby found and declared there exists in the city premises used,
designed, or intended for human habitation which are, or may become in the near
future, substandard with respect to structure, equipment or maintenance, and
further, that such conditions, together with inadequate provisions for light
and air, insufficient protection against fire hazards, lack of proper heating,
unsanitary conditions and overcrowding constitute a menace to the health,
safety, morals, welfare and reasonable comfort of its citizens. It is further
found and declared that the existence of such conditions, factors, or
characteristics has created and will continue to create slum and blighted areas
requiring large scale clearance, and further, that in the absence of corrective
measures, such areas will experience a deterioration of social values, a
curtailment of investment and tax revenues, and an impairment of economic
values. It is further found and declared that the establishment and maintenance
of minimum housing standards are essential to the prevention of blight and
decay and the safeguarding of public health, safety, morals and welfare. (Ord.
01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
7-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, morals and
welfare of the people of the city by establishing minimum standards governing
the condition, occupancy and maintenance of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming
houses, multiple dwellings, rooming units and premises; establish minimum
standards governing utilities, facilities and other physical components and
conditions essential to make dwellings, dwelling units, rooming units, rooming
houses, multiple dwellings and premises safe, sanitary and fit for human
habitation; fix certain responsibilities and duties of the owners, operators,
agents and occupants of dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, multiple
dwellings and rooming units unfit for human habitation; and fix penalties for
the violations declared to be remedial and essential to the public interest,
and it is intended that this chapter be liberally constructed to effectuate the
purposes as stated in this section. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
7-1-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Every position of a building or premises used, designed, or intended to
be used for any dwelling purpose, except temporary housing being utilized for
recreational purposes, shall comply with the provisions of this chapter,
irrespective of when such building shall have been constructed, altered or
repaired; and irrespective of any permit or license which shall have been
issued for that construction or repair of the building, or for the installation
or repair of equipment or of the facilities prior to the effective date hereof.
This chapter establishes minimum standards otherwise established for the use of
building facilities or equipment except as provided in subsection B of this
section.
   B.   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any zoning, building, electrical, plumbing, fire,
safety, or health ordinance, code or regulation of the city regulating existing
buildings, the provision which establish the most restrictive standard shall
prevail. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015; Ord. 2025-01, 4-14-2025)
7-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
All departments and officials of the city having the duty or authority to issue
permits or licenses in regard to the construction, installation, or repair of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units, multiple dwellings,
equipment, or facilities shall conform to the provisions of this chapter, and
no such permit or license shall be issued if such would be in conflict
therewith. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
7-1-5: RULES AND DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the words “dwelling”, “dwelling units”, “rooming units”, “premises”,
or “structure” are used in this chapter, they shall be construed as though they
were followed by the words “or any part thereof’. Words used in the singular
include the plural, and in the plural the singular; the masculine gender
includes the feminine and the feminine the masculine.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A detached structure which is not used and not intended to
be used for living or sleeping by human occupants and which is located on the
same premises as a principal structure and the use of such accessory structure
is incidental to the principal structure.
APPROVED: Approved by the zoning division of the city of Athens, Illinois.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building partly underground by having more than
half its clear floor to ceiling height above the average grade of the adjoining
ground.
BATHROOM Enclosed space containing one or more bathtubs, showers, or both, and
which may also include toilets, lavatories, or fixtures serving similar
purposes.
BUILDING: A combination of any materials, whether portable or fixed, having a
roof to form a structure affording shelter for persons, animals or property.
The word building shall be construed, when used herein, as though followed by
the words or parts thereof unless the context clearly requires a different
meaning.
DWELLING: Any building which is wholly or partly used, designed, or intended to
be used for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided, that temporary
housing , as defined herein, shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
DWELLING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling forming a
single habitable unit with facilities which are used, designed, or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, working, and eating.
EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS: Open spaces on the premises and vacant open space on
adjacent premises.
EXTERMINATION: The control and elimination of insects, rodents, or other pests
by eliminating their harborages; by removing or making inaccessible materials
that may serve as their food; by poisoning, spraying, fumigating, or trapping;
or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination methods approved by the
proper authorities.
FLOOR AREA: The total horizontal area of habitable space.
GARBAGE: Anything that may decompose and become offensive or dangerous to
health including, but not limited to, waste products resulting from the
handling, storage, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
GRADE (GROUND LEVEL): The average of the finished ground level. In case walls
are parallel to and within five feet (5') of a sidewalk, the said finished
ground level shall be measured at the sidewalk.
HABITABLE ROOM: A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, cooking, or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, furnace rooms, pantries, and utility rooms of
less than fifty (50) square feet, foyers, or communicating corridors,
stairways, closets, storage spaces, and workshops, hobby and recreation areas
below ground level or in attics.
HOT WATER: Water heated to a temperature of not less than one hundred degrees
Fahrenheit (100 F) at the outlet.
HOTEL AND MOTEL: See definition of Rooming House.
INFESTATION: The presence, within or contiguous to a dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, multiple dwelling, rooming unit, or premises of insects,
rodents, vermin and other pests.
KITCHEN: Any room containing any or all of the following equipment, or any area
of a room within three feet (3') of such equipment: sink or other device for
dishwashing, stove or other device for cooking, refrigerator or other device
for cold storage of food, cabinets or shelves for storage or cooking equipment
and utensils, and counter or table for food preparation.
LEAD BEARING SUBSTANCE: Any paint, plaster, or other material or substance
containing more than six-tenths of one percent (0.6%) by weight (calculated as
lead metal) in the total nonvolatile content of liquid paints or in the dried
film of paint previously applied.
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled, movable dwelling designed and constructed to
be towed on its chassis, comprised of frame wheels, to be used without a
permanent foundation, and distinguishable from other types of dwellings in that
the standards to which it is built include provisions for its mobility on that
chassis as a vehicle. Removal of the tongue, wheels, or hitch, or placement of
the structure upon a permanent foundation shall not be considered in
determining whether or not a structure is a mobile home.
MULTIPLE DWELLING: Any dwelling containing more than two (2) dwelling units
and/or rooming units.
OCCUPANT: Any person living, sleeping, cooking, or eating in, or having actual
possession of, a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
OPERATOR: Any person who has charge, care or control of a multiple dwelling,
hotel, motel or rooming house in which dwelling units or rooming units are let
or offered for occupancy.
ORDINARY WINTER CONDITIONS: Outside design temperature is minus ten degrees
Fahrenheit (-10 F).
OWNER: Any person or entity who shall have a legal, equitable or beneficial
interest in the subject real estate, or any improvements thereto; or a
reversionary leasehold interest in the subject real estate, or any improvements
thereto; or a capacity to manage the subject real estate or any improvements
thereto pursuant to an order of court, power, or agreement.
PERMISSIBLE OCCUPANCY: The maximum number of persons permitted to reside in a
dwelling unit or rooming unit.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, corporation, association or partnership.
PLUMBING: All of the following facilities and equipment: gas pipes, gas burning
equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal units, waste pipes, water closets,
sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories, bathtubs, showers, installed clothes
washing machines, catch basins, drains, vents, and any other similar equipment
and fixtures, and the installation thereof, together with all connections to
water, sewer or gas lines.
POTABLE WATER: Water duly approved as satisfactory and safe for drinking by the
Illinois environmental protection agency.
PREMISES: A lot, plot or parcel of land including any buildings or structures
thereon.
PUBLIC SEWER: A sewerage system operated by the city of Athens, Illinois, and
available for public use.
RAT HARBORAGE: Any place where rats can live, nest or find shelter.
RATPROOFING: A form of construction which will prevent the ingress or egress of
rats to or from a given space or building, or gaining access to food, water, or
rat harborage. Ratproofing consists of the closing and keeping closed of every
opening in foundations, basements, cellars, exterior and interior walls, ground
or first floors, roofs, sidewalk gratings, sidewalk openings, and other places
that may be reached and entered by rats by climbing, burrowing or other
methods, by the use of materials impervious to rat gnawing and other methods
approved by the appropriate authority.
ROOMING HOUSE: Any dwelling or part of a dwelling containing one or more
rooming units in which space is rented by the owner or operator to three (3) or
more persons who are not the husband and wife, father or mother, son or
daughter, grandparent or grandchild, brother or sister, uncle or aunt, nephew
or niece or cousin of the first degree of the owner or operator.
ROOMING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms intended to be used for living or
sleeping but not for cooking purposes.
RUBBISH: Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage.
SEWAGE: Waste from a flush toilet, bath, sink, lavatory, or dishwashing or
laundry machine, or the water carried waste from any other fixture or equipment
or machine.
STRUCTURE: A combination of any materials, whether fixed or portable, forming
construction, including buildings. The word structure shall be construed as
though followed by the words or part or parts thereof .
SUPPLIED FACILITIES: Facilities paid for, furnished or provided by, or under
the control of the owner or operator.
TEMPORARY HOUSING: Any tent, recreational vehicle as defined by 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes or other structure used for human shelter which is designed
to be transportable and which is not attached to the ground, to another
structure or to any utility system for more than five (5) consecutive days.
Temporary Housing shall not be utilized in excess of five (5) days in a
calendar year. Temporary housing attached to any utility at any point in a 24
hour period shall constitute one (1) day of utilization.
VENTILATION: Supply and removal of air to and from any space by natural or
mechanical means.
VENTILATION, MECHANICAL: Ventilation by opening to outer air through windows,
skylights, doors, louvers, or stacks with wind driven devices. (Ord. 01-2014,
6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015; Ord. 2025-01, 4-14-2025)
7-1-6: STANDARDS:
7-1-6-1: EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS:
No person shall own or occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit which does not comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Free From Hazards:
      1.   Exterior property areas shall be free from conditions which might
create a health, accident or fire hazard, or which might endanger the public
welfare including, but not limited to, holes and excavations, sharp
protrusions, barbed wire (unless 6 feet above the ground), sheer embankments,
inoperative or abandoned vehicles or machinery, unused household goods or
appliances and other objects or materials.
      2.   Walks, steps, and driveways that contain holes or tripping hazards
shall be filled, repaired, or replaced as necessary.
      3.   Open wells, cesspools, septic tanks or cisterns shall be kept
securely closed if in approved use. If they are not in approved use, they must
be filled with natural soil.
   B.   Rubbish And Garbage: Disposal of rubbish and other refuse shall be done
in accordance with all regulations of the city.
   C.   Fences:
      1.   Materials: All fences provided by the owner or agent on the premises
and/or all fences erected by an occupant shall be constructed of manufactured
metal fencing material, wood, masonry or other material.
      2.   Maintenance:
         a.   Fences shall be maintained in good condition.
         b.   Wood materials, other than decay resistant wood, shall be
protected against decay by use of paint or other preservative. Any paint or
other protective material must be maintained free of deterioration, in sound
condition and good repair.
      3.   Height: The permissible height and other characteristics of all
fences shall conform to the appropriate statutes, ordinances and regulations of
the city and state.
      4.   Egress: Wherever any egress from the dwelling opens into the fenced
area, there shall be a means of egress from the premises to any public way
adjacent thereto.
   D.   Accessory Structures:
      1.   Accessory structures present or provided by the owner, agent or
tenant occupant on the premises of a dwelling shall be structurally sound, and
be maintained in good repair and free from insects and rats, or such structures
shall be removed from the premises.
      2.   The exterior of such structure shall be made weather resistant
through the use of decay resistant materials or the use of paint or other
preservatives.
      3.   Paint or other protective coverings must be maintained free of
deterioration, in sound condition and good repair.
   E.   Sewage Disposal: Sewage must be discharged into a public sewer system
or an approved septic tank. Discharge of inadequately treated sewage shall not
be permitted upon the surface of the ground or into any natural or artificial
drainageway.
   F.   Weeds: Exterior property areas shall be kept free of all weeds which
are detrimental to the public health including, but not limited to, ragweed,
poison ivy, poison oak, and poison sumac.
   G.   Insect And Rodent Harborage: Where insect, rat or vermin breeding
areas, harborage, or infestation exist, the same shall be eliminated.
   H.   Storage Of Materials: In the event that occupancy usages would result
in stacking or piling materials, the materials shall be so arranged as to
prohibit the creation of a rat harborage area. Such shall be accomplished by
orderly stacking and elevating so that there will be at least a twelve inch
(12") opening between the material and the ground level. No stacking or piling
of material shall take place against the exterior walls of the structure. (Ord.
01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
7-1-6-2: MAINTENANCE OF DWELLINGS AND DWELLING UNITS:
No person shall own or occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit which does not comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Foundations, Floors, Walls, Ceilings And Roofs:
      1.   Every foundation, floor, wall, ceiling and roof shall be reasonably
weathertight and ratproof, shall afford privacy, and shall be kept in good
repair.
      2.   The foundation elements shall adequately support the building at all
points; floors shall be free of hazard; every exterior wall shall be free of
holes, breaks, loose or rotting boards and timbers, and any other conditions
which might admit rats, rain or dampness to the interior portions of the walls,
or the interior spaces of the dwelling; all exterior surface materials shall be
protected from the elements and decay by paint or other protective covering or
treatment, when required to prevent deterioration; any paint or other
protective materials must be maintained free of deterioration, in sound
condition and good repair.
      3.   Every interior wall shall be free of holes and large cracks, loose
plaster and other structural material.
      4.   The roof shall be tight and shall have no defects which admit rain.
      5.   All openings for pipes, conduits and other utility services
accessible to rats shall be closed solidly for the full thickness of the wall,
floor, roof, etc., with an approved ratproof material or fitted with a collar
or shield, securely fastened to the wall or floor, of not less than 24-gauge
galvanized sheet metal or other approved materials, extending at least three
inches (3") beyond all sides of the opening.
   B.   Lead Bearing Substances: No person shall sell, use, or apply any
substance in which the total nonvolatile ingredients contain more than six-
tenths of one percent (0.6%) of lead, by weight, calculated as metallic lead in
or upon any exposed interior surface of a dwelling, dwelling unit, or temporary
housing, nor in or upon any fixture or other object used, installed or located
in or upon such surface or intended to be so used, installed or located. Upon
notice from the city of the existence of any such substances herein prohibited,
it shall be the responsibility of the owner to remove or to securely and
permanently cover such surfaces within fourteen (14) days after the receipt of
such notice.
   C.   Windows, Exterior Doors And Basement Hatchways:
      1.   Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway shall be
reasonably watertight and rodentproof, and shall be kept in good working
condition and good repair.
      2.   Every opening located at or within one and one-half feet (11/2') of
ground level which might provide an entry for rats shall be adequately covered
with screening or some other device so as to effectively prevent the entrance
of rats but so as not to prevent emergency egress where such egress is
appropriate.
   D.   Stairs And Porches: Every inside and outside stair, every porch and
every appurtenance to any of the foregoing shall be safe to use and capable of
supporting the loads that normal use may cause to be placed thereon, and all of
the aforesaid shall be kept in sound condition and good repair. Every inside
and outside stair or step shall have uniform risers and uniform treads.
   E.   Handrails:
      1.   Structurally sound handrails shall be provided on any steps
containing five (5) risers or more. If steps are not enclosed, handrails and
balusters spaced no more than six inches (6") apart shall be provided.
      2.   Porches and balconies located more than three feet (3') higher than
the adjacent area shall have structurally sound protective handrails thirty
inches (30") to thirty six inches (36") high, and if unenclosed, balusters
spaced no more than six inches (6") apart shall also be provided.
      3.   Alternate systems providing at least the same degree of protection,
if approved by the appropriate authority, shall be acceptable.
   F.   Chimneys, Flues And Vents: All chimneys, flues, and vents on every
structure used for human habitation shall be structurally sound, free from
defects and capable of performing the function for which the same are designed
or used. Each shall have sufficient draft to develop the rated output of the
equipment. Chimneys, flues, gas vents and their supports shall be structurally
safe, durable, smoketight and capable of withstanding the action of flue gases.
   G.   Rubbish And Garbage: The interior of every structure used for human
habitation shall be maintained free from rubbish and garbage that might become
a health, accident or fire hazard. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
7-1-6-3: BASIC EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES:
No person shall own or occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit intended for the purposes of living, sleeping, cooking or eating
therein which does not comply with the following requirements:
   A.   Kitchen Equipment: A room or portion of a room in which food may be
prepared and/or cooked, such room or portion thereof having adequate
circulation area and being equipped with the following minimum equipment:
      1.   a. A kitchen sink in good working condition and properly connected
to a water and sewerage system in accordance with the applicable ordinances of
the city and the statutes of the state.
         b.   Cabinets or shelves for the storage of eating, drinking and
cooking equipment and utensils and of food that does not, under ordinary summer
conditions, require refrigeration for safekeeping.
         c.   A counter or table for food preparation.
All of the foregoing equipment shall be of sufficient size and design so as to
be adequate for the permissible occupancy of the dwelling or dwelling unit and
all shall have surfaces that are easily cleaned and that will not impart any
toxic or deleterious effect to food.
      2.   A stove or similar device for cooking food and a refrigerator or
similar device for the safe storage of food at temperatures less than fifty
degrees Fahrenheit (50°F) but more than thirty two degrees Fahrenheit (32°F)
under ordinary maximum summer conditions must be provided by the owner or
occupant. All must be properly installed with all necessary connections for
safe, sanitary and efficient operation. No stove, refrigerator or similar
devices aforesaid need to install, however, in any dwelling unit that is not
occupied if sufficient space and adequate connections are provided so that the
same may be installed immediately by owner or occupant upon any occupancy of
such dwelling or dwelling unit.
   B.   Toilet And Bathing Facilities:
      1.   A room affording privacy to a person within said room and which is
equipped with a flush water closet and lavatory basin, both in good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewage system in accordance
with the applicable ordinances of the city and the statutes of the state.
      2.   A room which affords privacy to a person within said room and which
is equipped with a bathtub or shower in good working condition and properly
connected to a water and sewage system in accordance with the applicable
ordinances of the city and statutes of the state.
      3.   The room containing the toilet facilities required by subsection B1
of this section and the room containing the bathing facilities required by the
provisions of subsection B2 of this section may be one and the same room.
   C.   Water Supply: Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, and bathtub or shower
required under the provisions of this chapter shall be properly connected with
both hot and cold water lines.
   D.   Water Heating Facilities: Every dwelling unit shall have water heating
facilities which are properly installed and connected and are capable of
heating water to such a temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, tub or shower at a
temperature of not less than one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120°F).
   E.   Garbage And Rubbish Storage Facilities:
      1.   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate garbage storage containers,
type and location of which conform to the ordinances, rules and regulation of
the city.
      2.   Every dwelling unit shall have adequate rubbish storage facilities,
type and location of which conform to the ordinances, rules and regulations of
the city.
   F.   Means Of Egress: Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed
means of egress leading to safe and open space at ground level, as required by
the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city.
   G.   Drugs And Poisons Storage Facilities: Each dwelling unit shall provide
for the safe storage of drugs and household poisons. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-9-2014,
eff. 1-1-2015)
   H.   Smoke Or Heat Detector: All dwellings and dwelling units shall have an
operable smoke or heat detector in the immediate area of the bedrooms. (Ord.
01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015; amd. 2017 Code)
   I.   Locks: No person shall let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit unless all exterior doors of the dwelling or dwelling unit are
equipped with safe, functioning locking devices, and are further made secure as
set forth in section
7-1-6-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
7-1-6-4: LIGHT, VENTILATION AND HEATING:
No person shall own or occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit intended for the purpose of living therein which does not comply
with the following requirements:
   A.   Lighting:
      1.   Every habitable room shall have at least one window or skylight
facing outdoors or artificial lighting capable of producing at least an average
illumination of six (6) foot-candles over the area of the room at a height of
thirty inches (30") above the floor (3 foot-candles minimum requirement in
bathrooms); except, that such rooms that are connected to another room or area
and such other room or area is used only seasonally (such as, but not limited
to, porches) and adequate daylight enters the said habitable room through the
interconnection, are not required to have such windows or skylights. The
minimum total window or skylight area shall be measured between stops and shall
be, for every room where required, equal to at least eight percent (8%) of the
floor area of the room in which located. No window shall be deemed to be facing
outdoors if any light obstructing structures are located less than three feet
(3') from such window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the
room in which such window is located, and the same shall not be included as
contributing to the required minimum total window area.
      2.   a. Every public hall and every stairway in every multiple dwelling
shall be adequately lighted by natural or electrical light at all times, so as
to provide, in all parts thereof, at least ten (10) foot-candles of light at
the tread or floor level.
         b.   Every public hall and every stairway in structures containing not
more than two (2) dwelling units or not more than two (2) rooms used as rooming
units shall comply with the provisions of this subsection A2 relating to
multiple dwellings or, in the alternative, shall be supplied with conveniently
located light switches controlling an adequate lighting system to be turned on
when needed with full time lighting not being required.
   B.   Ventilation:
      1.   Habitable Rooms: Every habitable room, excepting those connected to
another room or area that is used only seasonally and adequate ventilation is
provided through such interconnection, and further excepting those rooms
ventilated by some other approved device, shall have at least one window or
skylight facing outdoors which can be easily opened, or provided mechanical
exhaust of sixty (60) cfm, exhausted to the atmosphere above the roofline and
away from openable windows into which foul air might be blown. The total of
openable window or skylight area required shall be equal to at least four
percent (4%) of the floor area of the room in which it is located.
      2.   Bathrooms: Every bathroom and water closet compartment shall comply
with the ventilation requirements for habitable rooms as provided in subsection
B1 of this section.
   C.   Electrical Service: Where there is usable electrical service available
from power lines which are situated not more than three hundred feet (300')
from a dwelling, every dwelling unit situated in such dwelling and all public
and common areas of such dwelling shall be supplied with electrical service,
outlets and fixtures, which shall be properly installed with the use of
temporary wiring being strictly prohibited, shall be maintained in good and
safe working condition, and shall be connected to a source of electrical power
in a lawful manner. The minimum capacity of such services and the number of
outlets and fixtures shall be as follows:
      1.   Every habitable room shall have an electrical service and outlets
and/or fixtures capable of providing at least three (3) watts per square foot
of total floor area. Outlets should be distributed reasonably evenly around the
room. Extension cords may not be used for more than their UL rated capacity.
      2.   Every habitable room and every nonhabitable room used for food
preparation shall have at least one floor type or one wall type electrical
convenience outlet for each sixty (60) square feet or fraction thereof total
floor area, and in no case less than two (2) such outlets.
      3.   Every bathroom, water closet compartment, kitchen or kitchenette,
laundry room, furnace room and public hall shall contain at least one coiling
type or one wall type electrical light fixture.
   D.   Heating Facilities:
      1.   Every dwelling shall have permanent heating facilities which are
properly installed, maintained in safe and good working condition with proper
safety devices, and which are capable of safely and adequately heating all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit
located therein, to a temperature of at least sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit
(68°F) at a distance of thirty six inches (36") above floor level under
ordinary winter conditions. Permanent heating facilities are not capable of
being readily moved around the dwelling and are generally affixed directly to
the building. Examples of permanent heating facilities include, but are not
limited to, oil, gas, electric and coal furnaces or boilers; electrical heat
pumps; wood furnaces or stoves; electric baseboard heaters, active or passive
solar devices; or devices connected to a direct heating system. Permanent
heating facilities can be used singly or in combinations to meet the
performance standards contained herein.
      2.   Any auxiliary heater shall be UL approved and equipped with
automatic shutoff. All auxiliary heaters must be used in accordance with
manufacturer's instructions. Auxiliary heaters are intended to supplement the
permanent heating facilities. Auxiliary heating devices include, but are not
limited to, portable electric space heaters and portable kerosene or oil
heaters. The capacity of auxiliary heaters shall not be counted in determining
whether the performance standards for heating are met in a dwelling.
   E.   Insect Protection: During that portion of each year between May 1 and
October 1, both dates inclusive, every door opening directly from a dwelling
unit or rooming unit to outside space that is used for ventilation and every
window and other device with openings to outside space that is used or capable
of being used for ventilation shall have properly fitted screens having at
least sixteen (16) mesh so as to afford protection against mosquitoes, flies,
and other flying insects. Screens must be on premises and available for
inspection from October 2 through April 30, both dates inclusive. Also between
May 1 and September 30, all hinged screen doors shall be equipped with self-
closing devices. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
7-1-6-5: SPACE, USE AND LOCATION:
No person shall own or occupy or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit intended for the purpose of living therein which does not comply
with the following requirements:
   A.   Minimum Space:
      1.   Dwelling Units: The minimum habitable room space of any dwelling
unit shall be not less than one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor area
for the first occupant and not less than an additional one hundred (100) square
feet of floor area for every additional occupant.
      2.   Sleeping Rooms: Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one
occupant shall have a minimum floor area of at least seventy (70) square feet.
Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one occupant shall
contain at least fifty (50) square feet of floor area for each occupant.
   B.   Access To Bathrooms And Sleeping Rooms: Any dwelling or dwelling unit
containing two (2) or more sleeping rooms shall have such room arrangement so
as to provide access to a bathroom or water closet compartment so as to permit
persons using each of such sleeping rooms to have access to a bathroom or water
closet compartment without the necessity of passing through another sleeping
room and shall further have such room arrangement so as to provide access to
each sleeping room so as to permit persons using such sleeping room to have
access thereto without the necessity of passing through another sleeping room
or through any bathroom or water closet compartment.
   C.   Ceiling Height: At least one-half (1/2) the floor area of every
habitable room shall have a ceiling height of at least seven feet (7'). The
floor area of that part of any room where the ceiling height is less than five
feet (5') shall not be considered as a part of the floor area in computing the
total floor area of the room for the purpose of determining the minimum
permissible occupancy thereof.
   D.   Rooms Below Grade: Basements may be used as dwelling units if they meet
the light, ventilation, heating, egress and all other applicable portions of
this chapter. No basement space shall be deemed fit for or used as a habitable
room or dwelling unit unless the floor and walls thereof are impervious to
leakage of underground and surface runoff water and dampness. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-
9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
7-1-6-6: ROOMING HOUSES:
Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, no person shall
operate a rooming house or occupy or let to another for occupancy any rooming
house except in compliance with all applicable provisions of this chapter and
unless such rooming house complies with the following requirements:
   A.   Bathing And Toilet Facilities: At least one flush water closet and
lavatory basin and bathtub or shower, in good working condition and properly
connected to sewer and water systems in accordance with the applicable codes
and ordinances of the city and the laws of the state, shall be supplied for
each six (6) persons or fraction thereof residing within a rooming house,
including members of the operator's family wherever they share the use of said
facilities; provided, however, that in the case where rooms are rented only to
males, flush urinals may be substituted for not more than one- half (1/2) of
the required number of water closets. Such bathing and toilet facilities shall
be located within the dwelling as to be reasonably accessible from a common
hallway or passageway to all persons sharing such facilities. Every lavatory
basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot water at all times. No
such facilities as aforesaid that are located in a basement shall be considered
to meet the aforesaid requirements unless the same shall conform to the
provisions of subsection 7-1-6-5D of this chapter.
   B.   Bed Linen And Towels: Where bedding, bed linen or towels are supplied,
the owner or operator shall maintain the same in a clean and sanitary condition
and shall furnish clean bed linen and towels at least once each week and in any
event prior to the renting of any room to any occupant.
   C.   Rooming Unit: Every room constituting or being a part of a rooming unit
that is occupied for sleeping purposes shall comply with the standards set
forth in subsection B of this section, and shall, in addition, contain not less
than four (4) square feet of closet space per occupant.
   D.   Means Of Egress: Every rooming unit shall have immediate access to not
less than two (2) safe, unobstructed means of egress, with minimum headroom of
six feet four inches (6'4") leading to safe and open space at ground level.
   E.   Maintenance: Every rooming house shall be maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition and full compliance with those standards set forth in
section
7-1-6-2 of this chapter and this chapter.
   F.   Hot Air Heating System Returns: Where hot air heating systems are used,
no return air shall be circulated directly from one unit or sleeping room to
another.
   G.   Hotels And Motels: Every provision of this chapter applicable to
rooming houses shall apply equally to hotels and motels, except to the extent
that any of the provisions of this chapter may be found in conflict with and to
the extent prohibited by the laws of the state or the unlawful rules and
regulations of any state board or agency. Provided, further, that the
provisions of subsection 7-1-6-4A1 of this chapter, lighting in habitable
rooms, does not apply to hotels and motels if said hotels and motels meet the
requirements of subsection 7-1-6-4B1 of this chapter, ventilation in habitable
rooms. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015; amd. 2017 Code)
7-1-6-7: SECURITY:
   A.   Scope: All dwelling units within the city shall meet the minimum
requirements as set forth herein except structures which, although providing
sleeping accommodations, are primarily used for:
      1.   Medical care or other treatment of individuals suffering from
physical or mental illness, disease or infirmity;
      2.   The care of infants, convalescents, or the elderly;
      3.   Penal or corrective purposes; and
      4.   Hotel or motel purposes and which provide temporary sleeping
accommodations for hire used by transients with or without meals.
   B.   Alternative Materials And Methods Of Construction:
      1.   The provisions of this section are not intended to prevent the use
of any material or method of structural design or analysis not specifically
prescribed herein, provided any such alternate is substantiated by suitable
evidence.
      2.   The zoning division may approve any such alternate material or
method, provided the proposed design is satisfactory and the material or method
of work offered is, for the purposes intended, at least equivalent of that
prescribed in this section.
   C.   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply:
    CYLINDER: The part of a lock set that has an entrance for the key which
thereby activates the locking mechanism.
   CYLINDER GUARD: A hardened ring surrounding the exposed portion of the lock
cylinder or other device which is so fastened as to protect the cylinder from
wrenching, prying, cutting or pulling at attack tools.
   DEAD BOLT LOCK: A locking device with a bolt that has no automatic spring
action and which must, therefore, be operated manually by a key cylinder, thumb
turn, or lever, and is positively held fast when in the projected position
(also known as "deadlock").
   DEAD BOLT SINGLE CYLINDER: A dead bolt that is activated from the outside by
a key and from the inside by a knob, thumb turn, lever or similar mechanism.
   DORMITORY: A building, not open to transients, where lodging is provided for
ten (10) or more nonfamily persons, and no kitchen facilities other than one
central kitchen facility, are provided any dwelling unit occupied by persons
other than management personnel.
   FLUSH OR SURFACE BOLT: A deadlock normally used on inactive door(s) that is
attached to the top and bottom and/or side of the door and engages in the frame
and/or base of the door.
   HOOK OR EXPANDING BOLT: A dead bolt lock in which the bolt or bolts
interlock with the strike plate into which the bolt or bolts are projected.
   LOCKING DEVICE: A mechanical implement or combination of mechanical
implements attached to the door, window or other access points of a building or
structure which is designed to prevent unauthorized persons from entering the
building or structure through the door, window, or other access point on which
the locking device is activated.
   THROW: The outward movement of a bolt or spring bolt which is measured by
the distance which such a bolt travels, i.e., when the bolt or spring bolt is
moved from the open position to the locked position (extended), it is said to
have been thrown.
   D.   Multiple Dwellings, Dormitories And Rooming Houses: This section is not
intended to require exterior doors serving as the required means of egress to
the exterior of a multiple dwelling, dormitory and rooming house to swing
inward. Such doors in that respect shall comply with the provisions of the 2003
edition of the international building code. All other doors to individual
dwelling units within a multiple dwelling, dormitory or rooming house shall
comply with the following provisions:
      1.   Doors to individual dwelling units shall swing inward and meet the
following security standards:
         a.   Single doors shall be secured with a single cylinder dead bolt
having a minimum throw of one inch (1"). A hook or expanding bolt may have a
throw of three-fourths inch (3/4"). Any dead bolt must contain hardened
material to repel attempts at cutting through the bolt.
         b.   On pairs of doors, the active leaf shall be secured with the type
lock required for single doors in subsection D1a of this section. The inactive
leaf shall be equipped with flush or surface bolts protected by hardened
material with a minimum throw of three-fourths inch (3/4") at the head and foot
of the door. Multiple point locks, cylinder activated from the active leaf and
complying with subsection D1a of this section and the requirements herein may
be used in lieu of flush bolts.
         c.   Exterior doors to individual dwelling units shall have rabbeted
jambs which are reinforced at the point where the required lock engages the
jamb.
         d.   Firmly secured metal strike plates are required on the jambs of
all doors and are to be located at the point when the required lock engages the
jamb.
         e.   Locking devices and parts of locking devices shall not be used if
they bear any numbers or letters which would reveal a combination from which
the key or similar control device could be fashioned or selected which could
deactivate the locking device.
      2.   All patio type sliding doors opening onto patios or balconies which
are accessible from the outside shall comply with the following requirements:
         a.   Patio type sliding doors shall not be used or installed as
exterior doors for the main entrance of any individual dwelling unit.
         b.   All single sliding patio doors shall have the movable section of
the door sliding on the inside of the fixed portion of the door, except as
provided in subsection B1 of this section.
         c.   Deadlocks shall be provided on all single sliding patio doors. If
the lock is operable from the outside, it shall be activated by a key utilizing
a cylinder of pin tumbler construction. Mounting screws for the lock case shall
be inaccessible from the outside. Lock bolts shall be of hardened steel or have
hardened steel inserts and shall be capable of withstanding a force of three
hundred (300) pounds applied in any direction. The lock bolt shall engage the
strike sufficiently to prevent its being disengaged by any possible movement of
the door within the space or clearances provided for installation and
operation. The strike area shall be reinforced to maintain effectiveness of
bolt strength.
         d.   Double sliding patio doors must be locked at the meeting rail and
meet the locking requirements as specified in subsection D1b of this section.
         e.   Alternate methods for securing doors with movable sections of the
door sliding on the outside of the fixed portion of the door must be approved
by the building official.
      3.   Any exterior door or other inside garage door leading to the common
areas of any multiple dwelling, dormitory or rooming house which has outside
hinge pins shall be secured by a minimum of two (2) safety hinge studs or
hinges having nonremovable hinge pins, one hinge above and one below the center
of any locking device.
      4.   Parking facilities either under or within the confines of the
perimeter walls of any multiple-family dwelling, dormitory, or rooming house
which are equipped with any garage door shall be so equipped that such doors
are capable of being locked. Specific locking devices to be employed shall be
of one or more of the following types: a) throw bolt or flush bolt; b) dead
bolt; c) cylinder type lock; d) padlock and hasp; or e) electronic power
operated mechanism with automatic locking capabilities. When a padlock type
locking device is used, the slide bolt or hasp and shackle to which the padlock
is attached shall be constructed of hardened steel and shall be installed so
that it cannot be removed when the door is closed and the padlock is activated.
      5.   All exterior windows, other than fixed windows or those designed not
to be opened, less than twelve feet (12') off ground level or any other
accessible exterior level shall comply with the following requirements:
         a.   Windows shall be so constructed that when the window is locked it
cannot be lifted from the frame.
         b.   All windows shall be equipped with a locking device which shall
be capable of withstanding a force of one hundred fifty (150) pounds applied in
any direction, and all locks should fully engage.
   E.   One- And Two-Family Dwelling Units: All doors to individual dwelling
units within one- and two-family dwelling units shall comply with the following
provisions:
      1.   All swinging exterior doors and doors leading from garage areas into
one- and two-family dwelling units shall swing inward and meet the same
requirements as set forth in subsection D of this section.
      2.   All patio type or sliding doors opening onto patios or balconies
which are accessible from the outside shall meet the same requirements as set
forth in subsection D of this section.
      3.   All exterior windows shall meet the same requirements as set forth
in subsection D of this section.
      4.   All garage doors shall meet the same requirements as set forth in
subsection D of this section. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015)
7-1-7: RESPONSIBILITIES OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS:
   A.   Intent: It is the intent of this section to establish primary
responsibilities in certain areas of compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   B.   Occupants: In the absence of a binding agreement to the contrary
between an occupant and an owner, every occupant above the age of eighteen (18)
years shall be primarily responsible as to that part of any building, structure
or premises over which such occupant shall have a right to possession or
control for the following:
      1.   To keep the same in a clean and sanitary condition.
      2.   To not permit rubbish, garbage or other materials to accumulate so
as to create a rat harborage.
      3.   To dispose of rubbish, garbage and other materials in the manner
provided by city ordinances.
      4.   The extermination of insects and rats after twenty one (21)
continuous days of occupancy where: a) the dwelling contains only one dwelling
unit, or only the occupant’s dwelling unit of a dwelling containing more than
one dwelling unit is infested; and b) infestation has resulted from some cause
other than the failure of an owner to maintain the dwelling in a ratproof or
reasonably insectproof condition prior to the commencement of the occupancy.
      5.   To do nothing to cause intentional interruption or disconnection of
any utility for which the occupant is liable.
      6.   To maintain and replace required screens after the owner has
fulfilled all his primary responsibilities regarding the same as set forth in
subsection C of this section.
      7.   To remove any abandoned or inoperative vehicle or machinery owned by
the occupant as provided by city ordinance.
      8.   To ensure that any temporary housing is not being used on a
permanent basis.
   C.   Owners: In the absence of a binding agreement to the contrary between
the owner and an occupant, every owner shall be responsible as to that part of
any building, structure or premises over which such owner has the right to
possession or control including, but not limited to, areas used by the public
or used in common by occupants of two (2) or more dwelling units (such
responsibilities shall likewise apply to any other part of a building,
structure or premises where the content of any such responsibility so implies)
as follows:
      1.   To provide and install all required screens once each calendar year.
      2.   To keep the same in a clean and sanitary condition.
      3.   To not permit rubbish, garbage or other materials to accumulate so
as to create a rat harborage.
      4.   To provide adequate and suitable containers for rubbish, garbage or
other waste materials where the premises in question contains three (3) or more
dwelling units.
      5.   “Ratproofing” as defined in section
7-1-5 of this chapter.
      6.   The extermination of insects and rats in all instances except those
instances where the occupant is primarily responsible therefor as provided in
subsection B of this section.
      7.   To keep and maintain all supplied facilities in good and proper
condition and operation.
      8.   To provide and maintain in working order a permanent heating system
as specified in subsection
7-1-6-4D of this chapter. In structures in which the permanent heating system
supplies heat to two (2) or more dwelling units or rooming units, the owner
shall be responsible for supplying heat in accordance with the standard in
subsection
7-1-6-4D of this chapter. Where compliance is not reasonably possible because
of general shortage of fuel or because of some act of an occupant, the
provisions of this subsection shall not apply until such causes have been
corrected.
      9.   To do anything to cause an intentional interruption or disconnection
of any utility for which an owner is liable.
      10.   To remove any abandoned or inoperative vehicle or machinery not
owned by the current occupants from the premises as provided by city ordinance.
      11.   To remove any temporary housing that is being used on a permanent
basis. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015; amd. Ord. 2025-01, 4-14-2025)
7-1-8: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Housing Surveys: The zoning division is hereby authorized to make
surveys in any area of the city to determine the general condition of
structures used for human habitation, the extent of any deterioration, lack of
facilities and maintenance, unsafe and unsanitary conditions, the extent of
overcrowding and land use, and any other matters relating to the provisions and
requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Inspections; Entry Powers: In order to safeguard the health, safety,
and welfare of the public, an officer, employee or agent of the zoning division
of the city is hereby authorized to make exterior and interior inspections of
dwellings, dwelling units, rooming houses, rooming units, hotels, motels,
multiple dwellings and premises, when the same shall appear necessary to
determine the condition thereof and the compliance or noncompliance with the
provisions of this chapter. Immediate access to and entry to any such dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit, hotel, motel, multiple dwelling or
premises shall be afforded any such officer, employee or agent in the case of
an emergency determined by the zoning division to exist. No such access and
entry shall be required, however, unless such officer, employee or agent shall
first exhibit his identification to any person entitled to the same.
   C.   Notice Of Violations:
      1.   Except as provided in this section, in those instances where the
zoning division shall determine that there exists a violation of this chapter
or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, written notice of such
violation shall be given the person alleged to have committed the same. In the
case of rental dwellings, notice of violation shall be given to the owner or
the owner's agent and the occupant of the rental dwelling or unit.
      2.   Such written notice shall state the alleged violation and a legal
description or local address of the structures in violation. It shall state
that such violation must be corrected within a reasonable period of time
specified by the zoning division based on the nature and severity of the
violation, and shall inform the person to whom the notice is directed of the
right to apply for a hearing before the zoning board, as hereinafter provided.
      3.   Such notice may be personally served on the person to whom addressed
or may be sent by first class, registered, or certified mail to the last known
address of the addressee. Such service by mail shall be deemed to have been
served at the time of the posting thereof. In the event notice by personal
service or by mail in the manner aforesaid is not possible, service may be had
by posting a placard copy of such notice in a conspicuous place in or about the
building, structure or premises in question. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary, notice may be given in any other manner permitted by law in the
service of processes in civil cases.
      4.   Any notice given under the provisions of this section shall operate
as and shall become a final order without further action being necessary upon
the expiration of fourteen (14) days from and after the effective date of
service of such notice unless, within such fourteen (14) day period, a request
for an appeal thereon is filed.
   D.   Unfit Dwelling Units:
      1.   Determination Of Unfit Dwelling: In addition to any other rights and
powers granted the zoning division under the provisions of this chapter, the
zoning division may designate and find unfit for human habitation any dwelling,
dwelling unit, rooming house, hotel, motel, rooming unit, multiple dwelling or
premises and may so placard the same, in the manner described in subsection C
of this section, upon determining that one or more or all of the following
conditions exist:
         a.   The building, structure or premises lacks illumination,
ventilation, sanitation, heat or other facilities adequate to protect the
health and safety of the occupants or of the public;
         b.   The building, structure or premises is damaged, decayed,
unsanitary, unsafe or vermin infested in such a manner and to such extent as to
create a serious hazard to the health and safety of the occupants or of the
public;
         c.   The building, structure or premises, because of the location
thereof, the general conditions existing, the state of the premises or number
of occupants, is so unsanitary, unsafe, overcrowded or otherwise detrimental to
the health and safety that it creates a serious hazard to the health and safety
of the occupants or of the public.
      2.   Notice Of Intent To Vacate: Whenever the zoning division determines
that a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit, or multiple
dwelling is unfit for human habitation as provided in subsection D1 of this
section, it shall include such findings within the notice of violations
provided in subsection C of this section, and it shall also include a statement
of its intent to vacate and placard the dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house,
rooming unit, or multiple dwelling if compliance with the provisions of the
notice of violation has not been secured.
      3.   Order To Vacate: Whenever there has not been compliance with a
notice of violation, as provided under subsection C of this section, or where
an appeal has not been requested, the zoning division may order the dwelling to
be vacated. A copy of such notice to vacate shall be served on the owner,
agent, operator or occupant as provided in subsection C of this section.
      4.   Time To Vacate: Any dwelling or dwelling unit, rooming house,
rooming unit, or multiple dwelling designated as unfit for human habitation
pursuant to subsection DI of this section and ordered vacated as provided in
subsection D3 of this section shall be vacated within such reasonable time as
the zoning division may specify in the order. No such dwelling, dwelling unit,
rooming house, or multiple dwelling shall again be used for human habitation
and the placard removed until written approval is secured from the zoning
division.
      5.   Removal Of Placard Prohibited: No person shall deface or remove the
placard from any dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit, or
multiple dwelling which has been designated as unfit for human habitation,
except as provided in subsection D4 of this section.
      6.   Securing Vacated Dwellings: The owner, agent, or operator of any
dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit, or multiple dwelling
shall make such dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming house, rooming unit, or
multiple dwelling safe and secure in whatever manner the zoning division shall
deem necessary. Any vacant building, open at the door and windows, if
unguarded, shall be deemed dangerous to human life and a nuisance within the
meaning of this provision.
   E.   Emergency Abatement: Notwithstanding the notice of violation provisions
of subsection C of this section, whenever the zoning division, at any time,
shall determine that a violation of this chapter exists and that such violation
is of such a nature as to require immediate action to abate a hazard or
immediate danger to the health, safety, morals or welfare of the occupants of
any building or structure or of the public, the zoning division may, without
any notice and without any hearing, issue an order citing the violation and
ordering the immediate abatement or removal or correction of such hazard or
danger as the zoning division appears necessary and proper. Such order may
include, but is not limited to, an order to vacate the building, structure or
premises in question, and removal of temporary housing. Any order issued under
the provisions of this subsection shall be and become effective immediately
upon the issuance thereof. The powers granted by this subsection shall be in
addition to any and all other rights and powers granted by law.
   F.   Transfer Of Interest In Certain Property: No person having any interest
in any property that is described in any notice of any violation of this
chapter or any order issued under this chapter shall sell, transfer, grant,
convey, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of any such interest in said
property so long as any such violation continues to exist, unless such person
having the right to sell, transfer, grant, convey, mortgage, lease or otherwise
dispose of such interest in said property shall first furnish to the intended
purchases, transferee, grantee, donee, mortgagee, lessee or other intended
recipient of such property interest a true and exact copy of such notice in
order and concurrently therewith furnish the zoning division with the names and
addresses of all such parties.
   G.   Removal of Temporary Housing. When temporary housing has been found to
be in violation and used as a permanent dwelling instead of its intended
recreational purpose in this code the offending temporary housing will be
removed after the notice provisions within this subchapter have been met
(except in the event of an emergency outlined in subsection E). A tent will be
disposed of and a trailer/camper will be hauled away via tow.
   H.   Records: All requests to inspect and/or copy records or documents
prepared, maintained as under the control of the city shall be made in
accordance with the freedom of information act.
   I.   Penalty. There is an additional penalty for those who have temporary
housing inappropriately. Once notice is given of a violation a minimum fine of
$100.00 to a maximum fine of $750.00 shall accrue each and every day the
violation continues to persist. The final amount of the fine shall be assessed
and become due upon conviction. (Ord. 01-2014, 6-9-2014, eff. 1-1-2015; amd.
2017 Code; Ord. 2025-01, 4-14-2025; Ord. 07-2025, 7-14-2025)
CHAPTER 2
DANGEROUS, UNCOMPLETED OR ABANDONED BUILDINGS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Nuisance Declared
7-2-2: Demolition, Repair, Enclosure Or Removal
7-2-3: Declaration Of Abandonment An Additional Remedy
7-2-4: Expedited Removal
7-2-5: Prohibitions
7-2-6: Penalty
7-2-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any dangerous and unsafe building or uncompleted and abandoned building, as
defined in this chapter, in the city is hereby declared a nuisance. (Ord. 06-
2011, 6-27-2011)
7-2-2: DEMOLITION, REPAIR, ENCLOSURE OR REMOVAL:
   A.   Statute Authority; Procedure: Pursuant to section 5/11-31-1 of the
Illinois municipal code, the city council may demolish, repair, or enclose or
cause the demolition, repair, or enclosure of dangerous and unsafe buildings
within the territory of the city and may remove or cause the removal of
garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or
materials from those buildings. The city shall apply to the county circuit
court: 1) for an order authorizing action to be taken with respect to a
building if the owner or owners of the building, including the lienholders of
record, after at least fifteen (15) days' written notice by mail so to do, have
failed to put the building in a safe condition or to demolish it; or 2) for an
order requiring the owner or owners of record to demolish, repair, or enclose
the building or to remove garbage, debris, and other hazardous, noxious, or
unhealthy substances or materials from the building. It is not a defense to the
cause of action that the building is boarded up or otherwise enclosed, although
the court may order the defendant to have the building boarded up or otherwise
enclosed. Where, upon diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the owner
or owners of the building, including the lienholders of record, is not
ascertainable, notice mailed to the person or persons in whose name the real
estate was last assessed is sufficient notice under this section.
   B.   Costs; Lien Provisions:
      1.   The cost of the demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal incurred
by the city, by an intervenor, or by a lienholder of record, including court
costs, attorney fees, and other costs related to the enforcement of this
section, is recoverable from the owner or owners of the real estate or the
previous owner, or both, if the property was transferred during the fifteen
(15) day notice period and is a lien on the real estate. The lien is superior
to all prior existing liens and encumbrances, except taxes, if, within one
hundred eighty (180) days after the repair, demolition, enclosure, or removal,
the city, the lienholder of record, or the intervenor who incurred the cost and
expense shall file a notice of lien for the cost and expense incurred in the
county recorder's office.
      2.   The notice must consist of a sworn statement setting out: a) a
description of the real estate sufficient for its identification; b) the amount
of money representing the cost and expense incurred; and c) the date or dates
when the cost and expense was incurred by the city, the lienholder of record,
or the intervenor. Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner of or
persons interested in the property after the notice of lien has been filed, the
lien shall be released by the city, the person in whose name the lien has been
filed, or the assignee of the lien, and the release may be filed of record as
in the case of filing notice of lien. The lien may be enforced by way of the
method and proceedings set forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-31-1.
(Ord. 06-2011, 6-27-2011)
7-2-3: DECLARATION OF ABANDONMENT AN ADDITIONAL REMEDY:
   A.   In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the corporate
authorities of the city may petition the circuit court to have property
declared abandoned if:
      1.   The property has been tax delinquent for two (2) or more years or
bills for water service for the property have been outstanding for two (2) or
more years;
      2.   The property is unoccupied by persons legally in possession; and
      3.   The property contains a dangerous or unsafe building for reasons
specified in the petition.
All persons having an interest of record in the property, including tax
purchasers and beneficial owners of any Illinois land trust having title to the
property, shall be named as defendants in the petition and shall be served with
process.
In addition, service shall be had under section 2-206 of the Illinois code of
civil procedure as in other cases affecting property.
   B.   The city, however, may proceed in a proceeding brought under any
provision of this chapter. Notice of the petition shall be served in person or
by certified or registered mail on all persons who were served notice as set
forth above.
   C.   If the city proves that the conditions described exist and: 1) the
owner of record of the property does not enter an appearance in the action, or
if title to the property is held by an Illinois land trust, if neither the
owner of record nor the owner of the beneficial interest of the trust enters an
appearance; or 2) if the owner of record or the beneficiary of a land trust, if
title to the property is held by an Illinois land trust, enters an appearance
and specifically waives his or her rights, the court shall declare the property
abandoned. Notwithstanding any waiver, the city may move to dismiss its
petition at any time. In addition, any waiver in a proceeding does not serve as
a waiver for any other proceeding under law or equity.
   D.   If that determination is made, notice shall be sent in person or by
certified or registered mail to all persons having an interest of record in the
property, including tax purchasers and beneficial owners of any Illinois land
trust having title to the property, stating that title to the property will be
transferred to the city unless, within thirty (30) days of the notice, the
owner of record or any other person having an interest in the property files
with the court a request to demolish the dangerous or unsafe building or to put
the building in safe condition, or unless the owner of record enters an
appearance and proves that the owner does not intend to abandon the property.
   E.   If the owner of record enters an appearance in the action within the
thirty (30) day period, but does not at that time file with the court a request
to demolish the dangerous or unsafe building or to put the building in safe
condition, or specifically waive his or her rights, the court shall vacate its
order declaring the property abandoned if it determines that the owner of
record does not intend to abandon the property. In that case, the city may
amend its complaint in order to initiate proceedings, or it may request that
the court order the owner to demolish the building or repair the dangerous or
unsafe conditions of the building alleged in the petition or seek the
appointment of a receiver or other equitable relief to correct the conditions
at the property. The power and rights of a receiver appointed hereunder shall
include all of the power and rights of a receiver appointed under section 11-
31-2 of the Illinois municipal code.
   F.   If a request to demolish or repair the building is filed within the
thirty (30) day period, the court shall grant permission to the requesting
party to demolish the building within thirty (30) days or to restore the
building to safe condition within sixty (60) days after the request is granted.
An extension of that period for up to sixty (60) additional days may be given
for good cause. If more than one person with an interest in the property files
a timely request, preference shall be given to the owner of record if the owner
filed a request or, if the owner did not, the person with the lien or other
interest of the highest priority.
   G.   If the requesting party (other than the owner of record) proves to the
court that the building has been demolished or put in a safe condition in
accordance with the local safety codes within the period of time granted by the
court, the court shall issue a quitclaim judicial deed for the property to the
requesting party, conveying only the interest of the owner of record, upon
proof of payment to the city of all costs incurred by the city in connection
with the action including, but not limited to, court costs, attorney fees,
administrative costs, the costs, if any, associated with building enclosure or
removal, and receiver's certificates. The interest in the property so conveyed
shall be subject to all liens and encumbrances in the property. In addition, if
the interest is conveyed to a person holding a certificate of purchase for the
property under the property tax code, the conveyance shall be subject to the
rights of redemption of all persons entitled to redeem under said property tax
code, including the original owner of record. If the requesting party is the
owner of record and proves to the court that the building has been demolished
or put in a safe condition in accordance with the local safety codes within the
period of time granted by the court, the court shall dismiss the proceeding.
(Ord. 06-2011, 6-27-2011)
   H.   If the owner of record has not entered an appearance and proven that
the owner did not intend to abandon the property, and if no person with an
interest in the property files a timely request, or if the requesting party
fails to demolish the building or put the building in safe condition within the
time specified by the court, the city may petition the court to issue a
judicial deed for the property to the city. A conveyance by judicial deed shall
operate to extinguish all existing ownership interests in, liens on, and other
interest in the property, including tax liens, and shall extinguish the rights
and interests of any and all holders of a bona fide certificate of purchase of
the property for delinquent taxes. Any such bona fide certificate of purchase
holder shall be entitled to a sale in error as prescribed under section 21-310
of the Illinois property tax code. (Ord. 06-2011, 6-27-2011; amd. 2017 Code)
7-2-4: EXPEDITED REMOVAL:
The city may use this section to expedite the removal of certain buildings that
are a continuing hazard to the community. (Ord. 06-2011, 6-27-2011)
   A.   Notice Posted On Property: If a residential or commercial building is
three (3) stories or less in height as defined by the city building code, and
the zoning division determines that the building is open and vacant and an
immediate and continuing hazard to the community, then the zoning division
shall be authorized to post a notice not less than two feet by two feet (2'x2')
in size on the front of the building. The notice shall be dated as of the date
of the posting and shall state that unless the building is demolished,
repaired, or enclosed, and unless any garbage, debris, and other hazardous,
noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials are removed so that an immediate
and continuing hazard to the community no longer exists, then the building may
be demolished, repaired, or enclosed, or any garbage, debris, and other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials may be removed by the
city. (Ord. 06-2011, 6-27-2011; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Other Notices: Not later than thirty (30) days following the posting of
the notice, the city shall do all of the following:
      1.   Cause to be sent, by certified mail, return receipt requested, a
notice to remediate to all owners of record of the property, the beneficial
owners of any Illinois land trust having title to the property, and all
lienholders of record in the property, stating the intent of the city to
demolish, repair, or enclose the building or remove any garbage, debris, or
other hazardous, noxious or unhealthy substances or materials if that action is
not taken by the owner or owners. (Ord. 06-2011, 6-27-2011)
      2.   Cause to be published in a newspaper published or circulated in the
city a notice setting forth: a) the permanent tax index number and the address
of the building; b) a statement that the property is open and vacant and
constitutes an immediate and continuing hazard to the community; and c) a
statement that the city intends to demolish, repair, or enclose the building or
remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials if the owner or owners or lienholders of record fail to
do so. This notice shall be published for three (3) consecutive days. (Ord. 06-
2011, 6-27-2011; amd. 2017 Code)
      3.   Cause to be recorded the notice to remediate mailed under subsection
B1 of this section in the county recorder's office.
   C.   Objections: Any person or persons with a current legal or equitable
interest in the property objecting to the proposed actions of the corporate
authorities may file his or her objection in an appropriate form in the county
circuit court. (Ord. 06-2011, 6-27-2011)
   D.   Action By City:
      1.   If the building is not demolished, repaired, or enclosed, or the
garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or
materials are not removed within thirty (30) days of mailing the notice to the
owners of record, the beneficial owners of any Illinois land trust having title
to the property and all lienholders of record in the publication of the notice
or within thirty (30) days of the last day of publication of the notice,
whichever is later, the corporate authorities shall have the power to demolish,
repair, or enclose the building or to remove any garbage, debris, or other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials.
      2.   The city may proceed to demolish, repair, or enclose a building or
remove any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials under this subsection within a one hundred twenty (120)
day period following the date of the mailing of the notice if the zoning
division determines that the demolition, repair, or enclosure of a building, or
removal of any garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials is necessary to remedy the immediate and continuing
hazard. If, however, before the city proceeds with any of the actions
authorized by this subsection, any person with a legal or equitable interest in
the property has sought a hearing before a court and has served a copy of the
complaint on the mayor of the city, then the city shall not proceed with the
demolition, repair, or enclosure of a building, or removal of garbage, debris,
or other substances until the court determines that that action is necessary to
remedy the hazard and issues an order authorizing the city to do so. If the
court dismisses the action for want of prosecution, the city must send the
objector a copy of the dismissal order and a letter stating that the
demolition, repair, or enclosure of a building, or removal of garbage, debris,
or other substances will proceed unless, within thirty (30) days after the copy
of the order and the letter are mailed, the objector moves to vacate the
dismissal and serves a copy of the motion on the mayor of the city.
Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, if the objector does not file a
motion and give the required notice, if the motion is denied by the court, or
if the action is again dismissed for want of prosecution, then the dismissal is
with prejudice, and the demolition, repair, enclosure, or removal may proceed
forthwith.
   E.   Lien Provisions: Following the demolition, repair, or enclosure of a
building, or the removal of garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or
unhealthy substances or materials hereunder, the city may file a notice of lien
against the real estate for the cost of the demolition, repair, enclosure, or
removal within one hundred eighty (180) days after the repair, demolition,
enclosure, or removal occurred, for the cost and expense incurred, in the
county recorder's office. This lien has priority over the interests of those
parties named in the notice to remediate mailed under subsection B1 of this
section, but not over the interests of third party purchasers or encumbrances
for value who obtained their interests in the property before obtaining actual
or constructive notice of the lien. The notice of lien shall consist of a sworn
statement setting forth: 1) a description of the real estate, such as the
address or other description of the property, sufficient for its
identification; 2) the expenses incurred by the city in undertaking the
remedial actions authorized hereunder; 3) the date or dates the expenses were
incurred by the city; 4) a statement by the zoning division that the building
was open and vacant and constituted an immediate and continuing hazard to the
community; 5) a statement by the zoning division that the required sign was
posted on the building, that notice was sent by certified mail to the owners of
record, and that notice was published in accordance with this subsection; and
6) a statement as to when and where the notice was published. The lien
authorized by this subsection may thereafter be released or enforced by the
city as provided hereinabove. (Ord. 06-2011, 6-27-2011; amd. 2017 Code)
7-2-5: PROHIBITIONS:
In addition to the actions authorized by this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous and unsafe building or
uncompleted and abandoned building or to permit the unsafe or dangerous
accumulation of garbage, debris, or other hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy
substances or materials in the city, and it shall be unlawful for the owner,
occupant or persons in custody of any dangerous and unsafe building or
uncompleted and abandoned building or premises where garbage, debris, or other
hazardous, noxious, or unhealthy substances or materials are allowed to
accumulate to maintain the premises in such condition after notice as set forth
in this chapter has been issued. (Ord. 06-2011, 6-27-2011)
7-2-6: PENALTY:
Those persons violating any of the provisions of section
7-2-5 of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00). Each
day any violation of any provision of section
7-2-5 of this chapter shall continue shall constitute a separate offense.
Actions brought to enforce any fine or penalty or forfeiture under this chapter
shall be brought in the corporate name of the city of Athens, Illinois, as
plaintiff. Fines for the violation of this chapter when collected shall be
deposited into the city treasury. (Ord. 06-2011, 6-27-2011)
CHAPTER 3
DEVELOPMENT IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Statute Authority; Purpose
7-3-2: Definitions
7-3-3: General Duties Of Zoning Administrator
7-3-4: Development Permit
7-3-5: Review Of Proposed Development
7-3-6: Subdivisions And Other New Developments
7-3-7: Water, Sewer And Waste Disposal Systems
7-3-8: Variances
7-3-9: Disclaimer Of Liability
7-3-10: Penalty
7-3-11: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
7-3-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY; PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city by
the Illinois municipal code 1 in order to accomplish the following purposes:
   A.   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   B.   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   C.   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, as well as flood rescue and relief operations;
   D.   To maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   E.   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   F.   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate floodwater and stormwater impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 12-2008, 9-8-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-31-2.
7-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the same meanings as they have in common
usage and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
DEVELOPMENT: A.Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   1.   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   2.   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   3.   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   4.   Installation of utilities and construction of roads, bridges, culverts
or similar projects;
   5.   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
   6.   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   7.   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks; and
   8.   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of floodwaters or surface waters.
   B.   "Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing
buildings and facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar
practices that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface water from any source.
FLOODPLAIN: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source. See definition of Flood.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally aboveground. The
term includes RVs and travel trailers on site for more than one hundred eighty
(180) days.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damage condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: A. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is
started.
   B.   "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure.
   C.   The term does not, however, include either: 1) any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions; or 2) any alteration of a structure listed on the
national register of historic places or the Illinois register of historic
places. (Ord. 12-2008, 9-8-2008)
7-3-3: GENERAL DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
The city zoning administrator shall be responsible for the general
administration of this chapter and shall ensure that all development activities
under the jurisdiction of the city meet the requirements of this chapter. The
city zoning administrator shall be responsible for receiving applications and
examining the plans and specifications for the application and shall require
any additional measures which are necessary to meet the minimum requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 12-2008, 9-8-2008)
7-3-4: DEVELOPMENT PERMIT:
   A.   Permit Required: No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not
exempted by state law shall commence any development activity without first
obtaining a development permit from the city zoning administrator.
   B.   Application For Permit: To obtain a permit, the applicant must first
file a permit application on a form furnished for that purpose. The form must
be completed and submitted to the zoning administrator.
   C.   Review Of Application: The zoning administrator shall review all permit
applications to determine whether proposed building sites will be reasonably
safe from flooding. If a proposed building site is in a flood prone area, all
new construction and substantial improvements (including the placement of
prefabricated buildings and manufactured homes) shall:
      1.   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure;
      2.   Be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage;
      3.   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage;
      4.   Be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/
or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during flooding. (Ord. 12-2008, 9-8-2008)
7-3-5: REVIEW OF PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT:
   A.   The city zoning administrator shall review the proposed development to
assure that all necessary permits have been received from those governmental
agencies from which approval is required by federal or state law, including
section 404 of the federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972, 33
USC section 1334.
   B.   If the development is proposed for a channel or adjacent area of a
stream draining one square mile or more, the applicant must first secure a
permit from the Illinois division of water resources or a letter stating
"permit not required". (Ord. 12-2008, 9-8-2008)
7-3-6: SUBDIVISIONS AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENTS:
The city zoning administrator shall review subdivision proposals and other
proposed new development to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably
safe from flooding. If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development
is in a flood prone area, any such proposals shall be reviewed to assure that:
   A.   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood prone area;
   B.   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems, are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage; and
   C.   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards.
(Ord. 12-2008, 9-8-2008)
7-3-7: WATER, SEWER AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
The city zoning administrator shall require, within flood prone areas, new and
replacement water supply systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate
infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; new and replacement sanitary
sewage systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the systems into floodwaters;
and on site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 12-2008, 9-8-2008)
7-3-8: VARIANCES:
   A.   Authority: Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship
on a specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the city zoning
board of appeals for a variance. The zoning board of appeals shall review the
applicant's request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the
city council. The city council may attach such conditions to the granting of a
variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   B.   Standards For Variance Request: No variance shall be granted unless the
applicant demonstrates, by clear and convincing evidence, that all of the
following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance is not granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to the public health or safety or
the creation of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP (national flood insurance
program); and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   C.   Variances From Specific Provisions: The zoning board of appeals shall
notify an applicant in writing that a variance from the requirements of the
building protection standards that would lessen the degree of protection to a
building will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage.
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property.
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability. (Ord. 12-2008, 9-8-2008)
7-3-9: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city or any officer or employee thereof for any responsibilities set forth
herein or for flood damage that results from proper reliance on this chapter or
any administrative decision made lawfully hereunder. (Ord. 12-2008, 9-8-2008)
7-3-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty
dollars ($750.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 12-2008, 9-8-2008;
amd. 2017 Code)
7-3-11: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replace other ordinances adopted by the city to
fulfill the requirements of the national flood insurance program. However, this
chapter does not repeal the original resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve
eligibility in the program, nor does this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair
any existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions. Where this chapter and
other ordinances, easements, covenants or deed restrictions conflict or
overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail. (Ord.
12-2008, 9-8-2008)
CHAPTER 4
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Preapproval Of Plans, Plat Layouts And Specifications; Fee
7-4-2: Performance Bond Required
7-4-3: Roadway Access And Specifications
7-4-4: Stormwater Runoff Control
7-4-5: R-1 Residential District Regulations Apply
7-4-6: Covenants Provided
7-4-7: Modifications To Provisions
7-4-8: Severability
7-4-1: PREAPPROVAL OF PLANS, PLAT LAYOUTS AND SPECIFICATIONS; FEE:
Plans, plat layouts, and specifications for proposed subdivisions must be
preapproved by the city zoning administrator. The fee for review and approval
of said plans, plat layout and specifications shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) for each lot comprising the proposed subdivision. (Ord. 07-99, 6-14-
1999)
7-4-2: PERFORMANCE BOND REQUIRED:
Prior to the commencement of any work on a proposed subdivision, the applicant
shall provide to the city zoning administrator and the city attorney a copy of
a performance bond pertinent to the construction of all roads, curbs, gutters,
water and sewer lines and other infrastructure to be acquired or maintained by
the city. The performance bond shall be in form, content and amount acceptable
to the city zoning administrator and city attorney, taking into consideration
the size and complexity of the project. (Ord. 07-99, 6-14-1999)
7-4-3: ROADWAY ACCESS AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Access Required: Proposed roadway layouts shall provide for pertinent
direct access and frontage for the lots served thereby.
   B.   Specifications: All roads within new subdivisions shall be either
blacktop or concrete with adequate curbing and guttering, the specifications
for which are subject to the preapproval of the city zoning administrator and
the city engineer. The minimum roadway shall be a six inch (6") rock base and
no less than a three inch (3") blacktop or six inch (6") concrete surface.
(Ord. 07-99, 6-14-1999)
7-4-4: STORMWATER RUNOFF CONTROL:
The applicant shall install all water and sewer lines, providing for proper
stormwater runoff. No culverts shall be installed unless specifically
preapproved by the city zoning administrator and the city engineer. The
applicant or applicable lot owner(s) shall pay for the installation of the
culvert, which, after approval and installation, shall be maintained by the
city. (Ord. 07-99, 6-14-1999)
7-4-5: R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS APPLY:
Permitted principal uses for construction of individual homes, permitted
accessory uses for said homes, and special use permits therefor shall comply
with R-1 residential district requirements of the city zoning ordinance.
Dimensional requirements of said homes shall likewise comply with R-
1 residential district requirements of the city zoning ordinance. (Ord. 07-99,
6-14-1999)
7-4-6: COVENANTS PROVIDED:
The applicant shall provide to the city zoning administrator a copy of any
proposed subdivision covenants. (Ord. 07-99, 6-14-1999)
7-4-7: MODIFICATIONS TO PROVISIONS:
   A.   The city council may modify any requirements or fees set forth herein
for commercial development deemed in the best interest of the city so long as
said modifications are approved in advance by the city engineer so as to
provide assurance that adequate infrastructure will be in place for any
proposed development.
   B.   The city council, again, with the advance approval of the city
engineer, may permit phased development upon a timetable agreed upon by the
city council and the developer.
   C.   The city council may also accept a letter of credit, deemed adequate by
the city engineer and the city attorney, in lieu of a performance bond. (Ord.
12-2009, 12-14-2009)
7-4-8: SEVERABILITY:
The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any provision of this chapter
or the application to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid, such
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of this chapter
which can be given effect without the invalid provision or application. (Ord.
07-99, 6-14-1999)
CHAPTER 5
MOBILE HOMES
SECTION:
7-5-1: General Requirements And Restrictions
7-5-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or any other legal entity to own, maintain
or occupy a mobile home on any premises within the city, except as is herein
specifically permitted. From and after the effective date hereof, the city
zoning administrator will not issue occupancy permits for any additional mobile
homes within the city, nor for replacement of any present mobile home except on
thirty (30) days' advance request by the owner of the mobile home already
lawfully within the limits of the city desired to be replaced. Current mobile
homes and those authorized to be replaced may be utilized within the city as a
one-family detached dwelling if in compliance with all requirements specified
for mobile homes in any applicable ordinances and laws of the city, the county
and the state of Illinois. (Ord. 03-2017, 3-13-2017)
CHAPTER 6
SOLAR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Purpose And Intent
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Permitted Ground Mount And Roof Mount SES
7-6-4: Building Integrated Systems
7-6-5: Community Solar Gardens
7-6-6: Commercial/Large Scale Solar Farm
7-6-7: Compliance With Building Code
7-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the construction,
installation, and operation of Solar Energy Systems (SES) in the City of Athens
in a manner that promotes economic development and ensures the protection of
health, safety, and welfare while also avoiding adverse impacts to important
areas such as agricultural lands, endangered species habitats, conservation
lands, and other sensitive lands. It is the intent of this chapter to encourage
the development of SESs that reduce reliance on foreign and out-of-state energy
resources, bolster local economic development and job creation. This chapter is
not intended to abridge safety, health or environmental requirements contained
in other applicable codes, standards, or chapters. The provisions of this
chapter shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or
federal law. (Ord. 06-2024, 10-7-2024)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
 
                                 A solar energy system that consists of
BUILDING INTEGRATED PHOTOVOLTAIC integrating photovoltaic modules into the
SYSTEMS:                         building structure as the roof or facade
                                 and which does not alter the relief of
                                 the roof.
                                 Solar installations owned collectively
COLLECTIVE SOLAR:                through subdivision homeowner
                                 associations or other similar
                                 arrangements.
 
                                   A utility scale commercial facility that
                                   converts sunlight to electricity, whether by
                                   photovoltaics, concentrating solar thermal
COMMERCIAL/LARGE SCALE SOLAR FARM: devices, or various experimental
                                   technologies for onsite or offsite use with
                                   the primary purpose of selling wholesale or
                                   retail generated electricity.
                                   A community solar-electric (photovoltaic)
                                   array, of no more than five (5) acres in
                                   size, that provides retail electric power
COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDEN:            (or financial proxy for retail power) to
                                   multiple households or businesses residing
                                   in or located off-site from the location of
                                   the solar energy system.
                                   A solar energy system that is directly
GROUND MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM:  installed into the ground and is not
                                   attached or affixed to an existing
                                   structure.
                                   A solar energy system that produces
                                   electricity by the use of semiconductor
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM:               devices calls photovoltaic cells that
                                   generate electricity whenever light strikes
                                   them.
                                   A trained and qualified electrical
                                   professional who has the skills and
QUALIFIED SOLAR INSTALLER:         knowledge related to the construction and
                                   operation of solar electrical equipment and
                                   installations and has received safety
                                   training on the hazards involved.
                                   A solar energy system in which solar panels
                                   are mounted on top of a building roof as
ROOF MOUNT:                        either a flush mounted system or as modules
                                   fixed to frames which can be tilted toward
                                   the south at an optical angle.
                                   Unobstructed access to direct sunlight on a
                                   lot or building through the entire year,
                                   including access across adjacent parcel air
                                   rights, for the purpose of capturing direct
SOLAR ACCESS:                      sunlight to operate a solar energy system.
                                   The use of neighboring parcel air rights
                                   does not prevent normal use of adjacent
                                   properties and associated air rights by its
                                   owner(s).
                                   A device, structure or part of a device or
                                   structure for which the primary purpose is
SOLAR COLLECTOR:                   to transform solar radiant energy into
                                   thermal, mechanical, chemical or electrical
                                   energy.
 
 
                            Radiant energy received from the sun that can be
SOLAR ENERGY:               collected in the form of heat or light by a solar
                            collector.
                            The components and subsystems required to convert
                            solar energy into electric or thermal energy
                            suitable for use. The area of the system includes
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES):  all the land inside the perimeter of the system,
                            which extends to any fencing. The term applies, but
                            is not limited to, solar photovoltaic systems,
                            solar thermal systems and solar hot water systems.
                            A component of a solar energy device that is used
SOLAR STORAGE BATTERY/UNIT: to store solar generated electricity or heat for
                            later use.
                            Solar thermal systems directly heat water or other
                            liquid using sunlight. The heated liquid is used
SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS:      for such purposes as space heating and cooling,
                            domestic hot water and heating pool water. (Ord.
                            06-2024, 10- 7-2024)
 
7-6-3: PERMITTED GROUND MOUNT AND ROOF MOUNT SES:
Ground Mount SES shall be permitted as an accessory use in all zoning districts
where there is a principal structure and the array footprint is comprised of
less than one half (½) acre. Square footage of over one half (½) acre will be
treated as a Community Solar Garden. Roof Mount SES shall be permitted in all
zoning districts and may be located on a principal or an accessory structure. A
building permit shall be required to construct a ground mount or roof mount
SES. The following additional information shall be provided with the building
permit application to demonstrate compliance with the following restrictions:
   A.   Height:
      1.   Building or roof mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed the
maximum allowed height for principal structures in any zoning district.
      2.   Ground solar energy systems shall not exceed the maximum permitted
height for an accessory structure when oriented at maximum tilt.
      3.   Ground mounted solar energy systems may not be placed in the front
yard.
   B.   Setbacks:
      1.   Ground mounted solar energy systems shall meet the applicable
setbacks for the zoning district in which the unit is located.
      2.   Ground mounted solar energy systems shall not extend beyond the side
yard or rear yard setback when oriented at minimum design tilt (most footprint
consuming).
      3.   In addition to building setbacks the collector surface and mounting
devices for roof mounted systems shall not extend beyond the allowable footages
as allowed in the International Fire Code (IFC) Section 605.11.3.1 to provide
for proper fire access.
   C.   Reflection Angles: Reflection angles for solar collectors shall be
oriented such that they do not project glare onto adjacent properties or
property contained assets.
   D.   Visibility: Solar energy systems shall be located in a manner to
reasonably minimize view blockage for surrounding properties and shading of
property to the North while still providing adequate solar access for
collectors.
   E.   Safety:
      1.   Roof or building mounted solar energy systems, excluding building
integrated systems, shall allow for adequate roof access for firefighting
purposes to sloped or flat roof upon which the panels are mounted per IFC
605.11.3.1.
      2.   Roof mounted solar energy systems shall adhere to national safety
standards for said systems.
      3.   Any connection to the public utility grid shall be inspected by the
appropriate public utility.
      4.   All solar energy systems shall be maintained and kept in good
working order. If it is determined that a solar energy system and associated
grounds are not being maintained, kept in good working order, or no longer
being utilized to perform its intended use for six (6) consecutive months, the
property owner shall be given thirty (30) day notice for removal or repair of
the unit and all equipment. It shall be a violation of this chapter if the
solar energy system is not removed or repaired within thirty (30) days. Failure
to do so will result in monetary fines as indicated in Section
3-1-8  of the Athens Municipal Code.
   F.   Approved Solar Components: Electric Solar energy system components
shall have a UL listing or approved equivalent and solar hot water systems
shall have an SRCC rating.
   G.   Restrictions on Solar Energy Systems Limited: Consistent with 765 ILCS
165/1 et seq. no homeowner's agreement, covenant, common interest community or
other contracts between multiple property owners within a subdivision of
incorporated City of Athens shall prohibit or restrict homeowners from
installing solar energy systems. (Ord. 06-2024, 10-7-2024)
7-6-4: BUILDING INTEGRATED SYSTEMS:
Building Integrated Photovoltaic Systems shall be permitted in all Zoning
Districts. (Ord. 06-2024, 10-7-2024)
7-6-5: COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDENS:
Community Solar Farms are not permitted within any zoning districts within the
City of Athens. (Ord. 06-2024, 10-7-2024)
7-6-6: COMMERCIAL/LARGE SCALE SOLAR FARM:
Commercial/Large Scale Solar Farms are not permitted within any zoning
districts within the City of Athens. (Ord. 06-2024, 10-7-2024)
7-6-7: COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING CODE:
All solar energy systems shall comply with the chapters of the City of Athens
as well as all Federal and State requirements. (Ord. 06-2024, 10-7-2024)
TITLE 8
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE; PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
8-1-1: Title
8-1-2: Purposes
8-1-3: Application And Interpretation
8-1-1: TITLE:
This title as hereby adopted shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY
OF ATHENS, ILLINOIS. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-1-2: PURPOSES:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To promote and protect the public health, safety and general welfare of
the people;
   B.   To divide the city into zones or districts restricting and regulating
therein the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of buildings, structures and land for residential business, manufacturing
and other specified uses;
   C.   To protect the character and the stability of the residential, business
and manufacturing areas within the city and to promote the orderly and
beneficial development of such areas;
   D.   To provide adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property;
   E.   To regulate the intensity of use of lot areas and to determine the area
of open spaces surrounding buildings necessary to provide adequate light and
air and to protect the public health;
   F.   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed for
residential, business and manufacturing or other uses within such areas;
   G.   To fix reasonable standards to which buildings or structures shall
conform therein;
   H.   To prohibit uses, buildings or structures incompatible with the
character of development or intended uses within specified zoning districts;
   I.   To prevent additions to or alterations or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed hereunder;
   J.   To limit congestion in the public streets and protect the public
health, safety, convenience and general welfare by providing for the off street
parking of motor vehicles and the loading and unloading of commercial vehicles;
   K.   To protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and other hazards in
the interest of public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
   L.   To prevent the overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures, so far as is possible and appropriate in each district, by
regulating the use and bulk of buildings in relation to the land surrounding
them;
   M.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
city;
   N.   To provide for the elimination of nonconforming uses of land, buildings
and structures which are adversely affecting the character and value of
desirable development in each district;
   O.   To define and limit the powers and duties of the administrative
officers and bodies as provided herein;
   P.   To lessen or avoid the hazards to persons or property resulting from
the accumulation of runoff of stormwaters or floodwaters; and
   Q.   To ensure that covenants for subdivisions meet or exceed the
requirements set forth in this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-1-3: APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION:
   A.   In interpreting and applying the provision of this title, they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the safety, health,
convenience, comfort, prosperity and general welfare. It is not intended by
this title to interfere with, abrogate, annul, or repeal any ordinances, rules
or regulations previously adopted, and not in conflict with any of the
provisions hereof or which shall be adopted pursuant to law relating to the use
of buildings or premises, nor is it intended to interfere with or abrogate or
annul any easements, covenants, or other agreements between parties; except,
that where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of land,
buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger open
spaces than are imposed or required by such other ordinances or such other
easements, covenants, or agreements, the provisions of this title shall
control.
   B.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title upon the
use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of buildings are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
provision of this title or any other law, ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive (or which
impose higher standards or requirements) shall govern.
   C.   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the city that the several
provisions of this title are separable, in accordance with the following:
      1.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision
of this title to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other
provisions not specifically included in the judgment.
      2.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular property, building,
or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 2
RULES, DEFINITIONS AND REGULATIONS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Words And Terms Defined
8-2-1: WORDS AND TERMS DEFINED:
For the purpose of this title and in order to carry out its provisions and
intentions, certain words, terms and phrases shall be deemed to have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except when the context clearly
requires otherwise. Words used in the present tense shall include the future
tense. Words in the singular number include the plural number, and words in the
plural number include the singular number. The word "lot" shall include the
word "plot". The word "shall" is mandatory and not directory. The word district
shall mean zone and vice versa.
ABANDONMENT: An action to give up one's rights or interests in property.
ACCESSORY USE STRUCTURE: A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use and located on the same lot with such principal use.
   A   .Accessory building uses shall be compatible with the principal use and
shall not be established prior to the establishment of the principal use.
   B.   Accessory uses shall not include a kennel or an accessory building for
the keeping or the propagation of birds, poultry, or livestock.
   C.   No accessory building located in the rear yard of a corner lot shall be
nearer to a street lot line than the minimum width required for a side yard
abutting a street in the district where the lot is located. When the rear lot
line of a reversed corner lot is contiguous to a lot in a residential district,
an accessory building located within twenty five feet (25') of the rear lot
line shall be no nearer to the street lot line than the required depth of the
front yard on such contiguous lot.
   D.   No accessory building shall exceed sixteen feet (16') in height unless
otherwise permitted as accessory to business or manufacturing uses or to an
authorized special use.
   E.   No accessory building or buildings shall occupy more than forty percent
(40%) of the area of a required rear yard.
   F.   An accessory building shall be conventional light frame wood or light
gauge steel construction, either platform or balloon framing, and shall be
permanently affixed to the land on a concrete foundation or concrete slab on
grade.
ADEQUATE ACCESS: Each lot shall have direct access to, and have frontage on, an
approved street.
AGRICULTURAL USES: All agricultural uses shall be limited to horticulture,
forestry, including crop and tree farming, gardening and nursery operations,
together with the operation of any machinery or vehicles incidental to the
above uses.
ALLEY: A public or private right of way which affords a secondary means of
access to abutting property. Structures built close to an alley need to be in
compliance with the requirements of all districts referenced in chapter 4 of
this title.
ALTERATION: As applied to a building or structure, a change or rearrangement in
the structural parts or in the means of ingress and/or egress; or an
enlargement, whether by extending a side or by increasing in height; or the
moving from a location or position to another.
APARTMENT: A room or group of rooms which is arranged, designed, used or
intended to be used as a single housekeeping unit; each unit having complete
kitchen and sanitary facilities permanently installed.
AWNING: A canopy, either stationary or retractable, projecting from the front
of a building whose primary purpose is shelter from the elements.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building or structure which is partly underground
(below grade).
BED AND BREAKFAST: Sleeping quarters for rent in a dwelling and/or detached
accessory building, for use by temporary guests of the owner of the premises.
Breakfast shall be the only meal served to paying guests.
BUILDABLE AREA OF A LOT: The space remaining on a lot after complying with the
minimum open space zoning requirements.
BUILDING: See definitions of Accessory Use Structure and Building, Principal
Use.
BUILDING, HEIGHT OF:
A.   The vertical distance from the grade to:
   1.   The highest point of a flat roof.
   2.   The deck line of a mansard roof.
   3.   The average height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs.
B.   Chimneys, towers, tanks and similar projections shall not be included in
calculating height.
BUILDING, NONCONFORMING: Any building which was legally constructed prior to
the effective date hereof, or subsequent amendment hereto, which would not be
permitted as a new structure under the terms of this title because the
structure is not in conformance with the use restrictions, yards and/or height
of the zone in which it is located.
BUILDING PERMIT: A written permission issued by the zoning administrator
permitting the owner to construct or alter a building or structure under this
title.
BUILDING, PRINCIPAL USE: A building in which the main or principal use of the
lot is conducted. This building will be used for the shelter or enclosure of
persons.
BULK: A composite characteristic of a given building or structure as located
upon a given lot, not definable as a single quantity but involving all of the
following characteristics:
   A.   Size and height of building or structure.
   B.   Location of exterior walls at all levels in relation to lot lines,
streets, or other buildings or structures.
   C.   All open spaces allocated to the building or structure.
   D.   Amount of lot area provided per dwelling unit.
COVENANTS: Declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions for
subdivisions can be more restrictive but not less restrictive than this title.
CULVERTS: Any construction requiring the use of culverts for ditches will need
to have the approval of the type of culverts by the city of Athens water
department.
DRAINAGE TILE: When any construction would restrict the flow of natural
drainage, the applicant must get approval from the city of Athens engineer.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms, including a kitchen or kitchenette, located
within a residence and providing complete living facilities for one family by
containing facilities and equipment for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
EFFICIENCY UNIT: A dwelling unit consisting of one principal room for living,
sleeping and eating, containing complete cooking and sanitary facilities.
FACADE: That portion of any exterior elevation on a building extending from the
grade to the top of the parapet wall or eaves and the entire width of the
building elevation.
FALLOUT SHELTERS: Permitted in any zone, subject to the yard and lot coverage
regulations of the zone. Fallout shelters may contain or be contained in other
structures or may be constructed separately.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, adoption or marriage, living and
cooking together as a single housekeeping unit, exclusive of household
servants. A number of persons, but not exceeding two (2), living and cooking
together as a single housekeeping unit though not related by blood, adoption,
or marriage shall be deemed to constitute a family.
FLOOR AREA: The total amount of interior floor space, measured in square feet,
of any one permitted or special use of a structure.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory building or portion of a main building
used only for the storage of automobiles which are the property of and for the
private use of the occupants of the lot on which the private garage is located;
provided, however, that if the occupants of the lot have fewer vehicles than
the storage spaces contained in said garage, the unrequired spaces may be used
by or rented to others. Not more than one of the vehicles may be a commercial
vehicle of not more than three-fourth (3/4) ton capacity. No garage will be
built on a residential lot where there is not a residence on said lot or on the
lot contiguous thereto with common ownership.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A building, other than a private garage, used for the care,
incidental servicing and sale of automobile supplies, or where motor vehicles
are parked or stored for remuneration, hire or sale within the structure,
including trucks, tractors, truck trailers and commercial vehicles exceeding
three-fourth (3/4) ton capacity.
GAS STATION: See definition of Service Station.
GRADE: The average of the elevations of the surface of the ground measured at
all corners of a building.
HOME OCCUPATION:
A.   Any occupation which is customarily, in whole or in part, conducted in a
residence may be conducted in a dwelling unit as a special use, provided all of
the following criteria are met:
   1.   The use of the occupation must be clearly incidental to the use of the
dwelling as a residence.
   2.   Only one person other than a member of the immediate family residing in
the dwelling unit shall be employed.
   3.   The total area devoted to such use shall not exceed twenty five percent
(25%) of the total area on any one floor of the dwelling unit, or twenty five
percent (25%) of any accessory building.
   4.   No exterior structure, light, or sign in excess of one square foot
shall indicate that it is being used for any nonresidential purpose.
B.   Examples of home occupations include: dressmaking and tailoring shops, the
teaching of a musical instrument to one student at a time, beauty shops and
barbershops, home antique shops and licensed childcare centers.
HOME RESIDENCE BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATION: A residential business, commonly
known as bed and breakfast, is sleeping quarters for rent in a dwelling and/or
detached accessory building for use by temporary guests of the owner of the
premises. Breakfast shall be the only meal served to paying guests. A bed and
breakfast operation may be conducted in a private residence as a special use,
provided all of the following criteria are met:
A.   The principal owner must reside in the house and must be in residence at
all times while conducting the business.
B.   The number of bedrooms made available to the public is limited to four (4)
or less.
C.   Only one person other than a member of the immediate family residing in
the dwelling unit may be working at any given time.
D.   No exterior structure, light or sign in excess of one square foot shall
indicate that it is being used for any nonresidential purpose.
E.   Off street parking must be provided for one car per bedroom designated for
rent. Such parking space cannot be in the front yard and must conform with the
provisions governing off street parking in the respective districts.
F.   Copies of currently applicable federal, state and local governing bodies'
permits must be furnished to the zoning administrator before operation begins.
All existing criteria governing the district in which the bed and breakfast is
proposed shall apply.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign which has nonflashing lighting as part of the sign,
whether the light is projected onto the sign, the light is behind an opaque
surface of a sign, or a light is used as part of the design as in neon signs.
INTERSECTIONS:
A.   No building or structure erected and no planting or other obstruction to
the vision of drivers of motor vehicles shall be located:
   1.   In any residential district, exceeding a height of three feet (3')
above the street grade within twelve feet (12') of the intersecting street
lines bordering corner lots.
   2.   In any business or manufacturing district, within eight feet (8') of
the intersecting street lines bordering a corner lot; provided, that this
regulation shall not apply to that part of a building above the first floor.
B.   On street intersections, no parking shall be located within thirty feet
(30') of the corner formed by the intersection of any two (2) street rights of
way.
JUNKYARD: Any open or fenced area where used or secondhand materials are a
substantial aspect of the use of the premises, bought, sold, exchanged, stored,
baled, packed, dissembled or handled including, but not limited to, scrap iron
and other metals, household items to include appliances and furniture,
collectible items, paper, rags, rubber tires and bottles.
LOT:
A.   A single unified tract of land located within a single block and which is
to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit under single ownership or
control. This area is a horizontal plane bounded by the vertical plane through
the front, side, and rear lot lines.
B.   When two (2) or more parcels of land, each of which lacks adequate area
and dimension to qualify for a permitted use under the requirements of the use
district in which they are located, are continuous and are held in one
ownership, they shall be used as one zoning lot for such use.
C.   No recorded lot shall be divided into two (2) or more lots unless such
division results in the creation of lots, each of which conforms to all of the
applicable regulations of the zone in which the property is located. Such a lot
split shall require a surveyor's plat. No further reduction in the size of a
recorded lot, which would render the lot unable to meet the requirements of
this title, shall be permitted.
D.   In any zone where single-family dwellings are permitted, only one
principal building shall be permitted on any one lot; except, that schools and
health and medical complexes may have more than one principal building, and
except for the resort housing uses which shall remain under single ownership
and control.
E.   Any single lot or parcel of land, held in one ownership, which was of
record at the effective date hereof, that does not meet the requirements for
minimum lot width and areas, may be utilized for a permitted use; provided,
that yards, courts or usable open spaces are not less than seventy five percent
(75%) of the minimum required dimensions or areas.
LOT ACCESS: Each lot shall have direct access to, and have frontage on, an
approved street.
LOT, CORNER: A parcel of land situated at the intersection of two (2) or more
streets or adjoining a curved street at the end of a block.
LOT DEPTH: The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines
measured in the mean direction of the side lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE: The front of a lot shall be that boundary of a lot along a public
or private street.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot or reversed corner lot.
LOT LINE, FRONT: The front property line of a lot.
LOT LINE, INTERIOR: A side lot line common with another lot or abutting a right
of way.
LOT LINE, REAR: The rear lot line or lot lines most nearly parallel to and most
remote from the front lot lines.
LOT WIDTH: The width of the lot measured at the building line and at right
angles to its depth.
MARQUEE: Any hood, canopy or other structure of permanent construction
projecting from the front wall of a building for an advertising purpose.
MAY: Permissible.
MOBILE HOME: A factory assembled, movable dwelling designed and constructed to
be towed on its chassis, comprised of frame wheels, to be used without a
permanent foundation, and distinguishable from other types of dwellings in that
the standards to which it is built include provisions for its mobility on that
chassis as a vehicle. Removal of the tongue, wheels, or hitch, or placement of
the structure upon a permanent foundation shall not be considered in
determining whether or not a structure is a mobile home.
MODULAR HOME/BUILDING: A dwelling unit/storage building, not requiring a title
and serial number, designed and substantially fabricated at a factory and
transported in components to a building site and there permanently assembled
and affixed to a concrete foundation.
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: A detached residential building containing three (3) or
more dwelling units, including what is commonly known as an apartment building.
PERSON: An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, or association.
PLANNED RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT: A development pattern and technique which
arranges dwellings in closely related groups of detached, attached, or multi-
storied structures, or any combinations thereof.
PORTABLE BUILDING: A building built on skids and not permanently fastened to
the ground and which is no larger than twelve feet (12') square.
RECREATIONAL AND HOBBY USES: All private recreational uses limited to
residential or agricultural districts.
RECREATIONAL USE: All public and semiprivate recreational uses limited to
business, recreational, or floodplain districts.
REMODELING: When remodeling an existing structure, there will be no removal of
the existing structure, i.e., any exterior walls and/or roof. If this occurs,
it would be considered new construction.
ROOM ADDITION: Any addition to the existing structure with no remodeling of the
existing structure.
SERVICE STATION: Any building used for the dispensing, sale or offering for
sale at retail of any automobile fuel or oils.
SETBACK: The distance between the public right of way and/or adjoining property
to the nearest part of any building.
SHALL: Imperative and mandatory.
SIGN: Any name, identification, description, display, illustration or device
which is affixed to or represented directly upon a building, structure or land
in view of the general public and which directs attention to a product, place,
activity, person, institution or business. The following regulations are
established to promote the public health and safety by reducing the distracting
characteristics of signs along public streets and highways, by prohibiting all
signs which interfere with public traffic control devices, and by assuring
adequate standards for the erection and maintenance of signs and/or sign
structures. These regulations are also established to regulate the size,
height, location and general characteristics of signs to protect and enhance
the physical appearance of the community.
A.   General Requirements:
   1.   No sign shall prevent free ingress and egress from any door, window or
fire escape.
   2.   No sign shall obstruct the light and ventilation from any door or
window.
   3.   No sign shall be attached to any tree or utility pole.
   4.   The lighting used in any illuminated sign shall be such that only the
sign itself, and not the area surrounding it, will be illuminated.
   5.   The owner, lessee or person in control of any sign shall be required to
keep such sign properly maintained at all times.
B.   Residential Districts:
   1.   For one- and two-family dwellings, there shall be not more than one
nameplate, not exceeding two (2) square feet in area, for each dwelling unit,
indicating the name or address of the occupant or permitted occupation.
   2.   For multiple-family dwellings, apartment hotels and buildings other
than dwellings, a single identification sign not exceeding twelve (12) square
feet in area and indicating only the name and address of the building and the
name of the management thereof may be displayed.
   3.   Signs listing property for sale shall be permitted, provided there is
not more than one such sign per zoning lot; except, that a corner lot shall be
permitted two (2) such signs. No sign shall exceed twelve (12) square feet in
area nor be closer than eight feet (8') to any other zoning lot.
   4.   Temporary signs are permitted, subject to the regulations of this
subsection B, provided they are displayed for a period not to exceed thirty
(30) days.
   5.   No sign shall project higher than one story or fifteen feet (15') above
curb level, whichever is lower.
   6.   No sign shall project beyond the property line into the public way.
C.   Commercial Districts:
   1.   The gross area in square feet of all signs on a zoning lot shall not
exceed three (3) times the linear feet of frontage of such zoning lot. The
gross area of all flashing signs shall not exceed two (2) times the linear
frontage of such lot.
   2.   The sign or signs shall front the principal street, a parking area, or
in the case of a corner building, on that portion of the side street wall
within fifty feet (50') of the principal street.
   3.   Signs suspended from any building shall not project more than forty
eight inches (48") beyond the building line, and the bottom of such signs shall
not be less than eight feet (8') above the finished grade of the sidewalk.
   4.   Any sign projecting or suspended from a building shall not exceed
twelve feet (12') in height, and its location and arrangement shall be subject
to approval by the zoning administrator.
   5.   No sign, except those suspended from buildings, shall be erected or
placed between the street line and the building line.
D.   Manufacturing Districts:
   1.   The gross area in square feet of all signs on a zoning lot shall not
exceed six (6) times the linear feet of frontage of such zoning lot, provided
the gross area of flashing signs shall not exceed three (3) times the linear
feet of frontage of such lot.
   2.   No signs shall project higher than forty five feet (45') above the
ground level beneath it.
E.   Billboards: Billboards, advertising signs and poster panels are permitted,
provided:
   1.   The sign area shall not exceed two hundred seventy five feet (275').
   2.   The sign is not located within five hundred feet (500') of any public
park of more than five (5) acres in area, or any freeways, expressways, and
toll roads designated by the governing authorities.
   3.   The sign is not located within seventy five feet (75') of any property
located in a residential district.
SIGN AREA: The total area of the space to be used for advertising purposes,
including the background structure and other decoration or addition which is an
integral part of the sign, and excluding any supports, posts, or braces.
SIGN, FREESTANDING: A sign completely or principally self- supported by posts
or other supports in or on the ground and independent of any building or other
structure.
SIGN HEIGHT: The distance between the point at which the sign structure enters
the ground and the uppermost portion of the sign.
SIGN, PORTABLE: A freestanding sign not permanently anchored or secured to
either a building or the ground such as, but not limited to, A-frame or
inverted T-shape signs.
SIGN, ROOF: A sign erected, constructed, or mainly wholly upon or over the roof
of a building or structure.
SIGN, WALL: A permanent sign displayed on a wall of a building or structure so
as to be seen primarily from the direction facing that wall of the building or
structure. A wall sign attached to the exterior wall of a building or structure
shall not project more than fifteen inches (15") therefrom.
SPECIAL USE PERMIT: Permission granted by the Athens city council to a property
owner to use the property contrary to this title; provided, that the intended
use is one of those specifically listed in this title; and provided, that the
public convenience will be served by the use. Once the owner relinquishes the
property or structure, the special use permit is null and void.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor and
the surface of the floor next above it, or if there be no floor above it, then
the space between such floor and ceiling next above it.
STORY, FIRST: The lowermost story entirely above the grade plane.
STORY, HALF: A story under a gable, hip or gambrel roof, the wall plates of
which at least two (2) opposite exterior walls are not more than two feet (2')
above the floor of such story.
STREET: Any dedicated public right of way designed for vehicular travel. The
word street shall be equated with the words "road", "highway" and "avenue", but
not the word "alley".
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on or in the
ground or attached to anything having a fixed location on the ground, both of
which are substantially three-dimensional. Examples of structures are
buildings, walls, swimming pools, fences, billboards, signs, and storage bins.
"Substantially three-dimensional" is intended to exclude such real property
improvements as parking lots, streets or driveways.
STRUCTURE HEIGHT: As applied to any structure other than a building, the
vertical distance from the grade to the highest point of the structure.
STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING: Any structure which was legally constructed prior to
the effective date hereof, or subsequent amendment hereto, which would not be
permitted as a new structure under the terms of this title because the
structure is not in conformance with the use restrictions, yards, and/or height
requirements of the zone in which it is located.
SWIMMING POOLS: Private swimming pools are permitted in any residential zone;
provided, that no swimming pool or part thereof including, but not limited to,
aprons, walks and equipment rooms, shall protrude into any required front or
side yard. Swimming pools must be fenced or otherwise protected against
intrusion. No private swimming pool shall be operated as a business or as a
private club. All private swimming pools will be fenced in, protected and shall
comply with all applicable state and federal laws.
TENTS: Shall not be used, erected, or maintained as living quarters. Tents used
in commercial or industrial zones or tents used for camping purposes, wherever
permitted, shall be of a temporary nature.
TOXIC MATERIALS: Materials which are capable of causing injury or malaise to
living organisms by chemical reaction, or are capable of causing detrimental
effects upon the health or the psychological, social, or economic well being of
human beings.
USE: The purpose or activity for which a building, structure, or land is
occupied or maintained.
USE, NONCONFORMING: A use of a building or land, lawful at the effective date
hereof, that does not conform with the permitted use provisions of this title.
VARIATION: A waiver of specific terms of this title in order to permit a
property owner to establish a particular use or arrangement of uses, the
prohibition of which would impose an undue hardship.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a principal building which is open,
unoccupied, and unobstructed by buildings except as otherwise provided in this
title.
YARD, FRONT: The yard extending across the entire width of the lot between the
street right of way which the building faces and the nearest part of the
principal building.
YARD, REAR: The yard extending across the entire width of the lot between the
rear lot line and the nearest part of the principal building.
YARD, SIDE: The yard extending along the side lot line from the front yard to
the rear yard and lying between the side lot line and the nearest part of the
principal building.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The official, as appointed by the mayor and approved by
the city council of the city of Athens, Illinois, who shall be empowered to
administer and enforce the provisions of this title.
ZONING BOARD: The zoning board and/or the city council of Athens, Illinois.
ZONING MAP: The official zoning map incorporated herein as a part of this title
designating zoning districts and entitled the "zoning district map of the city
of Athens, Illinois". (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. Ord. 09-2001, 9-10-2001; Ord. 20-
2005, 11-14-2005; Ord. 03-2015, 5-11-2015; 2017 Code)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
8-3-1: Administrative Officials
8-3-2: Permits And Certificates
8-3-3: Amendments
8-3-4: Variations
8-3-5: Fees
8-3-6: Violations
8-3-7: Penalty
8-3-1: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIALS:
   A.   Zoning Administrator:
      1.   Appointment: The zoning administrator, to be appointed by the mayor,
with the advice and consent of the city council, shall be empowered to
administer and enforce the provisions of this title.
      2.   Duties And Responsibilities: The duties and responsibilities of the
zoning administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
         a.   Conduct inspections of buildings, structures, and uses of any
premises to determine compliance with the terms of this title and issue
certificates of inspection where compliance with this title has been verified.
         b.   Notify, in writing, the person responsible for any violation and
order the action necessary to correct said violation.
         c.   Order discontinuance of illegal uses of land, buildings or
structures. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
         d.   Maintain permanent and current records of all functions of the
zoning board related to the administration of this title including, but not
limited to, official actions on all amendments, zoning exception certificates,
certificates of inspection and applications therefor.
         e.   Receive petitions for proposed zoning amendments and provide such
clerical and technical assistance as may be required.
         f.   Make an annual report to the mayor and city council on the work
of the zoning board on the enforcement of this title.
         g.   Serve as an ex officio, nonvoting member of the zoning board.
(Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   B.   Zoning Hearing Officer:
      1.   Position Created: The position of zoning hearing officer is hereby
established.
      2.   Special Use And Variation Hearings:
         a.   The hearing officer is delegated the authority to conduct any
public hearing, other than a public hearing provided in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-13-2, required to be held under applicable zoning powers set
forth in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-13-1 et seq., in connection with
applications for any special use or variation within the city pursuant to the
powers set forth in the aforesaid zoning statutes.
         b.   The power to determine and approve a variation or special use is
reserved to the city council, and the hearing officer shall report his or her
recommendations either for or against any such application for variation or
special use to the city council.
         c.   The city council may, by ordinance, without further hearing,
adopt any proposed variation or special use or may refer it back to the hearing
officer for further consideration.
         d.   If any proposed variation or special use fails to receive the
approval of the hearing officer, said proposed variation or special use shall
not be passed by the city council except by favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3)
of all city council members.
      3.   Compensation: The compensation, if any, for the hearing officer
shall be provided by separate resolution, and the city council may establish a
schedule of fees to defray the costs of providing the hearing officer. (Ord.
06-98, 5-11-1998)
8-3-2: PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES:
   A.   Building Permit:
      1.   Permit And Compliance Required: No building or structure shall
hereafter be erected or structurally altered until a building permit shall be
issued by the zoning administrator stating that the building or structure and
use of land comply with the regulations of this title and all building and
health laws and ordinances of the city.
      2.   Application For Permit: All applications for building permits shall
be accompanied by a plot plan, drawn to scale, showing the actual dimensions of
the lot or lots to be built upon, the size of the building or structure to be
erected or structurally altered, its location on the lot or lots in relation to
adjoining streets and lot lines, location of well, septic tanks, sewer and
water lines, seepage field, and such other information as may be necessary to
provide for the enforcement of this title. A careful record of such
applications and plot plans shall be kept in the office of the zoning
administrator.
      3.   Posting Permit: A copy of the permit shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises, in plain view during the prosecution of work
and until completion of the same.
      4.   Expiration Of Permit: A permit under which no work is commenced
ninety (90) days after issuance shall expire by limitation, and new permit
shall be secured before work is started.
   B.   Certificate Of Compliance:
      1.   Certificate Required: No building or structure hereafter erected or
structurally altered shall be occupied and used until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the zoning administrator. The certificate of
compliance shall be issued only after the zoning administrator makes a finding
that the building or structure has been erected or structurally altered in
conformance with the provisions of this title and other health and building
laws and in accordance with a building permit.
      2.   Application For Certificate: A certificate of compliance shall be
applied for coincident with the application for a building permit and shall be
issued within ten (10) days after the erection and alteration of such building
have been satisfactorily completed. A record of all certificates shall be kept
on file in the office of the zoning administrator and copies furnished on
request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in the building
affected.
   C.   Certificate Of Continued Occupancy Of Nonconforming Uses: Certificates
for the continued occupancy of nonconforming uses existing at the effective
date hereof or made nonconforming by this title shall state that the use is a
nonconforming one and does not conform with the provisions of this title. The
zoning administrator shall notify the owners of the property being used as a
nonconforming use and shall furnish said owner with a certificate of occupancy
for such nonconforming use.
   D.   Use Permit: No change shall be made in the use of a building or part
thereof now or hereafter erected or structurally altered, or in the use of land
now or hereafter occupied, without a use permit having first been issued by the
zoning administrator. No such use permit shall be issued to make changes unless
it is in conformity with the provisions of this title.
   E.   Special Conditions:
      1.   Continuance Of Existing Uses: Nothing herein shall prevent the
continuance of the present lawful occupancy or lawful use of any existing
building or zoning lot, except as may be necessary for the safety of life and
property and except as provided herein.
      2.   Dish Type Satellite Receivers: For dish type satellite receiver
permits, the applicant need only submit a plot plan indicating exact location.
No fee shall be required.
      3.   Mobile Homes: A mobile home may not be moved in or into the city
except pursuant to a court order unless a certificate from the county treasurer
certifying that all taxes, including the current year, have been paid on the
mobile home. No permit will be issued without submitting this information.
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-3-3: AMENDMENTS:
   A.   Petition For Amendment: The city council, the city zoning board and
other governmental bodies and any private petitioner may apply for an amendment
to the text of this title and to the accompanying zoning map made a part
hereof. Any petition for an amendment by a private party shall be accompanied
by a filing fee as established by the city council, which fee shall be
deposited with the city, and no part shall be returnable to the petitioner. The
petition for amendment shall state the property location for which the
amendment is requested, the name of the property owner, and a statement
describing the amendment requested.
   B.   Hearing, Notice And Board Recommendations:
      1.   The regulations imposed and the zoning districts created hereunder
may be amended by ordinance, but no such amendment shall be made by the city
council without public notice and without a public hearing before the city
zoning board. The zoning board shall hold the public hearing and forward its
recommendations to the city council within forty five (45) days of the date the
petition was submitted to the zoning board unless it is withdrawn by the
petitioner.
      2.   The zoning board shall cause notice of public hearing of the
petitioner's application to be given in the following manner:
         a.   By publishing notice of the time and place of such public hearing
at least once, not more than thirty (30) days and not less than fifteen (15)
days, before the hearing in one or more newspapers published in the city or if
no newspaper is published therein, then in one or more newspapers with a
general circulation in the city. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
         b.   By causing said notice to contain the particular location for
which the amendment is requested as well as a brief statement describing the
amendment.
         c.   By notifying such property owners, groups or organizations as it
deems desirable of the proposal.
   C.   Written Protests: In case of a written protest against any proposed
amendment of the regulations or districts, signed and acknowledged by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by
the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage immediately adjoining or
across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of the twenty percent (20%) of the
frontage directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered, is filed with
the city clerk, the amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of
two- thirds (2/3) of the aldermen then holding office. In such cases, a copy of
the written protest shall be served by the protestor or protestors on the
applicant for the proposed amendments and a copy upon the applicant's attorney,
if any, by certified mail at the address of such applicant and attorney shown
in the application for the proposed amendment. Any notice required by this
subsection need not include a metes and bounds legal description; provided,
that the notice includes:
      1.   The common street address or addresses; and
      2.   The property index number ("PIN") or numbers of all the parcels of
real property contained in the affected area. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017
Code)
8-3-4: VARIATIONS:
   A.   Application For Variation: An application for a variation from district
regulations of this title may be made by a property owner or his agent to the
zoning administrator. Such application shall be made in writing, stating the
variation requested, the location of the property for which the variation is
requested, name of the property owner, and cause for the requested variation
set forth in the guidelines for applicants. The fee for such application shall
be as set out in section 8-3-5 of this chapter.
   B.   Hearing And Notice: The zoning board shall fix a reasonable time and
place for the public hearing and shall give notice of the time and place of the
public hearing, published at least once, not more than thirty (30) days nor
less than fifteen (15) days, before the hearing in one or more newspapers with
a general circulation within the city.
   C.   Board Findings:
      1.   The zoning board shall make findings based upon the evidence
presented to it in each specific case that the proposed change:
         a.   Will not constitute a change, including a variation in use, in
the district map; and
         b.   Will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent
property; and
         c.   Will not increase congestion in public streets, or increase the
danger of fire; and
         d.   Will not materially diminish or impair established property
values within the surrounding areas; and
         e.   Will not, in any other respect, impair the public health, safety,
comfort, morals and welfare of the city.
      2.   The zoning board shall report its findings and recommendations to
the city council within thirty (30) days after the public hearing.
   D.   City Council Action: Upon receipt of the report and recommendations
from the board to grant or deny the variance, the city council, without further
public hearing, may:
      1.   Adopt the proposed variation by ordinance.
      2.   Concur with the denial of a variance request.
      3.   Overrule a board recommendation with the affirmative vote of two-
thirds (2/3) of all members of the city council.
   E.   Compliance With Provisions: No variation shall be made by the city
council without a hearing by the zoning board as required hereinabove or
without a report thereof having been made by the board to the city council, and
every such report shall be accompanied by findings of fact specifying the
reasons for the report. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3-5: FEES:
The fees for the applications/petitions for permits listed below shall be
established by action of the city council from time to time. Such fees shall be
paid to the city clerk who shall give a receipt therefor and account for same
at regular intervals to the city council. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
Application for building permit:
Unattached garages:
No larger than 20 feet x 22 feet (440 square feet)                   $ 50.00
Larger than 20 feet x 22 feet (440 square feet)                      100.00
New construction/additions (total floor space and including attached 0.15
garages and basement area) (per square foot)
Petition for zoning permit                                           200.00
Petition for use/occupancy permit                                    25.00
Petition for appeal/variance permit                                  200.00
Petition for nonconforming permit                                    25.00
Petition for special use permit                                      200.00
Application for construction of a subdivision (per each lot in the
subdivision) (see title 7, chapter 4 of this code for subdivision    100.00
regulations)
Petition for inground residential swimming pool                      50.00
 
(Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. Ord. 06-2005, 3-14-2005; 2017 Code; Ord. 09-2019, 8-12-
2019)
8-3-6: VIOLATIONS:
It shall be unlawful to construct or use any structure, land, or water in
violation of any of the provisions of this title. In case of any violation, the
zoning administrator, zoning board or any property owner who would be
specifically damaged by such violation may institute appropriate action or
proceeding to enjoin a violation of this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017
Code)
8-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person, firm, or corporation who fails to comply with the provisions of
this title shall, upon conviction thereof, forfeit not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense.
Each day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
ARTICLE A. ZONING BOARD
SECTION:
8-3A-1: Membership; Appointment And Terms
8-3A-2: Organization
8-3A-3: Duties
8-3A-4: Appeals Procedures
8-3A-1: MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT AND TERMS:
The zoning board shall consist of seven (7) members appointed by the mayor,
with the advice and consent of the city council. The members of the board
appointed shall serve for a term of five (5) years or until their successors
are appointed and qualified; provided, however, that the first board appointed
shall serve as follows: one for one year, one for two (2) years, one for three
(3) years, one for four (4) years, one for five (5) years, one for six (6)
years, and one for seven (7) years. The successor to each new member so
appointed shall serve for a term of five (5) years. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd.
2017 Code)
8-3A-2: ORGANIZATION:
   A.   Open Meetings: All meetings of the board shall be open to the public.
   B.   Minutes And Records: The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings,
showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to
vote, indicating that fact, and shall also keep records of its examinations and
other official actions.
   C.   Quorum: No hearings shall be conducted without a quorum of the board
being present, which shall consist of a majority of all the members. (Ord., 10-
11-1999)
8-3A-3: DUTIES:
The board is hereby vested with the following duties under this title: (Ord.,
10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   A.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the zoning administrator.
   B.   Variations should be granted only to provide relief in unusual
situations which were not intended or foreseen when this title was adopted. No
variation should be granted unless it will be in harmony with the general
interest and purpose of this title.
   C.   Upon application for appeal, the board shall have the following
nonexclusive powers to permit the following variations:
      1.   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line of a
district divides a lot of record in single ownership.
      2.   To permit the reconstruction of a nonconforming building which has
been damaged by explosion, fire, act of God, or the public enemy to the extent
of more than fifty percent (50%) of its assessed value when the board finds
some compelling public necessity requiring a continuance of the nonconforming
use.
      3.   To interpret the provisions of any new zoning ordinance where the
street layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on
the map fixing the several districts.
      4.   To vary parking regulations whenever the character or use of the
building is such as to make unnecessary the full provision of parking
facilities or when such regulations would impose an unreasonable hardship upon
the use of the lot, as contrasted with merely granting an advantage or a
convenience.
   D.   In exercising the powers of granting variations, the board may reverse
or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from and make such order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made and, to that end, shall have all the powers
of the officer from whom the appeal is taken. In consideration all appeals or
applications for variations, the board shall, before making any findings in a
specific case, first determine that the proposed change will not constitute a
change, including a variation in use, in the district map and will not impair
an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property, or increase
congestion in public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or materially
diminish or impair established property values within the surrounding area, or
in any other respect impair the public health, safety, comfort, morals and
welfare of the city.
Every change granted or denied by the board shall be accompanied by written
findings of fact based on sworn testimony and evidence, specifying the reasons
for granting or denying the variation. The decision of the board shall be made
a part of any building permit in which a variation is allowed.
   E.   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
zoning administrator, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon
which it is required to pass or to effect any variations in a new ordinance.
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-3A-4: APPEALS PROCEDURES:
The following procedures shall be used in all matters before the board:
   A.   Right Of Appeal: Appeals to the board of any matter over which the
board is specifically granted jurisdiction may be taken by any person aggrieved
or by an officer, department, board, or bureau of the city affected by any
decision of the zoning administrator. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
   B.   Filing Appeal: An appeal shall be taken within forty five (45) days of
such decision by filing with the zoning administrator and with the board a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The zoning administrator shall
forthwith transmit to the board all papers constituting the record upon which
the action appealed from is taken. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action appealed from, unless the zoning administrator certifies to the
board, after the notice of appeal has been filed with him, that, by reason of
facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings should not be stayed
otherwise than by proper legal action. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
   D.   Hearing And Notices:
      1.   Upon an appeal or request for a variation, the board shall fix a
reasonable time for a hearing.
      2.   Upon an appeal from any decision of the zoning administrator or
request for variation, the board shall give not less than fifteen (15) days'
public notice of a hearing thereon in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city. The notice shall contain the particular location of the property affected
by the decision appealed from or the variation requested, as well as a brief
statement of the nature of the appeal or of what the proposed variation
consists.
      3.   The city shall post the property with a notification of appeal sign
seven (7) days prior to the hearing date and shall remove said sign no later
than three (3) days following the hearing date. The applicant or his agent
shall give notice to all adjoining property owners within one hundred fifty
feet (150') by certified mail at least ten (10) days prior to hearing. (Ord.,
10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
ARTICLE B.  SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Introduction
8-3B-2: Application For Special Use
8-3B-3: Hearing And Notice
8-3B-4: Zoning Board Findings Of Fact And Recommendations
8-3B-5: City Council Action
8-3B-1: INTRODUCTION:
The development and execution of this title is based upon the division of the
city into districts, within which districts the uses of land and buildings and
the yard and location of buildings and structures in relation to the land are
substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there are special uses
which, because of their unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified
in any particular district or districts without consideration, in each case, of
the impact of those uses upon neighboring land and of the public need for the
particular use at the particular location. Such special uses fall into the
following categories: (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   A.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally connected with a public
interest.
   B.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual nature that
their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact
upon neighboring property or public facilities. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-3B-2: APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE:
Any person who has a freehold interest in land, or a possessory interest
entitled to exclusive possession, or a contractual interest which may become a
freehold interest, or an exclusive possessory interest which is specifically
enforceable may file an application to use land for a special use provided in
this title in the zoning district in which the land is located. An application
for a special use permit, including a planned residential development special
use permit, shall be filed with and on a form available from the zoning
administrator. The application shall be accompanied by such plans and/or data
prescribed by the zoning board, and shall include a statement in writing by the
applicant and adequate evidence showing that the proposed special use will
conform to the standards set forth in the guidelines for applicants. The fee
for such an application shall be as set out in section 8-3-5 of this chapter.
(Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3B-3: HEARING AND NOTICE:
Upon receipt in proper form of the application and statement referred to in
this article, the zoning board shall hold at least one public hearing on the
proposed special use. Not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15)
days in advance of such hearing, notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, as
prescribed by applicable state statutes. Supplemental or additional notices may
be published or distributed as the zoning board may, by rule, prescribe from
time to time. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3B-4: ZONING BOARD FINDINGS OF FACT AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the close of the public hearing on a
special use permit application, the zoning board shall make written findings of
fact and shall submit same, together with its recommendations, to the city
council. The city council shall make findings based upon the evidence presented
to it in each specific case that: (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
      1.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or general
welfare.
      2.   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already permitted, nor
substantially diminished or property values impaired within the neighborhood.
      3.   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district.
      4.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or necessary
facilities have been or are being provided, to include curbing, if deemed
necessary by the city council, sewer and water lines to the property line,
subject to approval by the engineer, architect or such other expert as the city
deems necessary.
      5.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
      6.   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located except as such
regulations may, in each instance, be modified by the city council pursuant to
the recommendations of the zoning board.
   B.   For each application for a special use permit, the zoning board shall
report to the city council the stipulations or additional conditions and
guarantees to be complied with by the applicant when they are deemed necessary
for the protection of the public interest. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3B-5: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
Any action taken by the city council with regard to special uses shall be by
ordinance. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
SECTION:
8-4-1: Districts Established
8-4-2: Zoning Map
8-4-3: Boundaries Of Districts
8-4-4: Zoning Of Annexed Land
8-4-5: Compliance With District Regulations
8-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this title, all land within the corporate limits of the city
is hereby designated on the zoning district map as being in one of the
following districts:
 
R-1 Low density residential district
R-2 Medium density residential district
R-3 High density residential district
B-1 Business commercial district
M-1 Limited manufacturing district
A-1 Agricultural district
A-2 Recreational district
 
(Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-4-2: ZONING MAP:
The locations and boundaries of the districts established herein are shown on
the zoning district map which is hereby incorporated into this title. The
zoning district map, together with all notations, references, and other
information shown thereon, and all amendments thereto, shall be a part of this
title and shall have the same force and effect as if the zoning district map,
together with all notations, references and other information shown thereon,
were fully set forth and described herein. The zoning map referred to herein
and adopted as part of this title shall be identified as the "zoning district
map of the city of Athens, Illinois". (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-4-3: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
   A.   Unless otherwise indicated on the zoning district map, the boundary
lines of the districts follow lot lines and centerlines of streets, alleys,
waterways, and railroad rights of way, or such centerlines extended, or the
corporate limits existing at the effective date hereof.
   B.   Where the centerline of a street, alley, public way, waterway or
railroad right of way serves as a district boundary, the zoning of such areas,
unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same.
Example: A railroad butting an R-1 residence district is then considered
residential. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-4-4: ZONING OF ANNEXED LAND:
It is the duty of the zoning board, prior to or at the time of annexation, to
establish the zoning classification for the territory proposed to be annexed.
Thereafter, the procedure utilized for the zoning of such territory should be
the same procedure provided for the adoption of amendments to the title, i.e.,
public notice and public hearing. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-4-5: COMPLIANCE WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
No building or land shall hereafter be used and no building or part thereof
shall be erected, moved or altered unless for a use expressly permitted by and
in conformity with the regulations for the district in which it is located.
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
CHAPTER 5
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
ARTICLE A.  R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-5A-1: Permitted Principal Uses
8-5A-2: Permitted Accessory Uses
8-5A-3: Special Uses
8-5A-4: Dimensional Requirements
8-5A-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
8-5A-5-1: Purpose
8-5A-5-2: Application Of Provisions
8-5A-5-3: Plot Plan Required
8-5A-5-4: Off Street Parking Requirements
8-5A-5-5: Parking Trucks, Trailers And Heavy Equipment
8-5A-6: Special Requirements
8-5A-7: Fees
8-5A-1: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
 Accessory structures consistent with the principal use. (See definition of
"accessory use structure" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Private garages. (See definition of "garage, private" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Remodeling. (See definition of "remodeling" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Room additions. (See definition of "room addition" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Single-family detached dwellings.
Single-family detached modular homes. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-5A-2: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
 Private recreational and hobby uses such as swimming pools, tennis courts and
gardens. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5A-3: SPECIAL USES:
Churches, schools, libraries, parks, playgrounds and community centers.
Daycare centers.
Home occupations. (See definition of "home occupation" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Home residence bed and breakfast operations. (See definition of "home residence
bed and breakfast operation" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Signs. (See definition of "sign" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Utility substations and pump houses. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-5A-4: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
(See definition of "lot" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
A. Lot area:            
   Minimum           5,000 square feet
B. Lot width:           
   Minimum           50 feet
C. Lot frontage:        
   Minimum           50 feet
D. Yard requirements:   
   Minimum:           
    Front           20 feet
    Rear            20 feet
    Side            10 feet
    Corner          20 feet (corner is at intersecting roads)
E. Height:              
   Maximum           35 feet
F. Off street parking:  
   Minimum           2 spaces per unit
 
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5A-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
8-5A-5-1: PURPOSE:
This section
8-5A-5 is provided to increase safety and lessen congestion in the public
streets, to adequately provide for parking needs associated with the
development of land and increased automobile usage, to set standards for the
requirement of off street parking according to the amount of traffic generated
by each use, and to reduce the on street storage of vehicles. (Ord., 10-11-
1999)
8-5A-5-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Generally: For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of
land established after the effective date hereof, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of the district in
which such buildings or uses are located. However, where a building permit has
been issued prior to the effective date hereof, and provided, that construction
is begun within ninety (90) days of such effective date, and diligently
prosecuted to completion, parking and loading facilities as required
hereinafter need not be provided.
   B.   Increase In Intensity Of Use: When the intensity of use of any
building, structure or premises shall be increased through the addition of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other units of
measurement specified herein for required parking or loading facilities,
parking and loading facilities as required herein shall be provided for such
increase in intensity of use. However, no building or structure lawfully
erected or use lawfully established prior to the effective date hereof shall be
required to provide such additional parking or loading facilities unless and
until the aggregated increase in units of measurement shall equal not less than
fifteen percent (15%) of the units of measurement existing upon said effective
date.
   C.   Change Of Use: Whenever the existing use of a building or structure
shall hereafter be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be
provided as required for such new use. However, if the said building or
structure was erected prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking or
loading facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements
for the new use would exceed those for the existing use if the latter were
subject to the parking and loading provisions of this section
8-5A-5.
   D.   Accessory Parking And Loading Facilities: Accessory off street parking
or loading facilities which are located on the same lot as the building or use
served and which were in existence on the effective date hereof or were
provided voluntarily after such effective date shall not hereafter be reduced
below, or if already less than, shall not further be reduced below the
requirements of this section
8-5A-5 for a similar new building or use.
   E.   Damage Or Destruction Of Building Or Use: For any conforming or legally
nonconforming building or use which is in existence on the effective date
hereof which, subsequent thereto, is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse,
explosion or other cause, and which is reconstructed, reestablished, or
repaired, off street parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained
at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in
operation. However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain
parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this section
8-5A-5 for equivalent new uses or construction. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5A-5-3: PLOT PLAN REQUIRED:
Any application for a building permit, or for a certificate of occupancy where
no building permit is required, shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to
scale and fully dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be
provided in compliance with this section
8-5A-5. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5A-5-4: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Stall And Aisle Dimensions: All required spaces shall conform to the
following stall and aisle dimensions:
 
Parking Angle Stall Width Width Of Stall    Depth Of Stall         Aisle Width
                          Parallel To Aisle Perpendicular To Aisle
45°          10'         14'14"            20'                    11'6"
60°          10'         11'5"             20'                    18'
90°          10'         10'               20'                    29'
 
      2.   Access: Each required off street parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off street
parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access
to a street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic
movements. No driveway across public property nor curb cut shall exceed a width
of thirty feet (30').
      3.   Screening: All open automobile parking areas containing more than
four (4) parking spaces shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or
fronting on any property situated in a residential district or any
institutional premises by a wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge not
less than five feet (5') nor more than seven feet (7') in height. Such required
screening shall conform with the front and side yard setback requirements of
the district in which the parking is located.
   B.   Off Premises Parking: If off street parking space for nonresidential
uses as required in section
8-5A-5-2 of this chapter cannot be provided on the same lot on which the
principal use is conducted, the zoning administrator may permit such space to
be provided on other off street property, provided such space is within four
hundred feet (400') of the main entrance to such principal use. Such off street
parking space shall thereafter be deemed to be required open space associated
with the permitted use and shall not be reduced nor encroached upon in any
manner.
   C.   Joint Use Of Facilities: If groups of buildings contain uses which vary
in their parking requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of
the individual requirements for each use. However, where peak parking
requirements occur at distinctly different times of the day or at different
times of the week as determined by the zoning administrator, joint parking
facilities may be shared by two (2) or more uses.
   D.   Maintenance Of Facilities:
      1.   All parking facilities and accessways to the parking areas shall be
maintained in a dust free condition; parking areas located between a public
street and the principal building on the lot shall be maintained in a dust free
condition.
      2.   Accessways between public streets and property lines shall be
maintained with a substance similar to the composition of the street.
      3.   Any lighting shall be arranged and maintained so that it does not
shine directly upon any adjacent dwelling or street and does not produce
excessive glare.
      4.   Uncovered parking spaces must be at least three feet (3') from any
street right of way line.
   E.   Number Of Spaces:
      1.   The following number of surfaced off street automobile parking
spaces shall be provided for the following permitted accessory uses and special
uses:
         a.   Churches shall have one parking space per four (4) seating spaces
in the main sanctuary.
         b.   Schools shall have parking spaces as follows:
            (1)   Elementary and junior high schools shall have two (2) parking
spaces per three (3) teachers and other employees;
            (2)   Senior high schools, colleges, and universities shall have
two (2) parking spaces per three (3) teachers and other employees, plus one
parking space per five (5) students;
            (3)   Nursery schools shall have two (2) parking spaces per three
(3) teachers and other employees, plus one off street loading space per eight
(8) pupils; and
            (4)   If a school has an auditorium or assembly hall which may be
used by persons other than students of the school, the parking requirements set
forth under subsection 8-6-5-4E1 of this title, entry reading "theaters,
auditoriums and places of assembly", shall be used to fulfill the parking
requirements of the school, provided the parking spaces are located near both
uses.
      2.   For uses not listed in subsection E1 of this section, parking spaces
shall be provided on the same basis as required for the most similar listed
use, or as determined by the zoning administrator.
      3.   When determination of the number of off street parking spaces
required by this subsection E results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded while a fraction in
excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking space. (Ord., 10-11-
1999)
8-5A-5-5: PARKING TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND HEAVY EQUIPMENT:
In all residential districts, not more than one truck with a gross weight of
eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less, one trailer with a gross weight of five
thousand (5,000) pounds or less and not more than one boat and/or boat trailer
may be parked in a building or in a rear yard but not in a required front or
side yard unless said parking is on an improved surface and covers only that
portion of the yard that leads to parking space in the side or rear yard.
Furthermore, no heavy vehicular equipment in excess of eight thousand (8,000)
pounds shall be parked in a residential district. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5A-6: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Adequate Access: See definition of "adequate access" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   B.   Projections Into Yards:
      1.   Architectural Features: Architectural features of residential
buildings, such as windowsills, cornices, and roof overhangs, may project into
the required yard, provided such projections are not closer than four feet (4')
to any lot line.
      2.   Residential Structures Projecting Into Front Yards: Any residential
structure may project into the required front yard of existing residential
structures on both adjacent lots in the same district having less than the
required minimum front yard; provided, however, that such projection extends no
closer to the street than either of the adjacent structures.
   C.   Location Of Certain Structures And Items:
      1.   Accessory Structures: No accessory structure shall be constructed
closer than twenty feet (20') to the front and rear lot lines and ten feet
(10') off the side lot lines and a driveway not closer than two feet (2') along
a lot line.
      2.   Mechanical Devices: No mechanical device designed for the purpose of
controlling the internal environment of the structure shall be permitted in any
front yard or within eight feet (8') of any lot line.
      3.   Ground Mounted Satellite Antennas: No ground mounted dish type
satellite signal receiving antennas, also referred to as earth stations or
ground stations, shall be permitted in any front yard or street frontage or
within eight feet (8') of any lot line. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
   D.   Location Of Parking Areas: Required parking spaces shall not be located
in the required front yard unless said parking is on an improved surface or
that portion of the yard that leads to the parking space in the side or rear
yard. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   E.   Storage Required In Enclosed Structures:
      1.   Contractor Equipment And Tools: All contractor earthmoving equipment
and/or tools shall be parked or stored in a completely enclosed structure on
all residential premises except when making a delivery or rendering a service
at such premises. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
      2.   Unlicensed Or Inoperable Vehicles: All unlicensed and/or inoperable
motor vehicles shall be parked or stored in a completely enclosed, roofed
building on all residential premises. (Ord. 09-2006, 10-9-2006)
   F.   Visibility Of Intersections:
      1.   See definition of "intersections" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
      2.   For landscaping on any corner lot, surface grading shall be such as
to permit unobstructed vision between the heights of two and one-half (21/2)
and ten feet (10') within the sight triangle formed by the center of the
intersection and two (2) points fifty feet (50') distant, each point being on
the centerline of an intersection street.
   G.   Culverts: No culverts will be installed until approved by the city. The
homeowner will pay for the first culvert which will be maintained by the city
thereafter.
   H.   Fences, Walls And Hedges:
      1.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in a required side or rear
yard along a lot line, provided they do not exceed six feet (6') in height.
      2.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in any front yard along a lot
line; provided, that a solid fence, wall or hedge does not exceed two and one-
half feet (21/2') in height and a fence, wall or hedge which has visibility
through it (for example, a chainlink fence) does not exceed four feet (4') in
height.
      3.   Fences, walls and hedges shall not be closer than two feet (2')
along a lot line when next to a driveway.
   I.   Swimming Pools: See definition of "swimming pools" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   J.   Fallout Shelters: See definition of "fallout shelters" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   K.   Tents: See definition of "tents" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   L.   Drainage Tile: See definition of "drainage tile" in section
8-2-1 of this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-5A-7: FEES:
See section 8-3-5 of this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
ARTICLE B.  R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-5B-1: Permitted Principal Uses
8-5B-2: Permitted Accessory Uses
8-5B-3: Special Uses
8-5B-4: Dimensional Requirements
8-5B-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
8-5B-5-1: Purpose
8-5B-5-2: Application Of Provisions
8-5B-5-3: Plot Plan Required
8-5B-5-4: Off Street Parking Requirements
8-5B-5-5: Parking Trucks, Trailers And Heavy Equipment
8-5B-6: Special Requirements
8-5B-7: Fees
8-5B-1: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
Accessory structures consistent with the principal use. (See definition of
"accessory use structure" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Private garages. (See definition of "garage, private" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Remodeling. (See definition of "remodeling" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Room additions. (See definition of "room addition" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Single-family attached dwellings (row houses and townhouses). (Ord., 10-11-
1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-5B-2: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
 Private recreational and hobby uses such as swimming pools, tennis courts,
gardens and greenhouses. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5B-3: SPECIAL USES:
 Churches, schools, libraries, parks, playgrounds and community centers.
Daycare centers.
Home occupations. (See definition of "home occupation" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Home residence bed and breakfast operations. (See definition of "home residence
bed and breakfast operation" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Signs. (See definition of "sign" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Utility substations and pump houses. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-5B-4: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
(See definition of "lot" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
A. Lot area:            
   Minimum           6,500 square feet (per two-family dwelling)
B. Lot width:           
   Minimum           65 feet
C. Lot frontage:        
   Minimum           65 feet
D. Yard requirements:   
   Minimum:           
    Front           20 feet
    Rear            20 feet
    Side            10 feet
    Corner          25 feet, each side (corner is at intersecting roads)
E. Height:              
   Maximum           45 feet
F. Off street parking:  
   Minimum           2 spaces per unit, adjacent to the dwelling unit served
 
(Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-5B-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
8-5B-5-1: PURPOSE:
This section
8-5B-5 is provided to increase safety and lessen congestion in the public
streets, to adequately provide for parking needs associated with the
development of land and increased automobile usage, to set standards for the
requirement of off street parking according to the amount of traffic generated
by each use, and to reduce the on street storage of vehicles. (Ord., 10-11-
1999)
8-5B-5-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Generally: For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of
land established after the effective date hereof, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of the district in
which such buildings or uses are located. However, where a building permit has
been issued prior to the effective date hereof, and provided, that construction
is begun within ninety (90) days of such effective date, and diligently
prosecuted to completion, parking and loading facilities as required
hereinafter need not be provided.
   B.   Increase In Intensity Of Use: When the intensity of use of any
building, structure or premises shall be increased through the addition of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other units of
measurement specified herein for required parking or loading facilities,
parking and loading facilities as required herein shall be provided for such
increase in intensity of use. However, no building or structure lawfully
erected or use lawfully established prior to the effective date hereof shall be
required to provide such additional parking or loading facilities unless and
until the aggregated increase in units of measurement shall equal not less than
fifteen percent (15%) of the units of measurement existing upon said effective
date.
   C.   Change Of Use: Whenever the existing use of a building or structure
shall hereafter be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be
provided as required for such new use. However, if the said building or
structure was erected prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking or
loading facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements
for the new use would exceed those for the existing use if the latter were
subject to the parking and loading provisions of this section
8-5B-5.
   D.   Accessory Parking And Loading Facilities: Accessory off street parking
or loading facilities which are located on the same lot as the building or use
served and which were in existence on the effective date hereof or were
provided voluntarily after such effective date shall not hereafter be reduced
below, or if already less than, shall not further be reduced below the
requirements of this section
8-5B-5 for a similar new building or use.
   E.   Damage Or Destruction Of Building Or Use: For any conforming or legally
nonconforming building or use which is in existence on the effective date
hereof which, subsequent thereto, is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse,
explosion or other cause, and which is reconstructed, reestablished, or
repaired, off street parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained
at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in
operation. However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain
parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this section
8-5B-5 for equivalent new uses or construction. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5B-5-3: PLOT PLAN REQUIRED:
Any application for a building permit, or for a certificate of occupancy where
no building permit is required, shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to
scale and fully dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be
provided in compliance with this section
8-5B-5. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5B-5-4: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Stall And Aisle Dimensions: All required spaces shall conform to the
following stall and aisle dimensions:
 
Parking Angle Stall Width Width Of Stall    Depth Of Stall         Aisle Width
                          Parallel To Aisle Perpendicular To Aisle
45°          10'         14'14"            20'                    11'6"
60°          10'         11'5"             20'                    18'
90°          10'         10'               20'                    29'
 
      2.   Access: Each required off street parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off street
parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access
to a street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic
movements. No driveway across public property nor curb cut shall exceed a width
of thirty feet (30').
      3.   Screening: All open automobile parking areas containing more than
four (4) parking spaces shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or
fronting on any property situated in a residential district or any
institutional premises by a wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge not
less than five feet (5') nor more than seven feet (7') in height. Such required
screening shall conform with the front and side yard setback requirements of
the district in which the parking is located.
   B.   Off Premises Parking: If off street parking space for nonresidential
uses as required in section
8-5B-5-2 of this chapter cannot be provided on the same lot on which the
principal use is conducted, the zoning administrator may permit such space to
be provided on other off street property, provided such space is within four
hundred feet (400') of the main entrance to such principal use. Such off street
parking space shall thereafter be deemed to be required open space associated
with the permitted use and shall not be reduced nor encroached upon in any
manner.
   C.   Joint Use Of Facilities: If groups of buildings contain uses which vary
in their parking requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of
the individual requirements for each use. However, where peak parking
requirements occur at distinctly different times of the day or at different
times of the week as determined by the zoning administrator, joint parking
facilities may be shared by two (2) or more uses.
   D.   Maintenance Of Facilities:
      1.   All parking facilities and accessways to the parking areas shall be
maintained in a dust free condition; parking areas located between a public
street and the principal building on the lot shall be maintained in a dust free
condition.
      2.   Accessways between public streets and property lines shall be
maintained with a substance similar to the composition of the street.
      3.   Any lighting shall be arranged and maintained so that it does not
shine directly upon any adjacent dwelling or street and does not produce
excessive glare.
      4.   Uncovered parking spaces must be at least three feet (3') from any
street right of way line.
   E.   Number Of Spaces:
      1.   The following number of surfaced off street automobile parking
spaces shall be provided for the following permitted accessory uses and special
uses:
         a.   Churches shall have one parking space per four (4) seating spaces
in the main sanctuary.
         b.   Schools shall have parking spaces as follows:
            (1)   Elementary and junior high schools shall have two (2) parking
spaces per three (3) teachers and other employees;
            (2)   Senior high schools, colleges, and universities shall have
two (2) parking spaces per three (3) teachers and other employees, plus one
parking space per five (5) students;
            (3)   Nursery schools shall have two (2) parking spaces per three
(3) teachers and other employees, plus one off street loading space per eight
(8) pupils; and
            (4)   If a school has an auditorium or assembly hall which may be
used by persons other than students of the school, the parking requirements set
forth under subsection
8-6-5-4E1 of this title, entry reading "theaters, auditoriums and places of
assembly", shall be used to fulfill the parking requirements of the school,
provided the parking spaces are located near both uses.
      2.   For uses not listed in subsection E1 of this section, parking spaces
shall be provided on the same basis as required for the most similar listed
use, or as determined by the zoning administrator.
      3.   When determination of the number of off street parking spaces
required by this subsection E results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded while a fraction in
excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking space. (Ord., 10-11-
1999)
8-5B-5-5: PARKING TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND HEAVY EQUIPMENT:
In all residential districts, not more than one truck with a gross weight of
eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less, one trailer with a gross weight of five
thousand (5,000) pounds or less and not more than one boat and/or boat trailer
may be parked in a building or in a rear yard but not in a required front or
side yard unless said parking is on an improved surface and covers only that
portion of the yard that leads to parking space in the side or rear yard.
Furthermore, no heavy vehicular equipment in excess of eight thousand (8,000)
pounds shall be parked in a residential district. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5B-6: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Adequate Access: See definition of "adequate access" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   B.   Projections Into Yards:
      1.   Architectural Features: Architectural features of residential
buildings, such as windowsills, cornices, and roof overhangs, may project into
the required yard, provided such projections are not closer than three feet
(3') to any lot line.
      2.   Residential Structures Projecting Into Front Yards: Any residential
structure may project into the required front yard of existing residential
structures on both adjacent lots in the same district having less than the
required minimum front yard; provided, however, that such projection extends no
closer to the street than either of the adjacent structures. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
   C.   Location Of Certain Structures And Items:
      1.   Accessory Structures: No accessory structure shall be constructed
closer than twenty feet (20') to the front and rear lot lines and ten feet
(10') off the side lot lines and a driveway not closer than two feet (2') along
a lot line.
      2.   Mechanical Devices: No mechanical device designed for the purpose of
controlling the internal environment of the structure shall be permitted in any
front yard or within five feet (5') of any lot line. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd.
2017 Code)
      3.   Ground Mounted Satellite Antennas: No ground mounted dish type
satellite signal receiving antennas, also referred to as earth stations or
ground stations, shall be permitted in any front yard or street frontage or
within eight feet (8') of any lot line. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
   D.   Location Of Parking Areas: Required off street parking spaces shall not
be located in the required front yard unless said parking is on an improved
surface and covers that portion of the yard that leads to the parking space in
the side or rear yard. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   E.   Storage Required In Enclosed Structures:
      1.   Contractor Equipment And Tools: All contractor earthmoving equipment
and/or tools shall be parked or stored in a completely enclosed structure on
all residential premises except when making a delivery or rendering a service
at such premises. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
      2.   Unlicensed, Inoperable Vehicles: All unlicensed or inoperable motor
vehicles shall be parked or stored in a completely enclosed, roofed building on
all residential premises. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   F.   Visibility Of Intersections:
      1.   See definition of "intersections" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
      2.   For landscaping on any corner lot, surface grading shall be such as
to permit unobstructed vision between the heights of two and one-half (21/2)
and ten feet (10') within the sight triangle formed by the center of the
intersection and two (2) points fifty feet (50') distant, each point being on
the centerline of an intersection street.
   G.   Culverts: No culverts will be installed until approved by the city. The
homeowner will pay for the first culvert which will be maintained by the city
thereafter.
   H.   Fences, Walls And Hedges:
      1.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in a required side or rear
yard along a lot line, provided they do not exceed six feet (6') in height.
      2.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in any front yard along a lot
line; provided, that a solid fence, wall or hedge does not exceed two and one-
half feet (21/2') in height and a fence, wall or hedge which has visibility
through it (for example, a chainlink fence) does not exceed four feet (4') in
height.
      3.   Fences, walls and hedges shall not be closer than two feet (2')
along a lot line when next to a driveway.
   I.   Swimming Pools: See definition of "swimming pools" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   J.   Fallout Shelters: See definition of "fallout shelters" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   K.   Tents: See definition of "tents" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   L.   Drainage Tile: See definition of "drainage tile" in section
8-2-1 of this title .
   M.   Fire Protection: Fire alarms, smoke detectors and fire exits must
comply with the state fire marshal regulations. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5B-7: FEES:
See section
8-3-5 of this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
ARTICLE C.  R-3 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-5C-1: Permitted Principal Uses
8-5C-2: Permitted Accessory Uses
8-5C-3: Special Uses
8-5C-4: Dimensional Requirements
8-5C-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
8-5C-5-1: Purpose
8-5C-5-2: Application Of Provisions
8-5C-5-3: Plot Plan Required
8-5C-5-4: Off Street Parking Requirements
8-5C-5-5: Parking Trucks, Trailers And Heavy Equipment
8-5C-6: Special Requirements
8-5C-7: Fees
8-5C-1: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
Accessory structures consistent with the principal use. (See definition of
"accessory use structure" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Multi-family dwellings.
Private garages. (See definition of "garage, private" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Remodeling. (See definition of "remodeling" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Room additions. (See definition of "room addition" in section
8-2-1 of this title.) (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-5C-2: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
 Private recreational and hobby uses such as swimming pools, tennis courts,
gardens and greenhouses. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5C-3: SPECIAL USES:
 Churches, schools, libraries, parks, playgrounds and community centers.
Daycare centers.
Group living quarters.
Home occupations. (See definition of "home occupation" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Home residence bed and breakfast operations. (See definition of "home residence
bed and breakfast operation" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Signs. (See definition of "sign" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Utility substations and pump houses. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-5C-4: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
(See definition of "lot" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
A. Lot area:            
   Minimum           9,000 square feet (per three-family dwellings)
B. Lot width:           
   Minimum           90 feet
C. Lot frontage:        
   Minimum           65 feet
D. Yard requirements:   
   Minimum:           
    Front           20 feet
    Rear            20 feet
    Side            10 feet
    Corner          25 feet, each side (corner is at intersecting roads)
E. Height:              
   Maximum           45 feet
F. Off street parking:  
   Minimum           2 spaces per unit, adjacent to the dwelling unit served
 
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5C-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
8-5C-5-1: PURPOSE:
This section
8-5C-5 is provided to increase safety and lessen congestion in the public
streets, to adequately provide for parking needs associated with the
development of land and increased automobile usage, to set standards for the
requirement of off street parking according to the amount of traffic generated
by each use, and to reduce the on street storage of vehicles. (Ord., 10-11-
1999)
8-5C-5-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Generally: For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of
land established after the effective date hereof, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of the district in
which such buildings or uses are located. However, where a building permit has
been issued prior to the effective date hereof, and provided, that construction
is begun within ninety (90) days of such effective date, and diligently
prosecuted to completion, parking and loading facilities as required
hereinafter need not be provided.
   B.   Increase In Intensity Of Use: When the intensity of use of any
building, structure or premises shall be increased through the addition of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other units of
measurement specified herein for required parking or loading facilities,
parking and loading facilities as required herein shall be provided for such
increase in intensity of use. However, no building or structure lawfully
erected or use lawfully established prior to the effective date hereof shall be
required to provide such additional parking or loading facilities unless and
until the aggregated increase in units of measurement shall equal not less than
fifteen percent (15%) of the units of measurement existing upon said effective
date.
   C.   Change Of Use: Whenever the existing use of a building or structure
shall hereafter be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be
provided as required for such new use. However, if the said building or
structure was erected prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking or
loading facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements
for the new use would exceed those for the existing use if the latter were
subject to the parking and loading provisions of this section
8-5C-5.
   D.   Accessory Parking And Loading Facilities: Accessory off street parking
or loading facilities which are located on the same lot as the building or use
served and which were in existence on the effective date hereof or were
provided voluntarily after such effective date shall not hereafter be reduced
below, or if already less than, shall not further be reduced below the
requirements of this section
8-5C-5 for a similar new building or use.
   E.   Damage Or Destruction Of Building Or Use: For any conforming or legally
nonconforming building or use which is in existence on the effective date
hereof which, subsequent thereto, is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse,
explosion or other cause, and which is reconstructed, reestablished, or
repaired, off street parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained
at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in
operation. However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain
parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this section
8-5C-5 for equivalent new uses or construction. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5C-5-3: PLOT PLAN REQUIRED:
Any application for a building permit, or for a certificate of occupancy where
no building permit is required, shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to
scale and fully dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be
provided in compliance with this section
8-5C-5. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5C-5-4: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Stall And Aisle Dimensions: All required spaces shall conform to the
following stall and aisle dimensions:
 
Parking Angle Stall Width Width Of Stall    Depth Of Stall         Aisle Width
                          Parallel To Aisle Perpendicular To Aisle
45°          10'         14'14"            20'                    11'6"
60°          10'         11'5"             20'                    18'
90°          10'         10'               20'                    29'
 
      2.   Access: Each required off street parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off street
parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access
to a street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic
movements. No driveway across public property nor curb cut shall exceed a width
of thirty feet (30').
      3.   Screening: All open automobile parking areas containing more than
four (4) parking spaces shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or
fronting on any property situated in a residential district or any
institutional premises by a wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge not
less than five feet (5') nor more than seven feet (7') in height. Such required
screening shall conform with the front and side yard setback requirements of
the district in which the parking is located.
   B.   Off Premises Parking: If off street parking space for nonresidential
uses as required in section
8-5C-5-2 of this chapter cannot be provided on the same lot on which the
principal use is conducted, the zoning administrator may permit such space to
be provided on other off street property, provided such space is within four
hundred feet (400') of the main entrance to such principal use. Such off street
parking space shall thereafter be deemed to be required open space associated
with the permitted use and shall not be reduced nor encroached upon in any
manner.
   C.   Joint Use Of Facilities: If groups of buildings contain uses which vary
in their parking requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of
the individual requirements for each use. However, where peak parking
requirements occur at distinctly different times of the day or at different
times of the week as determined by the zoning administrator, joint parking
facilities may be shared by two (2) or more uses.
   D.   Maintenance Of Facilities:
      1.   All parking facilities and accessways to the parking areas shall be
maintained in a dust free condition; parking areas located between a public
street and the principal building on the lot shall be maintained in a dust free
condition.
      2.   Accessways between public streets and property lines shall be
maintained with a substance similar to the composition of the street.
      3.   Any lighting shall be arranged and maintained so that it does not
shine directly upon any adjacent dwelling or street and does not produce
excessive glare.
      4.   Uncovered parking spaces must be at least three feet (3') from any
street right of way line.
   E.   Number Of Spaces:
      1.   The following number of surfaced off street automobile parking
spaces shall be provided for the following permitted accessory uses and special
uses:
         a.   Churches shall have one parking space per four (4) seating spaces
in the main sanctuary.
         b.   Schools shall have parking spaces as follows:
            (1)   Elementary and junior high schools shall have two (2) parking
spaces per three (3) teachers and other employees;
            (2)   Senior high schools, colleges, and universities shall have
two (2) parking spaces per three (3) teachers and other employees, plus one
parking space per five (5) students;
            (3)   Nursery schools shall have two (2) parking spaces per three
(3) teachers and other employees, plus one off street loading space per eight
(8) pupils; and
            (4)   If a school has an auditorium or assembly hall which may be
used by persons other than students of the school, the parking requirements set
forth under subsection 8-6-5-4E1 of this title, entry reading "theaters,
auditoriums and places of assembly", shall be used to fulfill the parking
requirements of the school, provided the parking spaces are located near both
uses.
      2.   For uses not listed in subsection E1 of this section, parking spaces
shall be provided on the same basis as required for the most similar listed
use, or as determined by the zoning administrator.
      3.   When determination of the number of off street parking spaces
required by this subsection E results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded while a fraction in
excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking space. (Ord., 10-11-
1999)
8-5C-5-5: PARKING TRUCKS, TRAILERS AND HEAVY EQUIPMENT:
In all residential districts, not more than one truck with a gross weight of
eight thousand (8,000) pounds or less, one trailer with a gross weight of five
thousand (5,000) pounds or less and not more than one boat and/or boat trailer
may be parked in a building or in a rear yard but not in a required front or
side yard unless said parking is on an improved surface and covers only that
portion of the yard that leads to parking space in the side or rear yard.
Furthermore, no heavy vehicular equipment in excess of eight thousand (8,000)
pounds shall be parked in a residential district. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5C-6: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Adequate Access: See definition of "adequate access" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   B.   Projections Into Yards:
      1.   Architectural Features: Architectural features of residential
buildings, such as windowsills, cornices, and roof overhangs, may project into
the required yard, provided such projections are not closer than three feet
(3') to any lot line.
      2.   Residential Structures Projecting Into Front Yards: Any residential
structure may project into the required front yard of existing residential
structures on both adjacent lots in the same district having less than the
required minimum front yard; provided, however, that such projection extends no
closer to the street than either of the adjacent structures. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
   C.   Location Of Certain Structures And Items:
      1.   Accessory Structures: No accessory structure shall be constructed
closer than twenty feet (20') to the front and rear lot lines and ten feet
(10') off the side lot lines and a driveway not closer than two feet (2') along
a lot line.
      2.   Mechanical Devices: No mechanical device designed for the purpose of
controlling the internal environment of the structure shall be permitted in any
front yard or within five feet (5') of any lot line. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd.
2017 Code)
      3.   Ground Mounted Satellite Antennas: No ground mounted dish type
satellite signal receiving antennas, also referred to as earth stations or
ground stations, shall be permitted in any front yard or street frontage or
within eight feet (8') of any lot line. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
   D.   Location Of Parking Areas: Required parking spaces shall not be located
in the required front yard unless said parking is on an improved surface and
covers only that portion of the yard that leads to the parking space in the
side or rear yard. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   E.   Storage Required In Enclosed Structures:
      1.   Contractor Equipment And Tools: All contractor earthmoving equipment
and/or tools shall be parked or stored in a completely enclosed structure on
all residential premises except when making a delivery or rendering a service
at such premises. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
      2.   Unlicensed, Inoperable Vehicles: All unlicensed or inoperable motor
vehicles shall be parked or stored in a completely enclosed, roofed building on
all residential premises. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   F.   Visibility Of Intersections:
      1.   See definition of "intersections" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
      2.   For landscaping on any corner lot, surface grading shall be such as
to permit unobstructed vision between the heights of two and one-half (21/2)
and ten feet (10') within the sight triangle formed by the center of the
intersection and two (2) points fifty feet (50') distant, each point being on
the centerline of an intersection street.
   G.   Culverts: No culverts will be installed until approved by the city. The
homeowner will pay for the first culvert which will be maintained by the city
thereafter.
   H.   Fences, Walls And Hedges:
      1.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in a required side or rear
yard along a lot line, provided they do not exceed six feet (6') in height.
      2.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in any front yard along a lot
line; provided, that a solid fence, wall or hedge does not exceed two and one-
half feet (21/2') in height and a fence, wall or hedge which has visibility
through it (for example, a chainlink fence) does not exceed four feet (4') in
height.
      3.   Fences, walls and hedges shall not be closer than two feet (2')
along a lot line when next to a driveway.
   I.   Swimming Pools: See definition of "swimming pools" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   J.   Fallout Shelters: See definition of "fallout shelters" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   K.   Tents: See definition of "tents" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   L.   Drainage Tile: See definition of "drainage tile" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   M.   Fire Protection: Fire alarms, smoke detectors and fire exits must
comply with the state fire marshal regulations. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-5C-7: FEES:
See section 8-3-5 of this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
CHAPTER 6
B-1 BUSINESS COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-6-1: Permitted Principal Uses
8-6-2: Permitted Accessory Uses
8-6-3: Special Uses
8-6-4: Dimensional Requirements
8-6-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
8-6-5-1: Purpose
8-6-5-2: Application Of Provisions
8-6-5-3: Plot Plan Required
8-6-5-4: Off Street Parking Requirements
8-6-5-5: Off Street Loading Requirements
8-6-6: Special Requirements
8-6-7: Fees
8-6-1: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
 Accessory structures consistent with the principal use. (See definition of
"accessory use structure" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Business and professional offices.
Healthcare facilities, nursing homes, skilled nursing facilities, independent/
assisted living and supportive living facilities.
Private garages. (See definition of "garage, private" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Recreational facilities such as theaters (indoor), bowling alleys, and billiard
parlors.
Remodeling. (See definition of "remodeling" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Room additions. (See definition of "room addition" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Sale of retail goods such as hardware, food, wearing apparel, home furnishings,
books, jewelry, cafes, restaurants, and auto parts sales.
Sale of services such as barbershops, beauty parlors, bicycle repair, appliance
repair, photography studios, and laundry and dry cleaning establishments.
Taverns and liquor stores.
Other uses of similar scale and intensity to the above uses. (Ord., 10-11-1999;
amd. Ord., 12-9-2013; 2017 Code)
8-6-2: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
 Uses clearly incidental but necessary to the principal uses.
Signs. (See definition of "sign" in section
8-2-1 of this title.) (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-6-3: SPECIAL USES:
 Automobile service stations.
Home residence bed and breakfast operations. (See definition of "home residence
bed and breakfast operation" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Hotels.
Not for profit clubs and lodges, fraternal or religious institutions.
Production of goods for sale on the premises, such as bakeries, printing, etc.
Public and private parking lots and garages.
Residential dwelling units above the first floor; owner occupied dwelling units
on the first floor. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-6-4: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
(See definition of "lot" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
A. Lot area:           
   Minimum          1,000 square feet
B. Lot width:          
   Minimum          100 feet
C. Lot frontage:       
   Minimum          100 feet
D. Yard requirements:  
   Minimum          None, except when abutting an R district
E. Height:             
   Maximum          60 feet
 
(Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-6-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
8-6-5-1: PURPOSE:
This section
8-6-5 is provided to increase safety and lessen congestion in the public
streets, to adequately provide for parking needs associated with the
development of land and increased automobile usage, to set standards for the
requirement of off street parking according to the amount of traffic generated
by each use, and to reduce the on street storage of vehicles. (Ord., 10-11-
1999)
8-6-5-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Generally: For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of
land established after the effective date hereof, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of the district in
which such buildings or uses are located. However, where a building permit has
been issued prior to the effective date hereof, and provided, that construction
is begun within ninety (90) days of such effective date, and diligently
prosecuted to completion, parking and loading facilities as required
hereinafter need not be provided.
   B.   Increase In Intensity Of Use: When the intensity of use of any
building, structure or premises shall be increased through the addition of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other units of
measurement specified herein for required parking or loading facilities,
parking and loading facilities as required herein shall be provided for such
increase in intensity of use. However, no building or structure lawfully
erected or use lawfully established prior to the effective date hereof shall be
required to provide such additional parking or loading facilities unless and
until the aggregated increase in units of measurement shall equal not less than
fifteen percent (15%) of the units of measurement existing upon said effective
date.
   C.   Change Of Use: Whenever the existing use of a building or structure
shall hereafter be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be
provided as required for such new use. However, if the said building or
structure was erected prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking or
loading facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements
for the new use would exceed those for the existing use if the latter were
subject to the parking and loading provisions of this section
8-6-5.
   D.   Accessory Parking And Loading Facilities: Accessory off street parking
or loading facilities which are located on the same lot as the building or use
served and which were in existence on the effective date hereof or were
provided voluntarily after such effective date shall not hereafter be reduced
below, or if already less than, shall not further be reduced below the
requirements of this section
8-6-5 for a similar new building or use.
   E.   Damage Or Destruction Of Building Or Use: For any conforming or legally
nonconforming building or use which is in existence on the effective date
hereof which, subsequent thereto, is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse,
explosion or other cause, and which is reconstructed, reestablished, or
repaired, off street parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained
at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in
operation. However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain
parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this section
8-6-5 for equivalent new uses or construction. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-6-5-3: PLOT PLAN REQUIRED:
Any application for a building permit, or for a certificate of occupancy where
no building permit is required, shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to
scale and fully dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be
provided in compliance with this section
8-6-5. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-6-5-4: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Stall And Aisle Dimensions: All required spaces shall conform to the
following stall and aisle dimensions:
 
                          Width Of       Depth Of Stall
Parking Angle Stall Width Stall Parallel Perpendicular  Aisle Width
                          To Aisle       To Aisle
45°          10'         14'14"         20'            11'6"
60°          10'         11'5"          20'            18'
90°          10'         10'            20'            29'
 
      2.   Access: Each required off street parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off street
parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access
to a street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic
movements. No driveway across public property nor curb cut shall exceed a width
of thirty feet (30').
      3.   Screening: All open automobile parking areas containing more than
four (4) parking spaces shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or
fronting on any property situated in a residential district or any
institutional premises by a wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge not
less than five feet (5') nor more than seven feet (7') in height. Such required
screening shall conform with the front and side yard setback requirements of
the district in which the parking is located.
   B.   Off Premises Parking: If off street parking space for nonresidential
uses as required in section
8-6-5-2 of this chapter cannot be provided on the same lot on which the
principal use is conducted, the zoning administrator may permit such space to
be provided on other off street property, provided such space is within four
hundred feet (400') of the main entrance to such principal use. Such off street
parking space shall thereafter be deemed to be required open space associated
with the permitted use and shall not be reduced nor encroached upon in any
manner.
   C.   Joint Use Of Facilities: If groups of buildings contain uses which vary
in their parking requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of
the individual requirements for each use. However, where peak parking
requirements occur at distinctly different times of the day or at different
times of the week as determined by the zoning administrator, joint parking
facilities may be shared by two (2) or more uses.
   D.   Maintenance Of Facilities:
      1.   All parking facilities and accessways to the parking areas shall be
maintained in a dust free condition; parking areas located between a public
street and the principal building on the lot shall be maintained in a dust free
condition.
      2.   Accessways between public streets and property lines shall be
maintained with a substance similar to the composition of the street.
      3.   Any lighting shall be arranged and maintained so that it does not
shine directly upon any adjacent dwelling or street and does not produce
excessive glare.
      4.   Uncovered parking spaces must be at least three feet (3') from any
street right of way line.
   E.   Number Of Spaces:
      1.   The following number of surfaced off street automobile parking
spaces shall be provided for the following particular uses: (Ord., 10-11-1999)
Type Of Use Parking Space Required
Type Of Use                             Parking Space Required
Banks, businesses, or professional      1 per 300 square feet of floor area,
offices, and buildings not specifically plus 1 per 2 employees
mentioned elsewhere in this subsection
Commercial recreation users             1 per 100 square feet of floor area,
                                        plus 2 per 3 employees
Convalescent, nursing, and other health 1 visitor space per 4 patient beds,
homes and institutions                  plus 2 per 3 employees, plus 1 per
                                        staff doctor
Dwelling unit                           1 space per unit
                                        1 visitor space per 2 patient beds,
Hospitals                               plus 2 per 3 employees, plus 1 per
                                        staff doctor
Hotels and motels                       1 per room or suite, plus 2 per 3
                                        employees
                                        5 patient spaces per staff doctor, plus
Medical clinics                         2 per 3 employees, plus 1 per staff
                                        doctor
Mortuaries or funeral parlors           1 per 25 square feet of floor area
Private clubs and lodge halls           1 per 100 square feet of floor area
                                        1 for every 50 square feet of floor
Restaurants, taverns and lounges        area or every 4 occupants, whichever is
                                        greater
Theaters, auditoriums and places of     1 per 4 people based on the design
assembly                                capacity of the structure
 
(Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
      2.   For uses not listed in subsection E1 of this section, parking spaces
shall be provided on the same basis as required for the most similar listed
use, or as determined by the zoning administrator.
      3.   When determination of the number of off street parking spaces
required by this subsection E results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded while a fraction in
excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking space. (Ord., 10-11-
1999)
8-6-5-5: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location: All required loading berths shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the use served. No loading berth for vehicles over two (2) tons'
capacity shall be closer than fifty feet (50') to a property in a residential
district unless completely enclosed by building walls or a uniformly painted
solid fence or wall, or any combination thereof, not less than six feet (6') in
height. No permitted or required loading berth shall be located within twenty
five feet (25') of the nearest point of the intersection of any two (2)
streets.
   B.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Space Dimensions: Unless otherwise specified, a required loading
berth shall be at least ten feet (10') in width by at least twenty five feet
(25') in length, exclusive of aisles and maneuvering space, and shall have a
vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').
      2.   Access: Each required off street loading berth shall be designed
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner
which will least interfere with traffic movements.
      3.   Surface Specifications: All open off street leading berths shall be
improved with a compacted macadam base, not less than seven inches (7") thick,
surfaced with not less than two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete or some
comparable all weather, dustless material.
   C.   Use Restrictions:
      1.   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall be
permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any residence or
business district.
      2.   Space allocated to any off street loading berth shall not, while so
allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off street parking
facilities or portions thereof.
   D.   Number Of Spaces: Off street loading berths shall be provided on the
basis of gross floor area of buildings, or portions thereof, devoted to such
use. All required off street loading berths shall conform to the following
schedule:
 
Square Feet Of Floor Area Minimum Number And Size Of Each Berth
   5,000 to 25,000     1 - 10 feet x 25 feet
   25,000 to 250,000   1 - 10 feet x 50 feet
 
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-6-6: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Adequate Access: See definition of "adequate access" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   B.   Enclosed Businesses, Service, Storage, Etc.:
      1.   All business, service, storage, merchandise display repair and
processing is to be conducted within a completely enclosed building. Other uses
clearly incidental but necessary and appropriate to the principal use shall be
permitted beyond the limits of an enclosed building. Examples of these uses
include sidewalk sales, drive-in banking facilities and outdoor restaurants.
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
      2.   All contractor earthmoving equipment and/or tools, or unlicensed or
inoperable motor vehicles shall be parked or stored in a completely enclosed
structure on all residential premises except when making a delivery or
rendering a service at such premises. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   C.   Outdoor Storage Restrictions: Outdoor storage in the business
commercial district shall be permitted only upon the approval by the city
council. All outdoor storage, when permitted, shall be no more than ten feet
(10') in height and shall be completely screened from public view. (Ord., 10-
11-1999)
   D.   Screening Adjacent To Residential Districts: Business commercial
districts adjacent to a residential district shall provide a dense hedge, tree
row or other suitable landscape device on that adjacent property line. All
landscaping must be approved by the city council as adequate to visually screen
the commercial area from the residential area. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017
Code)
   E.   Location Of Ground Mounted Satellite Dishes: No ground mounted dish
type satellite signal receiving antennas, also referred to as earth stations or
ground stations, shall be permitted in any front yard or street frontage or
within eight feet (8') of any lot line.
   F.   First Floor Apartments: First floor apartment dwelling units may not
occupy more than the rear fifty percent (50%) of the main floor area and must
be separated from the business area by a permanent wall. The dwelling shall not
be visible from the street and must contain complete cooking and sanitation
facilities.
   G.   Visibility Of Intersections:
      1.   See definition of "intersections" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
      2.   For landscaping on any corner lot, surface grading shall be such as
to permit unobstructed vision between the heights of two and one-half (21/2)
and ten feet (10') within the sight triangle formed by the center of the
intersection and two (2) points fifty feet (50') distant, each point being on
the centerline of an intersection street.
   H.   Fences, Walls And Hedges:
      1.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in a required side or rear
yard along a lot line, provided they do not exceed six feet (6') in height.
      2.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in any front yard along a lot
line; provided, that a solid fence, wall or hedge does not exceed two and one-
half feet (21/2') in height and a fence, wall or hedge which has visibility
through it (for example, a chainlink fence) does not exceed four feet (4') in
height.
      3.   Fences, walls and hedges shall not be closer than two feet (2')
along a lot line when next to a driveway.
   I.   Fallout Shelters: See definition of "fallout shelters" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   J.   Swimming Pools: See definition of "swimming pools" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   K.   Tents: See definition of "tents" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   L.   Drainage Tile: See definition of "drainage tile" in section
8-2-1 of this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
   M.   Dry Cleaning Establishments: Dry cleaning and pressing establishments
are permitted, when employing facilities for the cleaning and pressing of dry
goods received on the premises from retail trade only and not including any
wholesale cleaning or pressing business; and when using carbon tetrachloride,
perchlorethylene, or other similar nonflammable solvents approved by the fire
department. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   N.   Junkyards Prohibited: All junkyards are prohibited. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-6-7: FEES:
See section
8-3-5 of this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
CHAPTER 7
M-1 LIMITED MANUFACTURING DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-7-1: Permitted Principal Uses
8-7-2: Permitted Accessory Uses
8-7-3: Special Uses
8-7-4: Dimensional Requirements
8-7-5: Off Street Parking And Loading
8-7-5-1: Purpose
8-7-5-2: Application Of Provisions
8-7-5-3: Plot Plan Required
8-7-5-4: Off Street Parking Requirements
8-7-5-5: Off Street Loading Requirements
8-7-6: Special Requirements
8-7-7: Fees
8-7-1: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
Accessory structures consistent with the principal use. (See definition of
"accessory use structure" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Bottling plants.
Express, cartage, and trucking facilities.
Manufacturing and processing, excluding heavy industrial activities such as
chemical plants, rendering, meat processing, etc.
Metal fabrications.
Private garages. (See definition of "garage, private" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Remodeling. (See definition of "remodeling" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Research facilities.
Room additions. (See definition of "room addition" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Truck terminals.
Warehousing and storage, except petroleum and flammable liquids.
Other uses of similar scale and intensity to the above uses. (Ord., 10-11-1999;
amd. 2017 Code)
8-7-2: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Uses clearly incidental, but necessary to the principal uses. (Ord., 10-11-
1999)
8-7-3: SPECIAL USES:
Communications towers and stations.
Dwelling units for watchmen and their families when located on the premises
where they are employed in such capacity with water, electric, and plumbing.
Signs. (See definition of "sign" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Utility substations and pump houses. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-7-4: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
(See definition of "lot" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
A. Lot area:           
   Minimum          2,128 square feet
B. Lot width:          
   Minimum          150 feet
C. Lot frontage:       
   Minimum          100 feet
D. Yard requirements:  
   Minimum:          
    Front          40 feet
    Rear           None
    Side           15 feet
    Corner         40 feet
E. Height:             
   Maximum          60 feet
F. Off street parking:
   Minimum          1 space for each 2 employees, plus 1 space for each
                      company vehicle
 
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-7-5: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
8-7-5-1: PURPOSE:
This section
8-7-5 is provided to increase safety and lessen congestion in the public
streets, to adequately provide for parking needs associated with the
development of land and increased automobile usage, to set standards for the
requirement of off street parking according to the amount of traffic generated
by each use, and to reduce the on street storage of vehicles. (Ord., 10-11-
1999)
8-7-5-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Generally: For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of
land established after the effective date hereof, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of the district in
which such buildings or uses are located. However, where a building permit has
been issued prior to the effective date hereof, and provided, that construction
is begun within ninety (90) days of such effective date, and diligently
prosecuted to completion, parking and loading facilities as required
hereinafter need not be provided.
   B.   Increase In Intensity Of Use: When the intensity of use of any
building, structure or premises shall be increased through the addition of
dwelling units, gross floor area, seating capacity or other units of
measurement specified herein for required parking or loading facilities,
parking and loading facilities as required herein shall be provided for such
increase in intensity of use. However, no building or structure lawfully
erected or use lawfully established prior to the effective date hereof shall be
required to provide such additional parking or loading facilities unless and
until the aggregated increase in units of measurement shall equal not less than
fifteen percent (15%) of the units of measurement existing upon said effective
date.
   C.   Change Of Use: Whenever the existing use of a building or structure
shall hereafter be changed to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be
provided as required for such new use. However, if the said building or
structure was erected prior to the effective date hereof, additional parking or
loading facilities are mandatory only in the amount by which the requirements
for the new use would exceed those for the existing use if the latter were
subject to the parking and loading provisions of this section
8-7-5.
   D.   Accessory Parking And Loading Facilities: Accessory off street parking
or loading facilities which are located on the same lot as the building or use
served and which were in existence on the effective date hereof or were
provided voluntarily after such effective date shall not hereafter be reduced
below, or if already less than, shall not further be reduced below the
requirements of this section
8-7-5 for a similar new building or use.
   E.   Damage Or Destruction Of Building Or Use: For any conforming or legally
nonconforming building or use which is in existence on the effective date
hereof which, subsequent thereto, is damaged or destroyed by fire, collapse,
explosion or other cause, and which is reconstructed, reestablished, or
repaired, off street parking or loading facilities equivalent to any maintained
at the time of such damage or destruction shall be restored or continued in
operation. However, in no case shall it be necessary to restore or maintain
parking or loading facilities in excess of those required by this section
8-7-5 for equivalent new uses or construction. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-7-5-3: PLOT PLAN REQUIRED:
Any application for a building permit, or for a certificate of occupancy where
no building permit is required, shall include therewith a plot plan, drawn to
scale and fully dimensioned, showing any parking or loading facilities to be
provided in compliance with this section
8-7-5. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-7-5-4: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Stall And Aisle Dimensions: All required spaces shall conform to the
following stall and aisle dimensions:
 
                          Width Of       Depth Of Stall
Parking Angle Stall Width Stall Parallel Perpendicular  Aisle Width
                          To Aisle       To Aisle
45°          10'         14'14"         20'            11'6"
60°          10'         11'5"          20'            18'
90°          10'         10'            20'            29'
 
      2.   Access: Each required off street parking space shall open directly
upon an aisle or driveway of such width and design as to provide safe and
efficient means of vehicular access to such parking space. All off street
parking facilities shall be designed with appropriate means of vehicular access
to a street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic
movements. No driveway across public property nor curb cut shall exceed a width
of thirty feet (30').
      3.   Screening: All open automobile parking areas containing more than
four (4) parking spaces shall be effectively screened on each side adjoining or
fronting on any property situated in a residential district or any
institutional premises by a wall, fence or densely planted compact hedge not
less than five feet (5') nor more than seven feet (7') in height. Such required
screening shall conform with the front and side yard setback requirements of
the district in which the parking is located.
   B.   Off Premises Parking: If off street parking space for nonresidential
uses as required in section
8-7-5-2 of this chapter cannot be provided on the same lot on which the
principal use is conducted, the zoning administrator may permit such space to
be provided on other off street property, provided such space is within four
hundred feet (400') of the main entrance to such principal use. Such off street
parking space shall thereafter be deemed to be required open space associated
with the permitted use and shall not be reduced nor encroached upon in any
manner.
   C.   Joint Use Of Facilities: If groups of buildings contain uses which vary
in their parking requirements, the number of parking spaces shall be the sum of
the individual requirements for each use. However, where peak parking
requirements occur at distinctly different times of the day or at different
times of the week as determined by the zoning administrator, joint parking
facilities may be shared by two (2) or more uses.
   D.   Maintenance Of Facilities:
      1.   All parking facilities and accessways to the parking areas shall be
maintained in a dust free condition; parking areas located between a public
street and the principal building on the lot shall be maintained in a dust free
condition.
      2.   Accessways between public streets and property lines shall be
maintained with a substance similar to the composition of the street.
      3.   Any lighting shall be arranged and maintained so that it does not
shine directly upon any adjacent dwelling or street and does not produce
excessive glare.
      4.   Uncovered parking spaces must be at least three feet (3') from any
street right of way line. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-7-5-5: OFF STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location: All required loading berths shall be located on the same
zoning lot as the use served. No loading berth for vehicles over two (2) tons'
capacity shall be closer than fifty feet (50') to a property in a residential
district unless completely enclosed by building walls or a uniformly painted
solid fence or wall, or any combination thereof, not less than six feet (6') in
height. No permitted or required loading berth shall be located within twenty
five feet (25') of the nearest point of the intersection of any two (2)
streets.
   B.   Design Requirements:
      1.   Space Dimensions: Unless otherwise specified, a required loading
berth shall be at least ten feet (10') in width by at least twenty five feet
(25') in length, exclusive of aisles and maneuvering space, and shall have a
vertical clearance of at least fourteen feet (14').
      2.   Access: Each required off street loading berth shall be designed
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley in a manner
which will least interfere with traffic movements.
      3.   Surface Specifications: All open off street leading berths shall be
improved with a compacted macadam base, not less than seven inches (7") thick,
surfaced with not less than two inches (2") of asphaltic concrete or some
comparable all weather, dustless material.
   C.   Use Restrictions:
      1.   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall be
permitted in conjunction with loading facilities provided in any residence or
business district.
      2.   Space allocated to any off street loading berth shall not, while so
allocated, be used to satisfy the space requirements for any off street parking
facilities or portions thereof.
   D.   Number Of Spaces: Off street loading berths shall be provided on the
basis of gross floor area of buildings, or portions thereof, devoted to such
use. All required off street loading berths shall conform to the following
schedule:
 
Square Feet Of Floor Area Minimum Number And Size Of Each Berth
5,000 to 25,000           1 - 10 feet x 25 feet
25,000 to 250,000         1 - 10 feet x 50 feet
 
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-7-6: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Adequate Access: See definition of "adequate access" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   B.   Enclosed Businesses And Storage Of Certain Items:
      1.   All metal fabrication, welding, and cutting shall be done in an
enclosed building. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
      2.   All contractor earthmoving equipment and/or tools or unlicensed or
inoperable motor vehicles shall be parked or stored in a completely enclosed
structure on all residential premises except when making a delivery or
rendering a service at such premises.
   C.   Outdoor Storage Restrictions: Outdoor storage in the limited
manufacturing district shall be permitted only upon the approval by the city
zoning board and/or the city council. All outdoor storage, when permitted,
shall be no more than ten feet (10') in height and shall be completely screened
from public view.
   D.   Screening Adjacent To Residential Or Commercial Districts: Limited
manufacturing districts adjacent to residential or commercial districts shall
provide a dense hedge, tree row or other suitable landscape device on that
adjacent property line. All landscaping must be approved by the zoning board
and/or the city council as adequate to visually screen the manufacturing zone
from residential or commercial areas. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   E.   Location Of Ground Mounted Satellite Dishes: No ground mounted dish
type satellite signal receiving antennas, also referred to as earth stations or
ground stations, shall be permitted in any front yard or street frontage, or
within eight feet (8') of any lot line.
   F.   Adequate Ventilation: All buildings shall be equipped with adequate
ventilation.
   G.   Visibility Of Intersections:
      1.   See definition of "intersections" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
      2.   For landscaping on any corner lot, surface grading shall be such as
to permit unobstructed vision between the heights of two and one-half (21/2)
and ten feet (10') within the sight triangle formed by the center of the
intersection and two (2) points fifty feet (50') distant, each point being on
the centerline of an intersection street.
   H.   Fences, Walls And Hedges:
      1.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in a required side or rear
yard along a lot line, provided they do not exceed six feet (6') in height.
      2.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in any front yard along a lot
line; provided, that a solid fence, wall or hedge does not exceed two and one-
half feet (21/2') in height and a fence, wall or hedge which has visibility
through it (for example, a chainlink fence) does not exceed four feet (4') in
height.
      3.   Fences, walls and hedges shall not be closer than two feet (2')
along a lot line when next to a driveway.
   I.   Fallout Shelters: See definition of "fallout shelters" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   J.   Swimming Pools: See definition of "swimming pools" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   K.   Tents: See definition of "tents" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   L.   Drainage Tile: See definition of "drainage tile" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   M.   Junkyards Prohibited: All junkyards are prohibited. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-7-7: FEES:
See section
8-3-5 of this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
CHAPTER 8
A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-8-1: Permitted Principal Uses
8-8-2: Permitted Accessory Uses
8-8-3: Special Uses
8-8-4: Dimensional Requirements
8-8-5: Off Street Parking
8-8-6: Special Requirements
8-8-7: Fees
8-8-1: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
 Accessory structures consistent with the principal use. (See definition of
"accessory use structure" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Agricultural uses limited to the following: horticultural, forestry, gardening,
greenhouse, or nursery operations.
Commercial grain storage if not closer than three hundred feet (300') from any
residence not that of the owner or lessor of the storage site.
One-family residential dwellings associated with bona fide agricultural uses
included above.
Private garages. (See definition of "garage, private" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Remodeling. (See definition of "remodeling" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Room additions. (See definition of "room addition" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Temporary roadside stands for the display and sale of agricultural products.
(Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-8-2: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
 Private recreational and hobby uses such as swimming pools and tennis courts.
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-8-3: SPECIAL USES:
 Boarding and breeding kennels.
Cemeteries.
Communications towers and stations.
Community buildings, libraries, schools and museums.
Daycare centers.
Home occupations. (See definition of "home occupation" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Signs. (See definition of "sign" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Utility substations and pump houses. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-8-4: DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS:
(See definition of "lot" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
A. Lot area:           
   Minimum          5 acres
B. Lot width:          
   Minimum          None
C. Lot frontage:       
   Minimum          None
D. Yard requirements:  
   Minimum          50 foot setback from any public right of way or
                      designated right of way
E. Height:            None
 
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-8-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   A.   Purpose: This section is provided to increase safety and lessen
congestion in the public streets, to adequately provide for parking needs
associated with the development of land and increased automobile usage, to set
standards for the requirement of off street parking according to the amount of
traffic generated by each use, and to reduce the on street storage of vehicles.
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
   B.   Number Of Spaces:
      1.   A minimum of two (2) off street parking spaces for each permitted
use shall be required. Parking requirements for special uses will be
established by the zoning board. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
      2.   For uses not listed in subsection B1 of this section, parking spaces
shall be provided on the same basis as required for the most similar listed use
or as determined by the zoning administrator. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-8-6: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Adequate Access: See definition of "adequate access" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   B.   Location Of Structures: No structure or accessory structure shall be
constructed closer than fifty feet (50') to any public right of way nor fifteen
feet (15') to any lot line.
   C.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements for this district shall be
developed by the city council at the time of the project proposal in accordance
with the projected amount of traffic generated.
   D.   Screening Of Open Parking Lots: Open parking areas or lots containing
more than four (4) required parking spaces shall provide effective and
attractive boundary plantings to screen the parking area from adjoining
properties, and intermittent screen planting between street boundaries and
surface parking area designed to break the view of the parking area and to
provide visual attraction to the foreground. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
   E.   Enclosed Storage Of Certain Items: All contractor earthmoving equipment
and/or tools or unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicles shall be parked or
stored in a completely enclosed structure on all residential premises except
when making a delivery or rendering a service at such premises. (Ord., 10-11-
1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   F.   Visibility Of Intersections:
      1.   See definition of "intersections" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
      2.   For landscaping on any corner lot, surface grading shall be such as
to permit unobstructed vision between the heights of two and one-half (21/2)
and ten feet (10') within the sight triangle formed by the center of the
intersection and two (2) points fifty feet (50') distant, each point being on
the centerline of an intersection street.
   G.   Fences, Walls And Hedges:
      1.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in a required side or rear
yard, provided they do not exceed six feet (6') in height.
      2.   Fences, walls and hedges are permitted in any front yard; provided,
that a solid fence, wall or hedge does not exceed two and one-half feet (21/2')
in height and a fence, wall or hedge which has visibility through it (for
example, a chainlink fence) does not exceed four feet (4') in height.
   H.   Fallout Shelters: See definition of "fallout shelters" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   I.   Swimming Pools: See definition of "swimming pools" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   J.   Tents: See definition of "tents" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   K.   Drainage Tile: See definition of "drainage tile" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   L.   Junkyards Prohibited: All junkyards are prohibited. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-8-7: FEES:
See section 8-3-5 of this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
CHAPTER 9
A-2 RECREATIONAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
8-9-1: Permitted Principal Uses
8-9-2: Permitted Accessory Uses
8-9-3: Special Uses
8-9-4: Special Requirements
8-9-5: Fees
8-9-1: PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES:
 Accessory structures consistent with the principal use. (See definition of
"accessory use structure" in section
8-2-1 of this title.)
Bathing beaches and bathhouses.
Boat docks and marinas.
Parks and open space areas.
Recreational uses such as golf courses, swimming pools, playgrounds, etc.
(Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-9-2: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
 Uses clearly incidental but necessary to the permitted principal uses. (Ord.,
10-11-1999)
8-9-3: SPECIAL USES:
 Private recreational clubs.
Signs. (See definition of "sign" in section
8-2-1 of this title.) (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-9-4: SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Adequate Access: See definition of "adequate access" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   B.   Lot Requirements: See definition of "lot" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   C.   Location Of Structures: No structure or accessory structure shall be
constructed closer than fifty feet (50') to any public right of way nor fifteen
feet (15') to any lot line.
   D.   Parking Requirements: Parking requirements for this district shall be
developed by the city council at the time of the project proposal in accordance
with the projected amount of traffic generated. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
   E.   Enclosed Storage Of Certain Items: All contractor earthmoving equipment
and/or tools or unlicensed or inoperable motor vehicles shall be parked or
stored in a completely enclosed structure on all residential premises, except
when making a delivery or rendering a service at such premises. (Ord., 10-11-
1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   F.   Visibility Of Intersection: See definition of "intersections" in
section
8-2-1 of this title.
   G.   Fallout Shelters: See definition of "fallout shelters" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   H.   Tents: See definition of "tents" in section
8-2-1 of this title.
   I.   Drainage Tile: See definition of "drainage tile" in section
8-2-1 of this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-9-5: FEES:
See section 8-3-5 of this title. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
CHAPTER 10
NONCONFORMITIES
SECTION:
8-10-1: Continuance Of Nonconforming Buildings And Uses
8-10-2: Structures Under Construction
8-10-3: Nonconforming Buildings And Structures
8-10-4: Nonconforming Uses Of Buildings And Structures
8-10-5: Nonconforming Use Of Land
8-10-1: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND USES:
   A.   Any lawfully established use of a building or land on the effective
date hereof or amendments hereto that does not conform to the use regulations
for the district in which it is located shall be deemed to be a legal
nonconforming use and may be continued, except as otherwise provided herein.
   B.   Any legal, nonconforming building or structure may be continued in use,
provided there is no physical change other than necessary maintenance and
repair, except as otherwise permitted herein. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-10-2: STRUCTURES UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Any building for which a permit has been lawfully granted prior to the
effective date hereof or of amendments hereto may be completed in accordance
with the approved plans, provided construction is started within one hundred
(100) days and diligently prosecuted to completion. Such building shall
thereafter be deemed a lawfully established building. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
   B.   All construction, both exterior and interior, that is to be performed
pursuant to a duly issued building permit shall be completed no later than one
year from the issuance of the building permit. The failure to complete such
construction within such time shall constitute a revocation of the building
permit and shall result in the uncompleted building being a nonconforming
building, subjecting the owner to all applicable penalties for such
nonconforming use, including fines and injunctive relief. The one year
completion requirement for all construction commenced pursuant to building
permits issued prior to the effective date of this subsection shall commence on
the effective date of this subsection. (Ord. 09-2007, 8-13-2007)
8-10-3: NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Repairs, Maintenance And Alterations: Ordinary repairs, maintenance and
alterations may be made to a nonconforming building or structure; except, that
no structural alteration shall be made in or to such building or structure
except those required by law and except those making the building or structure
and use thereof conform, or more closely conform, to the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   B.   Additions Or Enlargements: A building or structure which is
nonconforming as to bulk shall not be added to or enlarged in any manner unless
such building or structure and the use thereof, including all additions and
enlargements thereto, are made to conform to all the regulations of the
district in which it is located.
   C.   Moving To Another Location: A building or structure which does not
conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is located shall
not be moved, in whole or in part, to any other location unless every portion
of such building or structure which is moved and the use thereof are made to
conform to all the regulations of the district into which it is moved.
   D.   Destruction Or Damage:
      1.   In all districts, a nonconforming residential building which is
destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty or by an act of God may be
restored to its condition prior to the occurrence. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
      2.   In any district, a nonresidential nonconforming building or
structure which is destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty or by an act
of God shall not be restored if the cost of restoration to its condition prior
to the occurrence exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the cost of restoring the
entire building or structure to like new condition unless said building or
structure and the use thereof shall conform thereafter to all the regulations
of the district in which it is located.
      3.   In the event that such damage or destruction is less than fifty
percent (50%) of the cost of restoration of an entire building or structure to
like new condition, the building or structure may be restored to its original
nonconforming condition only if such restoration is started within one hundred
twenty (120) days from the date of the partial damage or destruction and is
diligently prosecuted to completion. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   E.   Abandonment Of Structures; Removal Of Mobile Homes: A nonconforming
building, structure or portion thereof which is unoccupied or unused for thirty
(30) days on and after the effective date hereof or thereafter becomes
unoccupied or unused and remains unoccupied or unused for any continuous thirty
(30) day period, or a lot upon which is situated a mobile home and the mobile
home is removed from said lot for a continuous thirty (30) day period, shall
not thereafter be occupied except by a use which conforms to the use
regulations of the district in which it is located. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-10-4: NONCONFORMING USES OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
   A.   Expansion Of Use: A nonconforming use of a part of a building or
structure shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of such
building or structure, nor changed to any other nonconforming use.
   B.   Discontinuance Of Use: If a nonconforming use of a building or
structure is discontinued for a period of six (6) months, it shall not be
renewed, and any subsequent use of the building or structure shall conform to
the use regulations of the district in which the building or structure is
located. Occupancy of such building or structure shall not be permitted prior
to inspection and issuance of a certificate of occupancy and use.
   C.   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use of a building or structure shall not
be changed to another nonconforming use. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-10-5: NONCONFORMING USE OF LAND:
   A.   Expansion Of Use: A nonconforming use of land shall not be expanded or
extended beyond the area it occupies on the effective date hereof.
   B.   Discontinuance Of Use: If a nonconforming use of land is discontinued
for a period of six (6) months, it shall not thereafter be renewed, and any
subsequent use of the land shall conform to the regulations of the district in
which the land is located.
   C.   Change Of Use: A nonconforming use of land shall not be changed to any
other use except to a use permitted in the district in which the land is
located. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
ARTICLE B.  SPECIAL USES
SECTION:
8-3B-1: Introduction
8-3B-2: Application For Special Use
8-3B-3: Hearing And Notice
8-3B-4: Zoning Board Findings Of Fact And Recommendations
8-3B-5: City Council Action
8-3B-1: INTRODUCTION:
The development and execution of this title is based upon the division of the
city into districts, within which districts the uses of land and buildings and
the yard and location of buildings and structures in relation to the land are
substantially uniform. It is recognized, however, that there are special uses
which, because of their unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified
in any particular district or districts without consideration, in each case, of
the impact of those uses upon neighboring land and of the public need for the
particular use at the particular location. Such special uses fall into the
following categories: (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
   A.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally connected with a public
interest.
   B.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual nature that
their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their impact
upon neighboring property or public facilities. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
8-3B-2: APPLICATION FOR SPECIAL USE:
Any person who has a freehold interest in land, or a possessory interest
entitled to exclusive possession, or a contractual interest which may become a
freehold interest, or an exclusive possessory interest which is specifically
enforceable may file an application to use land for a special use provided in
this title in the zoning district in which the land is located. An application
for a special use permit, including a planned residential development special
use permit, shall be filed with and on a form available from the zoning
administrator. The application shall be accompanied by such plans and/or data
prescribed by the zoning board, and shall include a statement in writing by the
applicant and adequate evidence showing that the proposed special use will
conform to the standards set forth in the guidelines for applicants. The fee
for such an application shall be as set out in section 8-3-5 of this chapter.
(Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3B-3: HEARING AND NOTICE:
Upon receipt in proper form of the application and statement referred to in
this article, the zoning board shall hold at least one public hearing on the
proposed special use. Not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15)
days in advance of such hearing, notice of the time and place of such hearing
shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, as
prescribed by applicable state statutes. Supplemental or additional notices may
be published or distributed as the zoning board may, by rule, prescribe from
time to time. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3B-4: ZONING BOARD FINDINGS OF FACT AND RECOMMENDATIONS:
   A.   Within thirty (30) days after the close of the public hearing on a
special use permit application, the zoning board shall make written findings of
fact and shall submit same, together with its recommendations, to the city
council. The city council shall make findings based upon the evidence presented
to it in each specific case that: (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
      1.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the special use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or general
welfare.
      2.   The special use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose already permitted, nor
substantially diminished or property values impaired within the neighborhood.
      3.   The establishment of the special use will not impede the normal and
orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted in the district.
      4.   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and/or necessary
facilities have been or are being provided, to include curbing, if deemed
necessary by the city council, sewer and water lines to the property line,
subject to approval by the engineer, architect or such other expert as the city
deems necessary.
      5.   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide ingress and
egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public streets.
(Ord., 10-11-1999)
      6.   The special use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located except as such
regulations may, in each instance, be modified by the city council pursuant to
the recommendations of the zoning board.
   B.   For each application for a special use permit, the zoning board shall
report to the city council the stipulations or additional conditions and
guarantees to be complied with by the applicant when they are deemed necessary
for the protection of the public interest. (Ord., 10-11-1999; amd. 2017 Code)
8-3B-5: CITY COUNCIL ACTION:
Any action taken by the city council with regard to special uses shall be by
ordinance. (Ord., 10-11-1999)
