CITY CODE
of
ATLANTA, ILLINOIS
1972
Code current through:
Ord. 24-01, passed 7-16-2024
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This City Code of the City of Atlanta, as supplemented, contains ordinances up
to and including Ordinance 24-01, passed July 16, 2024. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
PENDING ORDINANCES
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 1000
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE OFFICIAL CODE OF THE CITY OF
ATLANTA; PROVIDING FOR THE CONTINUANCE IN EFFECT OF ALL GENERAL LAWS IN EFFECT
ON THE DATE OF SUCH ADOPTION; PROVIDING FOR THE CONTINUATION OF ALL SPECIAL
ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED IN THE OFFICIAL CODE AND PROVIDING FOR THE REGULAR
SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE OFFICIAL CITY CODE.
   WHEREAS, the city council of the city of Atlanta, Illinois, authorized,
under its direction, a comprehensive compilation and revision of the existing
city ordinances and codification and publication of the same in a loose-leaf
type of binding; and,
   WHEREAS, at least three copies of said city code, published in final form,
together with three copies each of the uniform housing code (1970 ed.), uniform
building code (1970 ed.), national plumbing code (1968 ed.), national
electrical code (1971 ed.), and fire prevention code (1970 ed.), all of which
are incorporated in said city code by reference, were on file in the office of
the city clerk of Atlanta, Illinois and available for inspection by the public
as of March 28, 1972; and,
   WHEREAS, publication was made on March 30, 1972 in the Atlanta Argus
advising the public that said number of copies of said city code and codes
incorporated therein by reference were on file in said city clerk's office and
were available for inspection by the public at any and all times said office is
regularly open;
   Now, therefore, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of Atlanta, Illinois:
   Section 1: Pursuant to III. Rev. Stats., ch. 24, §1-2-1 et seq., and §1-3-
1 et seq. (1971), the city code of the city of Atlanta, hereinafter designated
"The Atlanta City Code", prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., under the
direction of the city council of the city, is hereby approved, accepted and
adopted and declared to be the official city code containing all ordinances of
a general nature in effect at the time of such codification, and said code
shall be accepted in all courts without question as the official code and law
of the city as enacted by the mayor and council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted as a method of codification the loose-
leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service, whereby
each newly adopted ordinance of a general and permanent nature amending,
altering, adding to or deleting provisions of the Atlanta city code is properly
identified and is inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies
of said code. Each such new provision shall become effective upon the passage
of the ordinance or upon compliance with the applicable state statutes as the
case may be. As soon as possible thereafter, the proper replacement pages shall
be inserted in the copies of the code, three (3) copies of which shall be
maintained in the office of the city clerk, available for inspection at any and
all times that said office is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general and permanent nature in force on May
1, 1972, and not contained in the Atlanta city code are hereby repealed from
and after the 15th day of May, 1972, except as hereinafter provided. All said
ordinances of a general nature included in the Atlanta city code shall be
considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the fact that some
provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the city council shall not
serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of ordinances
included in said Atlanta city code.
   Section 4: That the repeal provided for in the preceding section of this
ordinance shall not affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty
or forfeiture incurred, or any contract or right established or accruing before
the effective date of this ordinance; nor shall it affect any ordinance or
resolution promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city or
authorizing the issue of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city's
indebtedness or any contract or obligation assumed by the city; nor shall such
repeal affect the administrative resolutions of the city council not in
conflict or inconsistent with the provisions of such code; nor shall it affect
the annual appropriation ordinance; nor shall it affect any ordinance levying
or imposing taxes; nor shall it affect any right or franchise conferred by
ordinance or resolution of the city on any person or corporation; nor shall it
affect any ordinance dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating,
opening, paving, widening, vacating, etc., any street or public way in the
city; nor shall it affect any ordinance providing for local improvements; nor
shall it affect any prosecution, suit or proceeding pending or any judgment on
or prior to the effective date of this ordinance; nor shall it affect any
ordinance passed after May 1, 1972.
   Section 5: This ordinance shall be in full force and effect not less than
ten (10) days after its publication as provided by Ill. Rev. Stats., ch. 24,
51-2-4 (1971).
   Section 6: This ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage and publication according to law, the effective date herein
designated being May 15, 1972.
   Passed and Approved by the mayor and council this 2nd day of May, 1972.
            S/Joseph L. Hoblit   
            Mayor
ATTEST:
   S/Richard Howser   
   City Clerk
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
ATLANTA CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alteration
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official city code of the city of Atlanta. Any
reference made to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any
legal document. (1972 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section
1-2-1 of this title. (1972 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the code
within thirty (30) days from the date of its final passage. (1972 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATION:
   (A)   It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace
or deface in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that
the meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages
may be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by
the city council. The city clerk shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the city
clerk.
   (B)   Any person having in his custody an official copy of this code shall
make every effort to maintain said code in an up to date and efficient manner.
He shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such
are delivered to him or made available to him through the office of the city
clerk. Said code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the city and shall be
returned to the office of the city clerk when directed so to do by order of the
city council. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following section), from which are excluded
the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
city; and all special ordinances. (1972 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1972 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   (A)   No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to
any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the
party affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   (B)   This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the city
herein repealed and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provision; nor shall this chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
city under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this code. (1972 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any article, section, subdivision, clause, phrase or sentence of this code
shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such holding shall
not be construed to invalidate or impair the remaining provisions of this code,
which shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding such holding.
(1972 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Interpretations
1-3-3: Definitions, General
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   (A)   Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall a deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used.
   (B)   When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code
by words importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several
matters, parties or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate
shall be deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction
shall not be applied to any section of this code which contains any express
provision excluding such construction or where the subject matter or context
may be repugnant thereto. (1972 Code)
1-3-2: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code, the
following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this code prohibit the commission of any act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1972 Code)
1-3-3: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
In the construction of this code and of all ordinances, the rules and
definitions set out in this section shall be observed, unless such construction
would be inconsistent with the manifest intent of the city council. The rules
of construction and definitions set out herein shall not be applied to any
section of this code which shall contain any express provision excluding such
construction, or where the subject matter or context of such section may be
repugnant thereto.
All general provisions, terms, phrases and expressions contained in this code
shall be liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the
city council may be fully carried out.
In the interpretation and application of any provisions of this code, they
shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where any
provision of this code imposes greater restrictions upon the subject matter
than the general provision imposed by this code, the provision imposing the
greater restriction or regulation shall be deemed to be controlling.
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CITY: The city of Atlanta, county of Logan, Illinois.
CITY COUNCIL OR COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Atlanta.
CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated, shall mean this code.
COUNTY: The county of Logan, in the state of Illinois.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by the state law.
NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE AND NEGLIGENTLY: Imports a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent person ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on, the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: When applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Atlanta", and shall be taken to mean the appointive officers of the city having
the title mentioned, exclusive of the mayor and aldermen.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: When applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant, tenant in partnership, tenant by the
entirety, or lessee of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, societies,
clubs, firms, joint stock association or the state of Illinois or any
subdivision thereof, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee or personal
representative thereof.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished, and every right or
interest therein.
REAL PROPERTY: Shall include lands, tenements and hereditaments.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
SHALL: The word "shall" is mandatory.
SIDEWALK: Any portion of a street between the curb line and the adjacent
property line, intended for the use of pedestrians, excluding parkways.
SIGNATURE OR SUBSCRIPTION: Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
STATE OR THIS STATE: Shall be construed to mean the state of Illinois.
STREET: Shall be construed to embrace streets, avenues, boulevards, roads,
alleys, lanes, viaducts and all other public ways in the city, and shall
include all areas thereof embraced between the property lines and dedicated to
the public use.
TENANT OR OCCUPANT: When applied to a building or land, shall include any
person holding a written or oral lease or who occupies the whole or a part of
such building or land, either alone or with others.
TENSE: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as well as
the past and present.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be in
the proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Penalty; General
1-4-2: Default; Labor
1-4-3: License
1-4-4: Application
1-4-5: Liability Of Officers
1-4-6: Procedure For Written Warnings For Certain Offenses
1-4-1: PENALTY; GENERAL:
Except as otherwise provided, any person convicted of a violation of any
section of this Code shall be fined in the sum of not less than two hundred
fifty dollars ($250.00), nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
(Ord. 18-02, 4-3-2018)
1-4-2: DEFAULT; LABOR:
Any person in default of payment of any fine or costs imposed may be committed
to the City or County Jail until the fine, penalty and costs are fully paid.
Any person imprisoned under the provisions of this chapter may be put to work
for the benefit of the City for the term of his imprisonment. The committed
person shall be allowed, exclusive of board, a credit as provided by statute
for each day's work. (1972 Code)
1-4-3: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this Code, any
license previously issued to him by the City may be revoked by the court or by
the City Council. (1972 Code)
1-4-4: APPLICATION:
   (A)   The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section. Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this
Code where any duty is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any action
which is of a continuing nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each
day such duty or obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless
otherwise specifically provided in this Code.
   (B)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created
by different clauses or sections of this Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   (C)   Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall
be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of
this chapter shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1972
Code)
1-4-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provisions of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1972
Code)
1-4-6: PROCEDURE FOR WRITTEN WARNINGS FOR CERTAIN OFFENSES:
   (A)   Authority: Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code, any City
police officer, City inspector or Code Enforcement Officer may, in lieu of the
filing of a complaint in court, issue to an alleged violator a written warning
citation ("warning ticket") that is consistent with this section.
   (B)   Exceptions: No moving traffic violations qualify for written warnings
pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Form Of Warning Citation With Administrative Charge:
      1.   Such a citation referenced above and not otherwise excepted shall be
on a form commonly known as a "warning citation" or "warning ticket", and shall
be in the form of notice suitable for mailing and shall state the specific
section of this code or state law that was violated, and shall inform the
alleged violator that he or she shall be liable for the payment of an
administrative charge, and if he or she does not dispute the administrative
charge, he or she may avoid the filing of an ordinance violation complaint
against him or her by making payment of the following amount within thirty (30)
days of the issuance of the warning citation:
         (a)   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) for the first warning citation;
         (b)   Fifty dollars ($50.00) for the second warning citation for the
same offense;
         (c)   One hundred dollars ($100.00) for the third warning citation for
the same offense.
      2.   All administrative charges paid pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter shall be duly receipted for by the police department or city official
receiving the same, and such payment shall promptly be remitted to the city
treasurer to be credited to the appropriate municipal fund. Upon receipt of
payment of administrative charges (and receipt of proof of compliance or
abatement where applicable), the city attorney shall be notified and the city
will not file any proceedings against the alleged violator for the violation of
the ordinance in relation to the incident underlying the warning citation.
      3.   In the event the administrative charge is not paid within the thirty
(30) day period, the city attorney shall, within sixty (60) days of the
issuance of the warning citation, either: a) withdraw the warning citation and
file an ordinance violation complaint in circuit court in Logan County against
the alleged violator; or b) withdraw the warning citation and notify the
alleged violator that no further action need be taken.
      4.   Where the warning citation involves a failure to comply with vehicle
identification or equipment requirements, or a nuisance violation, then in
addition to a payment of the administrative charge set forth above, the alleged
violator must also show proof of compliance (or abatement of nuisance) in order
to qualify for a warning citation. (Ord. 98-01, 3-3-1998)
CHAPTER 5
CITY OFFICERS; GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Bonds
1-5-2: Oath
1-5-3: Commission Of Office
1-5-4: Method Of Handling City Monies
1-5-5: Salaries
1-5-6: Inspection Of Record Books
1-5-7: Failure Of Officers To Act; Mayor To Assign Duties
1-5-8: Officers Liable To City
1-5-9: Complaint Against Officer; Procedure
1-5-10: Removal From Office
1-5-11: State Officials And Employees Ethics Act
1-5-1: BONDS:
The city council may by ordinance or resolution require any officer, except
aldermen, before entering upon the discharge of the duties of his office, to
execute a bond to the city, in such sum as may be set forth by the city council
or by state statute, and with such sureties as the city council may approve;
but no member of the city council or officers of the city shall be received as
surety on any such official bond. The bonds of all such city officers shall be
conditioned for the prompt and faithful discharge and performance of the duties
of their respective offices as already or may hereafter be defined by
ordinance, and such other duties as may be imposed upon them after the
execution of such bonds and during the term of their office, and for the
payment of all fines and penalties assessed and judgments obtained or procured
against them for any neglect or refusal to perform such duties, and the
faithful accounting to the proper officers for all monies that may come into
their hands by virtue of their office, and all such bonds, with the approval of
the city council certified thereon, shall be filed in the office of the city
clerk, and remain for the benefit of any person aggrieved by the official act
or neglect of any such officer. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-5-2: OATH:
Every officer elected or appointed by the city council shall, before entering
upon the duties of his office, take and subscribe the following oath: "I do
solemnly swear that I will support the constitution of the United States and
the constitution of the state of Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge
the duties of the office of            according to the best of my ability";
which oath or affirmation may be administered by the mayor, city clerk or any
other officer authorized to administer oaths, and such oath shall be filed and
kept in the office of the city clerk. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-5-3: COMMISSION OF OFFICE:
When any officer shall have qualified, as required by ordinance, the city clerk
shall make out and deliver to him a commission, under the corporate seal,
signed by the mayor or presiding officer of the city council and the city
clerk. The commission may be as follows:
I,              , mayor of the city of Atlanta, to all whom these presents may
come, greeting: Know ye, that             , having been duly elected (or
appointed, as the case may be) and qualified for the office of           , of
the city of Atlanta, I            , mayor (or acting mayor, as the case may be)
of said city, for and in behalf of the people thereof, do hereby commission
           in and for said city to have and possess the said office, with all
the rights, powers and emoluments incident thereto, with authority to execute
all the duties thereof according to law until his successor shall be duly
chosen and qualified. In testimony whereof I hereunto set my hand and cause the
seal of said city to be affixed, this          day of           , 20        .
(Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-5-4: METHOD OF HANDLING CITY MONIES:
All officers collecting or receiving any monies on account of the city shall
pay over all such monies to the city clerk for the city treasury, upon the
first Monday following the date upon which such monies are received; and shall,
at the first regular meeting of the city council thereafter, report to the
council an accurate statement of all such monies received and paid over,
specifying the amount and on what account received. No officer shall retain any
monies collected or received by him or apply the same toward the payment of any
salary or fee which may be due to him from the city, except as hereinafter
otherwise provided. Any officer violating any provision of this section shall
be subject to the penalty as set forth in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-5-5: SALARIES:
   (A)   The salaries of all employees and officers, unless otherwise
specifically provided, shall be paid semimonthly, and after presenting their
account to the city council for adjustment. However, no warrant shall be drawn
in favor of any officer for the payment of his salary until he shall have filed
his report as herein required, nor shall any warrant be drawn in favor of any
officer who shall be in default or arrears with the city. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
   (B)   The salaries of the officers and employees of the city shall be as
provided for by the city council from time to time. (1972 Code)
1-5-6: INSPECTION OF RECORD BOOKS:
The record books and papers pertaining to any city officer shall at all
reasonable times be subject to the inspection of the mayor, or the city
council, or any of its committees, or any person interested in the same, and
all city officers shall when requested give all the information in their power
pertaining to their respective offices, to the city council or any of its
committees, the mayor, city attorney or any other department of the city
government. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-5-7: FAILURE OF OFFICERS TO ACT; MAYOR TO ASSIGN DUTIES:
When any particular officer required by ordinance to execute any particular
duty shall be absent or incompetent, or otherwise unable to discharge such
duty, the mayor may assign the discharge of such duty to some other officer,
and such officer shall act in such case with the same power and authority as if
specially named in the ordinance. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-5-8: OFFICERS LIABLE TO CITY:
All officers shall be liable to the city for all loss or damage that may arise
from their negligence or wilful misconduct in the discharge of an official
duty, and the city council may, in their discretion, by order, withhold the
salary of any such officer, in order to secure the city from loss, and if any
officer shall fail, neglect or refuse to discharge or perform any duty required
of him, the city council may employ or appoint some competent person to perform
such duty, and the cost and expenses of doing the same shall be charged to such
officer and deducted from his salary, and if his salary shall be insufficient
to pay the same, the deficiency may be collected from him, and recovered by
suit, in the name of the city. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-5-9: COMPLAINT AGAINST OFFICER; PROCEDURE:
Whenever it shall come to the knowledge of the mayor or any member of the city
council that any city officer is incompetent, or has wilfully neglected or
refused to discharge any of the duties of his office, or has been guilty of any
malfeasance, misdemeanor, or other improper conduct in the discharge of his
official duties, he shall forthwith prefer charges, in writing, against such
officer to the city council, specifying the nature of the offense or offenses
with which he is charged. The procedure hereinbelow shall be followed upon
receipt of said charges:
   (A)   The city council shall immediately thereupon appoint by ballot a
committee, to consist of three (3) members, to examine into such charges, and
who, if upon such examination, shall deem them well founded, shall form such
charges, with such additional charges as they may find probable cause for
preferring, with proper specifications, and report them to the city council,
whereupon the city council shall set a day for hearing and determining the same
within ten (10) days from such time. A copy of the specifications, with a
notice of the day set for hearing the same, shall without delay be made out by
the city clerk and delivered to the accused, and upon the day appointed the
city council shall proceed to hear and determine concerning such charges, and
hear and examine all evidence that may be offered on both sides, and may, if
necessary, adjourn from day to day, and shall, upon concluding such examination
by ayes and nays vote upon the charges, whether the accused is guilty. The
question upon each charge shall be "is the accused guilty?", and if two- thirds
(2/3) of all the aldermen vote that he is guilty of any charge preferred, they
may resolve that he is removed from office and shall thereupon proceed to fill
such vacancy according to law, and the proceedings shall be entered at large
upon the journal of the city by the city clerk.
   (B)   The accused shall be heard, if he so desires, by himself or counsel in
his defense, and the city attorney, if required, shall attend and prosecute on
behalf of the city, but no exceptions shall be taken or allowed as to the form
of the charges or specifications, and it shall be sufficient if the offense
charged is clearly and substantially set forth.
   (C)   The mayor shall issue warrants under the corporate seal for all
witnesses or the production of all papers that may be required, either before
the city council or before the special committee, and deliver the same to the
chief of police, who shall serve the same by reading or delivering a copy
thereof to the person summoned, and shall make a return thereon, showing in
what manner he has executed the same. Any person who shall neglect to appear or
to testify when so requested, or to produce any paper which he may have in his
possession or under his control, pertaining to such trial, shall be subject to
a penalty as set forth in this code, and may be compelled to appear or to
testify in any other legal manner. When any witness may be unable to attend
from sickness or other cause, or is beyond the jurisdiction of the city
council, his deposition, taken in accordance with the laws of the state, may be
read in evidence.
   (D)   When any charges shall be preferred against any officer, such officer
shall immediately be suspended until they are disposed of, and the city council
may make a temporary appointment to fill such vacancy. If any officer, without
good cause, neglects to appear at the time appointed and answer the charges
against him, his office shall be declared vacant. Any officer who may be
removed from office shall not receive any salary from and after the date such
charges are preferred against him. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-5-10: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
Any city officer authorized or required by any ordinance to be appointed by the
city council, may be removed from office at any time by a vote of two-thirds
(2/3) of the aldermen, and his salary shall thereupon immediately cease, but
the city council may, at its option, cause charges to be preferred against such
officer and proceed to hear and determine the same in the same manner as
provided by section
1-5-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-5-11: STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT:
   (A)   The regulations of sections 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statues 430/1-1 et seq.
(hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section) are hereby adopted by
reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the city to the
extent required by 5 Illinois Complied Statutes 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act by any officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act by
any officer or employee of the city, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail, in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date hereof shall be incorporated into this section by reference and shall be
applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of gifts and to
prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes its
provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be incorporated
into this section by reference without formal action by the corporate
authorities of the city.
   (I)   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals or
rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by the
corporate authorities of the city if the act is found unconstitutional by the
Illinois supreme court.
   (J)   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act,
or does not address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the city. (Ord. 04-05, 7-31-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 - 430/10-40.
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Executive Officer; Qualifications; Term Of Office
1-6-2: Enforce Ordinances; Preside At Meetings; Vote In Case Of Tie
1-6-3: Vacancy
1-6-4: Mayor Pro Tem
1-6-5: Oath; Bond
1-6-6: Appointments; Filling Vacancies
1-6-7: Supervise Conduct Of Officers
1-6-8: Removals; Report Reasons To Council; Disapproval
1-6-9: Ordinances; Approval; Veto
1-6-10: Sign Commissions; Warrants; Contracts
1-6-11: Licenses; Issuance And Revocation
1-6-12: Other Duties
1-6-1: EXECUTIVE OFFICER; QUALIFICATIONS; TERM OF OFFICE:
The mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the city; he shall be a
citizen of the United States, a qualified elector, reside within the city
limits, and shall hold his office for four (4) years, and until his successor
is elected and qualified. (1972 Code)
1-6-2: ENFORCE ORDINANCES; PRESIDE AT MEETINGS; VOTE IN CASE OF TIE:
The mayor shall devote so much of his time to the duties of his office as a
faithful and efficient discharge thereof may require; he shall take care that
all the ordinances of the city are duly enforced, respected and observed; he
shall preside at all meetings of the city council, but shall not vote except in
case of a tie, when he shall give the deciding vote; he shall preserve order
and decorum; and generally do and perform all acts and things, which are
enjoined upon him by the laws of the state and the ordinances of the city.
(1972 Code)
1-6-3: VACANCY:
Whenever any vacancy shall happen in the office of mayor, on account of death,
resignation, removal from the limits of the city, or for any other cause, when
the unexpired term shall be one year or over from the date of such vacancy, it
shall be filled by an election, and the city clerk shall give notice of such
election as required by the laws and ordinances governing special elections; if
such vacancy is less than one year, the city council shall elect one of its
number to act as mayor, who shall possess all the rights and powers of the
mayor until the next annual election, and until his successor is elected and
qualified. (1972 Code)
1-6-4: MAYOR PRO TEM:
During a temporary absence or disability of the mayor, the city council shall
elect one of its number to act as mayor pro tem, who, during such absence or
disability, shall possess all the powers of mayor. (1972 Code)
1-6-5: OATH; BOND:
The mayor, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall take the oath
prescribed for other city officers, and shall execute a bond to said city in
the penal sum of three thousand dollars ($3,000.00), conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties of the office. (1972 Code)
1-6-6: APPOINTMENTS; FILLING VACANCIES:
The mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the city
council, all officers of the city whose appointments are not otherwise provided
for by law; and whenever a vacancy shall occur in any office, which by law or
ordinance he is empowered and required to fill, he shall at the next regular
meeting of the city council occurring not less than ten (10) days after such
vacancy, communicate to the city council the name of his appointee to such
office, and pending the concurrence of the city council in such appointment, he
may designate some suitable person to discharge the functions of such office.
(1972 Code)
1-6-7: SUPERVISE CONDUCT OF OFFICERS:
The mayor shall supervise the conduct of all officers of the city and see that
they faithfully and efficiently discharge the duties of their respective
offices; he shall inquire into all reasonable complaints made against them and
cause all their neglects or violations of duty to be promptly corrected; and he
shall, in case he becomes satisfied that any officer wilfully neglects or
violates his duty, cause such officer to be prosecuted and punished; and he
shall from time to time give the city council such information relative to the
affairs of the city as he may deem proper, and recommend for their
consideration any measures that he may deem expedient, tending to the well
being, security or improvement of the city. (1972 Code)
1-6-8: REMOVALS; REPORT REASONS TO COUNCIL; DISAPPROVAL:
The mayor shall have power to remove any officer appointed by him, on any
formal charge whenever he shall be of the opinion that the interests of the
city demand such removal, but he shall report the reasons of such removal to
the city council at the next regular meeting thereof to be held, not less than
five (5) days after such removal; and if the mayor shall fail or refuse to file
with the city clerk a statement of the reasons for such removal, or if the city
council, by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of all its members authorized by law to be
elected, by ayes and nays, to be entered upon its record, disapprove of such
removal, such officer shall thereupon become restored to the office from which
he was so removed; but he shall give new bonds and take a new oath of office.
No officer shall be removed a second time for the same offense. (1972 Code)
1-6-9: ORDINANCES; APPROVAL; VETO:
The mayor shall carefully inspect all ordinances passed by the city council and
affix his official signature to such as he may approve, and return them to the
city clerk within ten (10) days after their passage, and all ordinances passed
as aforesaid, which do not meet his approval, he shall return to the city
council with his objections thereto in writing at the next regular meeting of
the city council, occurring not less than five (5) days after the passage
thereof. Such veto may extend to any one or more items or appropriations
contained in any ordinance, or to the entire ordinance, and in case the veto
only extends to a part of such ordinance, the residue thereof shall take effect
and be in force; but in case the mayor shall fail to return any ordinance with
his objections thereto, by the time aforesaid, he shall be deemed to have
approved such ordinance, and the same shall take effect accordingly. (1972
Code)
1-6-10: SIGN COMMISSIONS; WARRANTS; CONTRACTS:
The mayor shall sign all commissions and warrants granted, issued or drawn by
the order of the city council, or authorized by the ordinances of the city; in
all contracts where the city is a party, he shall sign the same on behalf of
the city, and it shall be his special duty to see that the other contracting
party faithfully complies with the contract, and on all suits wherein the city
is a party, it shall be the duty of the mayor to advise with the city attorney
in prosecuting or defending the same, as the case may be. (1972 Code)
1-6-11: LICENSES; ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION:
The mayor shall grant licenses, for the purposes authorized by any ordinance of
the city, to such persons duly qualified according to ordinance, as he may deem
proper, unless the city council shall otherwise provide, and may revoke the
same at pleasure; provided, that licenses for the operation of saloons or
dramshops shall first be authorized by the city council. (1972 Code)
1-6-12: OTHER DUTIES:
In addition to the above and foregoing, the mayor shall perform all such duties
as may be prescribed by law, or by the city ordinances and shall take care that
the laws and ordinances of the city are enforced. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-7-1: City Council; How Composed; Filling Vacancy
1-7-2: Aldermen; Term Of Office
1-7-3: Qualifications Of Aldermen
1-7-4: Regular Meetings
1-7-5: Special Meetings
1-7-6: Standing Committees
1-7-7: Duties Of Standing Committees
1-7-8: Quorum
1-7-9: Compelling Attendance; Penalty For Failure To Attend
1-7-10: Members Required To Vote; Penalty For Refusal
1-7-11: When Yeas And Nays Required; Majority Required
1-7-12: Passing Over Veto
1-7-13: No Vote To Be Reconsidered At Special Meeting
1-7-14: Attaching Documents To Reports
1-7-15: Reports Of Committees Deferred
1-7-16: Municipal Year
1-7-17: Fiscal Year
1-7-18: Annual Appropriation Ordinance
1-7-19: No Further Expenditure; Emergency; Borrowing Money
1-7-20: Contracting Liabilities Limited
1-7-21: Annual Tax Levy
1-7-22: Manner Of Collecting Taxes
1-7-23: Collector To Pay Treasurer
1-7-24: Special Tax Levy
1-7-25: Uniformity Of Taxation
1-7-1: CITY COUNCIL; HOW COMPOSED; FILLING VACANCY:
The city council shall consist of the mayor and two (2) aldermen from each
ward; it shall be the judge of the election and qualification of its own
members. An alderman may resign from his office. A vacancy occurs in the office
of alderman by reason of resignation, failure to elect or qualify, death,
permanent physical or mental disability, conviction of a disqualifying crime,
abandonment of office, or removal from office or of residence from the ward. If
a vacancy occurs in the office of alderman in any such manner or otherwise, the
vacancy may be filled at the next succeeding general election for alderman at
which time the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired balance of the term. A
vacancy for alderman shall not be filled by special election, in compliance
with 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-4-14. The mayor, with the advice and
consent of the city council, may appoint a person to serve as alderman in the
vacancy until the next general election, as provided in this section, and until
the person elected qualifies. (1972 Code)
1-7-2: ALDERMEN; TERM OF OFFICE:
The aldermen of the city shall hold their office for the term of four (4)
years, and until their successors are elected and qualified. (1972 Code)
1-7-3: QUALIFICATIONS OF ALDERMEN:
No person shall be eligible to the office of alderman unless he is a qualified
elector, and resides within the ward for which he was elected, nor shall he be
eligible if he is in arrears in the payment of any tax or other liability due
to the city; nor shall he be directly or indirectly interested in any contract
whatever to which the city is a party; nor shall he be eligible if he has been
convicted of malfeasance, bribery or corrupt practices or crime; nor shall he
be eligible to any office, the salary of which is payable out of the city
treasury, if at the time of his appointment he is a member of the city council;
nor shall any member of the city council at the time hold any other office
under the city government; nor shall he be, either directly or indirectly,
individually or as a member of a firm, engaged in any business transaction
(other than official) with the city, through its mayor or any of its authorized
boards, agents or attorney, where any money is to be paid, directly or
indirectly, out of the city treasury to such member or firm or firms. (1972
Code)
1-7-4: REGULAR MEETINGS:
The regular stated meetings of the city council shall be held in the council
chamber at the city hall on the first and third Tuesday of each and every
month. The meetings shall be commenced at the hour of seven thirty o'clock (7:
30) P.M., Central Standard Time, or between the dates when Central Daylight
Time is in effect, at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M., Central Daylight Time.
If at any time the first or third Tuesday shall happen to be a legal holiday,
the city council shall meet at the same hour on the next day following; and
adjourned meetings may be held at such time or times as may be determined by
the city council. (1972 Code)
1-7-5: SPECIAL MEETINGS:
Special meetings of the city council may be called by the mayor, or any three
(3) aldermen, whenever, in their discretion, they may deem it necessary. The
meeting shall be called in the following manner: the mayor, or three (3)
aldermen, as the case may be, shall file in the office of the city clerk a
statement in writing setting forth the object and purpose of the special
meeting and directing the clerk to give notice of same. Upon the filing of the
statement, the city clerk shall cause to be served personally upon each member
of the city council or left at his residence or usual place of business, a
notice of the special meeting, setting forth the object and purpose thereof,
and the time of holding the same. No business other than that mentioned in the
call shall be transacted at any special meeting unless three- fourths (3/4) of
all members elect shall be present and vote. (1972 Code)
1-7-6: STANDING COMMITTEES:
It shall be the duty of the mayor at the first regular meeting of the city
council in May in each year, or as soon thereafter as may be, to appoint the
standing committees of the city council which shall be as follows:
 
First  Administration and finance, one member each ward
Second Streets and alleys, one member each ward
Third  Police, one member each ward
Fourth Lights, parks and buildings, one member each ward
Fifth  Fire, one member each ward
Sixth  Water and sewer, one member each ward
 
(1972 Code)
1-7-7: DUTIES OF STANDING COMMITTEES:
It shall be the duty of the standing committees of the city council to keep a
close watch of the affairs of their respective departments of the city
government; they shall have the general management, control and supervision
over all works and things ordered to be made or done by the city council in
their respective departments, and they shall make report to the city council of
whatever facts may be deemed of importance. Each committee shall promptly and
thoroughly investigate and report in writing upon all matters referred to it by
the city council, and do and perform such other and further duties as the city
council may from time to time, by ordinance, resolution or motion, prescribe.
(1972 Code)
1-7-8: QUORUM:
A majority of the corporate authorities shall constitute a quorum to do
business, but a smaller number may adjourn from time to time, and may compel
the attendance of absentees, under the penalties prescribed by section
1-7-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 98-12, 10-6-1998)
1-7-9: COMPELLING ATTENDANCE; PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO ATTEND:
In case of the want of a quorum of the city council at any time, in case a
majority of the members present shall direct, the mayor or presiding officer
shall direct the chief of police or any police officer to go out and arrest and
bring in any and all absent members that can be found in the city, who are not
unable through sickness, to attend; and any member who purposely absents
himself from the city to avoid attending any meeting of the city council, or
being in the city, conceals himself from such officer, or refuses to be brought
in when found, shall be deemed guilty of disorderly conduct and be subject to a
fine of twenty five dollars ($25.00), and the city council may, with
concurrence of two- thirds (2/3) of the aldermen elect, expel such member, in
which event his seat shall be deemed vacant and be filled by an election as in
other cases of vacancy. (1972 Code)
1-7-10: MEMBERS REQUIRED TO VOTE; PENALTY FOR REFUSAL:
Every member of the city council shall vote upon all questions in which they
are not directly or personally interested, which may be brought before the city
council for its action in such manner as to require a vote to be taken thereon,
unless such member be excused by a vote of two- thirds (2/3) of all the other
members present; and in case any member shall refuse to vote, who shall not
have been thus excused, shall be considered as having voted on the negative of
such question and his vote shall be so recorded, and such member shall be
deemed guilty of disorderly conduct and be subject to a fine of twenty five
dollars ($25.00), and the city council may, with the concurrence of two-thirds
(2/3) of all the aldermen elect, expel such member, in which event his seat
shall be deemed vacant and be filled by an election as in other cases of
vacancy. (1972 Code)
1-7-11: WHEN YEAS AND NAYS REQUIRED; MAJORITY REQUIRED:
The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances, and on all
propositions to create any liability against the city, or for the expenditure
or appropriation of its money, and in all other cases at the request of any
member, which shall be entered on the journal of the proceedings; and the
concurrence of a majority of all the members elected in the city council shall
be necessary to the passage of any such ordinance or proposition; provided, it
shall require three-fourths (3/4) of all the aldermen elect to sell any city
property. (1972 Code)
1-7-12: PASSING OVER VETO:
In case the mayor shall veto any ordinance or any part of any ordinance, and
return the same to the city council, together with his written objections
thereto, the vote by which the same was passed shall be reconsidered by the
city council; and if, after such reconsideration, two-thirds (2/3) of all the
aldermen then holding office on the city council shall agree by yeas and nays
to pass the same, it shall go into effect, notwithstanding the mayor may refuse
to approve thereof. The vote to pass the same over the mayor's veto shall be
taken by yeas and nays, and entered on the journal. (Ord. 83-1, 5-17-1983)
1-7-13: NO VOTE TO BE RECONSIDERED AT SPECIAL MEETING:
No vote of the city council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at any special
meeting thereof, unless at such special meeting there be present as large a
number of aldermen as were present when such vote was taken. (1972 Code)
1-7-14: ATTACHING DOCUMENTS TO REPORTS:
Every committee of the city council, in reporting upon any subject referred to
it, shall attach to their report all papers or documents in the possession of
the committee relative to the matter so referred. (1972 Code)
1-7-15: REPORTS OF COMMITTEES DEFERRED:
Any report of a committee of the city council shall be deferred, for final
action thereon, at the next regular meeting of the same after the report is
made, upon the request of any two (2) aldermen present. (1972 Code)
1-7-16: MUNICIPAL YEAR:
The municipal year of the city shall commence on May 1 and end on April 30 in
each and every year. (1972 Code)
1-7-17: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the city shall commence on May 1 in each and every year.
(1972 Code)
1-7-18: ANNUAL APPROPRIATION ORDINANCE:
The city council shall, within the first quarter of each fiscal year, pass an
ordinance, to be termed the annual appropriation bill, in which the city
council shall appropriate such sum or sums of money as it may deem necessary to
defray all necessary expenses and liabilities of the city for the current
fiscal year; and in such ordinance shall specify the objects and purposes for
which such appropriations are made, and the amount appropriated for each object
or purpose. No further appropriations shall be made at any other time within
such fiscal year, unless the proposition to make each appropriation has been
first sanctioned by a majority of the legal voters of such city, either by a
petition signed by them, or at a general or special election duly called
therefor. (1972 Code)
1-7-19: NO FURTHER EXPENDITURE; EMERGENCY; BORROWING MONEY:
Neither the city council nor any department or officer of the city shall add to
the corporate expenditures in any one year anything over and above the amount
provided for in the annual appropriation bill of that year, except as herein
otherwise specially provided; and no expenditure for an improvement to be paid
for out of the general fund of the city shall exceed, in any one year, the
amount provided for such improvement in the annual appropriation bill;
provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the city council
from ordering, by a two-thirds (2/3) vote, an improvement, the necessity of
which is caused by any casualty or accident happening after such annual
appropriation is made. The city council may, by a like vote, order the mayor
and the committee on finance to borrow a sufficient amount to provide for the
expense necessary to be incurred in making any improvements, the necessity of
which has arisen as is last above mentioned, for a space of time not exceeding
the close of the next fiscal year, which sum, and the interest, shall be added
to the amount authorized to be raised in the next general tax levy, and
embraced therein. Should any judgment be obtained against the city, the mayor
and the committee on finance, under the sanction of the city council, may
borrow a sufficient amount to pay the same, for a space of time not exceeding
the close of the next fiscal year, which sum, and interest shall, in like
manner, be added to the amount authorized to be raised in the general tax levy
of the next year, and embraced therein. (1972 Code)
1-7-20: CONTRACTING LIABILITIES LIMITED:
No contract shall hereafter be made by the city council, or any committee or
member thereof, and no expense shall be incurred by any of the officers or
departments of the city, whether the object of the expenditure shall have been
ordered by the city council or not, unless an appropriation shall have been
previously made concerning such expense, except as herein otherwise expressly
provided. (1972 Code)
1-7-21: ANNUAL TAX LEVY:
The city council shall annually, on or before the second Tuesday in September
of each year, ascertain the total amount of appropriations for all corporate
purposes legally made, and to be collected from the tax levy of that fiscal
year; and by an ordinance specifying in detail the purposes for which such
appropriations are made, and the sum or amount appropriated for each purpose,
respectively, levy the amount so ascertained upon all the property subject to
taxation within the city, as the same is assessed and equalized for state and
county purposes for the current year. A certified copy of such ordinance shall
be filed with the county clerk of Logan County, whose duty it shall be to
ascertain the rate percent which, upon the total valuation of all the property
subject to taxation within the city, as the same is assessed and equalized for
state and county purposes, will produce a net amount not less than the amount
so directed to be levied; and it shall be the duty of the county clerk to
extend such tax in a separate column upon the book or books of the collector or
collectors of the state and county taxes, within the city; provided, the
aggregate amount of taxes levied for any one year, exclusive of the amount
levied for the payment of the bonded indebtedness or interest thereon, and for
library purposes, shall not exceed the rate of two percent (2%) upon the
aggregate valuation of all property within the city subject to taxation
therein, as the same was equalized for state and county taxes for the current
year. (1972 Code)
1-7-22: MANNER OF COLLECTING TAXES:
The tax so assessed shall be collected and enforced in the same manner and by
the same officers as state and county taxes, and shall be paid over by the
officers collecting the same to the city treasurer. (1972 Code)
1-7-23: COLLECTOR TO PAY TREASURER:
It shall be the duty of the officer collecting such tax to settle with and pay
over to the city treasurer, as often as once every thirty (30) days, when
required by the city treasurer to do so, the amount of tax that he may have
collected, and at the same time shall render to the city treasurer a statement,
in writing, of the amount of tax collected for the city, until the whole tax
collected shall be paid over. (1972 Code)
1-7-24: SPECIAL TAX LEVY:
Whenever the city is required to levy a tax for the payment of a particular
debt, appropriation or liability, the tax for such purpose shall be included in
the total amount assessed by the city council, and certified to the county
clerk as aforesaid; but the city council shall determine, in the ordinance
making such assessment, what proportion of such total amount shall be
applicable to the payment of such particular debt, appropriation or liability,
and the city treasurer shall set apart such proportion of the tax collected and
paid to him for the payment of such particular debt, appropriation or
liability, and shall not disburse the same for any other purpose until such
debt, appropriation or liability shall have been discharged. (1972 Code)
1-7-25: UNIFORMITY OF TAXATION:
All taxes levied or assessed by the city, except special assessment for local
improvements, shall be uniform upon all taxable property and persons within the
limits of the city, and no property shall be exempt therefrom other than such
property as may be exempt from taxation under the constitution and general laws
of the state. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 8
CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-8-1: Election; Qualification
1-8-2: Bond Required
1-8-3: Records Of Council
1-8-4: General Duties
1-8-5: Duties; Waterworks System
1-8-6: Records To Be Given To Successor
1-8-1: ELECTION; QUALIFICATION:
The city clerk shall be elected and shall hold office as provided by law and
the provision of this code. He shall be a qualified elector and resident of the
city. (1972 Code)
1-8-2: BOND REQUIRED:
Before entering upon his duties, the city clerk elect shall give bond to the
city with two (2) or more resident sureties, to be approved of by the city
council, in the sum of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00),
conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties as such city clerk, and
that he will safely keep and pay over all monies intrusted to his keeping as
such city clerk. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-8-3: RECORDS OF COUNCIL:
It shall be the duty of the city clerk to attend all meetings of the city
council, keep a full and correct journal of its proceedings, and of all
ordinances which the city council may ordain. He shall carefully preserve all
books, records and papers which may come into his possession belonging to the
city, and do and perform all other duties which may be required of him by
ordinance of the city or by the city council or mayor. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-8-4: GENERAL DUTIES:
   (A)   Collection Of Monies: The city clerk shall receive and collect all
monies, except taxes, due or payable to the city whether for fines, water
rents, or for any other purpose whatsoever, and on the first Monday following
the date upon which such monies are received by the city clerk, he shall pay
over all of such monies to the city treasurer, who shall thereupon issue to the
city clerk a receipt for all monies so paid to him.
   (B)   Financial:
      1.   The city clerk shall keep a full and correct record of all of the
financial transactions of the city and of the waterworks system of the city,
including a record of all monies due and owing the city, by whom and what
claim, account or demand owing, and a record of all sums of money received by
him for the city, the date when received, the amount received, the name of the
party making the payment, and the account to which each payment was credited;
and a record of the dates when such monies were paid over to the city
treasurer; and a full and complete account with every person, firm or
corporation using city water.
      2.   The city clerk shall also keep a full and correct record of every
order granted by the city council, and of the amount thereof, and of the name
of the person or persons for whom issued, and the claim, account or demand for
which issued.
   (C)   Report: At the regular monthly meetings of the city council, or
whenever requested by the city council or the financial committee thereof, the
city clerk shall make a full and correct report of the condition of the city's
finances, and of all monies received by him and of all orders issued by him
since making his last report or during such other period during his term of
office as shall be inquired of. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-8-5: DUTIES; WATERWORKS SYSTEM:
   (A)   Report Of Delinquent Water Takers: At the first city council meeting
in May and every three (3) months thereafter, the city clerk shall report a
full list of the names of all water takers that have not paid their water
rentals up to date.
   (B)   Collection: If any water taker shall be reported to the city council
as delinquent, the city council shall give instructions to the city clerk as to
what steps shall be taken for collecting the amount due from such delinquent,
and the clerk shall act as agent for the city under such instructions.
   (C)   Publication Of Delinquency: The city clerk shall publish a list of all
water takers who are delinquent in the payment of their water rents on May 1 of
each year, and shall also publish a list of all water takers who are delinquent
on November 1 of each year. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-8-6: RECORDS TO BE GIVEN TO SUCCESSOR:
At the expiration of his term of office, the city clerk shall turn over and
deliver to his successor in office all books, records, papers and other
property belonging to the city over which, as city clerk, he is custodian.
(Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
CHAPTER 9
CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-9-1: Office Established
1-9-2: Appointment; Term
1-9-3: Duties
1-9-4: Compensation
1-9-5: Extraordinary Or Special Legal Services
1-9-1: OFFICE ESTABLISHED:
The office of city attorney is hereby established. (1972 Code)
1-9-2: APPOINTMENT; TERM:
The city attorney shall be appointed by the mayor, by and with the advice and
consent of the city council, in accordance with the laws and the statutes of
the state, for a term of one year commencing on May 1 of each year. (1972 Code)
1-9-3: DUTIES:
The duties of the city attorney shall be to attend one regular meeting per
month and special meetings of the city council and give such legal advice to
the city council or to any alderman, the mayor, city manager or any other city
official that shall be requested of him, including a written opinion on
appropriate legal matters as they may arise, to prepare all ordinances and
resolutions that may be required or desired and to be available for
consultation for legal advice to the mayor, any alderman, city manager or any
other city official. (1972 Code)
1-9-4: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the city attorney shall be as established by the city
council. (1972 Code)
1-9-5: EXTRAORDINARY OR SPECIAL LEGAL SERVICES:
All extraordinary or special legal services rendered, including general
obligation bond issues, revenue bond issues, litigation or appearances in
courts of record, appearances before federal or state commissions, regulatory
bodies or administrative tribunals, special assessment work, zoning and legal
work in connection with federal or state projects, including feasibility
studies, shall be for reasonable compensation on the basis of the usual legal
fees prescribed and approved by the Logan County Bar Association. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-10-1: Election; Qualification
1-10-2: Bond Required
1-10-3: Receipt, Disbursement Of City Monies
1-10-4: Monthly Report To Council
1-10-5: Annual Report
1-10-1: ELECTION; QUALIFICATION:
The city treasurer shall be elected and shall hold office as provided by law
and the provisions of this code. He shall be a qualified elector and resident
of the city. (1972 Code)
1-10-2: BOND REQUIRED:
Before entering upon his duties, the city treasurer elected shall furnish a
good and sufficient bond to the city to be approved by the city council in the
penal sum of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00), signed by two (2)
responsible parties who are residents of the city, conditioned that he will
well and truly perform all of the duties of the office of city treasurer and
that he will fully account for all monies received by him as the city
treasurer. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-10-3: RECEIPT, DISBURSEMENT OF CITY MONIES:
   (A)   The city treasurer shall receive all monies belonging to the city,
collected by the city clerk, also the city taxes, and shall keep a full and
correct record of all the financial transactions of the city, including a
proper and regular account of all monies received and disbursed, of whom
received and to whom paid out, for what claim, account or demand received or
paid out, and the date of such receipt or payment.
   (B)   The city treasurer shall in no case pay out money except in pursuance
of an order of the city council, countersigned by the city clerk. (Ord. 4, 2-6-
1917)
1-10-4: MONTHLY REPORT TO COUNCIL:
The city treasurer shall, at the regular meeting of the city council in each
month, exhibit to the city council an abstract of his accounts of all monies
received and paid out. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
1-10-5: ANNUAL REPORT:
On the first Tuesday of May in each year, the city treasurer shall exhibit to
the city council, and more often if required, a full and detailed account of
all receipts and expenditures since the date of the last annual report, and of
all monies due to the city, and of the state of the city treasury. The report
herein provided for shall be filed with the city clerk, and shall be published
in a newspaper published in Logan County. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
CHAPTER 11
STREET SUPERINTENDENT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Appointment
1-11-2: Powers, Duties
1-11-3: Compensation
1-11-4: Procure Implements
1-11-1: APPOINTMENT:
At the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor, with the approval of the city
council, shall appoint a street superintendent, who shall be under the general
supervision of the public works director, and whose duty it shall be to
superintend the improvements of the city streets and alleys and make all
necessary repairs thereof, but no improvements or repairs except such as may be
actually necessary shall be made without the order of the city council, and
they shall, without delay, complete all required improvements or repairs and
report the cost to the city council for allowance, and when the probable cost
of such improvements or repairs exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), the same
shall be made with the consent of the city council. (Ord. 05-07, 7-5-2005)
1-11-2: POWERS, DUTIES:
   (A)   The street superintendent shall take charge of the facilities,
equipment and tools belonging thereto, and shall be responsible for the proper
use and care of the same.
   (B)   The street superintendent shall, under the general supervision of the
public works director, ensure the timely completion of city projects, and
coordinate work to be performed with other departments to ensure the most cost
effective use of manpower, equipment and other city owned resources.
   (C)   The street superintendent shall receive and comply with all
instructions that the city council may direct.
   (D)   The street superintendent shall ensure that proper records are
created, kept and properly maintained. Records shall include, but are not
limited to, maintenance and repair, new installations, and updates to record
drawings.
   (E)   All work done in connection with the city streets and alleys shall be
performed under the direction of such street superintendent; provided, that
where the work is done for the benefit of a private person or corporation where
said private person or corporation is required under the ordinances to pay for
said work, such person or corporation shall pay such sum as may be determined
by the city council per hour for such supervision. (Ord. 05-07, 7-5-2005)
1-11-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the street superintendent shall be established by the city
council and reviewed in April of each year. Any adjustment in compensation or
any bonus awarded shall be given only after a performance evaluation by the
city council based upon the job description of the street superintendent. (Ord.
05-07, 7-5-2005)
1-11-4: PROCURE IMPLEMENTS:
When the street superintendent shall have obtained the written order of the
mayor therefor, he may procure the implements necessary for performing street
work, and the materials necessary for repairing bridges, culverts, walks and
crossings.
Whenever any implements or materials shall be purchased by the street
superintendent for use of the city on or about any street, alley or bridge, the
street superintendent shall report the cost of the same to the city clerk and
shall be charged with the amount thereof.
All implements belonging to the city shall be branded by the street
superintendent. (Ord. 4, 2-6-1917)
CHAPTER 12
WATER SUPERINTENDENT
SECTION:
1-12-1: Appointment
1-12-2: Powers, Duties
1-12-3: Compensation
1-12-1: APPOINTMENT:
At the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor, with the approval of the city
council, shall appoint a water superintendent, who shall be under the general
supervision of the public works director, and whose duty it shall be to
superintend the improvements of the city water system and make all necessary
repairs thereof, but no improvements or repairs except such as may be actually
necessary shall be made without the order of the city council and they shall,
without delay, repair all malfunctions within the system and report the cost to
the city council for allowance, and when the probable cost of such repairs
exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), the same shall be made with the consent
of the city council. (Ord. 05-07, 7-5-2005)
1-12-2: POWERS, DUTIES:
   (A)   The water superintendent shall take charge of the facilities,
equipment and tools belonging thereto, at the city water treatment, water tower
and wells, and shall be responsible for the proper use and care of the same.
   (B)   The water superintendent shall, under the general supervision of the
public works director, ensure the timely completion of city projects, and
coordinate work to be performed with other departments to ensure the most cost
effective use of manpower, equipment and other city owned resources.
   (C)   The water superintendent shall keep a full and accurate record of
information and/or testing required by the city, the environmental protection
agency, or the city engineer.
   (D)   The water superintendent shall receive and comply with all such
instructions as the city council may direct.
   (E)   The water superintendent shall ensure that proper records are created,
kept and properly maintained. Records shall include, but are not limited to,
maintenance and repair, new installations, and updates to record drawings.
   (F)   The water superintendent shall, upon direction of the city clerk or a
representative of the city clerk, immediately turn off the water of a customer
when requested to do so, and not return water service until requested to do so.
   (G)   The water superintendent shall keep a full and accurate record of
when, where, and for what reason water is turned off or turned on.
   (H)   All work done in connection with the city water system shall be done
under the direction of such water superintendent; provided, that where the work
is done for the benefit of a private person or corporation where said private
person or corporation is required under the ordinances to pay for said work,
they shall pay such sum as may be determined by the city council per hour for
such supervision. (Ord. 05-07, 7-5-2005)
1-12-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the water superintendent shall be established by the city
council and reviewed in April of each year. Any adjustments in compensation or
any bonus awarded shall be given only after a performance evaluation by the
city council based upon the job description of the water superintendent. (Ord.
05-07, 7-5-2005)
CHAPTER 13
WARDS; ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-13-1: Wards
1-13-2: State Election Code Adopted
1-13-1: WARDS:
The city shall be divided into three (3) wards as follows:
The first ward shall include all of that part of the city and additions thereto
lying south and east of the center of the Chicago and Alton Railroad track as
now located.
The second ward shall include all of that part of the city and the additions
thereto lying north and west of the center of the Chicago and Alton Railroad
track as now located and west and south of Vine Street and west of a line
running from the intersection of Vine and Broadway Streets north to the north
limits of the city.
The third ward shall include all of that part of the city and additions thereto
lying north and west of the Chicago and Alton Railroad track as now located and
north and east of the center of Vine Street and east of the said line running
from the intersection of Vine and Broadway Streets north to the north limits of
the city. (Ord. 2, 2-6-1917)
1-13-2: STATE ELECTION CODE ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted as the rules and regulations governing elections held
within the city, the state election code, being particularly 10 Illinois
Compiled Statutes, and said code is hereby adopted by reference the same as
though set out at length herein. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 14
CLAIMS, DEMANDS AGAINST CITY
SECTION:
1-14-1: Procedure Of Filing Claim, Account Or Demand
1-14-2: Issuance Of Warrants, Checks
1-14-1: PROCEDURE OF FILING CLAIM, ACCOUNT OR DEMAND:
Any person having any claim, account or demand against the city shall file with
the city clerk thereof an itemized statement of such claim, account or demand,
setting forth what such claim, account or demand is for, and if ordered, by
whom ordered. No claim, account or demand shall be considered, audited or
allowed or any warrant issued for the payment thereof until the provisions of
this section shall have been complied with. (Ord. 7, 2-6-1917)
1-14-2: ISSUANCE OF WARRANTS, CHECKS:
Upon approval of said claim, account or demand by the city council, checks or
warrants shall be drawn and signed by the city clerk. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 15
CORPORATE SEAL
SECTION:
1-15-1: Corporate Seal Design
1-15-2: Duties Of Clerk
1-15-1: CORPORATE SEAL DESIGN:
The official seal of the city shall be circular in shape and form; it shall be
so constructed as to contain in the outer border of the same the words "City of
Atlanta, Incorporated 1912", and in the central portion of the same the words
"Atlanta, Ill.", together with a design of suspended balances. (Ord., 9-6-1915)
1-15-2: DUTIES OF CLERK:
The city clerk shall prepare all commissions or other official documents
required to be issued, and affix the corporate seal thereto and attest or
countersign the same. He shall certify under the corporate seal copies of any
records, documents or papers in his office when required by any officer or
other person, but in no case shall the impression of the corporate seal be
binding upon the city unless it is authorized by the charter or ordinances of
the city and attested by the signature of the city clerk. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 16
PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-16-1: Salary Review
1-16-2: General Policy
1-16-3: City Employees Covered By Illinois Workers' Compensation Act
1-16-4: Social Security For Officers And Employees
1-16-5: Sick Leave Or Personal Leave
1-16-6: Military Leave
1-16-7: Leave Of Absence Without Pay
1-16-8: Jury Or Witness Duty
1-16-9: Vacations
1-16-10: Paid Holidays
1-16-11: Insurance Coverage
1-16-12: Drug And Alcohol Policy
1-16-13: Travel, Meal And Lodging Expenses
1-16-14: Sexual Harassment
1-16-1: SALARY REVIEW:
Salaries will be reviewed each year by the appropriate authority only between
April 1 through April 20. Any change in salary will be prospective only and
will take effect on May 1 of that year. (1972 Code)
1-16-2: GENERAL POLICY:
It is hereby declared personnel policy of the City that:
   (A)   Employment in the City government shall be based on merit and fitness,
free of personal considerations.
   (B)   Just and equitable incentives and conditions of employment shall be
established and maintained to promote efficiency and economy in the operation
of the City government.
   (C)   Positions having similar duties and responsibilities shall be
classified and compensated on a uniform basis.
   (D)   Appointments, promotions and other actions requiring the application
of the merit principle shall be based on systematic tests and evaluations.
(1972 Code)
   (E)   All employees covered by this chapter are at will employees, with
employment termination occurring based upon no reason or any reason determined
by the City that does not violate public policy. (Ord. 97-17, 12-2-1997)
   (F)   There shall be no discrimination against any person seeking employment
or employed because of any considerations of political or religious affiliation
or belief, or race, sex or marital status; provided, however, that no person
shall be hired, promoted nor retained in employment who advocates or is a
member or an affiliate of any organization that advocates the overthrow of any
government of the United States or of the State of Illinois by force or
violence. (1972 Code)
1-16-3: CITY EMPLOYEES COVERED BY ILLINOIS WORKERS' COMPENSATION ACT:
The City is hereby declared to be an employer within the meaning of the
Illinois Workers' Compensation Act, all employees of the City are hereby
declared employees within the meaning of the Illinois Workers' Compensation
Act, all employment and activities of all employees of the City are covered by
the Illinois Workers' Compensation Act and the Illinois Workers' Compensation
Act shall apply to the City, all of its employees and all of their activities.
(1972 Code)
1-16-4: SOCIAL SECURITY FOR OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
   (A)   Policy Declared: It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of
the City to extend to the eligible employees thereof, effective as of January
1, 1954, the benefits of the Federal Old Age and Survivors' Insurance System as
authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto. In
pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose, the Mayor shall take such
action as may be required by applicable State and Federal laws and regulations.
   (B)   Agreement To Be Executed: The Mayor and City Clerk are hereby
authorized and directed to execute an agreement with the State Employees'
Retirement System of the State of Illinois (social security unit) to secure
coverage of eligible employees as provided in subsection (A) of this section.
   (C)   Withholdings; Employer Contributions: Withholdings from salaries or
wages of employees for the purpose provided in subsection (A) of this section
are hereby authorized to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be
required by applicable state or federal laws or regulations.
   (D)   Employer Contributions: Employer contributions shall be paid to the
state agency in accordance with applicable state laws and regulations from
amounts appropriated for such purposes.
   (E)   Records To Be Kept, Reports Submitted: The city clerk shall maintain
such records and submit such reports as may be required by applicable state and
federal laws or regulations. (1972 Code)
1-16-5: SICK LEAVE OR PERSONAL LEAVE:
   (A)   Each full time employee shall be entitled to four (4) hours' leave
with full pay for each month of employment up to a maximum of six (6) days or
forty eight (48) hours per year. Said leave may be taken for either the reason
of illness or for a personal reason such as death or serious illness of an
immediate family member. Unused leave under this section may be accumulated up
to a maximum of thirty (30) days or two hundred forty (240) hours, or converted
to one vacation day or eight (8) hours for every six (6) days or forty eight
(48) hours of unused leave.
   (B)   Leave under this section may be taken in four (4) or eight (8) hour
increments. Employees must consult the department head to arrange leave under
this section for periods of two (2) days or more in any given workweek,
regardless of whether said leave is taken consecutively.
   (C)   Absolutely no compensation shall be paid for unused leave accumulated
under this section either at the end of the calendar year or at the time of an
employee's termination.
   (D)   After three (3) consecutive days of leave for illness or if more than
three (3) days of leave are taken for illness in any one workweek, the employee
shall furnish the city department head with a written statement from a licensed
physician stating that the employee was required to stay away from work due to
illness. If the employee fails to provide said written statement, then the
employee shall not be entitled to payment for those days of leave.
   (E)   City hall must be notified by the employee whenever the employee is
absent from work.
   (F)   Claiming sick leave when physically fit, except as permitted in this
section, may be cause for disciplinary action, including, but not limited to,
suspension, demotion or termination. (Ord. 97-17, 12-2-1997)
1-16-6: MILITARY LEAVE:
All municipal employees who are members of the United States army reserve or
the national guard who annually are inducted into federal service by the
president of the United States shall be entitled to receive in pay the
difference between their regular pay and the lesser military pay. Employees who
shall be called or inducted for active military duty of prolonged duration
shall receive full pay for fifteen (15) days. (1972 Code)
1-16-7: LEAVE OF ABSENCE WITHOUT PAY:
Upon request of an officer or employee, leave of absence without pay may be
granted by the mayor, taking into consideration good conduct, length of
service, and efficiency of the employee and the general good of the employee
and the general good of the municipal service. Such leave of absence shall not
exceed a period of sixty (60) days; provided, that the same may be extended
beyond such period if for continued disability or other good and sufficient
reasons, but in no case shall exceed one year except when the employee is
detailed for military service or is disabled for disability incurred while in
the service of the city. No vacation or sick leave benefits shall accrue during
a period of leave of absence without pay. (1972 Code)
1-16-8: JURY OR WITNESS DUTY:
In the case of jury duty or as a subpoenaed court witness, an employee shall
receive compensation which will equal the difference between the employee's
regular pay and compensation paid for jury duty or witness fees. (1972 Code)
1-16-9: VACATIONS:
   (A)   Each full time employee shall be entitled to one day or eight (8)
hours of paid vacation time for each month worked between May 1 and April 30 of
the following year, up to a maximum of ten (10) days or eighty (80) hours. Any
employee with fifteen (15) years' continuous employment with the City shall be
entitled to an additional five (5) days or forty (40) hours of paid vacation
time. Vacation time must be used by the employee by the end of the fiscal year
(April 30), and any vacation time that is not used by the end of the fiscal
year shall not be accumulated by the employee for any following fiscal year.
   (B)   Each full time employee must take at least five (5) days or forty (40)
hours of consecutive paid vacation time during the fiscal year. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, full time employees must take paid vacation time in one day or
eight (8) hour increments.
   (C)   Full time employees must consult the department head to arrange
vacation periods of two (2) or more consecutive days. Vacation periods of five
(5) or more days require thirty (30) days' notice.
   (D)   City Hall must be notified whenever a full time employee is absent
from work. (Ord. 97-17, 12-2-1997)
1-16-10: PAID HOLIDAYS:
   (A)   Employees shall be entitled to full pay on the following holidays:
      New Year's Day
      Good Friday
      Memorial Day
      Fourth of July
      Labor Day
      Thanksgiving Day
      Friday after Thanksgiving Day
      Christmas Eve Day
      Christmas Day
   (B)   In the event any of the above holidays should fall on a Saturday or a
Sunday, the employee shall be entitled to take the next succeeding workday as a
holiday with full pay. (Ord. 97-17, 12-2-1997)
1-16-11: INSURANCE COVERAGE:
   (A)   The City Council is hereby authorized to apply for, obtain and pay for
(in whole or in part) health insurance and life insurance plans for City
employees and to alter, amend, modify, correct or terminate such plans from
time to time as the City Council, in its discretion, determines to be in the
best interests of the City.
   (B)   The City Council may, in providing for the payment of such plan or
plans, where employee contribution is required, authorize payroll deductions
from the employees' pay for such purpose. (Ord. 81-70, 5-19-1981)
1-16-12: DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY:
There is hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference a drug and alcohol
policy for Municipal employees holding a commercial driver's license, copies of
which are on file in the Office of the City Clerk. (Ord. 95-10, 12-19-1995)
1-16-13: TRAVEL, MEAL AND LODGING EXPENSES:
   (A)   Official City business shall include attendance at conferences,
continuing education seminars, City meetings, City job functions as assigned,
and any other travel that is necessary for the performance of an official or
employee's City duties.
   (B)   The City shall only reimburse the following types of travel, meal, and
lodging expenses incurred by its employees and officers up to the following
maximum allowable amounts:
      1.   If an overnight stay is required, lodging shall be pre- approved by
the Mayor, City Administrator, or employee's department head. Said lodging
expense shall not exceed three hundred fifty dollars ($350.00) per night
without prior approval of the City Council.
      2.   Meals shall be reimbursed, after provision of receipts and
verification, at the maximum following rates: breakfast - ten dollars ($10.00);
lunch - fifteen dollars ($15.00); dinner - twenty five dollars ($25.00). No
meals shall be reimbursed in cases where a meal is provided and the attendee
chooses not to partake in the provided meal.
Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
   (C)   Transportation to and from official City business shall be reimbursed
after provision of receipts and verification of the same. All documents and
information submitted with the form shall be subject to disclosure under the
Freedom of Information Act 1 .
   (D)   The City will reimburse based on a mileage rate as established
annually by the IRS for standard mileage rates and will be paid to an officer
or employee that utilizes his personal vehicle to travel to and from official
City business. Any transportation expenses that do not utilize the personal
vehicle of the officer or employee shall be approved in advance and shall not
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) without prior approval of the City
Council.
   (E)   Reasonable expenses incurred while on approved City business related
to the City official and/or employee's travel including but not limited to
parking fees, tolls, and fares of public transit and/or taxi will be reimbursed
upon the provision and verification of receipts and shall not exceed a total of
five hundred dollars ($500.00) per approved travel event.
   (F)   The City shall not reimburse any entertainment expenses as defined in
the Government Travel Expense Control Act of the State of Illinois, as amended
from time to time. (Ord. 16-10, 12-20-2016, eff. 3-2-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
1-16-14: SEXUAL HARASSMENT 1 :
   (A)   Prohibition On Sexual Harassment: It is unlawful to harass a person
because of that person's sex. The courts have determined that sexual harassment
is a form of discrimination under title VII of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of
1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a right to work in an environment
free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is unacceptable misconduct which
affects individuals of all genders and sexual orientations. It is a policy of
the City of Atlanta to prohibit harassment of any person by any Municipal
official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal agency or office on
the basis of sex or gender. All Municipal officials, Municipal agents,
Municipal employees and Municipal agencies or offices are prohibited from
sexually harassing any person, regardless of any employment relationship or
lack thereof.
   (B)   Definition Of Sexual Harassment:
      1.   This policy adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in
the Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
         (a)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or
any conduct of a sexual nature when:
            (1)   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment,
            (2)   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual
is used as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
            (3)   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially
interfering with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
         (b)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
            (1)   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults,
humor, and jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual
propositions, threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other
employees, even outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
            (2)   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling),
leering, obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls",
"smacking" or "kissing" noises.
            (3)   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual
nature, viewing pornographic material or websites.
            (4)   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching,
brushing the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
            (5)   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending
messages with sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of
sexually explicit language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all
forms of electronic communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages,
intranet/on-line postings, blogs, instant messages and social network websites
like Facebook and Twitter).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. The
courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a
"reasonable person".
   (C)   Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment: An
employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/himself to
be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s) as directly
and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to the
offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary for
sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual harassment,
including the following:
      1.   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing
behavior in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly
express her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the
offending behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent
messages are needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
      2.   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a department head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
      3.   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this policy is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint
with the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what was said
or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited to,
written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and investigated
regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the Municipality.
However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and
the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome.
   (D)   Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment
Allegations: No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or
Municipal agency or office shall take any retaliatory action against any
Municipal employee due to a Municipal employee's:
      1.   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this policy,
      2.   The provision of information related to or testimony before any
public body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation
of this policy, or
      3.   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the
provisions of this policy.
For the purposes of this policy, retaliatory action means the reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or change in
the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that is taken
in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this policy.
No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a report made
in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will be protected
from retaliation.
Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the State
Officials and Employees Ethics Act 2  provides whistleblower protection from
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
      1.   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public
body an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or
other State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in
violation of a law, rule, or regulation,
      2.   Provides information to or testifies before any public body
conducting an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law,
rule, or regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State
employee, or
      3.   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 3 , an employer may not retaliate against an
employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative hearing, or
before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other proceeding, where
the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an
employer may not retaliate against an employee for disclosing information to a
government or law enforcement agency, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a State or Federal
law, rule, or regulation 4 .
According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 5 , it is a civil rights violation
for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate against a
person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in good
faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has made a
charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed over
for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation.
   (E)   Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this policy or the
Prohibition On Sexual Harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an Ethics Commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency.
   (F)   Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report: A false report is a
report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the sexual harassment
report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual harassment or
retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is not a report
made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness of the
consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe offense
that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who intentionally
makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of this policy shall
be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable Municipal
policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/or
collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an Ethics Commission, an Inspector General, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An Ethics Commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 17-13, 12-19-2017)
 
Notes
  2. This policy was drafted using the Illinois Department of Human Rights
1 Sexual Harassment Model Policy and has been modified to conform to Public Act
  100-0554.
2 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
3 1. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
4 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
5 3. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
CHAPTER 17
BIDDING AND CONTRACT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
1-17-1: General Policy
1-17-2: Procedures Generally
1-17-1: GENERAL POLICY:
Competitive bidding is required on any work or other public improvement that is
not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or special
taxation, and all purchases of and contracts for supplies, materials and
services shall, except as specifically provided herein, be based whenever
possible on competitive bids. (Ord. 97-05, 7-1-1997)
1-17-2: PROCEDURES GENERALLY:
   (A)   Formal Contract Procedure: All work or other public improvement that
is not to be paid for in whole or in part by special assessment or special
taxation, and all purchases, orders or contracts for supplies, materials,
equipment or contractual services, except as otherwise provided herein, when
the estimated cost thereof shall exceed ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00),
shall be purchased from the lowest responsible bidder, after due notice
inviting bids, unless competitive bidding is waived by a vote of two-thirds (2/
3) of the aldermen then holding office.
   (B)   Advertisements For Bids: A notice inviting bids shall be published at
least once in a newspaper with general circulation within the city. The city
shall also advertise all pending work or purchases by posting a notice on the
public bulletin board in the city hall.
   (C)   Scope Of Notice: The newspaper notice required herein shall include a
general description of the work to be performed or the articles to be
purchased, shall state where specifications may be secured, and shall specify
the time and place for opening bids.
   (D)   Bid Deposits:
      1.   When deemed necessary by the city council, bid deposits shall be
prescribed in the public notices inviting bids. Unsuccessful bidders shall be
entitled to the return of their bid deposits upon the award of the contract by
the city council. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid deposit required by
the city council upon failure on his or her part to enter into a contract
within ten (10) days after the award.
      2.   Such bid deposit may be in the form of a certified check, bond or
letter of credit, in an amount as specified in the advertisement for bids to
ensure finalization of the contract and to indemnify the city against all loss,
damages and claims that may accrue against the city as a consequence of the
granting of the contract.
   (E)   Bid Opening Procedure:
      1.   Bids shall be submitted sealed to the city and shall be identified
as bids on the envelope.
      2.   Bids shall be opened in public at the time and place stated in the
public notice.
      3.   A tabulation of all bids received shall be made by the city council
or by an employee of the city, in which event a tabulation of the bids shall be
furnished to the city council at its next regular meeting.
   (F)   Rejection Of Bids: The city, through its corporate authorities, shall
have the authority to reject all bids or parts of all bids when the public
interest will be served thereby.
   (G)   Bidders In Default To City: The city shall not accept the bid of a
contractor who is in default on the payment of taxes, licenses or other money
due the city.
   (H)   Award Of Contract:
      1.   Authority: The city council shall have the authority to award
contracts within the purview of this section.
      2.   Lowest Responsible Bidder: Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest
responsible bidder on the basis of the bid that is in the best interests of the
city to accept. In awarding the contract, in addition to price, the city
council shall consider the following:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract to provide the service required;
         (b)   Whether the bidder can perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder;
         (d)   The quality of the performance of previous contracts or
services;
         (e)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
         (f)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
         (g)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (h)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract;
         (i)   The number and scope of conditions attached to the bid.
      3.   Performance Bonds: The city council shall have the authority to
require a performance bond, before entering into a contract, in such amounts as
it shall find reasonably necessary to protect the best interests of the city
and to conform to the statutory requirements for such bonds.
   (I)   Open Market Procedure: All work and purchases of supplies, materials
and services of less than the estimated value of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) shall be made in the open market, without newspaper advertisement
and without observing the procedure prescribed by this section for the award of
formal contracts in such a manner so as to ensure the best interests of the
public after solicitation of bids on proposals by mail, telephone, facsimile
transmission or otherwise.
   (J)   Professional Services Exempt From Bidding Requirements:
      1.   All contracts for professional services, including, but not limited
to, attorneys, engineers, real estate appraisers and architects, and any other
profession whose ethical code involved prohibits or discourages involvement in
normal bidding procedures, may be entered into by the city without observing
the bidding procedures prescribed by this section for the award of formal
contracts.
      2.   Regular employment contracts in the municipal service shall likewise
be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
   (K)   Emergency Purchases: In case of an apparent emergency that requires
immediate work or purchase of supplies, materials or services, the city council
shall be empowered to secure by open market procedures as herein set forth, at
the lowest obtainable price, any work, supplies, materials or services
regardless of the amount of the expenditure. A finding of such an emergency
shall be made in an affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the city
council at the time of such emergency contract, or no later than the first
regular city council meeting thereafter.
   (L)   Cooperative Purchasing: The city shall have the authority to join with
other units of government in cooperative purchasing plans when the best
interests of the city would be served thereby. (Ord. 97-05, 7-1-1997)
CHAPTER 18
MAINTENANCE SUPERINTENDENT
SECTION:
1-18-1: Appointment
1-18-2: Powers, Duties
1-18-3: Compensation
1-18-1: APPOINTMENT:
At the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor, with the approval of the city
council, shall appoint a maintenance superintendent, who shall be under the
general supervision of the public works director, and whose duty it shall be to
superintend the general maintenance of city vehicles, equipment and buildings.
(Ord. 06-03, 2-21-2006)
1-18-2: POWERS, DUTIES:
   (A)   The maintenance superintendent shall take charge of equipment and
tools belonging thereto, and shall be responsible for the proper use and care
of the same.
   (B)   The maintenance superintendent shall, under the general supervision of
the public works director, maintain and repair or cause to be maintained and
repaired, all vehicles, equipment and buildings owned by the city, but no
maintenance or repairs except such as may be actually necessary shall be made
without the order of the city council. No maintenance or repairs which cost
more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be made without the consent of
the city council.
   (C)   The maintenance superintendent shall receive and comply with all
instructions that the city council may direct.
   (D)   The maintenance superintendent shall ensure that proper records are
created, kept and properly maintained. Records shall include, but are not
limited to, maintenance and repair, new installations, and updates to record
drawings.
   (E)   All work done in connection with the maintenance of city owned
vehicles, equipment or buildings shall be performed under the direction of such
maintenance superintendent; provided, that where work is done for the benefit
of a private person or corporation where said private person or corporation is
required under the ordinances to pay for said work, they shall pay such sum as
may be determined by the city council per hour for such supervision. Records
shall include, but are not limited to, maintenance and repair, new
installations and updates to record drawings. (Ord. 06-03, 2-21-2006)
1-18-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the maintenance superintendent shall be established by the
city council and reviewed in April of each year. Any adjustment in compensation
or any bonus awarded shall be given only after a performance evaluation by the
city council based upon the job description of the maintenance superintendent.
(Ord. 06-03, 2-21-2006)
CHAPTER 19
WASTEWATER SUPERINTENDENT
SECTION:
1-19-1: Appointment
1-19-2: Powers, Duties
1-19-3: Compensation
1-19-1: APPOINTMENT:
At the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor, with the approval of the city
council, shall appoint a wastewater superintendent, who shall be under the
general supervision of the public works director, whose duty it shall be to
superintend the improvements of the city wastewater system and make all
necessary repairs thereof, but no improvements or repairs except such as may be
actually necessary shall be made without the order of the city council, and
they shall, without delay, repair all malfunctions within the system and report
the cost to the city council for allowance, and when the probable cost of such
repairs exceeds one hundred dollars ($100.00), the same shall be made with the
consent of the city council. (Ord. 05-07, 7-5-2005)
1-19-2: POWERS, DUTIES:
   (A)   The wastewater superintendent shall take charge of the facilities,
equipment and tools belonging thereto, at the city wastewater treatment plant
and lift stations, and shall be responsible for the proper use and care of the
same.
   (B)   The wastewater superintendent shall, under the general supervision of
the public works director, ensure the timely completion of city projects, and
coordinate work to be performed with other departments to ensure the most cost
effective use of manpower, equipment and other city owned resources.
   (C)   The wastewater superintendent shall keep a full and accurate record of
information and for testing required by the city, the environmental protection
agency or the city engineer.
   (D)   The wastewater superintendent shall receive and comply with all such
instructions as the city council may direct.
   (E)   The wastewater superintendent shall ensure that proper records are
created, kept and properly maintained. Records shall include, but are not
limited to, maintenance and repair, new installations, and updates to record
drawings.
   (F)   All work done in connection with the city wastewater system shall be
done under the direction of such wastewater superintendent; provided, that
where the work is done for the benefit of a private person or corporation where
said private person or corporation is required under the ordinances to pay for
said work, they shall pay such sum as may be determined by the city council per
hour for such supervision. (Ord. 05-07, 7-5-2005)
1-19-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the wastewater superintendent shall be established by the
city council and reviewed in April of each year. Any adjustment in compensation
or any bonus awarded shall be given only after a performance evaluation by the
city council based upon the job description of the wastewater superintendent.
(Ord. 05-07, 7-5-2005)
CHAPTER 20
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-20-1: Appointment
1-20-2: Powers, Duties
1-20-3: Compensation
1-20-1: APPOINTMENT:
At the beginning of each fiscal year, the mayor, with the approval of the city
council, shall appoint a public works director, who shall be under the
supervision of the mayor and city council, and whose duty it shall be to
exercise general supervision of the following departments of the city: streets,
water, wastewater, parks and buildings. (Ord. 05-07, 7-5-2005)
1-20-2: POWERS, DUTIES:
   (A)   The public works director shall attend all regularly scheduled city
council meetings or any other conferences as deemed necessary by the city
council. The director shall provide reports on all maintenance and operational
activities as deemed necessary by the city council.
   (B)   The public works director shall receive direction from the mayor and/
or city council and so direct the appropriate department superintendent, work
with department superintendents to ensure the timely completion of city
projects, and coordinate the efforts of all departments in order to provide the
most cost effective use of manpower, equipment and other city owned resources.
When the cost of any improvement or repair exceeds one hundred dollars
($100.00), the same shall be made with the consent of the city council.
   (C)   The public works director shall provide an annual budget for the
departments under the supervision of the director as requested by the city
council. Said budget shall be available for review by the mayor by April 1 of
each year.
   (D)   The public works director shall ensure that proper records are
created, kept and properly maintained. Records shall include, but are not
limited to, maintenance and repair, new installations, and updates to record
drawings.
   (E)   The public works director shall keep informed of IDOT and IPEA
regulatory changes and inform the mayor and city council of the same. (Ord. 05-
07, 7-5-2005)
1-20-3: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of the public works director shall be established by the city
council and reviewed in April of each year. Any adjustment in compensation or
any bonus awarded shall be given only after a performance review by the city
council based upon the job description of the public works director. (Ord. 05-
07, 7-5-2005)
CHAPTER 21
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRY
SECTION:
1-21-1: Registry Created
1-21-2: Registration Rules
1-21-1: REGISTRY CREATED:
The city clerk is hereby authorized and directed to create an "interested
parties registry" in accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the TIF act for
each redevelopment project area created under the TIF act, whether now existing
or created after the date of the adoption hereof. (Ord. 09-08, 12-1-2009)
1-21-2: REGISTRATION RULES:
In accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the act, the city hereby adopts the
registration rules attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein as
registration rules for each such "interested parties registry". The city clerk,
with the consent of the city's special counsel as to form and legality, shall
have the authority to amend such registration rules from time to time as may be
necessary or desirable to comply with and carry out the purposes intended by
the TIF act. (Ord. 09-08, 12-1-2009)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
CIVIL DEFENSE
SECTION:
2-1-1: Establishment
2-1-2: Director
2-1-3: Functions
2-1-4: Service As Mobile Support Team
2-1-5: Agreements With Other Political Subdivisions
2-1-6: Emergency Action
2-1-7: Compensation
2-1-8: Reimbursement By State
2-1-9: Purchases And Expenditures
2-1-10: Oath
2-1-11: Office
2-1-12: Appropriation; Levy Of Taxes
2-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
   (A)   There is hereby created the local municipal civil defense organization
to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or other hostile action, or from
natural disaster, in accordance with the "Illinois civil defense act of 1951".
   (B)   This civil defense organization shall consist of the director and
additional members to be selected by the director. (4-15-1958)
2-1-2: DIRECTOR:
   (A)   The director of the municipal civil defense organization shall be
appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the city council, or by the city
council, and shall serve until removed by the same.
   (B)   The director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training and operation of the civil defense organization,
subject to the direction and control of the mayor as provided by statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death or inability to serve
of the director, the mayor or any person designated by him shall be and act as
director until a new appointment is made as provided in this chapter. (4-15-
1958)
2-1-3: FUNCTIONS:
The municipal civil defense organization shall perform such civil defense
functions within the municipality as shall be prescribed in and by the state
civil defense plan and program prepared by the governor, and such orders, rules
and regulations as may be promulgated by the governor and, in addition, shall
perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to
any mutual aid agreement with any other political subdivision, municipality or
quasi-municipality entered into as provided by the "Illinois civil defense act
of 1951", and all provisions amendatory thereof. (4-15-1958)
2-1-4: SERVICE AS MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   (A)   All or any members of the municipal civil defense organization may be
designated as members of a mobile support team created by the state director of
civil defense as provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
director of the municipal civil defense organization.
   (C)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a municipal employee or
officer, while serving on call to duty by the governor or the state director of
civil defense, shall receive the compensation and have the powers, duties,
rights and immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member
who is not a paid officer or employee of the municipality, while so serving,
shall receive from the state reasonable compensation as provided by law. (4-15-
1958)
2-1-5: AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER POLITICAL SUBDIVISIONS:
The director of the civil defense organization may negotiate mutual aid
agreements with other municipal corporations or political subdivisions of the
state, but no such agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by
the city council and by the state director of civil defense. (4-15-1958)
2-1-6: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor declares that a civil defense emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
of major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action or from
natural disaster, it shall be the duty of the municipal civil defense
organization to cooperate fully with the state office of civil defense and with
the governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. (4-15-
1958)
2-1-7: COMPENSATION:
Members of the civil defense organization who are paid employees or officers of
the municipality, if called for training by the state director of civil
defense, shall receive for the time spent in such training the same rate of pay
as is attached to the position held; members who are not such municipal
employees or officers shall receive for such training time such compensation as
may be established by the city council. (4-15-1958)
2-1-8: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The city treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the municipality for expenses incident to
training members of the civil defense organization as prescribed by the state
director of civil defense, compensation for services and expenses of members of
a mobile support team while serving outside the municipality in response to a
call by the governor or state director of civil defense, as provided by law,
and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to civil defense
activities, as provided by law. (4-15-1958)
2-1-9: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   (A)   The city council may, on recommendation of the municipal director of
civil defense, authorize any purchase or contracts necessary to place the
municipality in a position to combat effectively any disaster resulting from
the explosion of any nuclear or other bomb or missile, and to protect the
public health and safety, protect property, and provide emergency assistance to
victims in the case of such disaster, or from natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of enemy caused or natural disaster, the municipal
director of civil defense is authorized, on behalf of the municipality, to
procure such services, supplies, equipment or material as may be necessary for
such purposes, in view of the exigency, without regard to the statutory
procedures or formalities normally prescribed by law pertaining to municipal
contracts or obligations, as authorized by the "Illinois civil defense act of
1951"; provided, that if the city council meets at such time, he shall act
subject to the directions and restrictions imposed by that body. (4-15-1958)
2-1-10: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the municipal civil defense
organization shall, before entering upon his duties, subscribe to the following
oath, which shall be filed with the director:
I,                , (local civil defense director) (member) of the civil
defense organization of Atlanta, Illinois, do solemnly affirm that I will
support and defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the constitution of
the United States and the constitution of the state of Illinois, and the
territory, institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter; and I do
further affirm that I do not advocate, nor am I, nor have I been a member of
any political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the
government of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and that
during such time as I am affiliated with the civil defense organization of
Atlanta, Illinois, I will not advocate nor become a member of any political
party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the government of the
United States or of this state by force or violence.
(4-15-1958)
2-1-11: OFFICE:
The mayor is authorized to designate space in the city hall or elsewhere, as
may be provided for by the city council for the municipal civil defense
organization as its office. (4-15-1958)
2-1-12: APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES:
The city council may have an appropriation for civil defense purposes in the
manner provided by law, and may levy in addition for civil defense purposes
only, a tax as provided by the "Illinois civil defense act of 1951". (4-15-
1958)
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Purpose
2-2-2: Membership
2-2-3: Term Of Office
2-2-4: Procedure
2-2-5: Powers And Duties
2-2-6: Land Subdivision Or Resubdivision; Official Map
2-2-7: Improvements
2-2-8: Expenditures
2-2-1: PURPOSE:
In order that adequate provisions be made for the preparation of a
comprehensive city plan for the guidance, direction and control of the growth
and development or redevelopment of the city and contiguous territory not more
than one and one-half (11/2) miles beyond the corporate limits and not included
in any municipality, a planning commission is hereby created under authority of
an act of the general assembly of the state of Illinois entitled "Illinois
municipal code", approved May 29, 1961, and effective July 1, 1961, and as
amended 1 . (10-5-1965)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-12-4.
2-2-2: MEMBERSHIP:
The planning commission shall consist of seven (7) members, citizens of the
city, appointed by the mayor, on the basis of their particular fitness for
their duty on said planning commission, and subject to the approval of the city
council. (Ord. 15-02, 4-21-2015)
2-2-3: TERM OF OFFICE:
Of the seven (7) members, three (3) shall serve for a period of two (2) years
and four (4) shall serve for a period of four (4) years. Thereafter, such
members shall serve for a period of six (6) years. Vacancies shall be filled by
appointments for unexpired terms only. All members of the planning commission
shall serve without compensation, except that if the city council deems it
advisable, they may receive such compensation as may be fixed from time to time
by said city council and provided for in the appropriation ordinance. The mayor
shall appoint, with the advice and consent of the city council, each fiscal
year one of the members of the planning commission as chairperson to serve a
one year term as chairperson. The city council may, at their discretion,
appoint ex officio members from the city council who shall serve for the terms
of their elective office. (Ord. 15-02, 4-21-2015)
2-2-4: PROCEDURE:
Immediately following their appointment, the members of the planning commission
shall meet, organize, elect such officers as it may deem necessary, and adopt
and later change or alter rules and regulations of organization and procedure
consistent with the provisions of this code and state laws. The planning
commission shall keep written records of its proceedings, which shall be open
at all times to public inspection. The planning commission shall also file an
annual report with the mayor and city council setting forth its transactions
and recommendations. (10-5-1965)
2-2-5: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   Comprehensive Plan:
      1.   To prepare and recommend to the city council a comprehensive plan
for the present and future development or redevelopment of the city. Such plan
may be adopted in whole or in separate geographical or functional parts, each
of which, when adopted, shall be the official comprehensive plan, or part
thereof, of the city. Such plan shall be advisory except as to such part
thereof as has been implemented by ordinances duly enacted by the city council.
All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of adoption with the
county recorder of deeds and filing of said plan and ordinances with the city
clerk shall be complied with as provided by law.
      2.   To provide for the health, safety, comfort and convenience of the
inhabitants of the city and contiguous territory, such plan or plans shall
establish reasonable standards of design for subdivisions and for
resubdivisions of unimproved land and of areas subject to redevelopment in
respect to public improvements, as herein defined, and shall establish
reasonable requirements governing the location, width, course and surfacing of
public streets and highways, alleys, public ways for public service facilities,
curbs, gutters, sidewalks, streetlights, parks, playgrounds, school grounds,
size of lots to be used for residential purposes, storm water drainage, water
supply and distribution, sanitary sewers, and sewage collection and treatment.
The requirements specified herein shall become regulatory only when adopted by
ordinance.
   (B)   Annexation Of Land: Designate land suitable for annexation to the
municipality and the recommended zoning classification for such land upon
annexation.
   (C)   Amend Comprehensive Plan: Recommend to the city council from time to
time, such changes in the comprehensive plan, or any part thereof, as may be
deemed necessary.
   (D)   Plan Improvements: Prepare and recommend to the city council, from
time to time, plans and/or recommendations for specific improvements in
pursuance of the official comprehensive plan.
   (E)   Aid Officials And Promote Plan: Give aid to the officials of the city
charged with the direction of projects for improvements embraced within the
official plan, or parts thereof, to further the making of such improvements and
generally to promote the realization of the official comprehensive plan.
   (F)   Publicity: Arrange and conduct any form of publicity relative to its
activities for the general purpose of public understanding.
   (G)   Agency Cooperation: Cooperate with municipal or regional planning
commissions and other agencies or groups to further the local planning program
and to assure harmonious and integrated planning for the area.
   (H)   State Authority: Exercise such other powers germane to the powers
granted under authority of an act of the general assembly of the state of
Illinois entitled "Illinois Municipal Code", approved May 29, 1961, and
effective July 1, 1961, and as amended, as may be conferred by the city
council. (10-5-1965)
2-2-6: LAND SUBDIVISION OR RESUBDIVISION; OFFICIAL MAP:
At any time or times, before or after the formal adoption of the official
comprehensive plan by the corporate authorities, an official map may be
designated by ordinance, which map may consist of the whole area included
within the official comprehensive plan, or one or more separate geographical or
functional parts. All requirements for public hearing, filing of notice of
adoption with the county recorder of deeds, and filing of said plan and
ordinances, including the official map, with the city clerk shall be complied
with as provided for by law. No map or plat of any subdivision or resubdivision
presented for record affecting land within the corporate limits of the city
shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the subdivision shown
thereon provides for standards of design, and standards governing streets,
alleys, public ways, ways for public service facilities, streetlights, public
grounds, size of lots to be used for residential purposes, storm and flood
water runoff channels and basins, water supply and distribution, sanitary
sewers, and sewage collection and treatment in conformity with the applicable
requirements of the ordinances, including the official map. (10-5-1965)
2-2-7: IMPROVEMENTS:
The city clerk shall furnish the planning commission, for its consideration, a
copy of all ordinances, plans and data relative to public improvements of any
nature. The planning commission may report in relation thereto, if it deems a
report necessary or advisable, for the consideration of the city council. (10-
5-1965)
2-2-8: EXPENDITURES:
The planning commission may, at the discretion of the city council, employ a
paid secretary or staff, or both, whose salaries, wages and other necessary
expenses shall be provided for by the city council from the public funds. (10-
5-1965)
CHAPTER 3
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
SECTION:
2-3-1: Authorization And Appointment
2-3-2: Procedure
2-3-3: Appeals; How Taken
2-3-4: Powers Of Board
2-3-1: AUTHORIZATION AND APPOINTMENT:
A board of appeals is hereby authorized in accordance with the Illinois
municipal code. The board of appeals shall consist of seven (7) members, to be
appointed by the mayor and the city council. The members of the board of
appeals shall serve as follows: for the initial appointments, one for one year;
one for two (2) years; one for three (3) years; one for four (4) years; one for
five (5) years; one for six (6) years; and one for seven (7) years. Successors
to each member so appointed shall serve for a term of five (5) years. One of
the members so appointed shall be named chairperson at the time of his
appointment. The appointing authority has the power to remove any member of the
board of appeals for cause and after public hearing. Vacancies shall be filled
for the unexpired term of the member whose place has become vacant. (1-2-1968)
2-3-2: PROCEDURE:
Meetings of the board of appeals shall be held at the call of the chairperson
and at such other times as the board may determine. The chairperson, or in his
absence the acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance
of witnesses. All meetings of the board shall be open to the public. The board
shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote, or failure to vote, of
each member upon every question, and shall keep records of its examinations and
other official actions. All board of appeals action shall be a matter of public
record. (1-2-1968)
2-3-3: APPEALS; HOW TAKEN:
   (A)   An appeal to the board of appeals may be taken by any person aggrieved
by any order, requirement, decision or determination by any governmental
officer, department, board or bureau based in whole or in part upon the
provisions of this chapter and title 10 of this code.
   (B)   Such appeal shall be filed with the zoning enforcing officer and the
board of appeals within twenty (20) days of the action appealed from. Upon
appeal, the zoning enforcing officer shall immediately transmit to the board of
appeals all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from
was taken. An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the enforcing officer certifies to the board that a stay
would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property. The board
shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the appeal, a notice of which shall
be published at least once, not more than thirty (30), nor less than fifteen
(15) days before the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
community.
   (C)   The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board of appeals is
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision of an administrative
official or to decide in favor of the applicant. (1-2-1968)
2-3-4: POWERS OF BOARD:
The board of appeals shall have the following powers:
   (A)   Interpretation And Administrative Review: To hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged that there is an error in any action by the zoning
enforcing officer or other administrative official in carrying out the
provisions of this chapter and title 10 of this code; and for the
interpretation of the zoning map.
   (B)   Variations:
      1.   To hear and decide on applications for a variation in cases where
there are practical difficulties or particular hardship in the way of carrying
out the provisions of this chapter and title 10 of this code.
      2.   Before any variation is granted, the board of appeals must make a
finding of fact that all of the following conditions are shown to be present:
a) the property in question cannot yield a reasonable return if permitted to be
used only under the conditions allowed by the regulations in that zone; b) the
plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances; and c) a variation, if
granted, will not alter the essential character of the locality. In granting a
variation, the board may attach thereto any conditions and safeguards it deems
necessary or desirable in furthering the purposes of this chapter and title 10
of this code. Violation of any of these conditions or safeguards shall be
deemed a violation of said provisions.
      3.   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
board the power or authority to permit a use not generally permitted in the
district involved. (1-2-1968)
      4.   The fee for any applicant filing an appeal with the zoning board of
appeals shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00), effective June 1, 2005,
plus recording fees, if any, if they are known. (Ord. 05-01, 5-3-2005)
      5.   All final administrative decisions of the board of appeals shall be
subject to judicial review pursuant to the "administrative review act",
approved May 8, 1945, and all amendments and modifications thereof, and the
rules adopted pursuant thereto. (1-2-1968)
CHAPTER 4
ATLANTA PUBLIC LIBRARY
(Rep. by Ord. 02-07, 7-2-2002)
CHAPTER 5
HISTORIC COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Purpose
2-5-2: Definitions
2-5-3: Composition Of Commission
2-5-4: Qualifications
2-5-5: Terms
2-5-6: Officers
2-5-7: Meetings
2-5-8: Powers And Duties
2-5-9: Surveys And Research
2-5-10: Criteria For Landmark Designation
2-5-11: Landmark Designation Procedure
2-5-12: Criteria For Historic District Designation
2-5-13: Historic District Designation Procedure
2-5-14: Applications For Nominations Of Landmarks And Historic District
2-5-15: Standards For Certificate Of Appropriateness
2-5-16: Design Guidelines
2-5-17: Hearing On Application
2-5-18: Issuance Of Certificate Of Appropriateness
2-5-19: Appeals For Denial Of Certificate Of Appropriateness
2-5-20: Findings Of Appeal
2-5-21: Certificate Of Economic Hardship
2-5-22: Appeals
2-5-23: Natural Destruction Or Demolition
2-5-24: Fees And Penalties
2-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the protection, enhancement,
perpetuation, and use of improvements of special character or historical
interest or value in the interest of the health, prosperity, safety and welfare
of the people of the city of Atlanta by:
   (A)   Providing a mechanism to identify and preserve the historic and
architectural characteristics of Atlanta which represents elements of the
city's cultural, social, economic, political and architectural history;
   (B)   Promoting civic pride in the beauty and noble accomplishments of the
past as represented in Atlanta's landmarks and historic districts;
   (C)   Stabilizing and improving the economic vitality and value of Atlanta's
landmarks and historic areas;
   (D)   Protecting and enhancing the attractiveness of the city to have
buyers, visitors and shoppers and thereby supporting business, commerce,
industry, and providing economic benefit to the city;
   (E)   Fostering and encouraging preservation, restoration of structures,
areas, and neighborhoods and thereby preventing future urban blight;
   (F)   Providing an umbrella organization to provide direction, support, and
cohesion to the various historic preservation activities taking place within
the community. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ADDITION: Any act or process which is permanently affixed to the land.
ALTERATION: Any act or process that changes one or more of the exterior
architectural features of a structure, including, but not limited to, the
erection, construction, reconstruction, or removal of any structure.
AREA: A specific geographic division of the city of Atlanta.
BUILDING: Any structure created for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals or property of any kind and which is permanently affixed to
the land.
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS: Certificate from the Atlanta historic
commission authorizing plans for alterations, construction, removal or
demolition of a landmark or site.
COMMISSION: Atlanta historic commission.
COMMISSIONERS: Voting members of the Atlanta historic commission.
CONSTRUCTION: The act of adding an addition to an existing structure or the
erection of a new principal or accessory structure on a lot or property.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Atlanta.
DEMOLITION: Any act or process that destroys in part or in whole a landmark or
site within a historic district.
DESIGN GUIDELINE: A standard of appropriate activity that will preserve the
historic and architectural character of a structure or area.
EXTERIOR ARCHITECTURAL APPEARANCE: The architectural and general composition of
the exterior of a structure, including, but not limited to, the kind, color,
and texture of the building material and the type, design and character of all
windows, doors, light fixtures, signs, and appurtenant elements.
HISTORIC DISTRICT: An area designated as a "historic district" by ordinance of
the city council and which may contain within definable geographic boundaries
one or more landmarks and which may have within its boundaries other properties
or structures that, while not of such historic and/or architectural
significance to be designated as landmarks, nevertheless contribute to the
overall visual characteristics of the landmark or landmarks located within the
historic district.
LANDMARK: Any building, structure or site which has been designated as a
"landmark" by ordinance of the city council, pursuant to procedures prescribed
herein, that is worthy of rehabilitation, restoration, and preservation because
of its historic and/or architectural significance to the city of Atlanta.
OWNER OF RECORD: The person, corporation, or other legal entity listed as owner
on the records of the county recorder of deeds.
REHABILITATION: The process of returning a property to a state of utility,
through repair or alteration, which makes possible an efficient contemporary
use while preserving those portions and features of the property which are
significant to its historic, architectural and cultural values.
REMOVAL: Any relocation of a structure on its site or to another site.
REPAIR: Any change that does not require a building permit, that is not
construction, relocation or alteration.
STRUCTURAL CHANGE: Any change or repair in the supporting members of a
building, structure, roof or exterior wall which would expand the building in
height, width or bulk of the building, structure, roof or exterior wall.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires permanent
or temporary location on or in the ground, including, but without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, buildings, fences, gazebos, advertising signs,
billboards, backstops for tennis courts, radio and television antennas,
including supporting towers, swimming pools, satellite dishes, solar panels and
wind generation. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-3: COMPOSITION OF COMMISSION:
The Atlanta historic commission (hereinafter referred to as the "commission")
shall consist of seven (7) members (hereinafter referred to as "commissioners")
who are residents of the city of Atlanta. The commissioners shall be appointed
by the mayor, with the approval of the city council. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
Members shall be appointed on the basis of expertise, interest or experience in
historic preservation. Representatives of organizations in the city of Atlanta
that have demonstrated an interest in historic preservation shall be offered
appointments. Organization appointments shall not exceed four (4) of the seven
(7) members. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-5: TERMS:
Members of the commission shall be appointed for terms of three (3) years. Of
those members first taking office, two (2) shall be appointed for one year,
three (3) for two (2) years, and two (2) for three (3) years. Vacancies shall
be filled for the unexpired term only. Members shall serve without
compensation. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-6: OFFICERS:
   (A)   Appointment: Officers shall consist of a chairperson, vice
chairperson, and a secretary. The chairperson shall be appointed by the mayor,
with the approval of the city council. The vice chairperson and secretary shall
be appointed by the chairperson.
   (B)   Chairperson Duties: The chairperson shall preside over meetings. In
the absence of the chairperson, the vice chairperson shall perform the duties
of the chairperson. In the absence of both the chairperson and vice
chairperson, a temporary chairperson shall be elected by those commissioners
present.
   (C)   Secretary Duties: The secretary shall have the following duties:
      1.   Take minutes of each commission meeting.
      2.   Be responsible for publication and distribution of copies of the
minutes, reports, and decisions of the commission.
      3.   Give notice as provided herein or by law for all public hearings
conducted by the commission.
      4.   Advise the mayor of vacancies on the commission.
      5.   Prepare and submit to the city council a complete record of the
proceedings before the commission on any matter requiring city council
consideration. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-7: MEETINGS:
   (A)   Quorum: A quorum shall consist of a majority of the commissioners. All
decisions or actions of the commission shall be made by a majority vote of the
commissioners present and voting at any meeting where a quorum exists. The
chairperson shall be a voting member. Meetings shall be held at regular
scheduled times to be established by resolution of the commission at the
beginning of each calendar year or at any time upon the call of the
chairperson. There shall be a minimum of four (4) meetings per year.
   (B)   Voting; Hearing; Minutes: No member of the commission shall vote on
any matter that may materially or apparently affect the property, income or
business interest of that member. No action shall be taken by the commission
that could in any manner deprive or restrict the owner of property in its use,
modification, maintenance, disposition, or demolition until such owner shall
first have had the opportunity to be heard at public meeting of the commission,
as provided herein. The chairperson, and in the absence of the chairperson, the
acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of
witnesses. All meetings of the commission shall be open to the public. The
commission shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote, indicating
such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other official
actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office of the city
clerk and shall be a public record. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-8: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The powers and duties of the commission are to:
   (A)   Adopt its own procedural regulations.
   (B)   Conduct an ongoing survey to identify historically and architecturally
significant properties, structures and areas.
   (C)   Investigate and recommend to the city council the adoption of
ordinances designating properties or structures having special historic,
community or architectural value as "landmarks".
   (D)   Investigate and recommend to the city council the adoption of
ordinances designating properties or structures having special historic,
community or architectural value as "historic districts".
   (E)   Keep a register of all properties and structures that have been
designated as landmarks or historic districts, including all information
required for each designation.
   (F)   Determine an appropriate system of markers and make recommendations
for the design and implementation of specific markings of the streets and
routes leading from one landmark or historic district to another.
   (G)   Advise owners of landmarks and property or structures within historic
districts on physical and financial aspects of preservation, renovation,
rehabilitation, and reuse, and on procedures for inclusion on the state or
national register of historic places.
   (H)   Inform and educate the citizens of Atlanta concerning the historic and
architectural heritage of the city by publishing appropriate maps, newsletters,
brochures, and pamphlets, and by holding programs and seminars.
   (I)   Hold public hearings and review applications for construction,
alteration, removal, or demolition affecting proposed or designated landmarks
or structures or historic districts and issue or deny certificates of
appropriateness for such actions. Applicants shall be required to submit plans,
drawings, elevations, specifications, and other information as may be necessary
to make decisions.
   (J)   Develop specific guidelines for the alteration, demolition,
construction, or removal of landmarks or property and structures within
historic districts.
   (K)   Review proposed zoning amendments, applications for special use
permits or variances that affect proposed or designated landmarks and historic
districts.
   (L)   Administer on behalf of the city of Atlanta any property or full or
partial interest in real property, including a conservation right as that term
is used in 765 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/1 et seq., which the city may
have or accept as a gift or otherwise, upon designation by the city council.
The city may choose however, at the discretion of the city council, to appoint
another entity to administer such property.
   (M)   Accept and administer on behalf of the city of Atlanta, upon
designation by the city council, such gifts, grants and money as may be
appropriate for the purpose of this chapter.
   (N)   Call upon available city staff members as well as other experts for
technical advice.
   (O)   Testify before all boards and commissions, including the city planning
commission and the zoning board of appeals on any matter affecting historically
and architecturally significant property and landmarks.
   (P)   Periodically review the city zoning ordinance and recommend to the
city planning commission and the city council any amendments appropriate for
the protection and continued use of landmarks or property and structures within
historic districts. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-9: SURVEYS AND RESEARCH:
The commission shall undertake an ongoing survey and research effort in the
city of Atlanta to identify neighborhoods, areas, sites, structures, and
objects that have historic, community, architectural, or aesthetic importance,
interest, or value. As part of the survey, the commission shall review and
evaluate any prior surveys, descriptions, facts, and photographs. The
commission shall identify potential landmarks and adopt procedures to nominate
them in groups based upon the following criteria:
   (A)   The potential landmarks in one identifiable neighborhood or district
geographical area of the city of Atlanta;
   (B)   The potential landmarks associated with a particular person, event, or
historical period;
   (C)   The potential landmarks of a particular architectural style or school,
or of a particular architect, engineer, builder, designer or craftsman;
   (D)   Such other criteria as may be adopted by the commission to assure
systematic survey and nomination of all potential landmarks within the city of
Atlanta. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-10: CRITERIA FOR LANDMARK DESIGNATION:
   (A)   Form; Fee: Nominations shall be made to the commission on a form
provided by the commission. A filing fee may be required.
   (B)   Criteria: The commission shall, upon investigation as it deems
necessary, make a preliminary determination as to whether a property,
structure, or area possesses the integrity of design, workmanship, materials,
location, setting and feeling and meets one or more of the following criteria:
      1.   Significant value as part of the historic, heritage or cultural
characteristics of the community, county, state or nation;
      2.   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the development of the community, county, state or nation;
      3.   Representative of the distinguishing characteristics of architecture
inherently valuable for the study of a period, type, method of construction or
use of indigenous materials;
      4.   Notable work of a master builder, designer, architect or artist
whose individual work has influenced the development of the community, county,
state or country;
      5.   Its unique location or singular physical characteristics that make
it an established or familiar visual feature;
      6.   Its character as a particularly fine or unique example of a
utilitarian structure, including, but not limited to, farmhouses, gas stations,
or other commercial structures, with a high level of integrity or architectural
significance;
      7.   Area that has yielded or may be likely to yield, information
important in history or prehistory. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-11: LANDMARK DESIGNATION PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Public Hearing: The commission shall schedule a public hearing within
sixty (60) days after the filing of an application with the commission.
      1.   Any person, group of persons or association, including, but not
limited to, the commission, may request a historic landmark designation for any
structure, building or site within the boundaries of the city of Atlanta which
may have historic or architectural significance as defined by this chapter. The
commission shall supply, upon request, the application forms. Completed forms
shall be returned to the commission for their consideration.
      2.   Notice of date, time, place and purpose of the public hearing shall
be sent by mail to owner(s) of record and to the nominator(s) as well as to the
adjoining property owners, not less than fifteen (15) nor more than thirty (30)
days prior to the date of the hearing. A public hearing notice also shall be
published in a newspaper having general circulation in the city of Atlanta. The
notice shall state the location of the property and a statement summarizing how
the proposed landmark meets the criteria set forth in subsection
2-5-10(B) of this chapter.
      3.   Upon receipt of the application, the secretary of the commission
shall schedule a public hearing, to be held within forty five (45) days after
preliminary approval of the application.
      4.   During the public hearing, the commission shall review and evaluate
the application according to the criteria established by ordinance.
      5.   If the commission finds at the time that the application merits
further consideration, the commission may table the request until its next
regularly scheduled meeting.
      6.   A certificate of appropriateness shall be required for alteration,
construction, removal or demolition of a proposed landmark from the date when
the nomination form is presented to the commission until the final disposition
of the request.
   (B)   Decision: A decision shall be made within thirty (30) days following
the date of the closing of the public hearing.
      1.   Following the public hearing, the secretary of the commission shall
prepare the commission's evaluation recommendation and all available
information for submission to the city council within thirty (30) days.
      2.   If the commission decides that the landmark should be designated, it
shall do so by a resolution passed by a majority of the commission.
      3.   The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly by a letter
containing information of the commission's decision.
      4.   A simple majority vote by the city council is necessary for approval
of a landmark designation. If the city council approves the application for a
designation, a notice will be sent to the property owner(s), the city clerk,
and recorded with the county recorder of deeds. If the city council denies the
petition, no petitioner or applicant can refile for ninety (90) days to the
secretary of the commission.
      5.   Buildings designated as historic landmarks shall be subject to
issuance of certificates of appropriateness. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-12: CRITERIA FOR HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION:
   (A)   Form; Fee: Nominations shall be made to the commission on a form
provided by the commission. A filing fee may be required.
   (B)   Criteria: The following criteria shall be utilized by the commission
in determining the designation of historic districts:
      1.   The historic district contains one or more landmarks along with such
other buildings, places or areas within its definable geographic boundaries
which, while not of such historic significance to be designated as landmarks,
nevertheless contribute to the overall visual characteristics of the landmark
or landmarks located in such district;
      2.   A significant number of structures meeting any of the standards of
subsection
2-5-10(B) of this chapter;
      3.   Establishing a sense of time and place unique to the city of
Atlanta; and/or
      4.   Exemplifying or reflecting the cultural, social, economic, political
or architectural history of the nation, the state or the city.
   (C)   Determination: A preliminary determination as to whether a district or
an area meets one or more of the foregoing criteria shall be made within sixty
(60) days of the filing of a nomination with the commission. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-
2007)
2-5-13: HISTORIC DISTRICT DESIGNATION PROCEDURE:
   (A)   Form: Any person, group of persons, or association, including, but not
limited to, the commission, may present to the commission a petition requesting
that a defined geographic area be designated as a historic district. The
commission shall supply, upon request, the application forms. Completed forms
shall be returned to the commission for their consideration.
   (B)   Signatures On Petition: The petition shall contain the names of no
less than fifty one percent (51%) of the property owners. Or, if leaseholders,
with a five (5) year or longer leasehold interest, are signatories to the
petition, then the petition shall contain no less than fifty one percent (51%)
of the property owners and/or leaseholders.
   (C)   Notice Requirements: Notice of date, time, place and purpose of the
public hearing shall be sent by mail to the owner(s) and/or leaseholders, if
any, as well as to the adjoining property owners, not less than fifteen (15)
nor more than thirty (30) days prior to the date of the hearing. A public
notice also shall be published in a newspaper having general circulation in the
city of Atlanta. The notice shall state the location of the property and a
statement summarizing how the proposed area meets the criteria set forth in
subsection
2-5-12(B) of this chapter.
   (D)   Public Hearing Scheduled: Upon receipt of the application, the
secretary of the commission shall schedule a public hearing to be held within
thirty (30) days of the preliminary approval of application.
   (E)   Review And Evaluation: During the public hearing the commission shall
review and evaluate the application according to the criteria established by
ordinance.
   (F)   Further Consideration: If the commission finds at that time that the
application merits further consideration, the commission may table the request
until its next regular scheduled meeting.
   (G)   Certificate Of Appropriateness: A certificate of appropriateness
issued by the commission shall be required for alteration, construction,
removal, or demolition of any building, structure, or site within the
boundaries of a designated historic district from the date when the nomination
form is presented to the commission until the final disposition of the request.
   (H)   Decision: A decision shall be made within thirty (30) days following
the date of the closing of the public hearing.
      1.   Following the public hearing, the secretary of the commission shall
prepare the commission's evaluation, recommendation and all available
information for submission to the city council within thirty (30) days.
      2.   If the commission decides that the proposed historic district should
be designated, it shall do so by a resolution passed by a majority of the
commission.
      3.   The owner(s) of record shall be notified promptly by a letter
containing information of the commission's decision.
      4.   A simple majority vote by the city council is necessary for approval
of a historic district designation. If the city council approves the
application for a designation, a notice will be sent to the property owner(s),
the city clerk, and recorded with the county recorder of deeds that the area
has been designated as such and that buildings located within the boundaries of
the historic district shall be subject to issuance of certificate of
appropriateness. If the city council denies the petition, no petitioner can
refile for ninety (90) days to the secretary of the commission.
      5.   Buildings within a designated historic district shall be subject to
issuance of certificates of appropriateness. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-14: APPLICATIONS FOR NOMINATIONS OF LANDMARKS AND HISTORIC DISTRICT:
Applications for nominations must be filed with the commission. Persons wishing
guidance or advice prior to completing an application may contact the secretary
of the commission.
   (A)   Landmark: For a landmark:
      1.   The name and address of the property owner.
      2.   The legal description and common street address of the property.
      3.   A written statement describing the property and setting forth
reasons in support of the proposed designation.
      4.   Documentation that the property owner has been notified or consents
to the application for designation.
      5.   A list of significant exterior architectural features that should be
protected.
      6.   An overall site plan and photographs of the landmark. The plan shall
also include a front, side and rear elevation drawing.
   (B)   Historic District: For a historic district:
      1.   The names and addresses of the property owners.
      2.   A map delineating the boundaries of the area to be designated.
      3.   A written statement describing the area and properties within the
historic district and setting forth reasons in support of the proposed
designation.
      4.   Documentation that the property owners have been notified or consent
to the application for designation.
      5.   A list and photographs of significant exterior architectural
features of all properties in the district that should be protected.
   (C)   Certificate Of Appropriateness: For a certificate of appropriateness:
      1.   Street address of the property involved;
      2.   Legal description of the property involved;
      3.   Brief description of the present improvements situated on the
property;
      4.   A detailed description of the construction, alteration, demolition
or use proposed together with any architect drawings or sketches if those
services have been utilized by the applicant and if not, a sufficient
description of the construction, alteration, demolition, and use to enable
anyone to determine what final appearance and use of the real estate will be;
      5.   Owner's name;
      6.   Developer's name, if different than owner;
      7.   Architect's name;
      8.   A filing fee, if required. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-15: STANDARDS FOR CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
   (A)   A certificate of appropriateness issued by the commission shall be
required before a building permit, moving permit, or demolition permit is
issued for any designated historic landmark or any building, structure, or site
or part thereof within a designated historic district. A building permit and a
certificate of appropriateness shall be required for any alteration, extension,
or repair for any designated historic landmark or any building, structure, or
site or part thereof within a designated historic district, with the provisions
of exemptions from building permits stated in subsection
10-8-2(A) of this code, except interior remodeling, are not applicable to a
historic landmark or historic district.
   (B)   In making a determination whether to approve or deny an application
for a certificate of appropriateness, the commission shall be guided by the
secretary of the interior's "Standards For Rehabilitation", as follows:
      1.   A property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed in a
new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
building and its site environment.
      2.   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and
spaces that characterize a property shall be avoided.
      3.   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from other
buildings, shall not be undertaken.
      4.   Most properties change over time; those changes that have acquired
historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.
      5.   Distinctive stylistic features or examples of skilled craftsmanship
that characterize a building, structure, or site shall be treated with
sensitivity.
      6.   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement to a
distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture, and other visual qualities, and, where possible, materials.
Replacement of missing features shall be substantiated by documentary,
physical, or pictorial evidence.
      7.   Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that cause
damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of the
structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means
possible.
      8.   Significant archaeological resources affected by a project shall be
protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures shall be undertaken.
      9.   New additions, exterior alteration, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new
work shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the
massing, size, scale, and architectural features to protect the historic
integrity of the property and its environment.
      10.   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future, the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
(Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-16: DESIGN GUIDELINES:
Design guidelines for applying the criteria for review of certificates of
appropriateness shall at a minimum, consider the following architectural
criteria:
   (A)   Height: The height of any proposed alteration or construction should
be compatible with the style and character of the landmark and with surrounding
structures in a historic district.
   (B)   Proportions Of Windows And Doors: The proportions and relationships
between doors and windows should be compatible with the architectural style and
character of the landmark.
   (C)   Relationship Of Building Masses And Spaces: The relationship of a
structure within a historic district to the open space between it and adjoining
structures should be compatible.
   (D)   Roof Shape: The design of the roof, fascia, and cornice should be
compatible with the architectural style and character of the landmark.
   (E)   Landscaping: Landscaping should be compatible with the architectural
character and appearance of the landmark.
   (F)   Scale: The scale of the structure after alteration, construction, or
partial demolition should be compatible with its architectural style and
character and with surrounding structures in a historic district.
   (G)   Directional Expression: Facades in historic districts should blend
with other structures with regard to directional expression. Structures in a
historic district should be compatible with the dominant horizontal or vertical
expression of surrounding structures. The directional expression of a landmark
after alteration, construction, or partial demolition should be compatible with
its original architectural style and character.
   (H)   Architectural Details: Architectural details including types of
materials, colors, and textures should be treated so as to make the landmark
compatible with its original architectural style and character of a landmark or
historic district.
   (I)   New Structures: New structures in a historic district shall be
compatible with the architectural styles and design in said district. (Ord. 07-
03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-17: HEARING ON APPLICATION:
   (A)   Applications: Applications for a certificate of appropriateness are
available from the secretary of the commission. Such applications shall be
completed and submitted to the historic commission. The commission shall
schedule a public meeting for consideration of the application within fifteen
(15) days of receipt of an application. A public notice for consideration of
the application shall be made not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than
thirty (30) days before a hearing in a newspaper of general circulation
published in the city of Atlanta.
   (B)   Further Consideration: If the commission finds at the time that the
application merits further consideration, then the commission may table the
request until its next regularly scheduled meeting. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-18: ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
   (A)   Notification Of Decision: The commission shall notify the applicants
of their decision within five (5) days after the public meeting. Upon approval
of the application the commission shall issue a signed certificate of
appropriateness to the applicant with copies forwarded to the zoning officer,
city clerk and mayor.
   (B)   Validity: A certificate of appropriateness shall be invalid if changes
in the plans reviewed by the commission are necessary in obtaining a building
permit or if the building permit issued for the same work becomes invalid. The
certificate of appropriateness remains valid for the same period of validity as
the building permit (90 days to begin construction). (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-19: APPEALS FOR DENIAL OF CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS:
   (A)   Notification: In the event of denial of an application for a
certificate of appropriateness, the commission shall notify the applicant, in
writing, of the disapproval and the reasons therefor and shall recommend
changes, if any, in the proposed action that would cause the commission to
reconsider its denial.
   (B)   Resubmission: Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the notification
of disapproval, the applicant may resubmit an amended application that takes
into consideration the recommendations of the commission. The application shall
be considered to be withdrawn if no written modification or request for public
hearing is received. Within fifteen (15) days of receipt of a written
modification the commission must either issue the certificate of
appropriateness or hold a hearing of appeal. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-20: FINDINGS OF APPEAL:
   (A)   Appeal Authorized: An applicant may choose to appeal a decision to
deny and must be informed of the right to an appeal.
   (B)   Hearing; Notice: The commission shall select a reasonable time and
place for the hearing of the appeal and give due notice thereof to the
applicant by mailing notice of the hearing, said mailing to be made at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (C)   Publication: Notice of the time and place of such public hearing shall
be published at least once, not less than fifteen (15) days nor more than
thirty (30) days before the hearing, in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city of Atlanta.
   (D)   Conduct Of Hearing: The chairperson shall conduct the hearing and the
historic commission and the applicant shall have the right to introduce
evidence and cross examine witnesses. A recorded or written transcript of the
hearing shall be made and kept.
   (E)   Decision: The commission shall vote, announce its decision, make its
recommendation, and notify the applicant, zoning officer, city clerk, and mayor
within five (5) days after the conclusion to the public hearing, unless the
time is extended by mutual agreement between the commission and the applicant.
   (F)   Appeal: In the event of a denial of appeal by the commission, the
applicant may appeal the decision to the city council, whose decision in this
matter shall be final, subject only to judicial review as provided by law.
(Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-21: CERTIFICATE OF ECONOMIC HARDSHIP:
Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this chapter to the contrary, the
commission may issue a certificate of economic hardship to allow the
performance of work for which a certificate of appropriateness has been denied.
   (A)   Application: Applicants claiming economic hardship shall be required
to apply to the commission to determine availability of rehabilitation
assistance. Such availability shall be considered by the commission in making
its decision.
   (B)   Information: An applicant for a certificate of economic hardship may
submit any or all of the following information in order to assist the
commission in making its determination on the application:
      1.   The amount paid for the property, the date of purchase and the party
from whom purchased, including a description of the relationship, if any,
between the owner and the person from whom the property was purchased.
      2.   The assessed value of the land and improvements thereon according to
the two (2) most recent assessments.
      3.   Real estate taxes for the previous two (2) years.
      4.   Remaining balance on mortgage, if any, and annual debt service, if
any, for the previous two (2) years.
      5.   All appraisals obtained within the previous two (2) years by the
owner or applicant in connection with this purchase, financial or ownership of
the property.
      6.   Any listing of the property for sale or rent, price asked and offers
received, if any.
      7.   Any consideration by the owner as to profitable adaptive uses for
the property.
      8.   If the property is income producing, the annual gross income from
the property for the previous two (2) years, itemized operation and maintenance
expenses for the previous two (2) years, and annual cash flow before and after
debt service, if any, during the same period.
      9.   Form of ownership or operation of the property, whether sole
proprietorship, for profit or not for profit corporation, limited partnership,
joint venture or other.
      10.   Any other information including the income tax bracket of the
owner, applicant or principal investors in the property, reasonably necessary
for a determination as to whether the property can be reasonably used or yield
a reasonable return to present or future owners.
   (C)   Period Of Delay: If the commission finds that without approval of the
proposed work, the property cannot obtain a reasonable economic return
therefrom, then the application shall be delayed for a period not to exceed
three (3) months. During this period of delay, the commission shall investigate
plans and make recommendations to the city council to allow for a reasonably
beneficial use or a reasonable economic return, or to otherwise preserve the
subject property. Such plans and recommendations may include, but not be
limited to, a relaxation to the provisions of this chapter, a reduction in real
property taxes, financial assistance, building code modifications and/or
changes in zoning regulations.
   (D)   Findings; Certificate: If by the end of this three (3) month period,
the commission has found that without approval of the proposed work, the
property cannot be put to a reasonable beneficial use or the owner cannot
obtain a reasonable economic return therefrom, the commission shall issue a
certificate of economic hardship approving the proposed work. If the commission
finds otherwise, it shall deny the application for a certificate of economic
hardship. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-22: APPEALS:
   (A)   Time Limit; Consideration: When a certificate of appropriateness or a
certificate of economic hardship is approved or denied for either a landmark or
a structure within a historic district, the applicant or any interested party
may, within thirty (30) days, appeal the commission's decision to the city
council. The council may receive comments on the contents of the record but no
new matter may be considered by the council. The city council may affirm the
decision or recommend changes by a majority vote of the council after due
consideration of the facts contained in the record submitted to the council by
the commission. The council may overturn the commission's decision by a
majority vote of a quorum of the council. If the council decides that a
certificate of economic hardship should be issued, the secretary shall notify
the applicant, zoning officer, city clerk, and mayor within seven (7) days of
the council's decision.
   (B)   Notification Of Nonissuance: If the council concurs with the
commission's decision not to issue a certificate of economic hardship, the
secretary shall notify the applicant, zoning officer, city clerk, and mayor,
within seven (7) days. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
2-5-23: NATURAL DESTRUCTION OR DEMOLITION:
In the case of partial or complete natural destruction or demolition of a site
within a historic district or of a landmark, the owner will be required to
obtain a certificate of appropriateness from the commission prior to
reconstruction. Although exact duplication of the previous structure may not be
required, the exterior design of the property shall be in harmony with:
   (A)   The exterior design of the structure prior to damage, and
   (B)   The character of the historic district or landmark. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-
2007)
2-5-24: FEES AND PENALTIES:
The commission may establish an appropriate system of processing fees for the
review of nominations and certificates of appropriateness. Any person who
undertakes or causes an alteration, construction, demolition, or removal of any
nominated or designated landmark or property within a nominated or designated
landmark or a nominated or designated historic district without a certificate
of appropriateness shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Every day such violation shall continue to
exist shall constitute a separate violation. The commission may institute any
appropriate action or proceeding in the name of the city of Atlanta to enjoin,
correct, or abate any violation of this chapter. (Ord. 07-03, 7-17-2007)
CHAPTER 6
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Purpose
2-6-2: Definitions
2-6-3: Composition Of Economic Development Commission
2-6-4: Qualifications
2-6-5: Terms
2-6-6: Officers
2-6-7: Meetings
2-6-8: Powers And Duties
2-6-9: No Binding Authority
2-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to create the Atlanta economic development
commission, established to provide recommendations and advice to the city
council with respect to economic development in the city by:
   (A)   Making recommendations on matters relating to the improvement of sound
economic growth and business development in the city.
   (B)   Examining opportunities for fostering an attractive climate for
businesses within the city with respect to both existing and potential new
business establishments.
   (C)   Recommending additional steps, measures, and specific projects to
promote economic growth by retaining businesses and attracting new commerce and
industry.
   (D)   Cooperating with city officials and staff to realize appropriate goals
and objectives relating to sound business practices and better employment
opportunities. (Ord. 14-06, 8-19-2014)
2-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
AREA: A specific geographic division of the city of Atlanta, Illinois.
COMMISSION: Economic development commission of the city of Atlanta, Illinois.
COMMISSIONERS: Voting members of the economic development commission.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Atlanta, Illinois.
TIF PROGRAM: City of Atlanta, Illinois, tax increment financing redevelopment
plan and project. (Ord. 14-06, 8-19-2014)
2-6-3: COMPOSITION OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION:
The Atlanta economic development commission (hereinafter referred to as the
"commission") shall consist of five (5) members (hereinafter referred to as
"commissioners"). The mayor of the city of Atlanta, Illinois, shall be an ex
officio, nonvoting member of the commission. (Ord. 14-06, 8-19-2014)
2-6-4: QUALIFICATIONS:
Members shall be appointed on the basis of expertise, interest or experience in
economic development. Members shall be residents of the city of Atlanta,
Illinois, or Atlanta Township. (Ord. 14-06, 8-19-2014)
2-6-5: TERMS:
Members of the commission shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and
consent of the city council, for three (3) year terms, that coincide with the
calendar year. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only. Members
shall serve without compensation. The initial appointments of three (3) members
shall be for a term of three (3) years and the initial appointments of two (2)
members shall be for a term of two (2) years. (Ord. 14-06, 8-19-2014)
2-6-6: OFFICERS:
Officers shall consist of a chairman, vice chairman, treasurer, and a
secretary, selected by a vote of the commissioners. The chairman shall preside
over meetings. In the absence of the chairman, the vice chairman shall perform
the duties of the chairman. (Ord. 14-06, 8-19-2014)
2-6-7: MEETINGS:
A quorum of the commission shall consist of a majority of the commissioners.
All decisions or actions of the commission shall be made by a majority vote of
the commissioners present and voting at any meeting where a quorum exists. The
chairman shall be a voting member. Meetings shall be held at regular scheduled
times to be established by resolution of the commission at the beginning of
each calendar year or at any time upon the call of the chairman. There shall be
a minimum of four (4) meetings per year.
No member of the commission shall vote on any matter that may materially or
apparently affect the property, income or business interest of that member. All
meetings of the commission shall be open to the public. The commission shall
keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote, indicating such fact, and
shall keep records of its examinations and other official actions, all of which
shall be immediately filed in the office of the city clerk and shall be a
public record. (Ord. 14-06, 8-19-2014)
2-6-8: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The economic development commission shall have the following powers and duties:
   (A)   To adopt its own procedural regulations.
   (B)   To conduct ongoing surveys, at the direction of the city council, to
identify areas and enterprises in the city that could benefit from economic
development.
   (C)   To investigate and recommend to the city council economic development
projects.
   (D)   To administer, on the behalf of the city of Atlanta, any property or
full or partial interest in real property, which the city may have or accept as
a gift or otherwise, upon designation by the city council. The city may choose
however, at the discretion of the city council, to appoint another entity to
administer such a property.
   (E)   To accept and administer on behalf of the city of Atlanta, upon
designation of the city council, such gifts, grants and money as may be
appropriate for the purpose of this chapter.
   (F)   To call upon available city staff members as well as other experts, at
the direction of the city council, for technical advice.
   (G)   To testify before all boards and commissions, including the city
planning commission and zoning board of appeals on any matter affecting
economic development.
   (H)   To periodically review the city zoning ordinance and to recommend to
the city planning commission and the city council any amendments the commission
believes are appropriate for the furtherance of economic development.
   (I)   To review applications for financial assistance through the Atlanta
facade improvement grant program and recommend appropriate amounts and
mechanisms of assistance to the city council for the city council's approval or
denial thereof.
   (J)   To assist in the TIF application process by reviewing applications and
making recommendations to the Atlanta city council for the city council's
approval or denial thereof.
   (K)   To work with the city of Atlanta's designated TIF administrator to
recommend terms of redevelopment agreements to the city council for the
approval or denial thereof by the city council. (Ord. 14-06, 8-19-2014)
2-6-9: NO BINDING AUTHORITY:
The economic development commission shall have no authority to bind the city of
Atlanta or the city council of the city of Atlanta to any TIF redevelopment
terms, facade improvement grants, or any other contract of any kind that would
result in a financial liability or lien against the city, without the express
prior approval of the city council. The economic development commission is a
strictly advisory board and shall make recommendations to the city council of
the city of Atlanta for the approval or denial of the same by a vote of the
city council. (Ord. 14-06, 8-19-2014)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSES
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: License Fees
3-1-3: Exception
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Any person desiring to carry on any business within the corporate limits of the
city as specified below, shall first procure a license so to do from the clerk
and pay the appropriate fee therefor. All licenses shall be for a term of one
year unless otherwise specified. (1972 Code)
3-1-2: LICENSE FEES:
   (A)   Hacks, Other Vehicles: Carry passengers for hire or gain within the
city limits in any hack, omnibus, automobile or other vehicle:
For each vehicle carrying four (4) or less passengers:
 
Per day   $ 2.00
Per week  7.00
Per year  10.00
 
For each vehicle carrying more than four (4) passengers:
 
Per day                       $ 3.00
Per week                      10.00
Per year                      50.00
Maximum charge per passenger  0.10
 
(Ord. 19, 2-6-1917)
   (B)   Auctioneers:
 
Per day   $ 5.00
Per week  15.00
Per year  50.00
 
   (C)   Peddlers: Selling one or more articles for less than one dollar
($1.00):
 
Per day   $ 5.00
Per week  15.00
 
   (D)   Cigarette Sales:
 
Per annum  $100.00
 
Provided, that the license shall not be issued for less than six (6) months,
and the person so desiring a license shall pay to the city clerk the sum of one
dollar ($1.00), as the clerk's fee for issuing license.
   (E)   Circus, Menageries: Circus, caravan, menagerie, minstrel show, theater
or concert, in tent of more than two hundred (200) seating capacity:
 
Per day   $ 50.00
Per week  100.00
 
For less than two hundred (200) seating capacity:
 
Per day                                 $ 10.00
Per week                                25.00
For each side show connected therewith  5.00
 
   (F)   Theaters, Concerts, Minstrel Shows: Or other entertainments by
whatever name called, not in tent:
 
Per day   $ 2.00
Per week  10.00
Per year  25.00
 
   (G)   Games: Target gun or pistol, striking or lifting apparatus, lung
tester, ring or cane board, cigar, jewelry or knife spindles, doll racks or
other game by whatever name called:
 
Per day   $ 1.00
Per week  3.00
 
   (H)   Concession Stands: Popcorn, peanut roaster, fish fry stands:
 
Per day   $ 5.00
Per week  25.00
 
(Ord. 20, 2-6-1917)
3-1-3: EXCEPTION:
The foregoing sections shall not apply to sales made under legal process or
order of a court, or to household goods by residents of the city, or to vendors
of wood, or to mercantile travelers to merchants of the city, or to
entertainments given by residents of the city for charitable purposes. (Ord.
20, 2-6-1917)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Application
3-2-4: Bond
3-2-5: Regulations For Licensed Premises
3-2-6: Licensee Restrictions
3-2-7: Term Of License; Fees Prorated
3-2-8: Classification; Fees
3-2-9: Hours Of Sale
3-2-10: List Of Licenses; Notice Of Revocation
3-2-11: Transfer Of License
3-2-12: Change Of Location
3-2-13: Local Restrictions
3-2-14: Gambling
3-2-14-5: Reporting To Police
3-2-15: Minors
3-2-16: View From Street
3-2-17: Liquor Control Commission
3-2-18: Appeal Of Liquor Commissioner Findings Limited To Record
3-2-19: Setup Establishments
3-2-20: Sexually Oriented Or Explicit Entertainment Prohibited
3-2-21: Transportation Or Possession Of Alcoholic Liquor In Motor Vehicle
3-2-22: Open Alcohol And Consumption On Public Property
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise specified, the words and phrases herein defined are to be used
in this chapter in the sense given them as follows:
ALCOHOL: The product of distillation of any fermented liquid, whether rectified
or diluted, whatever may be the origin thereof, and includes synthetic ethyl
alcohol. It does not include alcohol or wood alcohol.
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Includes the four (4) varieties of liquor herein defined,
"alcohol", "spirits", "wine" and "beer", and every liquid or solid, patented or
not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer, and capable of being consumed
as a beverage by a human being. The provisions of this chapter shall not apply
to alcohol used in the manufacture of denatured alcohol, nor to any liquid or
solid containing one- half of one percent (0.5%), or less, of alcohol by
volume. Nor shall the provisions of this chapter apply to flavoring extracts,
concentrates, syrups or medicinal, mechanical, scientific, culinary or toilet
preparations, or food products unfit for beverage purposes, but the provisions
of this chapter shall not be construed to exclude or not apply to alcoholic
liquor used in the manufacture, preparation or compounding of such products.
None of the provisions of this chapter shall apply to wine intended for use and
used by any church or religious organization for sacramental purposes.
BEER: A beverage obtained by alcoholic fermentation of any infusion or
concoction of barley, or other grain, malt and hops in water, and includes,
among other things, beer, ale, stout, lager beer, porter and the like.
BOWLING ESTABLISHMENT: Any public place or part thereof, kept, used,
maintained, advertised and held out to the public as a place where the game of
bowling is played with composition balls and ten (10) wooden pins, and which
public place contains a minimum of eight (8) regulation bowling lanes as such
lanes are defined, from time to time, by the American bowling congress for the
United States.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this state, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests; provided, that such club files with the mayor, at the time of
its application for a license under this chapter, two (2) copies of a list of
names and residences of its members, and similarly files within ten (10) days
of the election of any additional member his name and address; and, provided
further, that its affairs and management are conducted by a board of directors,
executive committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual
meeting, and that no member or any officer, agent or employee of the club is
paid, or directly or indirectly receives, in the form of salary or other
compensation, any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to
the club or the members of the club or its guests introduced by members, beyond
the amount of salary as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the
members or by its board of directors, or other governing body, out of the
general revenue of the club.
CLUBHOUSE: Any permanent building or other permanent structure located on a
golf course and kept, used or maintained as a pro shop, snack shop, locker room
and/or banquet facility. For the purposes of this title, each golf course shall
be limited to one clubhouse.
GOLF COURSE: Any area designated for the play of the game of golf, as such game
is defined, from time to time, by the United States Golf Association, with said
course having a minimum of nine (9) variously distributed holes, including the
surrounding grounds. The words "golf course" shall include every permanent
building or other permanent structure kept, used or maintained as a clubhouse.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests, whether transient, permanent or residential, in which twenty five (25)
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings,
structure or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and
dining room equipment and capacity.
LICENSEE: Any person, firm or corporation to whom a license shall be issued
hereunder.
ORIGINAL PACKAGE: Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead or
other receptacle or container whatsoever used, corked or capped, sealed and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served and where meals are actually and
regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room requirements and capacity
and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to
prepare, cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAILER: A person who sells, or offers for sale, alcoholic liquor for use or
consumption and not for resale in any form.
SALE: Any transfer, exchange or barter in any manner or by means whatsoever for
a consideration, and includes and means all sales made by any person, whether
principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee, and includes, but is not
limited to, all of the following acts when done for consideration:
   (A)   Selling of alcoholic beverages;
   (B)   Giving away of alcoholic beverages;
   (C)   Dispensing of alcoholic beverages;
   (D)   Providing of mix, ice, water, containers, cups, glasses or soft drinks
for the purpose of mixing drinks containing alcoholic beverages for consumption
on the premises;
   (E)   Pouring of alcoholic beverages;
   (F)   Providing of "setup establishments", as defined in this section;
   (G)   Storage of any alcoholic beverage.
SELL AT RETAIL AND SALE AT RETAIL: Sales for use or consumption and not for
resale in any form.
SETUP ESTABLISHMENT: Any public or private place that:
   (A)   Does not hold a liquor license pursuant to this chapter but which
regularly sells, gives away, provides, pours, stores or otherwise dispenses
alcoholic beverages and/or mix, ice, water, containers, cups, glasses and soft
drinks for the purpose of consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises;
or
   (B)   Holds a liquor license and after the hours which it is permitted to be
in operation, engages in any of the activities in subsection (A) of this
definition.
SPIRITS: Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with water or other substance in solution, and includes brandy, rum, whiskey,
gin or other spirituous liquors, and such liquors when rectified, blended or
otherwise mixed with alcohol or other substances.
TO SELL: To solicit or receive an order for, to keep or expose for sale and to
keep with intent to sell.
WINE: Any alcohol beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural contents
of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including such beverages when
fortified by the addition of "alcohol" or "spirits", as herein defined. (1972
Code; amd. Ord. 82-9, 3-15-1983; Ord. 97-01, 5-20-1997; Ord. 97-15, 11-18-1997)
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the city any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license, or to be in
violation of the terms of such license. (1972 Code)
3-2-3: APPLICATION:
An applicant for a license shall submit to the mayor an application in writing
under oath stating:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation, for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names
and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of
the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominees, the name
and address of such person.
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth, and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
   (D)   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
   (E)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
   (F)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
   (G)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in the application, and
the disposition of such application.
   (H)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a felony and is
not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this state or the provisions of this code.
   (I)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government, has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
   (J)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state or of the United States, or any provision of this code in the conduct of
his place of business.
   (K)   If said application is made in behalf of a partnership, firm,
association, club or corporation, then the same shall be signed and sworn to by
at least two (2) members of such partnership or the president and secretary of
such corporation. (1972 Code)
   (L)   All future applicants and all present licensees shall initially,
within forty eight (48) hours of the passage and approval of the ordinance
codified herein, as required by law, submit a list of all employees, full or
part time, to the local liquor control commissioner. At such time as such list
shall change, either by additions thereto or deletions therefrom, such licensee
shall so notify the local liquor control commissioner within forty eight (48)
hours of such change. Said list shall include the name, residence address and
age of such employee.
   (M)   All applicants for a license hereunder shall, at the time such
application is made, disclose whether any other use whatsoever will be made of
the licensed premises in conjunction with and in addition to the use of the
premises for the sale of alcoholic liquor. Further, any subsequent intended use
of the licensed premises for a purpose not disclosed at the time of making
application for such license, shall be approved by the local liquor control
commissioner prior to commencement of use of the premises for such intended
additional use. Failure to make such disclosures as herein provided shall be
grounds for revocation of such license by the local liquor control
commissioner. (Ord. 82-4, 4-6-1982)
3-2-4: BOND:
   (A)   Required; Amount: Every applicant for a license hereunder shall file
with his application a joint and several bond executed by at least two (2) good
and sufficient sureties residing or licensed to do business within the state,
to the liquor control commissioner, and to his successor in office, in the
amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00), conditioned upon true and faithful
compliance by said licensee with all the provisions of this chapter and of the
laws of the state pertaining to alcoholic liquors.
   (B)   Forfeit: If a licensee shall be convicted of the violation of any of
the provisions of this chapter, or his license shall be revoked and no appeal
is taken from said order of revocation, or any appeal taken therefrom is
decided adversely to the licensee, his bond shall thereupon be forfeited and
the liquor control commissioner shall institute suit upon such bond in his name
as such commissioner for the entire amount of said bond and costs. In any
action brought on any such bond, the commissioner shall be represented by the
city attorney. (1972 Code)
3-2-5: REGULATIONS FOR LICENSED PREMISES:
No person shall receive a license to sell alcoholic liquor upon any premises as
a restaurant, club, bowling establishment, hotel, or golf course, unless it has
the qualifications, respectively, described in section
3-2-1 of this chapter regarding "restaurants", "clubs", "bowling
establishments", "hotels", and "golf courses". No restaurant licensed as such
shall sell alcoholic liquor except with meals. (Ord. 12-02, 3-20-2012)
3-2-6: LICENSEE RESTRICTIONS:
No such license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the city.
   (B)   A person who is not of a good character and reputation in the
community in which he resides.
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
state.
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   (G)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   (I)   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
political subdivision.
   (K)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent,
unless said manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   (L)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this chapter, or shall have forfeited his bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   (M)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued.
   (N)   Any law enforcing public official, any mayor, alderman or member of
the council or commission, or any president or member of a county board; and no
such official shall be interested in any way, either directly or indirectly, in
the manufacture, sale or distribution of alcoholic liquor.
   (O)   Any person not eligible for a state retail liquor dealer's license.
(1972 Code)
3-2-7: TERM OF LICENSE; FEES PRORATED:
The license required herein shall terminate on December 31 next following its
issuance. The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full
calendar months which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the
license. (1972 Code)
3-2-8: CLASSIFICATION; FEES:
All licenses shall be and are hereby divided into classes, and such classes and
their respective rates are as follows: (Ord. 06-07, 5-2-2006)
   (A)   Class A: Class A licenses shall be issued only to a national
organization maintaining a membership and having a private meeting place open
to club members and their guests only. Such license shall authorize the sale of
alcoholic beverages to club members and their guests for consumption only on
the premises where sold. For purposes of this section, a "guest" is defined to
include a ticket holder to any special event held by such club at its meeting
place. A nonmember present at such a club at other than special functions is a
"guest", for purposes of this section, if such nonmember has been invited to
such club by a member or, after having arrived at the club, is permitted to
remain by the members present. The annual fee for such license shall be the sum
of three hundred dollars ($300.00), and not more than three (3) such licenses
shall be issued. (Ord. 78-12, 5-16-1978)
   (B)   Class B: Class B licenses shall authorize the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor in original packages only for consumption off the premises
where sold. The annual fee for such license shall be the sum of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) and not more than three (3) such licenses shall be issued.
The age restrictions and prohibitions contained in subsections
3-2-15(A), (C) and (D) of this chapter shall not apply to class B license
holders. (Ord. 82-4, 4-6-1982)
   (C)   Class C: Class C licenses shall authorize the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor by the drink and for consumption on the premises where sold,
and also the sale of any alcoholic liquor in original packages for consumption
off the premises. The annual fee for such license shall be the sum of seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00), and not more than three (3) such licenses
shall be issued. Persons under the age of twenty one (21) shall be allowed to
be in or upon the premises of said licensee between the hours of six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., when accompanied by a person of the
age of at least twenty one (21) years so long as the purpose is the consumption
of food. Said person under the age of twenty one (21) shall not be allowed to
be seated at the bar or served food at the bar. (Ord. 01-01, 2-6-2000)
   (D)   Class D:
      1.   Class D licenses shall authorize the sale at retail of alcoholic
liquor by the drink and for consumption on the premises where sold only. Such
license shall be issued only for any establishment qualifying as a
"restaurant", as defined in section
3-2-1 of this chapter. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection,
the retail sale of alcoholic liquor shall only occur when prepared meals are
being served to patrons of the establishment but in no event shall alcohol be
served before eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. on any day of the week. The annual
fee for such license shall be the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00), and
not more than three (3) such licenses shall be issued.
      2.   Such sales as are authorized in such a qualifying establishment, as
provided for herein, shall be by the drink. Patrons of such an establishment
seated at tables may only be served alcohol as part of a prepared meal. If such
an establishment has an over the counter area for the consumption of alcohol,
then the seating at such a counter shall not exceed ten percent (10%) of the
total seating capacity of such an establishment, except that a licensee shall
be allowed a minimum of five (5) seats available at such a counter at any time.
If such an establishment has an over the counter area as described herein, then
no minor shall be allowed to be seated or served any meals at such a counter,
whether in a sitting or standing position. The opening and closing hours of
operation of such an establishment shall be controlled by section
3-2-9 of this chapter, except that no alcohol shall be served before eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. on any day of the week. The age restrictions and
prohibitions contained in subsections
3-2-15(A), (C) and (D) of this chapter shall not apply to Class D license
holders. (Ord. 97-01, 5-20-1997)
   (E)   Class E: Class E licenses shall authorize the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor by the drink and for consumption on the premises where sold
only. Such license shall be issued only for any public place qualifying as a
"bowling establishment" or "golf course", as defined in section
3-2-1 of this chapter. The annual fee for such license shall be the sum of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than three (3) such licenses shall be
issued. (Ord. 12-02, 3-20-2012)
   (F)   Class F: Class F licenses shall authorize the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor by the drink and for consumption on the premises where sold
only. Such license shall be issued only for any public place qualifying as a
"hotel", as defined in section
3-2-1 of this chapter. The annual fee for such license shall be the sum of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than three (3) such licenses shall be
issued. (Ord. 06-07, 5-2-2006)
   (G)   Class G: Class G licenses shall authorize the sale at retail of
alcoholic liquor by the drink and for consumption on the premises where sold
only. Such license shall be issued only for any public place qualifying as a
"special event", as defined in this subsection. The daily fee for such license
shall be set by the City Council at such time as the special event license is
requested. A "special event" is defined as a community event held in a public
area of the City, and no more than one license shall be issued for such event,
with no license to be issued allowing for Sunday sales. Preferences for said
license shall be given to not for profit groups in the community, and
especially the not for profit group that is sponsoring the special event. (Ord.
06-05, 5-16-2006)
Such license fees shall be in effect only as to licenses issued by the Liquor
Control Commissioner after the effective date hereof.
All license fees shall be paid in full in advance or may be paid in two (2)
equal installments. If the installment method is elected by the applicant, the
first installment shall accompany the application and the second installment
shall be paid not later than June 30 next following. Failure to pay such second
installment shall render the license void. (1972 Code)
3-2-9: HOURS OF SALE:
   (A)   The closing hours of all premises licensed in the City for the sale of
alcoholic liquors shall be between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. the following morning, as determined by the
official time then in force under the laws of the State, whether the same be
daylight saving time or Central Standard Time, except that the closing hour on
Fridays and Saturdays shall extend to the hour of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. of
the following day.
   (B)   The foregoing notwithstanding, the hours all premises licensed in the
City may sell alcoholic liquors on Sundays are from twelve o'clock (12:00) noon
until ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
   (C)   The foregoing notwithstanding, all such licensed premises shall be
allowed to remain open and sell alcoholic liquors until one o'clock (1:00) A.M.
on New Year's Day.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a license to permit or allow
any person, other than the holder of such license and not to exceed two (2)
employees, to be, or remain, in or upon the premises licensed under such
license after the "closing hour" or "hours", as defined in this subsection, and
the words "closing hour" shall be construed to mean that said place of business
so licensed shall be closed to all patrons, and all patrons shall be out of
said place of business by such "closing hour". Such holder of the license and
not to exceed two (2) employees shall be permitted to be or remain in or upon
said licensed premises after the closing hour or hours only for the purpose of
cleaning or stocking said premises.
   (E)   The sale and consumption of alcoholic beverages in those
establishments holding a Class B, Class D, Class E or a Class F license shall
be subject to the provisions of this section. However, the opening and closing
hours of operation of such an establishment, exclusive of the sale and
consumption of alcoholic beverages, shall not be subject to this section. (Ord.
17-12, 12-19-2017)
3-2-10: LIST OF LICENSES; NOTICE OF REVOCATION:
The Mayor shall keep, or cause to be kept, a complete record of all such
licenses issued by him; and shall furnish the City Clerk, City Treasurer and
Chief of Police each with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any license or
the revocation of any old license, the Mayor shall give written notice of such
action to each of these officers within forty eight (48) hours of such action.
(1972 Code)
3-2-11: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Conditions: A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for
not to exceed the calendar year during which issued, unless sooner revoked as
in this chapter provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be
subject to attachment, garnishment or execution, nor shall it be alienable or
transferable, voluntarily or involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or
hypothecated. Such license shall not descend by the laws of testate or
intestate devolution, but it shall cease upon the death of the licensee;
provided, that executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased
licensee, and the trustee of any insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such
estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue the business of the
sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor, under order of the appropriate court,
and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt
licensee after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy,
until the expiration of such license, but not longer than six (6) months after
the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of
that portion of the license fees paid for any period in which the licensee
shall be prevented from operating under such license in accordance with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Renewal: Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof,
provided he is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which
such renewal license is sought is suitable for such purpose; provided, further,
that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a
vested right which shall in any case prevent the Mayor from decreasing the
number of licenses to be issued within his jurisdiction. (1972 Code)
3-2-12: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
   (A)   A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic
liquor only in the premises described in the application and license.
   (B)   Such location may be changed only upon the written permit to make such
change issued by the Mayor. No change of location shall be permitted unless the
proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor
under the law of this State and the provisions of this Code. (1972 Code)
3-2-13: LOCAL RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Distance Limitations: No license shall be issued for the sale at
retail of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100') of any church,
school, hospital, home for aged or indigent persons or for veterans, their
wives or children, or any military or naval station; provided, that this
prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service, regularly
organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops, bowling establishments or other
places where sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried
on, if such place of business so exempted shall have been established for such
purpose prior to the taking effect of this chapter. No person shall hereafter
engage in business as a retailer of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred
feet (100') of any undertaking establishment or mortuary. (Ord. 82-9, 3-15-
1983)
   (B)   Outside Fire Limits For Class A: No class A license for the sale of
alcoholic liquor shall be issued to any person when the application for such
license shall show that the location where it is proposed to sell at retail
alcoholic liquor under such license is outside the fire limits. (1972 Code)
3-2-14: GAMBLING:
No licensee shall permit any gambling, the playing of card games or games of
chance for money in any place for which he has a license hereunder, unless
permitted under, and in compliance with, the Illinois video gaming act 1 .
(Ord. 12-08, 8-21-2012)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
3-2-14-5: REPORTING TO POLICE:
   (A)   Required: All licensees, their agents or employees, shall immediately
report to the city police any disturbances or altercations commonly known as
"fistfights", which shall include any physical abuse of another, that occurs on
the tavern premises, and shall further immediately report to the city police if
any tavern patron, other than a police official, is known to be in possession
of a gun, knife or other deadly weapon.
   (B)   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense; and a separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day or on which a violation occurs or continues and,
in addition thereto any licensee found to have violated this section may have
his license suspended or revoked by the mayor, in his capacity as liquor
commissioner. (Ord. 81-50, 2-17-1981)
3-2-15: MINORS:
   (A)   No licensee shall permit any person under the age of twenty one (21)
years to enter upon or frequent the premises so licensed; and likewise, all
persons under such age of twenty one (21) years are hereby prohibited from
frequenting or entering upon such licensed premises; except as provided in
subsections (E) and (H) of this section, and subsections
3-2-8(B), (C), (D), and (F) of this chapter. (Ord. 12-02, 3-20-2012)
   (B)   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor, beer
or wine to any person under the age of twenty one (21) years, or to any
intoxicated person or to any person known by him to be a habitual drunkard,
spendthrift, insane, mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental
treatment. No person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor,
beer or wine, shall sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor, beer or wine
to another person under the age of twenty one (21) years, except in the
performance of a religious ceremony or service. (Ord. 79-250, 12-18-1979, eff.
1-1-1980)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee granted a license under this
chapter or his employee or employees, to knowingly permit any person of either
sex, under the age of twenty one (21) years, to enter into, or to be in, or to
remain in or upon the premises described in such license, except as provided in
subsections (E) and (H) of this section and subsections
3-2-8(B), (C), (D), and (F) of this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person, of either sex, under the age of
twenty one (21) years, to enter into, or to be in, or to remain in or upon the
premises described in any license, except as provided in subsections (E) and
(H) of this section and subsections
3-2-8(B), (C), (D), and (F) of this chapter. (Ord. 12-02, 3-20-2012)
   (E)   Subsections (A), (C) and (D) of this section shall not apply to a
person of either sex, of the age of nineteen (19) years or older, when said
person is in the regular employ of the licensee; provided, however, such
employee of the age of nineteen (19) years, or older, shall be permitted to
enter into or to be in, or to remain in or upon said premises described in said
licensee's license only during said person's hours of employment, which shall
be prominently posted in the licensed premises on a weekly basis, listing that
week's hours of employment for said employee. Provided further, that said
employee of the age of nineteen (19) years or older, shall be excepted from
subsections (A), (C) and (D) of this section, only for the purpose of preparing
or serving food, and such person is expressly prohibited from dispensing or
serving alcoholic beverages, beer or wine.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed to sell alcoholic liquor,
or his employee or employees, to knowingly permit any person, or for any patron
or other person, while in or upon the premises so licensed to use, consume or
have in his possession in the original package with the seal unbroken, any
intoxicating liquor, other than beer which has been purchased on said premises.
(Ord. 79-250, 12-18-1979, eff. 1-1-1980)
   (G)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than four hundred dollars ($400.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (Ord. 00-09, 11-7-2000)
   (H)   The provisions of this section to the contrary notwithstanding,
persons under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be allowed to enter upon
and frequent any establishment holding a class B, class D, class E and class F
license. (Ord. 97-01, 5-20-1997)
   (I)   No person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall purchase,
accept delivery or have possession of alcoholic liquor. The consumption of
alcoholic liquor by any person under twenty one (21) years of age is also
forbidden.
The possession and dispensing or consumption by a person under twenty one (21)
years of age of alcoholic liquor in the performance of a religious service or
ceremony or the consumption by a person under twenty one (21) years of age
under the direct supervision and approval of the parents or parent, or those
persons standing in loco parentis of such person under twenty one (21) in the
privacy of a home is not prohibited. (Ord. 00-09, 11-7-2000)
3-2-16: VIEW FROM STREET:
In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption upon the
premises is licensed, other than as a club, a restaurant, hotel or bowling
establishment, no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises, nor
inside such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of
such licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no
booth, screen, partition or other obstruction, nor any arrangement of lights or
lighting, shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which
shall prevent a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the
street, road or sidewalk, and said premises must be so located that there shall
be a full view of the entire interior of such premises from the street, road or
sidewalk. All rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises
shall be continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or
artificial white light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall
be clearly visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required
by the foregoing shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or by him wilfully
suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such license shall be
subject to revocation in the manner herein provided. (Ord. 82-9, 3-15-1983)
3-2-17: LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION:
The mayor shall be the liquor control commissioner and shall be charged with
the administration of the appropriate provisions of this chapter and of such
ordinances and resolutions relating to alcoholic liquor as may be enacted.
The mayor may appoint a person, or persons, to assist him in the exercise of
the powers and performance of the duties herein provided for such liquor
control commissioner. The liquor control commissioner shall have the following
powers, functions and duties with respect to licenses:
   (A)   To grant and revoke for cause all liquor licenses issued to persons
for premises within his jurisdiction.
   (B)   To enter or authorize any law enforcing officer to enter at any time
upon any premises licensed hereunder to determine whether any of the provisions
of this chapter have been or are being violated, and at such time to examine
said premises of said licensee in connection therewith.
   (C)   To receive complaint from any citizen within its jurisdiction that any
of the provisions of this chapter, or rules or regulations adopted pursuant
hereto, have been or are being violated and to act upon such complaints in the
manner hereinafter provided.
   (D)   To receive liquor license fees and to pay the same forthwith to the
city treasurer. In the event the license applied for is denied, the fee shall
be returned to the applicant. If the license is granted, then the fee shall be
deposited in the general corporate fund, or in such other fund as shall have
been designated by the city council by proper action. (1972 Code)
   (E)   To conduct a hearing upon any complaint against the licensee as herein
set forth and may cause such licensee and other witnesses to appear before the
local liquor control commissioner or commission with regard to the complaint,
and upon finding a violation of the laws of this state or the United States or
any provisions of this code, to suspend or revoke such license, and/or impose a
fine as herein provided for such violation. (Ord. 92-04, 7-14-1992)
When in this chapter the liquor control commissioner shall be referred to, it
shall include any committee or other agency appointed by such commissioner. The
liquor control commissioner may revoke any license issued by him if he
determines that the licensee has violated any of the provisions of this chapter
or any state law pertaining to the sale of alcoholic liquor. (1972 Code)
3-2-18: APPEAL OF LIQUOR COMMISSIONER FINDINGS LIMITED TO RECORD:
All appeals to the state liquor control commission by a city liquor licensee of
a decision, order or action by the liquor control commissioner for the city or
designee having the effect of fining a licensee, suspending or revoking the
city liquor license shall be limited to review of the official record of the
formal proceedings before the commissioner or designee. (Ord. 95-05, 11-7-1995)
3-2-19: SETUP ESTABLISHMENTS:
"Setup establishments", as defined in section
3-2-1 of this chapter, are prohibited in the city, and it shall be unlawful for
any person acting as a principal, proprietor, agent, servant or employee to
operate a setup establishment. (Ord. 97-15, 11-18-1997)
3-2-20: SEXUALLY ORIENTED OR EXPLICIT ENTERTAINMENT PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee or person acting as agent, servant or
employee of such licensee to provide, suffer or permit any act, conduct or
entertainment on the premises in such a manner as to expose to public view:
   (A)   Male or female genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region
or pubic hair region;
   (B)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof;
   (C)   Any device, film, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the above listed body parts;
   (D)   The use of tassels, pasties, stars or transparent material for
coverage of the above listed body parts;
   (E)   Sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, cunnilingus,
anilingus, fellatio, flagellation, sadomasochism or any other sexual acts
prohibited by law;
   (F)   The touching, caressing or fondling of the breast, buttocks, anus,
genitals, perineum or pubic hair region; and
   (G)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any activities
set forth above. (Ord. 97-15, 11-18-1997)
3-2-21: TRANSPORTATION OR POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR IN MOTOR VEHICLE:
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (C) of this section, no driver may
transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within the passenger
area of any motor vehicle upon a public road in the city, except in the
original container and with the seal unbroken.
   (B)   Except as provided in subsection (C) of this section, no passenger may
carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor within any passenger area of any
motor vehicle upon a public road in the city, except in the original container
and with the seal unbroken.
   (C)   This section shall not apply to the passengers in a limousine when it
is being used for purposes for which a limousine is ordinarily used, the
passengers on a chartered bus when it is being used for purposes for which
chartered buses are ordinarily used, or in a motor home or mini-motor home as
defined in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-145.01, and as amended hereafter.
However, the driver of any such vehicle is prohibited from having any alcoholic
liquor in or about the driver's area. Any evidence of alcoholic consumption by
the driver shall be prima facie evidence of such driver's failure to obey this
section. For the purposes of this section, a limousine is a motor vehicle of
the first division with the passenger compartment enclosed by a partition or
dividing window used in the for hire transportation of passengers and operated
by an individual in possession of a valid Illinois driver's license of the
appropriate classification pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-104,
and as hereafter amended.
   (D)   The exemption applicable to chartered buses under subsection (C) of
this section does not apply to any chartered bus being used for school
purposes.
   (E)   A violation of this section shall be punishable by a fine of not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord.
02-06, 7-2-2002)
3-2-22: OPEN ALCOHOL AND CONSUMPTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   (A)   Alcohol On Public Property: It shall be unlawful for any person to
consume or possess any alcoholic liquor on any street, alley or upon any public
property. It shall also be unlawful for any person to consume or possess
alcoholic liquor in any automobile or other vehicle traveling upon or parked on
any street, alley or public property, excepting that a person twenty one (21)
years of age or older may transport alcohol in a sealed container; provided,
that the manufacturer's or retailer's seal on the alcohol container is not
broken.
   (B)   Penalty: Any person who violates subsection (A) of this section shall
be fined fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense.
   (C)   Exception By Permit: By special permit, the mayor, with the advice and
consent of the city council, may grant a geographically restricted and/or time
specific permit to individuals or groups for the possession and or consumption
of alcohol for a community event, festival, fair, or such similar affair as the
city council sees fit to authorize for the possession and/or consumption of
alcohol. (Ord. 03-02, 3-18-2003)
CHAPTER 3
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Enforcement
3-3-3: Location Outside Mobile Home Parks
3-3-4: Mobile Home Park License
3-3-5: Park Plan
3-3-6: Water Supply
3-3-7: Sanitation Facilities (Rep. by Ord. 86-10, 2-4-1986)
3-3-8: Laundry Facilities For Dependent Mobile Homes
3-3-9: Service Buildings
3-3-10: Sewage And Refuse Disposal
3-3-11: Fire Protection
3-3-12: Animals And Pets
3-3-13: Register Of Occupants
3-3-14: Management
3-3-15: Applicability Of Building Regulations
3-3-16: Revocation And Suspension
3-3-17: Single Ownership
3-3-18: Special Assessments
3-3-19: Compliance With Adopted State Law
3-3-20: Separability Of Provisions
3-3-21: Penalty
3-3-22: Temporary Permit For Existing Park
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever used in this chapter, unless a different meaning appears from the
context, the following terms shall have the meanings herein prescribed:
LICENSEE: Any person licensed to operate and maintain a mobile home park under
the provisions of this chapter.
MOBILE HOME: A movable or portable unit designed and constructed to be
transported, comprised of a frame and/or wheels and so designed to be connected
to utilities of year round occupancy and provide complete independent living
facilities, including provisions for cooking, sleeping and sanitation. The term
includes units containing parts that may be collapsed or telescoped when being
transported and then expanded to provide additional cubic capacity, and units
composed of two (2) or more separately transportable components designed to be
joined into an integral unit capable of being separated again into components
for repeated transporting. Removal of wheels, towing devices or any other
alteration does not qualify a mobile home as a conventional single-family
dwelling unless such alterations enable the unit to meet the national building
code, latest edition, the BOCA (Building Officials and Code Administrators
International) basic building code, latest edition, uniform building code, 1970
edition, or the federal housing authority's minimum property standards for one-
and two-family living units.
MOBILE HOME PARK: Any plat of ground upon which five (5) or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located regardless of whether
or not a charge is made for such accommodations.
MOBILE HOME SPACE: A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for the
accommodation of one mobile home.
MULTIPLE DWELLING: Any structure designed and intended to accommodate more than
one family and includes, but is not limited to, duplex buildings, group houses
and apartment buildings.
NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL BARRIER: Any river, pond, canal, railroad, levee,
embankment, fence or hedge.
PARK: A mobile home park.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Every camping trailer, motor home, trailer, mini-motor
home, travel trailer, truck camper or van camper used primarily for
recreational purposes and not used commercially and licensed under 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/1-169.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK: Any plot of ground upon which a recreational vehicle
is located regardless of whether or not a charge is made for such
accommodation, excepting therefrom the storage of one unoccupied recreational
vehicle upon the property of the owner. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 86-10, 2-4-1986)
3-3-2: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the zoning enforcement officer to enforce all
provisions of this chapter as prescribed herein or such provisions as may
hereafter be enacted, and for the purpose of securing such enforcement, said
officer or his duly authorized representative shall have the right and is
hereby empowered to enter upon any premises on which any mobile homes are
located, or are about to be located, and inspect the same and all
accommodations connected therewith at any reasonable time. The officer is
further empowered to recommend to the city council the issuance of orders
granting, renewing and revoking such permits and licenses as are provided in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (1972 Code)
3-3-3: LOCATION OUTSIDE MOBILE HOME PARKS:
   (A)   Prohibited; Exception: It shall be unlawful for any person to park any
mobile home on any street or other public place or any tract of land except as
provided in title 10 of this code.
   (B)   Emergency Stopping Or Parking: Emergency or temporary stopping or
parking is permitted on any street for not longer than two and one-half (21/2)
hours, subject to any other and further prohibitions, regulations or
limitations imposed by the traffic and parking regulations for that street.
   (C)   Construction Trailers: Construction trailers used solely during
construction periods for construction projects may be located on lots within
the city, provided no living quarters are provided and that the unit is not
sited on any lot currently used for residential purposes. Further, no
construction trailer shall be allowed on site of any residential construction
of any single- or two-family dwellings. (Ord. 86-10, 2-4-1986)
3-3-4: MOBILE HOME PARK LICENSE:
   (A)   Required; Term: It shall be unlawful for any person to establish,
operate or maintain upon any property owned or controlled by him, a mobile home
park within the zoning limits of the city, without having first secured a
license therefor from the city, granted and existing in compliance with the
terms of this chapter. Such license shall expire one year from the date of
issuance but may be renewed under the provisions of this chapter for additional
periods of one year. (1972 Code)
   (B)   Application; Fee: The application for such license or the renewal
thereof shall be filed with the city clerk and shall be accompanied by a fee of
five dollars ($5.00). The application for a license or a renewal thereof shall
be made on printed forms furnished by the city clerk and shall include the name
and address of the owner in fee of the tract; provided, however, if the fee is
vested in some person other than the applicant, a duly verified statement by
that person that the applicant is authorized by him to construct or maintain
the mobile home park and make the application, and such a legal description of
the premises upon which the park is or will be located as will readily identify
and definitely locate the premises. The application shall be accompanied by
four (4) copies of the mobile home park plan showing the following, either
existing or as proposed: (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 86-10, 2-4-1986)
      1.   Name and address of the applicant.
      2.   Legal description of the park.
      3.   Roadways and driveways.
      4.   Location of sites or units for trailer coaches.
      5.   Location and number of sanitary conveniences, including toilets,
washrooms and utility rooms to be used by occupants of units.
      6.   That there has been proper conformance with city building, zoning
and plumbing regulations.
      7.   Method and plan of sewage disposal.
      8.   Method and plan of garbage removal.
      9.   Plan for water supply.
      10.   Plan for electrical lighting of units.
      11.   Plan showing the park and recreation area.
      12.   Such further information as may be requested by the mobile home
board to enable it to determine if the proposed park will comply with legal
requirements. (1972 Code)
   (C)   Favorable Recommendation Required: Before such license may be issued,
there must be a favorable recommendation from the zoning enforcement officer.
The officer, or his duly authorized representative, shall inspect and certify
that the park does or will comply with all the provisions of this code. (Ord.
86-10, 2-4-1986)
   (D)   Limitations Of License: Licenses issued under the terms of this
chapter convey no right to erect any building, to do any plumbing work or to do
any electrical work. (1972 Code)
3-3-5: PARK PLAN:
The mobile home park shall conform to the following requirements:
   (A)   Site: The park shall be located on a well drained site, properly
graded to ensure rapid drainage and freedom from stagnant pools of water. (1972
Code)
   (B)   Density; Size: Mobile home parks hereafter approved shall have a
maximum density of ten (10) mobile homes per gross acre, and space shall be
provided for each unit consisting of a minimum of three thousand two hundred
(3,200) square feet. The minimum size of the park shall consist of not less
than five (5) acres. (Ord. 86-10, 2-4-1986)
   (C)   Individual Spaces: Each mobile home space shall be at least forty feet
(40') wide and clearly defined; provided, however, that mobile home parks in
existence on the effective date hereof which provide mobile home spaces having
a width or area less than that hereinabove prescribed may continue to operate
with spaces of the existing mobile home park, but all future spaces shall in
all respects comply with the terms of this chapter.
   (D)   Clearances: Mobile homes shall be so harbored on each space that there
shall be at least a fifteen foot (15') clearance between mobile homes;
provided, however, that with respect to mobile homes parked end to end, the end
to end clearance shall not be less than fourteen feet (14'). No mobile home
shall be located closer than twenty feet (20') from any building within the
park or from any property line bounding the park or twenty five feet (25') in a
case where it abuts a single-family residential zone.
   (E)   Driveway, Street Widths: All mobile home spaces shall abut upon a
driveway of not less than twenty four feet (24') in width, which shall have
unobstructed access to a public street, alley or highway. Thirty one feet (31')
of roadway shall be required where parking is permitted in the roadway.
Dedicated streets require a minimum fifty foot (50') width.
   (F)   Walkways: Walkways should not be less than three feet (3') wide (4
inches thick) and should be located as follows:
      1.   With twenty four foot (24') drives, adjacent to the driveway on both
sides of the drive.
      2.   With thirty one foot (31') drives, adjacent to the curb on both
sides of the drive.
      3.   With dedicated streets, the walk should be four feet (4') wide
adjacent to the street side of the property line and on both sides of the
street.
The walks shall connect to service buildings and playground areas.
   (G)   Surfacing; Lighting: All driveways and walkways within the park shall
be hard surfaced and lighted at night with electric lamps of not less than
fifty (50) watts each (equivalent in gas lighting), spaced at intervals of not
more than one hundred feet (100'). The standard street lighting will be
furnished by the city on dedicated streets.
   (H)   Service Buildings: Each park shall provide service buildings to house
such toilet, bathing and other sanitation facilities and such laundry
facilities as are hereinafter more particularly prescribed.
   (I)   Electrical Supply: An electrical outlet supplying at least 3-wire 110-
220 volts shall be provided for each mobile home space. Such outlet shall be
equipped with an externally operated fuse switch of not less than one hundred
(100) amperes' capacity and a heavy duty outlet receptacle. Each mobile home
space shall be separately grounded.
   (J)   Off Street Parking: Off street parking shall be provided at the rate
of two (2) spaces per mobile home space. Such parking shall be located on the
mobile home space rather than in roadways or accessways and under no
circumstances shall such parking be permitted in public rights of way.
   (K)   Recreation Area: Park and recreation area shall be provided in any
mobile home park area greater than twice the minimum size as provided in
subsection (B) of this section at the rate of two hundred (200) square feet for
each trailer space.
   (L)   Stand: Each mobile home space shall be provided with a hard stand of
sufficient size and depth to adequately accommodate a mobile home and shall be
equipped with permanent hooks to anchor a mobile home to the ground.
   (M)   Antenna: Each mobile home shall be allowed to use and maintain an
individual antenna; provided, however, that such individual antenna shall not
extend more than five feet (5') above the top of the mobile home.
   (N)   Screening: The mobile home park shall be screened as provided by city
ordinances relating to off street parking facilities. (1972 Code)
   (O)   Sanitation Facilities Required: No mobile home without a flush toilet
and a bath or shower shall be permitted in any mobile home park. (Ord. 86-10,
2-4-1986)
3-3-6: WATER SUPPLY:
   (A)   Required: Mobile home parks located within the city limits shall have
an adequate supply of pure water, furnished through a pipe distribution system
connected directly with the city water main. Provisions for fire hydrants shall
be approved by the fire chief. Parks located outside of and within two (2)
miles of the city limits shall have an adequate supply of pure water, furnished
through a pipe distribution system. The distribution system must be approved by
the city water department prior to installation.
   (B)   Drinking Facilities: No common drinking vessels shall be permitted,
nor shall any drinking water faucets be placed in any toilet room or water
closet compartment in any service building. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 86-10, 2-4-
1986)
3-3-7: SANITATION FACILITIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 86-10, 2-4-1986)
3-3-8: LAUNDRY FACILITIES FOR DEPENDENT MOBILE HOMES:
   (A)   Ratio: Laundry facilities shall be provided in the following ratio:
Not less than one single laundry tray and one automatic or semiautomatic type
washing machine for each twenty five (25) mobile home spaces or any fraction
thereof. (Ord. 86-10, 2-4-1986)
   (B)   Electrical Outlets: An ample number of electrical outlets shall be
provided supplying current sufficient to operate each washing machine. Drying
spaces shall be provided sufficient to accommodate the laundry of the mobile
home occupants if automatic drying equipment is not supplied. (1972 Code)
   (C)   Location: The laundry facilities shall be either in a separate service
building or, if in the same service building with any sanitation facilities,
shall be separated from the rooms housing said sanitation facilities by a
soundproof wall. (Ord. 86-10, 2-4-1986)
3-3-9: SERVICE BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Compliance: Service buildings housing sanitation and laundry
facilities, or any of such facilities, shall be permanent structures complying
with all applicable ordinances and statutes regulating buildings, electrical
installations and plumbing and sanitation systems.
   (B)   Lighting, Ventilation, Construction: The service buildings shall be
well lighted at all times of the day and night, shall be well ventilated with
screened openings, shall be constructed of such moistureproof material,
including painted woodwork, as shall permit repeated cleaning and washing, and
shall be maintained at a temperature of at least sixty eight degrees Fahrenheit
(68°F) at all times. The floors of the service buildings shall be of water
impervious material.
   (C)   Location Of Sanitation Facilities: Service buildings housing
sanitation facilities shall be located not closer than twenty feet (20') nor
further than two hundred feet (200') from any mobile home space upon which a
dependent mobile home is harbored.
   (D)   Maintenance: All service buildings and the grounds of the park shall
be maintained in a clean, sightly condition and kept free of any condition that
will menace the health of any occupant or the public or constitute a nuisance.
(1972 Code)
3-3-10: SEWAGE AND REFUSE DISPOSAL:
   (A)   Disposal Of Waste: Waste from showers, bathtubs, flush toilets,
urinals, lavatories, slop sinks and laundries in service and other buildings
within the park shall be discharged into a public sewer system in compliance
with applicable ordinances or into a private sewer and disposal plant or septic
tank system of such construction and in such manner as will present no health
hazard.
   (B)   Trapped Sewer: Each mobile home space shall be provided with a trapped
sewer at least three inches (3") in diameter, which shall be connected to
receive all wastewater of the mobile home harbored in such space and having any
or all of such facilities. The trapped sewer in each space shall be connected
to discharge the mobile home waste into a public sewer system in compliance
with applicable ordinances or into a private sewer disposal plant or septic
tank system of such construction and in such manner as will present no health
hazard.
   (C)   Garbage Cans: Approved garbage cans with tightfitting covers shall be
provided in quantities adequate to permit disposal of all garbage and rubbish.
Garbage cans shall be located not farther than three hundred feet (300') from
any mobile home space. The cans shall be kept in sanitary condition at all
times. Garbage and rubbish shall be collected and disposed of as frequently as
may be necessary to ensure that the garbage cans shall not overflow. (1972
Code)
3-3-11: FIRE PROTECTION:
Every park shall be equipped at all times with fire extinguishing equipment in
good working order, of such type, size and number and so located within the
park as to satisfy applicable and reasonable regulations of the fire
department. No open fires shall be permitted. (1972 Code)
3-3-12: ANIMALS AND PETS:
No owner or person in charge of any dog, cat or other pet or animal shall
permit it to run at large or commit any nuisance within the limits of any
mobile home park. (1972 Code)
3-3-13: REGISTER OF OCCUPANTS:
It shall be the duty of each licensee and permittee to keep a register
containing a record of all mobile home owners and occupants located within the
park. The register shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of each mobile home occupant.
   (B)   The name and address of the owner of each mobile home and motor
vehicle by which it is towed.
   (C)   The make, model, year and license number of each mobile home or motor
vehicle.
   (D)   The state, territory or country issuing such licenses.
   (E)   The date of arrival and of departure of each mobile home.
   (F)   Whether or not each mobile home is a dependent or independent mobile
home.
The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all times by law
enforcement officers, public health officials and other officials whose duties
necessitate acquisition of the information contained in the register. The
register record for each occupant registered shall not be destroyed for a
period of three (3) years following the date of departure of the registrant
from the park. (1972 Code)
3-3-14: MANAGEMENT:
   (A)   Office Required: In every mobile home park there shall be an office
building in which shall be located the office of the person in charge of said
park. The owner, manager or agent shall be present at all times. A copy of the
park license and of this chapter shall be posted therein and the park register
shall at all times be kept in said office.
   (B)   Duties: It is hereby made the duty of the attendant or person in
charge, together with the licensee, to:
      1.   Keep at all times the register of all occupants as hereinbefore
provided.
      2.   Maintain the park in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition at all
times.
      3.   See that the provisions of this chapter are complied with and
enforced and report promptly to the proper authorities any violation of this
chapter or any other violations of law which may come to his attention.
      4.   Maintain in a convenient place a hand fire extinguisher of a type
approved by the fire department.
      5.   Prohibit the lighting of open fires on the premises. (1972 Code)
3-3-15: APPLICABILITY OF BUILDING REGULATIONS:
All plumbing, electrical, building and other work on or at any park licensed
under this chapter shall be in accordance with the provisions of this code,
regulating such work unless said provisions are specifically made inapplicable
under the terms of this chapter. (1972 Code)
3-3-16: REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION:
The city council is hereby authorized to revoke any license issued pursuant to
the terms of this chapter if after due investigation they determine that the
holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or any
statute incorporated by reference, or that any mobile home or mobile home park
is being maintained in an unsanitary or unsafe manner or is a nuisance. (1972
Code)
3-3-17: SINGLE OWNERSHIP:
Each licensed mobile home park shall be licensed and maintained as a single
unit and the entire tract shall remain in single ownership. (1972 Code)
3-3-18: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
All special assessments levied by the city shall be levied against the entire
tract comprising the mobile home park. (1972 Code)
3-3-19: COMPLIANCE WITH ADOPTED STATE LAW:
In compliance with the provisions of this chapter, it shall be the duty of the
licensee and person in charge of any trailer coach park licensed hereunder to
comply with the provisions of an act in relation to the licensing and
regulation of trailer coach parks, as set forth in 210 Illinois Compiled
Statutes, as amended, insofar as said provisions set forth restrictions in
addition to those in this chapter, or set forth restrictions that are more
strict than those contained in this chapter, and said provisions of said act
are by reference incorporated herein. (1972 Code)
3-3-20: SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS:
Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared invalid, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this
chapter. (1972 Code)
3-3-21: PENALTY:
Any person violating this chapter shall be fined not less than ten dollars
($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense and, in
addition, such violation is hereby determined to be a nuisance which may be
abated or enjoined by the city. (1972 Code)
3-3-22: TEMPORARY PERMIT FOR EXISTING PARK:
   (A)   A temporary permit, upon written request therefor, shall be issued by
the city clerk for every mobile home park in existence on the effective date
hereof, permitting the park to be maintained and operated during the period
ending one hundred eighty (180) days after the effective date hereof, without
being subject to the provisions hereof, except such of the provisions as are
expressly applicable to health and safety.
   (B)   Existing parks shall file an application for a mobile home park permit
in conformity with this chapter within ninety (90) days after the effective
date hereof. The complete plan submitted shall show compliance with all
applicable provisions of this chapter except where compliance with such minimum
width, area and distance requirements would constitute an unreasonable
hardship. A mobile home park permit shall be issued at such time as the city
council determines by an inspection thereof that the existing park conforms
fully to the complete plan submitted with the application.
   (C)   The term of the temporary permit shall be extended, upon written
request, for not to exceed one additional period of one hundred eighty (180)
days, provided the city clerk finds that the owner or operator is undertaking
action reasonably calculated to make the existing park conform fully to the
complete plan within the extended period. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 4
JUNK DEALERS
SECTION:
3-4-1: License Required
3-4-2: Applications
3-4-3: Fee
3-4-4: Stolen Goods
3-4-5: Vehicles
3-4-6: Location; Frontage Consents
3-4-7: Records
3-4-8: Purchase Restrictions
3-4-9: Sales
3-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate or carry on the business of junk dealer or to
keep any junk shops, store or place for the purchase or sale of junk, rags, old
rope, paper or bagging, old iron, brass, copper or empty bottles, without
having obtained a license therefor as is hereinafter provided. (1972 Code)
3-4-2: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for such licenses shall be made in conformance with the provisions
of this code relating to licenses. (1972 Code)
3-4-3: FEE:
The fee to be paid for such licenses, for an annual license, shall be five
hundred dollars ($500.00), and an additional fee of one dollar ($1.00) for each
vehicle used in the conduct of such business; provided, that a junk dealer not
maintaining a store or yard in the city shall pay only a license fee of one
dollar ($1.00) per vehicle used in the conduct of such business within the
city. (1972 Code)
3-4-4: STOLEN GOODS:
Every keeper of a junk shop who shall receive or be in possession of any goods,
articles or things of value which may have been lost or stolen, shall, upon
demand, produce such articles or thing to any member of the police department
for examination. (1972 Code)
3-4-5: VEHICLES:
Every vehicle used by a junk dealer in the conduct of his business, shall bear
thereon in legible characters the name and address of the owner and proprietor
thereof. (1972 Code)
3-4-6: LOCATION; FRONTAGE CONSENTS:
No person shall locate, build, construct, operate or maintain any junkyard in
any block in the city where two-thirds (2/3) of the houses abutting on both
sides of the street in the block are used exclusively for residence purposes,
without having first secured the written consent of the owners of two-thirds
(2/3) of the frontage abutting on such street on both sides within such block.
The term "block", as used in this section, shall be construed to mean and
include that portion of the street between the two (2) intersections with other
public streets nearest the specified location on each side; provided, that if,
on either or both sides of such location, there is no such intersection within
three hundred feet (300') of the center of the specified location, the block
shall be considered as terminating at a point three hundred feet (300') from
such center.
The term "street", as used in this section, shall be construed to mean and
include such highways as have been dedicated by either common law or statutory
dedication as public streets and are actually in use as such; and the term
"street" shall not be construed to include or mean service highways which are
commonly known as alleys.
And provided, that nothing contained in this chapter shall be taken to be in
repeal of or in conflict with the zoning provisions of the city. (1972 Code)
3-4-7: RECORDS:
It shall be the duty of each junk dealer to keep a book in which shall be
written at the time of every purchase by him of any article or thing of value,
a description thereof, the name, age and residence of the person from whom, and
the day and hour when such purchase was made; and there shall also be entered
in said book the name of the person to whom and the time when such article or
thing of value was sold or disposed of, which book shall be at all times open
to the inspection of the mayor, the chief of police or any member of the city
council. (1972 Code)
3-4-8: PURCHASE RESTRICTIONS:
No purchase shall be made or any articles or things of value received from any
intoxicated person or from any minor without having obtained the written
consent of the parent or guardian of such minor. (1972 Code)
3-4-9: SALES:
No article or thing of value purchased or received by any junk dealer shall be
sold or otherwise disposed of until at least one week from the date of its
purchase or receipt shall have elapsed. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: License Required
3-5-2: Definitions
3-5-3: Application
3-5-4: Investigation And Issuance
3-5-5: Bond
3-5-6: Service Of Process
3-5-7: Exhibition Of License
3-5-8: Fees
3-5-9: Transfer
3-5-10: Loud Noises And Speaking Devices
3-5-11: Duty Of Police To Enforce
3-5-12: Records
3-5-13: Revocation Of License
3-5-14: Appeal
3-5-15: Expiration Of License
3-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for a "transient merchant", "itinerant merchant" or
"itinerant vendor", as defined in section
3-5-2 of this chapter, to engage in such business within the city without first
obtaining a license therefor in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(1972 Code)
3-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, a "transient merchant", "itinerant merchant"
or "itinerant vendor" is defined as any person, firm or corporation, whether as
owner, agent, consignee or bailee, engages in the business of selling and
delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the city, and who in furtherance
of such purpose hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor
vehicle, tent, railroad box car or public room in hotels, lodging houses,
apartments, shops or any street, alley or other place within the city for the
exhibition and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or
at public auction; provided, that such definition shall not be construed to
include any person who, while occupying such temporary location, does not sell
from stock, but exhibits samples only for the purpose of securing orders for
future delivery only. The person so engaged shall not be relieved from
complying with the provisions of this chapter merely by reason of associating
temporarily with any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by
conducting such transient business in connection with, as a part of, or in the
name of any local dealer, trader, merchant or auctioneer. (1972 Code)
3-5-3: APPLICATION:
Applicants for license under this chapter shall file a written sworn
application signed by the applicant if an individual, by all partners if a
partnership, and by the president if a corporation, with the city clerk,
showing:
   (A)   The name or names of the person or persons having the management or
supervision of applicant's business during the time that it is proposed that it
will be carried on in the city; the local address or addresses of such person
or persons while engaged in such business; the permanent address or addresses
of such person or persons; the capacity in which such person will act (that is,
whether as proprietor, agent or otherwise); the name and address of the person
for whose account the business will be carried on, if any; and if a
corporation, under the laws of what state the same is incorporated;
   (B)   The fingerprints of the person having the management or supervision of
applicant's business or in lieu thereof, at least three (3) letters of
recommendation from reliable property owners in this county, certifying as to
the applicant's good character and business responsibility, or other evidence
which establishes to the satisfaction of the mayor the good character and
business responsibility of such person;
   (C)   The place or places in the city where it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business, and the length of time during which it is proposed that
said business shall be conducted;
   (D)   The place or places, other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant, where applicant within the six (6) months next preceding the date of
said application conducted a transient business, stating the nature thereof and
giving the post office and street address of any building or office in which
such business was conducted;
   (E)   A statement of the nature, character and quality of the goods, wares
or merchandise to be sold or offered for sale by the applicant in the city, the
invoice value and quality of such goods, wares and merchandise, whether the
same are proposed to be sold from stock in possession, or from stock in
possession and by sample; at auction, by direct sale or by direct sale and by
taking orders for future delivery; where the goods or property proposed to be
sold are manufactured or produced and where such goods or products are located
at the time said application is filed;
   (F)   A brief statement of the nature and character of the advertising done
or proposed to be done in order to attract customers, and, if required by the
city clerk, copies of all said advertising, whether by handbills, circulars,
newspaper advertising or otherwise, shall be attached to said application as
exhibits thereto;
   (G)   Whether or not the person having the management or supervision of
applicant's business has been convicted of a crime, misdemeanor or the
violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of such offense and the
punishment assessed therefor;
   (H)   Credentials from the person for which the applicant proposes to do
business, authorizing the applicant to act as such representative; and
   (I)   Such other reasonable information as to the identity or character of
the person having the management or supervision of applicant's business or the
method or plan of doing such business as the city clerk may deem proper to
fulfill the purpose of this chapter in the protection of the public good. (1972
Code)
3-5-4: INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE:
Upon receipt of such application, the city clerk shall cause such investigation
of the person's business responsibility or moral character to be made as he
deems necessary to the protection of the public good. If, as a result of such
investigation, the applicant's character and business responsibility are found
to be unsatisfactory, the application shall be denied. If, as a result of the
investigation, the character and business reputation appear to be satisfactory,
the city clerk shall so certify in writing, and a license shall be issued by
the city clerk. The city clerk shall keep a full record in his office of all
licenses issued. Such license shall contain the number of the license, the date
the same is issued, the nature of the business authorized to be carried on, the
amount of the license fee paid, the expiration date of said license, the place
where said business may be carried on under said license, and the name of the
person authorized to carry on the same. (1972 Code)
3-5-5: BOND:
Before any license as provided in this chapter shall be issued for engaging in
a transient or itinerant business in the city, such applicant shall file with
the city clerk a bond running to the city in the sum of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) executed by the applicant, as principal, and two (2) sureties upon
which service of process may be made in this state; said bond to be approved by
the city attorney, conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all
of the provisions of this code and the statutes of the state regulating and
concerning the sale of goods, wares and merchandise, and will pay all judgments
rendered against said applicant for any violation of said provisions or
statutes, or any of them, together with all judgments and costs that may be
recovered against him by any person for damage growing out of any
misrepresentation or deception practiced on any person transacting such
business with such applicant, whether said misrepresentations or deceptions
were made or practiced by the owners or by their servants, agents or employees,
either at the time of making the sale or through any advertisement of any
character whatsoever, printed or circulated with reference to the goods, wares
and merchandise sold or any part thereof. Action on the bond may be brought in
the name of the city to the use of the aggrieved person. Such bond must be
approved by the city attorney, both as to form and as to the responsibility of
the sureties thereon. (1972 Code)
3-5-6: SERVICE OF PROCESS:
Before any license as herein provided shall be issued for engaging in the
business of an "itinerant merchant", as defined in section
3-5-2 of this chapter, such applicant shall file with the city clerk an
instrument nominating and appointing the city clerk, or the person performing
the duties of such position, his true and lawful agent with full power and
authority to acknowledge service of notice of process for and on behalf of said
applicant in respect to any matters connected with or arising out of the
business transacted under said license, and the bond given as required in
section
3-5-5 of this chapter, or for the performance of the conditions of said bond or
for any breach thereof, which said instrument shall also contain recitals to
the effect that said applicant for said license consents and agrees that
service of any notice or process may be made upon said agent, and when so made
shall be taken and held to be as valid as if personally served upon the person
applying for the license under this chapter, according to the law of this or
any other state, and waiving all claim or right of error by reason of such
acknowledgment of service or manner of service. Immediately upon service of
process upon the city clerk, as herein provided, the city clerk shall send to
the licensee at his last known address, by registered mail, a copy of said
process. (1972 Code)
3-5-7: EXHIBITION OF LICENSE:
The license issued under this chapter shall be posted conspicuously in the
place of business named therein. In the event that such person or persons
applying for said license shall desire to do business in more than one place
within the city, separate licenses may be issued for each place of business,
and shall be posted conspicuously in each place of business. (1972 Code)
3-5-8: FEES:
   (A)   Licensees under this chapter shall pay in advance to the city clerk a
fee based upon the estimated gross amount of sales by such persons and shall be
at the rate of two dollars fifty cents ($2.50) for each and every day such
license is to run.
   (B)   Every person conducting a business licensed under this chapter shall,
on the first business day of each week, and upon discontinuance of business in
the city, present to the city clerk, at his office, a verified statement
showing the total sales made during the preceding week and shall pay to the
city clerk any additional license fee, if any, for sales made during the
previous week. The chief of police and any other officer designated by him
shall have power and authority to enter any store, building or any other place
in which such temporary business may be conducted at any time during business
hours for ascertaining the amount of sales made and shall at all times have
access to the books of such business. (1972 Code)
3-5-9: TRANSFER:
No license shall be transferred without written consent from the mayor as
evidenced by an endorsement on the face of the license by the city clerk
showing to whom the license is transferred and the date of the transfer. (1972
Code)
3-5-10: LOUD NOISES AND SPEAKING DEVICES:
No licensee under this chapter, nor anyone in his behalf, shall shout, make any
outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell or use any other sound device, including any
loudspeaking radio or amplifying system, upon any of the streets, alleys, parks
or other public places of the city or upon any private premises in the city
where sound of sufficient volume is emitted or produced therefrom, capable of
being plainly heard from the streets, avenues, alleys or parks or other public
places, for the purpose of attracting attention to any goods, wares or
merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell. (1972 Code)
3-5-11: DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE:
It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city to examine all places
of business and persons in their respective territories subject to the
provisions of this chapter to determine if this chapter has been complied with
and to enforce the provisions hereof against any person found to be violating
the same. (1972 Code)
3-5-12: RECORDS:
The city clerk shall deposit the record of fingerprints of the licensee,
together with a license number, with the chief of police. The chief of police
shall report to the city clerk any complaints against any person licensed under
the provisions of this chapter and any conviction for violation of this
chapter. The city clerk shall keep a record of all such licenses and of such
complaints and violations. (1972 Code)
3-5-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Causes: The permits and licenses issued pursuant to this chapter may
be revoked by the mayor after notice and hearing, for any of the following
causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      2.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in connection
with the selling of goods, wares or merchandise;
      3.   Any violation of this chapter;
      4.   Conviction of the licensee of any felony or of a misdemeanor
involving moral turpitude; or
      5.   Conducting the business licensed under this chapter in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   Notice: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license shall be given
in writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the
time and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to
the licensee, at his last known address, at least five (5) days prior to the
date set for the hearing. (1972 Code)
3-5-14: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the city clerk in regard to the denial
of application for license as provided for in section
3-5-4 of this chapter or in connection with the revocation of a license as
provided for in section
3-5-13 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the city council.
Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the city council within fourteen (14)
days after notice of the decision by the city clerk has been mailed to such
person's last known address, a written statement setting forth the grounds for
the appeal. The city council shall set the time and place for a hearing on such
appeal and notice of such hearing shall be given to such person in the same
manner as provided in section
3-5-13 of this chapter for notice of hearing on revocation. The order of the
city council on such appeal shall be final. (1972 Code)
3-5-15: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
All licenses issued under the provisions of this chapter shall expire ninety
(90) days after the date of issuance thereof, unless a prior date is fixed
therein. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PUBLIC SOLICITATIONS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: Certificate Of Registration, Fee, And Penalty
3-6-3: Application For Certificate Of Registration
3-6-4: Issuance And Revocation Of Certificate
3-6-5: Notice Regulating Soliciting
3-6-6: Duty Of Solicitors
3-6-7: Uninvited Solicitors Prohibited
3-6-8: Time Limit On Soliciting
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words as used herein shall be
construed to have the meaning herein ascribed thereto:
REGISTERED SOLICITOR: Means and includes any person who has obtained a valid
certificate of registration as hereinafter provided, and which certificate is
in the possession of the solicitor on his or her person while engaged in
soliciting.
RESIDENCE: Means and includes every separate living unit occupied for
residential purposes by one or more persons, contained within any type of
building or structure.
SOLICITING: Means and includes any one or more of the following activities:
   (A)   Seeking to obtain orders for the purchase of goods, wares,
merchandise, foodstuffs, or services of any kind, character or description
whatsoever, for any kind of consideration whatsoever; or
   (B)   Seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or purchase of
insurance of any type, kind or character; or
   (C)   Seeking to obtain subscriptions to books, magazines, periodicals,
newspapers and every other type or kind of publication; or
   (D)   Seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money, clothing or any
other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any charitable or nonprofit
association, organization, corporation or project. (1972 Code)
3-6-2: CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION, FEE, AND PENALTY:
   (A)   Every person desiring to engage in "soliciting", as defined in section
3-6-1 of this chapter, from persons in residences within this city is hereby
required to make written application for a certificate of registration as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The registration fees to be charged for a certificate of registration
to solicit in the city, each payable in advance, are hereby fixed and
established as follows:
      1.   One hundred dollars ($100.00) per week or any part thereof for one
solicitor working alone. For each additional person or solicitor accompanying
and working with a solicitor licensed at this rate, the sum of twenty dollars
($20.00) per week or any part thereof.
   (C)   Any solicitor or person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined a minimum amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) and
not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense; and each
day such violation shall occur or continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 16-03, 7-5-2016)
3-6-3: APPLICATION FOR CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION:
   (A)   Information Required: Application for a certificate of registration
shall be made upon a form provided by the chief of police and filed with such
chief. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested
on the application:
      1.   Name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address; also business address if other than residence
address; also social security number;
      2.   Address of place of residence during the past three (3) years, if
other than present address;
      3.   Age of applicant and marital status; and if married the name of
spouse;
      4.   Physical description of the applicant;
      5.   Name and address of the person, firm or corporation or association
whom the applicant is employed by or represents; and the length of time of such
employment or representation;
      6.   Name and address of employer during the past three (3) years, if
other than the present employer;
      7.   Description sufficient for identification of the subject matter of
the soliciting which the applicant will engage in;
      8.   Period of time for which the certificate is applied for;
      9.   The date or approximate date of the latest previous application for
certificate under this chapter, if any;
      10.   Has a certificate of registration issued to the applicant under
this chapter ever been revoked;
      11.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, or the ordinances of any other Illinois
municipality regulating soliciting;
      12.   Has the applicant ever been convicted of the commission of a felony
under the laws of the state or any other state or federal law of the United
States;
      13.   Also, such additional information as the chief of police may deem
necessary to process the application.
   (B)   Statements Under Oath: All statements made by the applicant under the
application or in connection therewith shall be under oath.
   (C)   Fingerprints: The chief of police shall require every applicant to
submit to fingerprint by the police department in connection with the
application for certificate.
   (D)   Records Maintained: The chief of police shall cause to be kept in his
office an accurate record of every application received and acted upon,
together with all other information and data pertaining thereto, and all
certificates of registration issued under the provisions of this chapter, and
of the denial of applications. Applications for certificates shall be numbered
in consecutive order as filed, and every certificate issued and any renewal
thereof, shall be identified with the duplicate number of the application upon
which it was issued.
   (E)   Disqualification: No certificate of registration shall be issued to
any person who has been convicted of the commission of a felony under the laws
of the state or any other state or federal law of the United States, within
five (5) years of the date of the application; nor to any person who has been
convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, nor to any
person whose certificate of registration issued hereunder has previously been
revoked as herein provided. (1972 Code)
3-6-4: ISSUANCE AND REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   (A)   Denial; Issuance: The chief of police, after consideration of the
application and all information obtained relative thereto, shall deny the
application if the applicant does not possess the qualifications for such
certificate as herein required, and that the issuance of a certificate of
registration to the applicant would not be in accord with the intent and
purpose of this chapter. Endorsement shall be made by the chief of police upon
the application of the denial of the application. When the applicant is found
to be fully qualified, the certificate of registration shall be issued
forthwith.
   (B)   Revocation: Any certificate of registration issued hereunder shall be
revoked by the chief of police if the holder of the certificate is convicted of
a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or has made a false
material statement in the application, or otherwise becomes disqualified for
the issuance of a certificate of registration under the terms of this chapter.
Immediately upon such revocation, written notice thereof shall be given by the
chief of police to the holder of the certificate in person or by certified U.S.
mail addressed to his or her residence address set forth in the application.
   (C)   Certificate Null And Void: Immediately upon the giving of such notice,
the certificate of registration shall become null and void.
   (D)   Expiration Of Certificate Stated: The certificate of registration
shall state the expiration date thereof. (1972 Code)
3-6-5: NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING:
   (A)   Manner Of Notice: Notice of the determination by the occupant of
giving invitation to solicitors, or the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to
any residence, shall be given in the manner following:
A weatherproof card, approximately three inches by four inches (3" x 4") in
size, shall be exhibited upon or near the main entrance door to the residence,
indicating the determination by the occupant, containing the applicable words,
as follows:
   NO SOLICITORS INVITED
   (B)   Size; Chief To Provide Cards: The letters shall be at least one-third
inch (1/3") in height. For the purpose of uniformity, the cards shall be
provided by the chief of police to persons requesting, at the cost thereof.
   (C)   Notice Sufficient: Such card so exhibited shall constitute sufficient
notice to any solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence
of the information contained thereon. (1972 Code)
3-6-6: DUTY OF SOLICITORS:
   (A)   Noticed Premises: It shall be the duty of every solicitor, upon going
onto any premises in the city upon which a "residence", as defined in section
3-6-1 of this chapter, is located, to first examine the notice provided for in
section
3-6-5 of this chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement
contained in the notice. If the notice states: "NO SOLICITORS INVITED", then
the solicitor shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises.
   (B)   Request To Depart: Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any
residence, whether invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from
the premises when requested to do so by the occupant. (1972 Code)
3-6-7: UNINVITED SOLICITORS PROHIBITED:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in "soliciting", as defined in section
3-6-1 of this chapter, in defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence in
accordance with the provisions of section
3-6-5 of this chapter. (1972 Code)
3-6-8: TIME LIMIT ON SOLICITING:
It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, whether registered under this chapter or not, to go upon any premises
and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence located thereon, or
rap or knock upon any door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated
to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of
"soliciting", as defined in section
3-6-1 of this chapter, prior to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M., or after nine o'clock
(9:00) P.M., of any weekday, or at any time on a Sunday or on a state or
national holiday. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 7
OCCUPATION TAXES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Municipal Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-7-2: Municipal Service Occupation Tax
3-7-3: Municipal Utility Tax
3-7-4: Hotel-Motel Operators' Occupation Tax
3-7-1: MUNICIPAL RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   (A)   Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in this city at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1.
   (B)   Filing: Every such person engaged in such business in the city shall
file on or before the last day of each calendar month the report to the state
department of revenue required by 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 120/3.
   (C)   Tax Paid: At the time such report is filed there shall be paid to the
state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month.
(1972 Code)
3-7-2: MUNICIPAL SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   (A)   Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this city
in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of
the cost price of all tangible personal property transferred by said service
persons, either in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of
real estate as an incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5.
   (B)   Filing: Every supplier or service person required to account for
municipal service occupation tax for the benefit of this city shall file, on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department
of revenue required by 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 115/1.
   (C)   Tax Paid: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the
state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the
receipts from transfers of tangible personal property or real estate incident
to a sale of service during the preceding month. (1972 Code)
3-7-3: MUNICIPAL UTILITY TAX:
   (A)   Tax Imposed:
      1.   Occupations Or Privileges: A tax is imposed on all persons engaged
in the following occupations or privileges:
The privilege of using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase at
retail and used or consumed within the corporate limits of the municipality at
the following rates, calculated on a monthly basis for each purchaser:
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In Month Cents Per Kilowatt Hour
Kilowatt Hours Used Or Consumed In Month      Cents Per Kilowatt Hour
First 2,000                                      $0.385
Next 48,000                                      0.253
Next 50,000                                      0.227
Next 400,000                                     0.221
Next 500,000                                     0.215
Next 2,000,000                                   0.202
Next 2,000,000                                   0.199
Next 5,000,000                                   0.196
Next 10,000,000                                  0.193
All electricity used or consumed in excess of    0.189
20,000,000
 
      2.   Date For Use; Proportional: The tax rates set forth in the preceding
table will be used at least through December 31, 2008, are proportional to the
rates enumerated in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes section 5/8-11-2 (as modified
by public act 90-561), and do not exceed the revenue that could have been
collected during 1997 using the rates enumerated in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes section 5/8-11-2 (as modified by public act 90-561).
      3.   Effective Dates:
         (a)   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes section 5/8-11-2, the
rates set forth in subsection (A)1 of this section shall be effective: 1) on
August 1, 1998, for residential customers; and 2) on the earlier of: a) the
last bill issued prior to December 31, 2000; or b) the date of the first bill
issued pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes section 5/16-104, for
nonresidential customers.
         (b)   Pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes section 5/8-11-2, this
section shall specifically remain in effect: 1) for receipts attributable to
residential customers, until July 31, 1998; and 2) for receipts attributable to
nonresidential customers, the earlier of: a) through the last bill issued prior
to December 31, 2000; or b) the date of the first bill issued to such
nonresidential customers pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes section 5/
16-104.
   (B)   Exceptions: None of the taxes authorized by this section may be
imposed with respect to any transaction in interstate commerce or otherwise to
the extent to which the business or privilege may not, under the constitution
and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation by this
state or any political subdivision thereof, nor shall any persons engaged in
the business of distributing, supplying, furnishing or selling, or
transmitting, gas, water or electricity, or engaged in the business of
transmitting messages, or using or consuming electricity acquired in a purchase
at retail, be subject to taxation under the provisions of this section for
those transactions that are or may become subject to taxation under the
provisions of the municipal retailers' occupation tax act authorized by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes section 5/8-11-1; nor shall any tax authorized by
this section be imposed upon any person engaged in business or on any privilege
unless the tax is imposed in like manner and at the same rate upon all persons
engaged in business of the same class in the municipality, whether privately or
municipally owned or operated, or exercising the same privilege within the
municipality.
   (C)   Collection: The tax authorized by this section shall be collected from
the purchaser by the person maintaining a place of business in this state who
delivers the electricity to the purchaser. This tax shall constitute a debt of
the purchaser to the person who delivers the electricity to the purchaser and
if unpaid, is recoverable in the same manner as the original charge for
delivering the electricity. Any tax required to be collected pursuant to this
section and any such tax collected by a person delivering electricity shall
constitute a debt owed to the municipality by such person delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall collect the tax from the
purchaser by adding such tax to the gross charge for delivering the
electricity. Persons delivering electricity shall also be authorized to add to
such gross charge an amount equal to three percent (3%) of the tax to reimburse
the person delivering electricity for the expense incurred in keeping records,
billing customers, preparing and filing returns remitting the tax and supplying
data to the municipality upon request. If the person delivering electricity
fails to collect the tax from the purchase, then the purchaser shall be
required to pay the tax directly to the municipality in the manner prescribed
by the municipality. Persons delivering electricity who file returns pursuant
to this subsection shall, at the time of filing such return, pay the
municipality the amount of the tax collected pursuant to this section.
   (D)   Reports To Municipality:
      1.   On or before the last day of each month, each taxpayer shall make a
return to the city for the preceding month stating:
         (a)   His name.
         (b)   His principal place of business.
         (c)   His gross receipts and/or kilowatt hour usage during the month
upon the basis of which the tax is imposed.
         (d)   Amount of tax.
         (e)   Such other reasonable and related information as the corporate
authorities may require.
      2.   The taxpayer making the return herein provided for shall, at the
time of making such return, pay to the city the amount of tax herein imposed;
provided, that in connection with any return, the taxpayer may, if he so
elects, report and pay an amount based upon his total billings of business
subject to the tax during the period for which the return is made (exclusive of
any amounts previously billed) with prompt adjustments of later payments based
upon any differences between such billings, and the taxable gross receipts.
   (E)   Credit For Overpayment:
      1.   If it shall appear that an amount of tax has been paid which was not
due under the provisions of this section, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any tax
due, or to become due, under this section from the taxpayer who made the
erroneous payment; provided, that no amounts erroneously paid more than three
(3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefor shall be so credited.
      2.   No action to recover any amount of tax due under the provisions of
this subsection shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date
of such amount.
   (F)   Penalty: Any taxpayer who fails to make a return, or who makes a
fraudulent return, or who wilfully violates any other provision of this
section, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00) and, in addition, shall be liable in a civil action for the
amount of tax due 1 . (Ord. 99-04, 6-1-1999)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
3-7-4: HOTEL-MOTEL OPERATORS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   (A)   Definitions:
CITY: The city of Atlanta, an Illinois municipal corporation.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city of Atlanta, Illinois.
RETURN: Any return filed or required to be filed as provided in this section.
TREASURER: The city treasurer of the city of Atlanta, Illinois.
The following terms are hereby defined and shall have the meanings provided in
35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 145/2 as that section may be in force from time
to time: hotel (which includes motel), operator, occupancy, room or rooms,
permanent resident, rent or rental, department, and person.
   (B)   Amount Of Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon persons engaged in the
business of renting, leasing, or letting rooms in a hotel or motel at the rate
of five percent (5%) of the gross rental receipts from such renting, leasing or
letting, excluding, however from said gross rental receipts, the proceeds of
such renting, leasing or letting to permanent residents of said hotel or motel.
That said tax shall be in effect as of March 1, 2014.
However, such tax is not imposed upon the privilege of engaging in any business
in interstate commerce or otherwise, which business may not, under the
constitution and statutes of the United States, be made the subject of taxation
by a municipality.
Persons subject to the tax imposed by this section may reimburse themselves for
their tax liability under this section by separately stating such tax as an
additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in a single
amount, with any tax imposed under "the hotel operators' occupation tax act" 1
.
The tax herein imposed shall be in addition to all other occupation or
privilege taxes imposed by the city of Atlanta, the state of Illinois, or by
any municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof.
   (C)   Records To Be Kept: Every operator shall keep records of every
occupancy and of all rent paid, charged or due thereon and of the tax payable
thereon in such form as may be required by regulation prescribed by the city
clerk or as otherwise provided in this section. Such records shall be available
for inspection and examination for any proper purpose at any reasonable time
upon demand by the city clerk or a duly authorized agent or employee of the
city and shall be preserved for a period of three (3) years unless the city
clerk shall prescribe a shorter period of time. It shall be unlawful for any
person to prevent, hinder, or interfere with the city clerk or the duly
authorized deputy or representative of the city clerk in the discharge of the
duties of the city clerk.
   (D)   Transmittal Of Tax Revenue: The person or persons who own a hotel room
within the city of Atlanta shall file tax returns reflecting tax receipts
received with respect to each separate hotel, during each month upon forms
prescribed by the city clerk. Payments of the tax shall be made to the city
clerk on or before the twenty fifth day of the month succeeding the month for
which the tax was due. Notwithstanding the above provision, the first taxing
period for the purpose hereof shall commence on March 1, 2014. All subsequent
reporting periods shall be full calendar months. At the time of filing said tax
returns, the owner shall pay to the city clerk all taxes due for the period to
which the tax return applies.
   (E)   Collection: Whenever any person shall fail to pay any tax due
hereunder or penalty, the city clerk shall bring or cause to be brought in the
name of the city an action to enforce payment of the tax in any court of
competent jurisdiction, together with the costs of such collection. If, for any
reason, the tax outlined herein is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate of
two percent (2%) per thirty (30) day period, or portion thereof, from the day
of delinquency shall be added and collected as a penalty for nonpayment.
   (F)   Suspension Of Licenses: If the mayor of the city, after a hearing held
by or for him, shall find that any person has wilfully avoided payment of the
tax imposed by this section, he may suspend or revoke all city licenses held by
such tax evader. The owner shall have an opportunity to be heard at such
hearing to be held not less than five (5) days after notice of the time and
place of the hearing to be held, addressed to him at his last known place of
business. Pending notice, hearing and finding, any license of which he may be
possessed may be temporarily suspended. Any suspension or revocation of any
license shall not release or discharge the owner from his civil liability for
the payment of the tax nor from prosecution for such offense.
   (G)   Proceeds Of Taxes: All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the
tax hereunder, including penalties, shall be paid into the treasury of the city
and shall be credited to and deposited in the corporate funds of the city. All
such proceeds shall be separately accounted for by the treasurer.
All taxes and penalties received by the city hereunder shall be expended by the
city solely to promote tourism, conventions and other special events within the
city of Atlanta and otherwise to attract nonresidents to visit the city. The
city council will provide by separate means for such expenditures, which
methods may be changed from time to time, consistent with the terms of this
section and the laws of the state of Illinois. (Ord. 14-02, 2-4-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 145/1 et seq.
CHAPTER 8
SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-8-1: Act Adopted
3-8-2: Tax Rate
3-8-1: ACT ADOPTED:
The city of Atlanta hereby adopts the simplified municipal telecommunications
tax act which creates a simplified municipal telecommunications tax and repeals
the municipal tax on transmitting messages under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-11-2, the municipal telecommunications tax under 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-17, the optional infrastructure maintenance fee under 35
Illinois Compiled Statutes 635/15, and the municipal infrastructure maintenance
fee under 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 635/20 effective January 1, 2003. (Ord.
02-10, 9-3-2002)
3-8-2: TAX RATE:
   (A)   Rate Calculation: The Illinois department of revenue was required
under sections 5-25 and 5-30 of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax
act to publish a list and calculate a rate for the imposition of a simplified
municipal telecommunications tax for each municipality that had in place one or
more of the following: municipal tax on transmitting messages under 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-2, a municipal telecommunications tax under 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-17, or a municipal infrastructure maintenance
fee under 35 Illinois Compiled Statutes 635/20 as of July 1, 2002. The list
published by the Illinois department of revenue listed the city of Atlanta,
Logan County, Illinois, and calculated a rate for the simplified municipal
telecommunications tax of one percent (1%) to be collected on gross charges by
telecommunications retailers beginning January 1, 2003.
   (B)   Rate Change: The rate of the simplified municipal telecommunications
tax imposed under the provisions of sections 5-25 and 5-30 of the simplified
telecommunications tax act, P.A. 92-0526 is hereby changed to six percent (6%)
effective for all gross charges billed by telecommunications retailers on and
after January 1, 2003. (Ord. 02-10, 9-3-2002)
CHAPTER 9
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER STAMP
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Real Estate Transfer Stamp Requirement
3-9-3: Deeds
3-9-4: Transfer In Trust
3-9-5: Violation; Penalty
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
BENEFICIAL INTEREST: Any interest, regardless of how small or minimal such
interest may be, in a land trust, held by a trustee for the benefit of
beneficiaries of such land trust.
PERSON: Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator,
assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, copartnership, joint
venture, club, company, joint stock company, business trust, municipal
corporation, political subdivision of the state of Illinois, domestic or
foreign corporation, association, syndicate, society or any group of
individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal,
nonprofit, or otherwise, and the United States or any instrumentality thereof.
Whenever the term "person" is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a
penalty, the term as applied to associations shall mean the owners or part
owners thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
RECORDATION: The recording of deeds with the office of the recorder of deeds of
Logan County, Illinois. (Ord. 98-03, 5-5-1998, eff. 6-1-1998)
3-9-2: REAL ESTATE TRANSFER STAMP REQUIREMENT:
   (A)   A real estate transfer stamp requirement is imposed on the transfer of
title to real estate located in the city as evidenced by the recordation of a
deed by any person or by the delivery of any deed or assignment of interest of
said real property, whether investing the owner with the beneficial interest in
or legal title to said property or merely the possession or use thereof for any
purpose or to secure future payment of money or the future transfer of such
real property. No person shall transfer title to real estate located in the
city by recordation of a deed or by the delivery of any deed or assignment of
interest of any real property, whether investing the owner with the beneficial
interest in or legal title to said property or merely the possession or use
thereof for any purpose or to secure future payment of money or the future
transfer of any such real property without first obtaining a real estate
transfer stamp as provided herein.
   (B)   Such real estate transfer stamp shall be issued by the mayor for the
city and shall be available at and during the regular business hours of the
city offices or at other locations designated by the mayor. Upon application
for and the issuance of the real estate transfer stamp, the stamp so issued
shall be affixed to the deed or other instrument of conveyance. Any person so
using and affixing a real estate transfer stamp or stamps shall cancel it and
so deface it as to render it unfit for reuse by marking it with his initials
and the day, month and year when the affixing occurs. Such marking shall be
made by writing or stamping in indelible ink or by perforating with a machine
or punch. However, the real estate transfer stamp shall not be so defaced as to
prevent ready determination of its genuineness.
   (C)   Applications for real estate transfer stamps shall be made on a form
prescribed by the mayor. Such application shall show the date of the
transaction which it evidences, the names of the grantor and grantee, the
common address and the legal description of the property to which it relates,
including permanent index number of the property which is the subject of the
transfer.
   (D)   The mayor may refuse to issue real estate transfer stamps if any of
the following conditions exist:
      1.   Outstanding sum of money due the city from the property or property
owner;
      2.   Failure to have the city inspect the residence for the sewer hookup
and water shutoff valve;
      3.   Failure to have a water shutoff valve located within the residence;
      4.   Any other violation of this code;
      5.   Failure to have a final read of the water meter or failure to have
made final payment on any water or sewer bill.
   (E)   For the purpose of reviewing requests for real estate transfer stamps,
the city shall process the request within five (5) working days. (Ord. 98-03,
5-5-1998, eff. 6-1-1998)
3-9-3: DEEDS:
Every deed shall show the date of the transaction which it evidences, the names
of the grantor and grantee, and a legal description of the property to which it
relates, including permanent index number of the property which is the subject
of the transfer. (Ord. 98-03, 5-5-1998, eff. 6-1-1998)
3-9-4: TRANSFER IN TRUST:
No trustee of real estate shall accept an assignment of beneficial interest in
real estate located in the city without first obtaining a real estate transfer
stamp from the assignor and assignee and unless a transfer stamp as set forth
in this chapter has been affixed to the assignment. (Ord. 98-03, 5-5-1998, eff.
6-1-1998)
3-9-5: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
It is unlawful for any person as seller or grantor to fail to obtain and affix
a real estate transfer stamp herein provided, or for any purchaser or grantee
to accept a conveyance where the real estate transfer stamp has not been
obtained and affixed. Any person found guilty in a court of competent
jurisdiction of violating, disobeying, omitting, neglecting or refusing to
comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any provision of this
chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than
two hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00).
(Ord. 98-03, 5-5-1998, eff. 6-1-1998)
CHAPTER 10
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-10-1: Adoption Of State Standards By Reference
3-10-2: Definitions
3-10-3: License Required
3-10-4: Renewal Of License; Fee; Inspection
3-10-5: Construction Or Remodeling Plans Approved
3-10-6: Inspections
3-10-7: Report Of Findings
3-10-8: Compliance With Fire Code
3-10-9: Proof Of Liability
3-10-10: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-10-11: Penalty
3-10-1: ADOPTION OF STATE STANDARDS BY REFERENCE:
The minimum standards for bed and breakfast establishments shall be those
established in the Illinois bed and breakfast act, 50 Illinois Compiled
Statutes section 820/1 et seq., sections 2, 4, 5, 6, as adopted, and as may
hereafter be revised or amended, and adopted herein by reference. (Ord. 00-03,
4-4-2000)
3-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to those definitions established in the Illinois bed and breakfast
act, the following definitions shall be interpreted and defined as follows, for
the purposes of this chapter:
DEPARTMENT: The Logan County health department.
HEALTH OFFICIAL: A duly authorized employee of the Logan County board of
health. (Ord. 00-03, 4-4-2000)
3-10-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to open, establish, maintain or operate a
bed and breakfast establishment within the corporate limits of the city without
first obtaining a license therefor from the department. Such license shall
expire one year from the date of issuance. Applications for original licenses
shall be made on forms furnished by the department. Each application to the
department shall be signed by the applicant and accompanied with the license
fee required by the department. License fees are not refundable. Each
application shall contain: the name and address of the applicant, or names and
addresses of the partners if the applicant is a partnership, or the names and
addresses of the officers if the applicant is a corporation, or the names and
addresses of all persons having an interest therein if the applicant is a group
of individuals, and association, or a trust; and the location of the bed and
breakfast establishment. Upon receipt of an application for an original
license, the department shall inspect such bed and breakfast establishment to
ensure substantial compliance with this code. (Ord. 00-03, 4-4-2000)
3-10-4: RENEWAL OF LICENSE; FEE; INSPECTION:
Thirty (30) days before expiration of a bed and breakfast establishment
license, an application for the renewal of said license shall be made to the
department by the holder of the license, on forms furnished by the department.
The license application shall be accompanied by a license fee required by the
department, which shall not be refundable, and shall contain any change in
information since the original license was issued or the latest renewal
granted. If, after inspection, the department is satisfied that the bed and
breakfast establishment is in substantial compliance with the provisions of
this code, the department shall issue a renewal license. (Ord. 00-03, 4-4-2000)
3-10-5: CONSTRUCTION OR REMODELING PLANS APPROVED:
When a bed and breakfast establishment is hereafter constructed or extensively
remodeled, or when an existing structure is converted for use as a bed and
breakfast establishment, properly prepared plans shall be submitted to the
department for approval before such work is begun. (Ord. 00-03, 4-4-2000)
3-10-6: INSPECTIONS:
A health official, after proper identification, shall be permitted to enter a
bed and breakfast establishment at any reasonable time for the purpose of
making inspections to determine compliance with this code. The health official
shall be permitted to examine the records of the bed and breakfast
establishment pertaining to food and supplies purchased, received or used, and
certification of food managers. (Ord. 00-03, 4-4-2000)
3-10-7: REPORT OF FINDINGS:
Whenever an inspection of a bed and breakfast establishment is made, the
findings shall be recorded on the inspection form. The inspection report form
shall summarize the requirements of this code and shall set forth a weighted
point value for each requirement. Inspection remarks shall be written with the
reference to the requirement violated. The remarks shall state the violation
observed during the inspection and shall state the correction to be made. The
rating score of the establishment shall be the total weighted point values of
all violations subtracted from one hundred (100). A copy of the complete
inspection form shall be furnished to the person in charge of the establishment
at the conclusion of the inspection. (Ord. 00-03, 4-4-2000)
3-10-8: COMPLIANCE WITH FIRE CODE:
Each bed and breakfast establishment shall provide proof of substantial
compliance with section 6 of the bed and breakfast act. (Ord. 00-03, 4-4-2000)
3-10-9: PROOF OF LIABILITY:
Each bed and breakfast establishment shall provide proof of liability insurance
for review by the department. (Ord. 00-03, 4-4-2000)
3-10-10: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
A bed and breakfast establishment license is subject to suspension or
revocation as follows:
   (A)   Authorized: The Logan County board of health may immediately suspend
the license of a bed and breakfast establishment for any violation of this
code, or for interference with the health official in the performance of his
duties. Said board of health shall give written notice citing the suspension of
license to the license holder. The license holder may file a written request
for a hearing with the board of health, which shall be heard within ten (10)
days of receipt of such request. When a license is suspended, the suspension
shall be in effect until the board of health issues a new license. Prior to
such action, the health official will inspect the establishment for compliance
and report such findings thereof to the board of health. The owner or operator
of the bed and breakfast establishment shall have the right to seek review of
any final order of the Logan County board of health as provided in the Illinois
administrative review act.
   (B)   Notice: A notice provided for in this chapter is properly served when
it is delivered to the holder of the license or the person in charge, or when
it is sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
last known address of the holder of the license. A copy of the notice shall be
filed in the records of the department.
   (C)   Hearings: All hearings provided for in this chapter shall be conducted
by the Logan County board of health at a time and place designated by it. Such
hearings shall be conducted according to rules adopted by the said board of
health. (Ord. 00-03, 4-4-2000)
3-10-11: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter shall be a petty offense with a fine up to five
hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation. Each day a violation of any
standard is found to exist shall be a separate offense. (Ord. 00-03, 4-4-2000)
CHAPTER 11
MOBILE FOOD VENDOR LICENSES
SECTION:
3-11-1:    Mobile Food Vendor Licenses
3-11-1: MOBILE FOOD VENDOR LICENSES:
   (A)   A mobile food vendor is defined as a self-contained food service
operation, located in a readily movable motorized wheeled or towed vehicle,
used to store, prepare, display or serve food intended for immediate human
consumption. It shall include food carts, food trucks, and ice cream trucks.
   (B)   A mobile food vendor license is required for any person(s) wishing to
sell food for human consumption from a food cart, food truck, or ice cream
truck.
      1.   Exceptions:
         (a)   A mobile food vendor license is not required for City-sponsored
special events where a fee to participate is required or assessed by the City
of Atlanta.
         (b)   A mobile food vendor license is not required for private catered
events held on private property when there are no sales to the general public.
Such sales must be limited to attendees or invitees.
         (c)   Other special events by resolution or majority vote of the City
Council.
   (C)   If a mobile food vendor operates more than one food truck/food cart,
then each such food truck/food cart shall require a separate license.
   (D)   Any mobile food vendor operating in the City of Atlanta shall be
properly permitted by the Logan County Health Department. All food trucks shall
be subject to the State of Illinois and Logan County Health Codes and all rules
and regulations promulgated by the applicable Health Commissioner.
   (E)   Mobile food vendors shall obtain and either display or have readily
available for inspection at all times all State of Illinois and/or Logan County
Health Department permits required to operate their food truck/cart.
   (F)   No food, food products, or beverages for public consumption shall be
kept, offered for sale, transported, or handled except in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the State of Illinois and the Logan County Health
Department.
   (G)   If the State of Illinois or the Logan County Health Department
suspends or revokes their respective permits and/or licenses, then the license
shall hereby be revoked until such time as the State of Illinois or the Logan
County Health Department permits and/or licenses are reinstated.
   (H)   No food or beverage may be sold or given away in a glass container or
bottle.
   (I)   Upon the submission of a complete application showing compliance with
all terms of this article and passage of the investigation, when required, the
mobile food vendor license shall be signed by the administrator.
   (J)   No license shall be granted for longer than one year and shall expire
on the last day of December following its issuance.
      1.   The license for an annul mobile food vendor license shall be valid
on January 1 and expiring on December 31 for the year in which it was issued.
      2.   Licenses for applications received throughout the year shall be
issued for one year from their date of issuance without proration.
      3.   All licenses and permits shall be either displayed so that they are
visible to customers at all times or kept within the confines of the food
truck/cart so that it is readily available upon request or inspection.
      4.   The fee for an annual license shall be TWO HUNDRED and 00/100
DOLLARS ($200.00).
   (K)   Mobile food vendor licenses shall not be transferable to any other
applicant or vendor.
   (L)   Every mobile food vendor shall indemnify and hold harmless the City of
Atlanta for all suits or actions brought against the City for or on account of
any injuries or damages received or sustained by any party or parties caused by
the said vendor.
   (M)   Proof of insurance of the vendor’s public liability, food products
liability, and property damage insurance sufficient to protect vendor, property
owners, and the City from all claims for damage to property or bodily injury,
including death, which may arise from the operations under the registration or
in connection therewith. Unless the rules promulgated by the license
administrator require a higher amount, such insurance shall provide coverage of
not less than ONE MILLION and 00/100 DOLLARS ($1,000,000.00) per occurrence.
The policy shall further provide that it may not be cancelled except upon
thirty (30) days’ written notice served upon the City of Atlanta. A
registration issued pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be invalid
at any time the insurance required herein is not maintained and evidence of
continuing coverage is not filed with the City of Atlanta.
   (N)   Temporary mobile food vendor licenses issued to mobile food vendors
for either City-approved special events or City- sponsored special events shall
be valid only for the dates provided on the license, not to exceed four
consecutive days, and shall be event specific.
      1.   Each event shall require a separate application and license.
         (a)   Vendors who have paid for and been issued an annual mobile food
vendor license are not required to obtain a daily food vendor license or
temporary mobile food vendor license to participate in a City-approved special
event.
         (b)   The fee for this temporary license shall be ONE HUNDRED and 00/
100 dollars ($100.00).
   (O)   Licensed mobile food vendors are required to complete and submit the
Illinois Department of Revenue ST-2 Multiple Site Form on behalf of the City of
Atlanta for each applicable reporting period.
   (P)   Location requirements. Unless otherwise authorized by rules adopted
under this chapter, mobile food units may operate only in permitted locations,
or when part of a special event authorized by the City, or with the permission
of a private property owner and in accordance with all applicable laws and
ordinances.
      1.   No mobile food unit shall be permitted to operate in a location
where it would substantially obstruct a public way, impair the movement of
pedestrians or vehicles, or pose a hazard to public safety, and in no event
shall be within sixteen (16) feet from roadway intersections.
      2.   No mobile food unit shall park, stand, or operate in a location
which is adjacent to or within twenty (20) feet of the property line of a
restaurant. This requirement shall not apply to a restaurant affiliated with
the mobile food vehicle vendor. A restaurant may manifest affiliation by
written request to the license administrator as part of the application process
or at other times when seeking to affiliate with a mobile food unit.
      3.   No mobile food unit shall operate within twenty (20) feet of the
address point of any fair, carnival, circus, festival, special event, or civic
event that is licensed or sanctioned by the City except when vendor has
obtained the necessary registration.
      4.   No mobile food unit shall operate within twenty (20) feet of the
address point of public parks without first obtaining written authorization and
required registration from the City.
      5.   No mobile food unit shall operate on private property within the
corporate limits of Atlanta without first obtaining written consent to operate
from the affected private property owner.
      6.   No mobile food unit shall operate in any area of the City that the
License Administrator, in consultation with the Administrator of Public Works
and Zoning Administrator, has determined is unsuitable for such operation. The
License Administrator, no less frequently than annually, shall compile a map of
areas which he or she has determined are suitable for mobile food unit
operation and cause such map to be available from the City’s website.
   (Q)   Hours of operation shall be limited to the hours between 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m., excluding special events referenced in B(1).
   (R)   It shall be unlawful to operate a mobile food service operation
without a license as issued by this section. Violators are subject to the
general penalties of the City of Atlanta, and revocation of any licenses issued
pursuant to the Code of Ordinances of the City of Atlanta. (Ord. 23-02, 9-19-
2023)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Numbering Required
4-1-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED:
All primary buildings, whether used for residential purposes or commercial
purposes, are hereby required to be numbered in figures on the front side or
end thereof in a plain manner as hereinafter provided, by the owner or owners
thereof, if such owners are residents of the city; and if such owners are not
residents of the city, then by the persons or entity occupying any such
building. The size of the numbers shall be of a uniform height of not less than
two and one-half inches (21/2") and the numbers to be placed at each building
shall be the numbers previously assigned to each location now on file in the
office of the city clerk; and for all new construction such numbers shall be
those to be assigned thereto by the city clerk. (Ord. 98-11, 10-6-1998)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Adoption Of Building Code
4-2-2: Additions, Insertions And Changes
4-2-1: ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
city clerk, being marked and designated as the BOCA national building code,
1996 edition, as published by the Building Officials and Code Administrators
International, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as the building code of the city,
for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and each and
all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said
BOCA national building code, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part
hereof as if fully set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in section
4-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 99-02, 3-2-1999)
4-2-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections are hereby revised as follows:
These regulations shall be known as the building code of the city.
Section 103.1: Continuation Of Existing Use: The legal use and occupancy of any
structure existing on the date of adoption of this code, or for which it has
been heretofore approved, shall be permitted to continue for which it has been
heretofore approved, shall be permitted to continue without change, except as
is specifically covered in this code, the existing structures or as is deemed
necessary by the code official for the general safety and welfare of the
occupants and the public.
Section 103.4: Rehabilitation: Buildings existing prior to November 1, 1987, in
which there is work involving repairs, alterations, additions or changes of
use, shall be made to conform to the code by applying the requirements of
article 32 or the provisions of articles 2 through 31.
Section 109.2: Appointment: The code official (a.k.a. building and safety
official) shall be appointed by the chief appointing authority of the
jurisdiction by and with the consent of the city council.
Section 111.6.1: Private Sewage Disposal System: The site plan shall indicate
the location of a private sewage disposal system when a public sewer is not
available.
Section 117.4: Violations Penalties: Any person who shall violate a provision
of this code or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or
who shall erect, construct, alter or repair a building or structure in
violation of an approved plan or directive of the code official, or of a permit
or certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense.
Section 188.2: Unlawful Continuance: Any person who shall continue any work in
or about the structure after having been served with a stop work order, except
such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
conditions, shall be liable to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00),
nor more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00).
Section 124.1: Application For Appeal: Any owner of a building or structure or
duly authorized representative thereof who has been served with unsafe order
and notice to make such structure safe, secure or habitable to take down and
remove such structure, or who has received a decision of the code official
refusing to grant a modification to the provisions of this code covering the
manner of construction or materials to be used in the erection, alteration,
repair of the building or structure shall have the right to appeal to the board
of appeals if that person deems such order or decision to be unnecessary,
improper or unreasonable. An application to appeal shall be in writing and
shall be based on a claim that the true intent of the code or the rules legally
adopted thereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the code provisions do
not fully apply or an equivalent form of construction can be used.
Section 200.3: Terms Defined In Other Codes: Where terms are not defined in
this article and are defined in other city codes, they shall have the meanings
ascribed to them as in those codes.
Section 306.2.1: Exempt Amounts Of Hazardous Materials, Liquids And Chemicals:
Note C shall be amended to read: Tank storage up to six hundred sixty (660)
gallons for the fuel burning equipment.
Section 401.4.2: Ducts: Nonmetallic ducts as permitted by the mechanical code
of the city, if any.
Section 401.4.3: Piping: Combustible piping materials as permitted by the city
mechanical code, if any, and the city plumbing code.
Section 600.4: Heating And Venting: The requirements herein prescribed for the
installation of heating and venting appliances and equipment shall be construed
as supplemental to the provisions of articles 7 and 25, and the city mechanical
code, if any.
Section 600.5: Equipment Rooms: Heating and ventilating, equipment in
occupancies involving fire hazards from flammable vapors, dust, combustible
fibers or other highly combustible substances shall be installed and protected
against fire and explosion hazards in accordance with the city mechanical code,
if any. Rooms containing such equipment shall be segregated by construction of
not less than two (2) hour fire resistance rating except as otherwise required
for specific uses, without openings in the enclosure walls and with means of
direct ingress and egress from the exterior, or such equipment shall be located
in accessory structures segregated from the main building.
Section 600.8: Inspections: All buildings and structures involving the use and
handling of flammable or explosive materials and other hazardous uses and
occupancies, and buildings of use groups A and E shall be inspected in
accordance with the city fire prevention code, if any.
Section 600.8.1: Coordination Of Inspections: The code official, fire
prevention code official, health officials and other administrative agencies of
the jurisdiction to whom the authority is delegated to inspect buildings and
structures in respect to the maintenance of safe conditions of use and
occupancy shall immediately notify the respective official of any violation of
the provisions of this code or the city fire prevention code, if any, and
health rules and regulations.
Section 602.2: Maintenance And Inspection: All fire protection systems shall be
maintained in an operative condition at all times and shall be periodically
inspected and tested in accordance with the city fire prevention code, if any.
Section 603.1.7: Ventilation, General: Ventilation systems shall comply with
the city mechanical code, if any, except as otherwise provided herein.
Ventilation including recirculated air shall be provided throughout the fab
area at the rate of not less than 1 cfm per square foot (5074 cm3/s/m2) of
floor area.
Section 604.1: General: The provisions of this section shall apply to air
supported, air inflated, membrane covered frame structures, collectively known
as membrane structures, erected for a period of ninety (90) days or longer.
Those erected for a shorter period of time shall comply with applicable
provisions of the city fire prevention code, if any, and section 626.0.
Membrane structures covering water storage facilities, water clarifies, water
treatment plants, sewage treatment plants, and similar facilities not used for
human occupancy are required to meet only the requirements of section 626.0 and
section 604.5 of this section.
Section 607.1: General: The provisions of this section shall apply to all
buildings in which materials producing flammable dusts and particles which are
readily ignitable and subject to explosion hazards are stored or handled,
including, among others, grain bleachers and elevators, malt houses, flour,
feed or starch mills, wood flour manufacturing and manufacture and storage of
pulverized aluminum, coal, cocoa, magnesium, spices, sugar or similar material
producing dust. The provisions of NFiPA 61A, 61B, 61C, 61D, 65, 85F, 651, 653,
654, 655, and 665 and the city fire prevention code, if any, except as herein
specifically required, shall be deemed to conform to the requirements of this
code.
Section 607.3: Basements: Basements which are not classified as open parking
structures in accordance with section 607.1 but are used for parking vehicles
shall be sprinklered in accordance with the provisions of section 1002.0 and
shall be ventilated in accordance with the city mechanical code, if any.
Section 609.2.4: Floor Construction And Drainage: Floors of public garages and
airplane hangars shall be graded to drain through oil separators or traps to
avoid accumulation of explosive vapors in building drains or sewers as provided
in the city plumbing code. The floor finish shall be of concrete or other
approved nonabsorbent, noncombustible material.
Section 609.3: Fuel Dispensing Areas: Fuel dispensing areas shall be located on
the level nearest grade. Public garages with fuel dispensing areas shall be
completely separated from any other use, both horizontally and vertically, by
fire separation walls and floor/ceiling assemblies having a minimum fire
resistance rating of two (2) hours. The floors of the fuel dispensing areas
shall be graded to a floor drainage system such that any fuel spill or leak is
contained within the area. The drainage system shall conform to the
requirements of the city plumbing code. The fuel dispensing area shall be
protected with an approved automatic fire suppression system in accordance with
section 1002.10.
Section 609.3: Fuel Dispensing Systems: All fuel dispensing and storage systems
shall conform to the requirements of the city mechanical code, if any.
Section 609.4: Ventilation: All public garages shall be ventilated in
accordance with the city mechanical code, if any. Fuel dispensing areas shall
be mechanically ventilated.
Section 617.3: Explosion Relief: Means for explosion relief shall be provided
as specified in section 618.0, or such spaces shall be equipped with the
equivalent mechanical ventilation complying with the city mechanical code, if
any.
Section 619.1: Main Storage: Main storage systems of flammable and combustible
liquids shall be constructed and installed in accordance with NFiPA 30 and the
city fire prevention code, if any.
Section 619.4: Dry Cleaning Plants: The constructions and installation of dry
cleaning plants shall be in accordance with the requirements of this code, the
city mechanical code, if any, the plumbing code and NFiPA 32.
Section 620.1: General: The design and construction of propane, butane,
propylene, butylene and other liquefied petroleum gas distribution facilities
shall conform to the applicable provisions of this section. The storage and
handling of liquefied petroleum gas systems shall conform to the city fire
prevention code, if any. The design and installation of piping, equipment and
systems which utilize liquefied petroleum gas shall be in accordance with the
city mechanical code, if any. Liquefied petroleum gas facilities shall be
ventilated in accordance with the city mechanical code, if any, and section
620.1.1.
Section 622.3: Spray Spaces: All spray spaces shall be ventilated with an
exhaust system to prevent the accumulation of flammable mist or vapors in
accordance with the city mechanical code, if any. When such spaces are not
separately enclosed, noncombustible spray curtain shall be provided to restrict
the spread of flammable vapors.
Section 622.3.1: Spray Booths: All spray booths shall be constructed of
noncombustible materials and equipped with mechanical ventilating systems in
accordance with the city mechanical code, if any.
Section 701.1: General: Plans for all buildings and structures other than
buildings of use groups R-2 and I-1 which are designed for human occupancy
shall designate the number of occupants to be accommodated in the various rooms
and spaces, and when means of artificial lighting and ventilation are required,
the application shall include sufficient details and descriptions of the
mechanical system to be installed as herein required or as specified in the
city mechanical code, if any.
Section 706.3: Contaminants Exhausted: Contaminants in the breathing atmosphere
shall be exhausted to the outdoor air in accordance with the city mechanical
code, if any.
Section 707.1: General: Mechanical ventilation shall conform to the
requirements of the city mechanical code, if any.
Section 709.3: Alternative Mechanical Ventilation: Enclosed attic, rafter and
crawl spaces which are not ventilated as herein required shall be equipped with
a mechanical ventilation system conforming to the requirements of the city
mechanical code, if any.
Section 710.7: Court Drainage: The bottom of every court shall be properly
graded and drained to a public sewer or other approved disposal system
complying with the city plumbing code; and shall be paved with concrete or
other nonabsorbent material when required by the code official.
Section 918.2: Where Required: Fire dampers shall be provided at locations
where air distribution systems penetrate assemblies required to have a fire
resistance rating.
   Exceptions: Fire dampers are not required:
      1.   Where proper fire tests have shown that fire dampers are not
necessary to maintain the integrity of the fire resistance rated assembly.
   2.   Where an exhaust duct penetrates a fire resistance rated shaft wall and
the subduct extends not less than twenty two inches (22") (559 mm) vertically
upward.
   3.   At penetrations of tenant separation and corridor walls in buildings
equipped throughout with an approved automatic fire suppression system.
   4.   Where the ducts are constructed of steel and are part of an engineered
smoke removal system.
   5.   At penetrations of corridor walls when the ducts are constructed of
steel and do not have openings which communicate the corridor with adjacent
spaces or rooms.
   6.   At penetrations of a roof assembly when ducts are open to the
atmosphere.
   7.   In hazardous exhaust systems as defined in the city mechanical code, if
any.
   8.   Where ceiling dampers are installed in accordance with section 913.1.
Section 927.7.2: Emergency Discharge: A pipe or outlet shall be located in the
bottom, or the tank shall be fitted with a quick opening valve, to enable the
contents to be discharged in an emergency to a suitable drain complying with
the city plumbing code.
Section 928.2: Exposed Installations: Such materials, when exposed as installed
in rooms or spaces, including attics and crawl spaces of buildings of any type
construction, shall have a flame spread rating of twenty five (25) or less and
a smoke developed rating of four hundred fifty (450) or less when tested in
accordance with ASTM E84. Plenum installations shall comply with the
requirements of section 929.0 and the city mechanical code, if any.
Section 929.2.3: Ducts: Rigid or flexible ducts and connectors shall conform to
the city mechanical code, if any.
Section 929.2.4: Duct Coverings: Duct coverings, linings, tape and connectors
shall conform to the city mechanical code, if any.
Section 1002.20: Installation Requirements: The installation methods, repair,
operation and maintenance of fire protection systems shall be in accordance
with this code and the city fire prevention code, if any.
Section 1002.20: Kitchen Exhaust Systems: In commercial kitchen exhaust systems
when such systems are required by the city mechanical code, if any.
Section 1002.21: Hazardous Exhaust Systems: In duct systems exhausting
hazardous material in accordance with the city mechanical code, if any.
Section 1008.6: Range Hoods: In addition to the requirements of this section,
section 1002.20 and the city mechanical code, if any, range hood CO2 systems
shall bear the label of an approved agency. The system shall be installed in
accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions.
Section 1010.6: Range Hoods: In addition to the requirements of this section,
section 1002.20 and the city mechanical code, if any, range hood dry chemical
systems shall bear the label of an approved agency. The system shall be
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions. The
dry chemical agent of the system shall be nontoxic.
Section 1012.7: Tests: All standpipe systems shall be flow tested and
hydrostatically tested in accordance with the city fire prevention code, if
any.
Section 1019.1.3: Inspections: All operating parts of the smoke control systems
specified in sections 1019.5 and 1019.6 (including dampers) shall be tested by
the owner every three months and a log of the tests shall be kept for
examination by the fire department. At six month intervals, the system shall be
inspected and operated in accordance with the city fire prevention code, if
any.
Section 1224.5.3: Drainage Disposal: The floor base and foundation perimeter
drain shall discharge by gravity or mechanical means into an approved drainage
system complying with the city plumbing code.
Exception: Where a site is located in a well drained gravel or sand-gravel
mixture soils, a dedicated drainage system is not required.
Section 1303.6: Tests Of Service Equipment And Devices: Tests of service
equipment and accessories shall include proscenium curtain and stage
ventilation in accordance with sections 615.2.6 and 615.2.8; structural load
tests in accordance with section 1302.0; flues, chimneys and boilers in
accordance with the city mechanical code, if any; electrical installations in
accordance with section 2070.0; escalators, elevator interlocks and safety
devices in accordance with section 2602.0; refrigerating equipment and other
mechanical and plumbing systems and devices as required by the city mechanical
code, if any, and city plumbing code, and all other service tests required by
the approved rules.
(Ord. 99-02, 3-2-1999)
CHAPTER 3
HOUSING CODE
SECTION:
4-3-1: Adoption Of Uniform Housing Code
4-3-1: ADOPTION OF UNIFORM HOUSING CODE:
In order to provide minimum requirements for the protection of life, limb,
health, property, safety and welfare of the general public and the owners and
occupants of residential buildings, there is hereby adopted by the city that
certain code known as the uniform housing code, 1970 edition, published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, which provisions and
regulations thereof shall apply to all buildings or portions thereof used, or
designed or intended to be used, for human habitation. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
4-4-1: Adoption Of Plumbing Code
4-4-2: Water Shutoff Valve
4-4-1: ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE:
There is hereby adopted for the purpose of establishing minimum standards of
design, materials and workmanship for all plumbing hereafter installed, altered
or repaired and to establish methods of procedure within the limits of the city
that certain plumbing code known as the national plumbing code, being
particularly the 1968 copyright edition thereof, and the whole thereof of which
not less than three (3) copies have been and now are filed in the office of the
city clerk, and the same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set
out at length herein, and from the date on which this chapter shall take
effect, the provisions thereof shall be controlling in the installation,
alteration or repairing of plumbing. (1972 Code)
4-4-2: WATER SHUTOFF VALVE:
   (A)   All buildings located within the corporate limits of the city shall be
required to have a city water shutoff valve located on the main water supply
line that is located and is accessible from within the building itself.
   (B)   All buildings constructed within the corporate limits of the city
after May 1, 1998, shall be inspected by the city prior to the completion of
the construction to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Where the city water has been turned off for any building within the
city, there will be a fee of twenty five dollars ($25.00) imposed for the city
to turn city water on to said building. (Ord. 98-08, 5-19-1998)
CHAPTER 5
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
4-5-1: Adoption Of National Electrical Code
4-5-1: ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE:
All electric wiring, installation of electrical fixtures, apparatus, or
electrical appliances for furnishing light, heat or power, or other electrical
work introduced into or placed in or upon, or in any way connected to, any
building or structure within the limits of this city, shall be in conformity
with the provisions set forth in the 1971 national electrical code, as amended,
recommended by the American Insurance Association for electrical wiring and
apparatus, which is hereby adopted and incorporated as a part of this code as
fully as if set out at length herein, three (3) copies of said electrical code
shall at all times be on file in the office of the city clerk. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 6
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
4-6-1: Adoption Of Property Maintenance Code
4-6-2: Additions, Insertions And Changes
4-6-1: ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE:
That a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of
the city clerk, being marked and designated as the BOCA national property
maintenance code, fifth edition, 1996, as published by the Building Officials
and Code Administrators International, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as the
property maintenance code of the city, for the control of buildings and
structures as herein provided, and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said BOCA national property maintenance code
are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in
this section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes prescribed
in section
4-6-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 01-04, 10-16-2001)
4-6-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The BOCA national property maintenance code is amended and revised in the
following respects:
Section PM-101.1 (page 1, second line). Insert: city of Atlanta, Logan County,
Illinois.
Section PM-106.2 (page 2, third line). Amended to read as follows:
Any person who shall violate a provision of this code shall, upon conviction
thereof, be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00). Each day that a violation continues after
due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
Section PM-304.15 (page 11, first and second lines). Insert: May 1 to October
1.
Section PM-602.2.1 (page 17, fifth line). Insert: October 1 to April 30.
Section PM-602.3 (page 17, third line). Insert: October 1 to April 30.
(Ord. 01-04, 10-16-2001)
CHAPTER 7
MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
4-7-1: Adoption Of Mechanical Code
4-7-2: Additions, Insertions And Changes
4-7-1: ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE:
That certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of
the city clerk, marked and described as the international mechanical code,
including appendix chapters, 1998 edition, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the code of the city for regulating
the design, construction, quality of materials, erection, installation,
alteration, repair, location, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or
maintenance of mechanical systems in the city and providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations,
provisions, conditions and terms of such international mechanical code, 1998
edition, published by the International Code Council, on file in the office of
the city clerk, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if
fully set out in this section. (Ord. 01-05, 12-4-2001)
4-7-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The following sections are hereby revised:
Section 101.1. City of Atlanta, Logan County, Illinois.
Section 106.5.2. Building permit fee schedule based upon the city's estimated
value of improvements based on the most recent BOCA building valuation date
report:
Estimated Cost Fee
Estimated Cost                Fee
$0.00 – $1,000.00           $10.00 minimum
$1,000.00 – $5,000.00       $10.00 plus $5.00 per thousand of the estimated
                              cost over $1,000.00. Maximum $30.00
$5,001.00 – $10,000.00      $30.00 plus $4.00 per thousand of the estimated
                              cost over $5,000.00. Maximum $50.00
$10,001.00 – $50,000.00     $50.00 plus $3.00 per thousand of the estimated
                              cost over $10,000.00. Maximum $170.00
$50,001.00 – $100,000.00    $170.00 plus $2.50 per thousand of the estimated
                              cost over $50,000.00. Maximum $295.00
$100,001.00 – $500,000.00   $295.00 plus $2.00 per thousand of the estimated
                              cost over $100,000.00. Maximum $1,095.00
                              $1,095.00 plus $1.50 per thousand of the
$500,001.00 – $1,000,000.00 estimated cost over $500,000.00. Maximum
                              $1,845.00
                              $1,845.00 plus $1.25 per thousand of the
$1,000,001.00 – $2,000,000.0estimated cost over $1,000,000.00. Maximum
                              $3,095.00
                              $3,095.00 plus $1.00 per thousand of the
$2,000,001.00 – $3,000,000.0estimated cost over $2,000,000.00. Maximum
                              $4,095.00
                              $4,095.00 plus $0.50 per thousand of the
$3,000,001.00 – $4,000,000.0estimated cost over $3,000,000.00. Maximum
                              $4,595.00
$4,000,000.00 and over        $4,595.00 plus $0.25 per thousand of the
                              estimated cost over $4,000,000.00
 
Above fee schedule covers application, permit and inspection of proposed
project. Said fee schedule shall apply only to proposed projects located within
commercial or an industrial zone in the city as set forth in this code.
Section 106.5.3. Amended to read as follows:
Fee Refunds. The code official shall authorize the refunding of fees as
follows:
      1.   The full amount of any fee paid pursuant to section 106.5.2
hereunder which was erroneously paid or collected.
      2.   Not more than eighty percent (80%) of the permit fee paid when no
work has been done under a permit issued in accordance with this code.
      3.   Not more than eighty percent (80%) of the plan review fee paid when
an application for a permit for which a plan review fee has been paid is
withdrawn or canceled before any plan review effort has been expended.
The code official shall not authorize the refunding of any fee paid, except
upon written application filed by the original permittee not later than one
hundred eighty (180) days after the date of fee payment.
Section 108.4. Amended to read as follows:
Violation Penalties. Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or
shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect,
install, alter or repair mechanical work in violation of the approved
construction documents or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of this code, shall be punishable by a
fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served
shall be deemed a separate offense.
Section 108.5. Amended to read as follows:
Stop Work Orders. Upon notice from the code official that mechanical work is
being done contrary to the provisions of this code or in a dangerous or unsafe
manner, such work shall immediately cease. Such notice shall be in writing and
shall be given to the owner of the property, or to the owner's agent, or to the
person doing the work. The notice shall state the conditions under which work
is authorized to resume. Where an emergency exists, the code official shall not
be required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work. Any person who
shall continue any work on the system after having been served with a stop work
order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be
deemed a separate offense.
Chapter 16, Codes. Insert:
BNBC - 1996 BOCA national building code.
BNFPC - 1996 BOCA national fire prevention code.
   (Ord. 01-05, 12-4-2001)
CHAPTER 8
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
 
SECTION:
4-8-1:   Purpose
4-8-2:   Definitions
4-8-3:   Ground-Mount Solar Systems Prohibited
4-8-4:   Roof-Mount (SES) Permitted As An Accessory Use
4-8-5:   Building Integrated Systems
4-8-6:   Community Solar Gardens (SES) Prohibited
4-8-7:   Commercial/large Scale Solar Farms (SES) Prohibited
4-8-8:   Penalty
4-8-1:   PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to facilitate the construction, installation and
operation of solar energy systems (SES) in the city in a manner that promotes
economic development and ensures the protection of health, safety and welfare,
while also avoiding adverse impacts to important areas such as agricultural
lands, endangered species habitats, conservation lands and other sensitive
lands. It is the intent of this chapter to encourage the development of SES
that reduce reliance on foreign and out- of-state energy resources and bolster
local economic development and job creation. This chapter is not intended to
abridge safety, health or environmental requirements contained in other
applicable codes, standards or ordinances. The provisions of this chapter shall
not be deemed to nullify any provisions of local, state or federal law. (Ord.
24-01, 7-16-2024)
4-8-2:   DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
              As applied to a building, structure or use, one which is on the same lot
ACCESSORY:    with, incidental to and subordinate to the main or principal structure or
              use and which is used for purposes customarily incidental to the main or
              principal structure, or the main or principal use.
BUILDING      A solar energy system that consists of integrating photovoltaic modules
INTEGRATED    into the building structure as the roof or façade and which does not alter
PHOTOVOLTAICS the relief of the roof.
SYSTEMS:
COLLECTIVE    Solar installations owned collectively through subdivision homeowner
SOLAR:        associations, college student groups or other similar arrangements.
COMMERCIAL/   A utility scale commercial facility that converts sunlight to electricity,
LARG E SCALE  whether by photovoltaics, concentrating solar thermal devices or various
SOLAR FARMS:  experimental technologies for onsite or offsite use with the primary
              purpose of selling wholesale or retail generated electricity.
              A community solar-electric (photovoltaic) array, of no more than five acres
COMMUNITY     in size, that provides retail electric power (or financial proxy for retail
SOLAR GARDEN: power) to multiple households or businesses residing in or located off-site
              from the location of the solar energy system.
GROUND-MOUNT  A solar energy system that is directly installed into the ground and is not
SOLAR ENERGY  attached or affixed to an existing structure.
SYSTEM:
              A billing arrangement that allows solar customers to get credit for excess
NET METERING: electricity that they generate and deliver back to the grid so that they
              only pay for their net electricity usage at the end of the month.
PHOTOVOLTAIC  A solar energy system that produces electricity by the use of semiconductor
SYSTEM:       devices calls photovoltaic cells that generate electricity whenever light
              strikes them.
 
                            A trained and qualified electrical professional who
                            has the skills and knowledge related to
QUALIFIED SOLAR INSTALLER:  theconstruction and operation of solar electrical
                            equipment and installations and has received safety
                            training on the hazards involved.
                            A solar energy system in which solar panels are
ROOF-MOUNT:                 mounted on top of a building roof as either a flush
                            mounted system or as modules fixed to frames which
                            can be tilted toward the south at an optical angle.
                            Unobstructed access to direct sunlight on a lot or
                            building through the entire year, including access
SOLAR ACCESS:               across adjacent parcel air rights, for the purpose
                            of capturing direct sunlight to operate a solar
                            energy system.
                            A device, structure or part of a device or
SOLAR COLLECTOR:            structure for which the primary purpose is to
                            transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
                            mechanical, chemical or electrical energy.
                            Radiant energy received from the sun that can be
SOLAR ENERGY:               collected in the form of heat or light by a solar
                            collector.
                            The components and subsystems required to convert
                            solar energy into electric or thermal energy
                            suitable for use. The area of the system includes
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES):  all the land inside the perimeter of the system,
                            which extends to any fencing. The term applies, but
                            is not limited to, solar photovoltaic systems,
                            solar thermal systems and solar hot water systems.
                            A component of a solar energy device that is used
SOLAR STORAGE BATTERY/UNIT: to store solar generated electricity or heat for
                            later use.
                            Systems that directly heat water or other liquid
                            using sunlight. The heated liquid is used for such
SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS:      purposes as space heating and cooling, domestic hot
                            water and heating pool water.(Ord. 24-01, 7-16-
                            2024)
 
4-8-3:   GROUND-MOUNT SOLAR SYSTEMS PROHIBITED:
Ground-mount solar energy systems are not permitted in the City. (Ord. 24-01,
7-16-2024)
4-8-4:   ROOF-MOUNT (SES) PERMITTED AS AN ACCESSORY USE:
Roof-mount (SES) shall be permitted by a building permit upon application and
accompanying documents in all zoning districts where there is a principal
structure. Before a permit is issued, an application shall be submitted to the
City Zoning Officer demonstrating compliance with this code along with an
affidavit from a Qualified Solar Installer stating said Qualified Solar
Installer has the knowledge and skills related to the construction and
operation of the solar electrical equipment and the date of safety training of
hazards involved.
   (A)   Height. Building or roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed
the maximum allowed height for principal structures in any zoning district.
   (B)   Setbacks. In addition to building setbacks the collector surface and
mounting devises for roof mounted systems shall not extend beyond the exterior
perimeter of the building on which the systems are mounted or built, unless the
collector or mounting system has been engineered to safely extend beyond the
edge, and setback requirements are not violated. Exterior piping for solar hot
water systems shall be allowed to extend beyond the perimeter of the building
on a side yard exposure.
   (C)   Reflection angles. Reflection angles for solar collectors shall be
oriented such that they do not project glare onto adjacent properties. All
installations shall be manufactured with anti-glare technology.
   (D)   Safety.
      (1)   Roof-mounted or building-mounted solar energy systems, excluding
building integrated systems, shall allow for adequate roof access for
firefighting purposes.
      (2)   Roof-mounted or building-mounted solar energy systems shall meet
the requirements of this code of ordinances.
      (3)   All solar energy systems shall be installed by a qualified solar
installer and plans sealed by, or a letter signed by, a structural engineer or
architect indicating the weight of the solar installation does not exceed the
allowable loading for the roof structure according to the applicable building
code.
      (4)   Any connection to the public utility grid shall be inspected by the
appropriate public utility.
      (5)   The installation shall be designed such that the amount of
electricity generated does not exceed 125% of the typical amount consumed for
the needs of the household.
      (6)   All solar energy systems shall be maintained and kept in good
working order. If it is determined by the city’s Code Compliance Officer that a
solar energy system is not being maintained, kept in good working order or is
no longer being utilized to perform as intended for six consecutive months, the
property owner shall be given 30- day notice for removal of the unit and all
equipment. If the solar energy system is not removed within 30 days, the Code
Compliance Officer shall issue a notice of violation.
      (7)   Upon the operation of the solar energy system, the homeowner shall
allow reasonable access to the solar energy system by the city and its agents
for the purpose of fire hazard training and other inspections.
   (E)   Approved solar components. Electric solar energy system components
shall have a UL listing or approved equivalent and solar hot water systems
shall have an SRCC rating.
   (F)   Restrictions on solar energy systems limited. Consistent with 765 ILCS
165, no homeowner’s agreement, covenant, common interest community or other
contracts between multiple property owners within the city shall prohibit or
restrict homeowners from installing solar energy systems. (Ord. 24-01, 7-16-
2024)
4-8-5:   BUILDING INTEGRATED SYSTEMS:
Building integrated systems shall be permitted outright in all zoning
districts, but shall meet the requirements of the city’s zoning and building
code. (Ord. 24-01, 7-16-2024)
4-8-6: COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDENS (SES) PROHIBITED:
Community solar gardens (SES) are not permitted in the city. (Ord. 24-01, 7-16-
2024)
4-8-7: COMMERCIAL/LARGE SCALE SOLAR FARMS (SES) PROHIBITED:
Commercial/large scale solar farm (SES) are not permitted in the city. (Ord.
24-01, 7-16-2024)
4-8-8: PENALTY:
Anyone convicted of violation any section of this Code shall be fined in the
sum of not less than $250.00, nor more than $750.00. (Ord. 24-01, 7-16-2024)
TITLE 5
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Established
5-1-2: Mayor To Supervise
5-1-3: Officers
5-1-4: Salaries
5-1-5: Rules, Bylaws
5-1-6: Duty Of Department
5-1-7: Equipment
5-1-8: Maintenance Of Equipment
5-1-9: Interfere, Resist Officers
5-1-10: Unlawful Use Of Apparatus
5-1-11: Injury To Apparatus
5-1-12: Illinois Fire Protection Training Act; Participation Required
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
The Atlanta volunteer fire department shall consist of the mayor, the aldermen,
the chief of police, the street commissioner, the superintendent of water and
all police officers of the city, and such other persons as may be members.
(Ord. 6, 2-6-1917)
5-1-2: MAYOR TO SUPERVISE:
The mayor shall have and exercise a general supervision over the fire
department and he shall report to the city council quarterly at their first
regular meetings in April, July, October and January of each year, and more
often if necessary, the condition of the engines, hose, hooks and ladders,
buckets and other fire apparatus belonging to the fire department, and also the
condition of the buildings in which they are kept and shall recommend such
additions or improvements as he may deem necessary and expedient. (Ord. 6, 2-6-
1917)
5-1-3: OFFICERS:
The officers of the volunteer fire department shall consist of a fire chief, an
assistant fire chief, three (3) captains and a secretary-treasurer. The fire
chief shall be appointed to serve for a one year period and shall be appointed
by the mayor, by and with the consent of the city council. The assistant fire
chief shall be appointed by the fire chief for a one year term which shall
coincide with the tenure of the fire chief. The three (3) captains and the
secretary- treasurer shall be elected by the members of the department for a
one year term, such election to take place at the annual meeting of the Atlanta
volunteer fire department to be held in January of each year. (Ord. 78-11, 5-
16-1978)
5-1-4: SALARIES:
The salaries of the officers and members of the volunteer fire department, both
by the year and for attendance at fires, and the manner of the payment of such
salaries, shall be determined by the department, subject to the approval of the
city council, at the annual meeting of the volunteer fire department to be held
in January of each year. (Ord. 78-3, 1-12-1978)
5-1-5: RULES, BYLAWS:
The members of the volunteer fire department shall adopt such bylaws concerning
meetings (which shall be required monthly), membership, etc., as are consistent
with the provisions of this chapter. (1972 Code)
5-1-6: DUTY OF DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the duty of the fire department to lead in and to direct the
gaining control of and extinguishing of fires in the city, and in preserving
and protecting property from loss by fire, water and theft. (Ord. 6, 2-6-1917)
5-1-7: EQUIPMENT:
The city council shall from time to time procure the necessary engines, hose,
hooks and ladders, buckets and other fire apparatus for the use of the fire
department, and shall provide convenient places for the safekeeping thereof.
(Ord. 6, 2-6-1917)
5-1-8: MAINTENANCE OF EQUIPMENT:
It shall be the duty of the fire chief to keep all fire apparatus in the best
of order and ready for immediate use; and whenever any such apparatus needs
repairing, he shall immediately notify the mayor, who shall without delay cause
all necessary repairs to be made. (Ord. 6, 2-6-1917)
5-1-9: INTERFERE, RESIST OFFICERS:
Whoever shall at any fire wilfully hinder, delay, resist or obstruct any
officer, firefighter or other person in the discharge of his duty, or shall
neglect or refuse to obey or observe the lawful command of any officer, or
shall conduct himself in a riotous or disorderly manner at any fire, shall in
each case be subject to the penalty provided by section
1-4-1 of this code, and for incapacity, neglect of duty or misconduct of any
firefighter, the city council may remove him from the fire department. (Ord. 6,
2-6-1917)
5-1-10: UNLAWFUL USE OF APPARATUS:
No person shall use any fire apparatus for any private purpose, nor, without
authority, remove the same from the proper place of deposit thereof, without
consent of the city council. No person having charge of any fire apparatus
shall permit the same to be used for private purposes, and any person so
violating this provision shall be subject to the penalty provided by section
1-4-1 of this code and shall be liable for any damage to said apparatus that
may occur. (Ord. 6, 2-6-1917)
5-1-11: INJURY TO APPARATUS:
Whoever shall wilfully, maliciously or negligently break, deface or destroy or
otherwise injure any fire apparatus belonging to the city or any fire company,
shall be subject to the penalty provided by section
1-4-1 of this code and, in addition thereto, the expenses which may be incurred
in repairing the injuries committed shall be added to the penalty and form a
part thereof. (Ord. 6, 2-6-1917)
5-1-12: ILLINOIS FIRE PROTECTION TRAINING ACT; PARTICIPATION REQUIRED:
   (A)   Participation: The city hereby elects to participate in the programs
provided for in the Illinois fire protection training act.
   (B)   Certification Required: Before an individual may commence regular full
time employment as a firefighter, he must have been certified by the Illinois
state fire marshal as a firefighter II, as having successfully completed an
approved training course as provided in said act.
   (C)   Completion Time Limit: The firefighter II training must be completed
by the trainee within his probationary period of six (6) months, except for
volunteers, part time and paid on call personnel. (Ord. 82-5, 9-21-1982)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Adoption Of Fire Prevention Code
5-2-2: Additions, Insertions And Changes
5-2-3: Key Boxes Required For Buildings
5-2-1: ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
A certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the
city clerk, being marked and designated as the BOCA national fire prevention
code, 1996 edition, as published by the Building Officials and Code
Administrators International, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as the fire
prevention code of the city for the control of buildings and structures as
herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said BOCA national fire prevention code, are hereby
referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in section
5-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 99-01, 3-2-1999)
5-2-2: ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES:
The BOCA national fire prevention code, 1996 edition, is amended and changed to
read in the following respects:
Section 100.1: Title: These regulations as set forth herein shall be known as
the fire prevention code of the city of Atlanta and are herein referred to as
such or as "this code".
(Ord. 99-01, 3-2-1999)
5-2-3: KEY BOXES REQUIRED FOR BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Buildings, General: All new commercial and/or manufacturing buildings
constructed after the effective date hereof, and all existing commercial and/or
manufacturing buildings shall be required to comply within twelve (12) months
of the effective date hereof. Any commercial and/or manufacturing buildings
requesting the city fire department to either retain or obtain access to the
building shall be required to use a master key Knox box at a location approved
by the fire department. Such box shall be provided with master keys necessary
for access to all portions of the premises. Such box and keys shall be provided
any time the building shall change. This section does not apply to residential
dwellings under four (4) units.
   (B)   Buildings With Elevators: Any buildings equipped with elevators who
desire to make accessible to the Knox box system shall provide:
      1.   Two (2) sets of keys for entry to building and all portions of
premises.
      2.   Two (2) sets of elevator control keys if elevators are equipped with
fire department bypass switches. (Ord. 99-01, 3-2-1999)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Fireworks; Permit
5-3-2: Explosives
5-3-3: Rules Of State Fire Marshal
5-3-1: FIREWORKS; PERMIT:
   (A)   Discharge: It shall be unlawful to discharge or set off any fireworks,
or give or exhibit any pyrotechnic displays in the city excepting that public
displays which are licensed may be given at any time permitted by the license.
   (B)   Displays: No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics shall be
given unless a permit therefor is first secured from the mayor. All such public
displays shall be under the supervision of a competent person, and shall be
superintended by the chief of police or some member of the police department
assigned to this duty by him.
   (C)   Sales: No person shall sell or offer for sale or keep for the purpose
of so doing, any fireworks in the city. (1972 Code)
5-3-2: EXPLOSIVES:
It shall be unlawful to keep or store any nitroglycerine or other explosive
commonly known as TNT in the city in any quantities, excepting for medicinal
purposes or laboratory purposes and for such purposes no more than one pound
shall be stored in any one building or premises. (1972 Code)
5-3-3: RULES OF STATE FIRE MARSHAL:
All explosives must be kept or stored in accordance with the rules enforced by
the state fire marshal with regard to the same, subject to the conditions of
this chapter. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PROHIBITED BURNING
SECTION:
5-4-1: Burning Prohibited
5-4-1: BURNING PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Prohibitions: No person shall cause, allow, aid, suffer or maintain
any open burning of any kind, or the burning of any waste materials or rubbish
in any incinerator, barrel, can, pit, fireplace or similar container or
enclosure. No person in charge or possession of any premises upon which such
burning occurs, or any premises immediately adjacent to any public place upon
which such burning occurs, shall fail to extinguish the fire, providing he has
knowledge of the fire and it is within his power to extinguish it.
   (B)   Exceptions: This section shall not apply to the following:
      1.   An indoor or outdoor barbecue or similar heating or cooking device
while being used for the heating or cooking of food for human consumption and
not being used primarily for the burning of waste materials or rubbish.
      2.   A pathological type incinerator or furnace used by a hospital,
veterinary hospital, crematorium or similar establishment for the incineration
of body parts, bandages or related refuse.
      3.   Comfort heating by use of a fireplace inside of a residence that is
not being used primarily for the burning of waste materials or rubbish.
      4.   The personal use of cigarettes, cigars or pipes.
      5.   The using of matches for the lighting of authorized fire or fire fed
devices.
      6.   The use of authorized lighting and heating devices such as candles,
water heaters and lanterns, provided they are not likely to cause air pollution
or create fire hazards.
      7.   Controlled fires for the purpose of training firefighters. (1972
Code)
      8.   Burning of landscape waste upon the premises where it is produced.
For purposes of this subsection, "landscape waste" shall be defined as leaves,
grass and shrubbery trimmings, twigs and tree branches; provided, however, that
no landscape waste shall be burned within the city limits after the hour of
seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. (Ord. 82-6, 10-5-1982)
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
6-1-1: Department Established
6-1-2: Mayor Head Of Department
6-1-3: Chief Of Police; General Powers And Duties
6-1-4: Department Powers And Duties
6-1-5: Police Officers Commissioned; Compensation
6-1-6: Part Time Police Chief And Part Time Police Officers
6-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a police department of the city, which shall
consist of the mayor, aldermen, chief of police and such police officers as may
from time to time be appointed by the mayor and approved by the city council.
The position of the chief of police is established as an officer of the city as
defined in title 1, chapter 5 of this code and the chief of police is subject
to all provisions in title 1, chapter 5 of this code. (Ord. 96-05, 6-18-1996)
6-1-2: MAYOR HEAD OF DEPARTMENT:
   (A)   Duties: The mayor shall be the head of the police department and shall
superintend and direct the police generally. He shall see that the several
members of the department are prompt and faithful in the discharge of their
duties and shall, from time to time, take such measures for the preservation of
the peace and good order of the city as he may deem necessary, and shall see
that all ordinances thereof are duly observed and enforced. (Ord. 5, 2-6-1917)
   (B)   Appointment Of Officers: The mayor is hereby authorized to appoint, by
and with the advice and consent of the city council, such persons of a suitable
character, special police officers, whenever in his judgment he shall deem it
to be necessary. The term of office of any such special police officer shall
not exceed that of the mayor. If any such appointment is made prior to the
advice and consent of the city council having been first obtained, such
appointment shall come before the city council for its advice and consent no
later than the next regularly scheduled meeting of the city council. Special
police officers shall have all the powers heretofore granted to members of the
police department. (Ord. 82-7, 11-2-1982)
6-1-3: CHIEF OF POLICE; GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   (A)   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the chief of police to enforce
all penal ordinances as hereinafter provided, keep order and prevent
disturbances or violations of all provisions of this code; to serve all
subpoenas, summons, warrants, executions and all other writs or notices for and
on behalf of the city, promptly and efficiently, and to perform all other
duties or acts that may be required of him by this or any other provision of
this code, either in express terms or such as may be clearly implied, and to
obey all instructions of the city council or the mayor pertaining to his
official duties.
   (B)   Complaints: It shall be the duty of the chief of police or any police
officer of the city, while on duty, on hearing or being informed of the
violation of any provisions of this code, to immediately obtain all the
information relating thereto, and inform the city attorney thereof, and if
requested by the city attorney to do so, shall make complaint of such violation
under oath before the proper officer of the city.
   (C)   Arrest: It shall be the duty of the chief of police and any police
officer on duty, to immediately arrest any and all persons violating any penal
ordinance of the city, in the presence or view of such officer, with or without
a warrant, and forthwith take such offender before the proper officer in the
city and make a complaint under oath against such person or persons, setting
forth the offense committed, and notify the city attorney of such arrest, and
attend before such proper officer to prosecute such persons according to law.
   (D)   Develop Policies: It shall be the duty and responsibility of the chief
of police to develop policies for the police department and to implement said
policies within the police department. The chief of police will administer the
internal workings and day to day business of the police department. The chief
of police will have the authority to make public statements on any matters
which affect the public as they apply to potential dangers, prevalent crime or
traffic conditions, police/community relations, proposed legislation, or other
issues affecting or related to public safety, policing, or the police
department in general.
   (E)   Neglect Of Duties: If the chief of police or any police officer
refuses or neglects to perform any duty required of him by this or any other
provision of this code now in force, or such as may hereafter be passed, he
shall be subject to a penalty.
   (F)   Compensation: The chief of police and police officers shall receive
such compensation as the city council may from time to time determine. (Ord.
96-05, 6-18-1996)
6-1-4: DEPARTMENT POWERS AND DUTIES:
   (A)   Arrest Authority: All members of the police department shall have
power to arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all persons
who shall break the peace or be found violating any provision of this code, and
shall have power to detain or order the detention of all such persons in
custody in some safe place overnight, until such persons can be duly examined
by and before some competent court or proper officer.
   (B)   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the members of the police
department to enforce all provisions of this code, and to preserve peace and
good order in the city. (Ord. 5, 2-6-1917)
6-1-5: POLICE OFFICERS COMMISSIONED; COMPENSATION:
   (A)   Commissioned: Police officers appointed by the mayor and approved by
the city council shall, before they enter upon the discharge of their duties,
be commissioned under the corporate seal, signed by the mayor or presiding
officer of the city council and city clerk, and shall receive such pay for
their services as the city council shall from time to time allow.
   (B)   Compensation: The chief of police and police officers shall be
entitled in addition to their salary or per diem the same fees that are now or
may hereafter be allowed by the laws of this state to constables for like
services in making arrests, serving summonses, etc., to be collected as costs
from the offenders or property sold, except where the fees are fixed by
ordinance and a different mode provided for its collection or payment. (Ord. 5,
2-6-1917)
6-1-6: PART TIME POLICE CHIEF AND PART TIME POLICE OFFICERS:
   (A)   Qualifications: In accordance with Illinois state law, 65 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/3.1-30-21, the city of Atlanta establishes the following
hiring standards for part time police officers:
      1.   Be a citizen of the United States; and
      2.   Be twenty one (21) years of age; and
      3.   Be a high school graduate or the equivalent; and
      4.   Possess a valid Illinois driver's license; and
      5.   Possess a current Illinois firearms owner identification card; and
      6.   Have no felony criminal record; and if a misdemeanor criminal
record, a copy of the record should be submitted with the written application
required in subsection (A)12 of this section and an explanation if required by
the chief of police to explain all circumstances of the record; and
      7.   Submit fingerprints for examination by Illinois state police bureau
of identification and federal bureau of investigation; and
      8.   Submit to a physical examination, at the expense of the city of
Atlanta, and be found drug free and in good general health; and
      9.   Pass a written exam if the city council opts to administer a
standard entry level law enforcement test; and
      10.   Submit to an oral interview before the city council or its police
committee; and
      11.   Be trained in accordance with the Illinois police training act, as
may be amended from time to time, and the rules and requirements of the
Illinois law enforcement training and standards board; and
      12.   Submit a written application and/or resume to the chief of police
or the mayor in the case of a part time police chief appointment.
   (B)   Appointment: The mayor is hereby authorized to appoint, by and with
the advice and consent of the city council, such persons of a suitable
character, a part time police chief or part time police officers, whenever in
his judgment he shall deem it to be necessary, but the number of hours a part
time officer may work within a calendar year is restricted.
   (C)   Compensation: The part time police chief and part time police officers
shall receive such compensation as the city council may from time to time
determine. (Ord. 12-05, 5-1-2012)
CHAPTER 2
MISDEMEANOR CODE
SECTION:
   Article I. General Provisions
6-2-1-1: Short Title
6-2-1-2: City Jurisdiction
6-2-1-3: Civil Remedies Preserved
6-2-1-4: Penalties
6-2-1-5: Definitions
6-2-1-6: Saving Clause
   Article II. Civil Emergency Provisions
6-2-2-1: Definitions
6-2-2-2: Declaration Of Emergency
6-2-2-3: General Curfew
6-2-2-4: General Orders
6-2-2-5: Duration Of Proclamation
6-2-2-6: Notice Of Proclamation
6-2-2-7: Construction
   Article III. Offenses Involving Public Order
6-2-3-1: Disorderly Conduct; Breach Of Peace
6-2-3-2: Public Intoxication; Breach Of Peace; Incapacitated
6-2-3-3: Vagrancy
6-2-3-4: Disturbing Lawful Assemblies
6-2-3-5: Disturbing Election Process
6-2-3-6: Assault, Battery And Affray
6-2-3-7: Assault Defined
6-2-3-8: Battery Defined
6-2-3-9: Reckless Conduct
6-2-3-10: Unlawful Assemblies
6-2-3-11: Mob Action
6-2-3-12: Obstructing Stairways Or Exits
6-2-3-13: Resisting Arrest
6-2-3-14: Police And Fire Officers; Interfering And Obeying
6-2-3-15: Unlawful Use Of Weapons
6-2-3-16: Firing Or Discharging Weapons
6-2-3-17: Carrying Loaded Weapons
6-2-3-18: Unlawful Display Of Weapon
6-2-3-19: Confiscation And Disposition Of Weapons
   Article IV. Offenses Involving Health, Safety And Children
6-2-4-1: Dangerous Fires
6-2-4-2: Bonfires
6-2-4-3: Nuisances; Creating, Maintaining
6-2-4-4: Loud, Disturbing And Unnecessary Noises
6-2-4-5: Stench Bombs; Nauseous Gases And Substances
6-2-4-6: Throwing Missiles Or Bottles
6-2-4-7: Articles In Windows
6-2-4-8: Curfew For Children
6-2-4-9: Sale Of Alcoholic Liquors To Minors Prohibited
6-2-4-10: Possession Of Alcoholic Liquor By Minor Prohibited
6-2-4-11: Consumption Of Alcoholic Liquor By Minors Prohibited
6-2-4-12: Exceptions
6-2-4-13: Use Of Forged Identification Card To Obtain Liquor Prohibited
6-2-4-14: Sale Of Firearms Or Weapons To Minors Prohibited
6-2-4-15: Sniffing Or Inhaling Of Intoxicants Prohibited
   Article V. Offenses Involving Property
6-2-5-1: Criminal Housing Management
6-2-5-2: Trespass To Land And Buildings
6-2-5-3: Malicious Mischief Or Destruction
6-2-5-4: Coin Operated Machines, Slugs, Tampering
   Article VI. Offenses Involving Morality
6-2-6-1: Prostitution Defined
6-2-6-2: Keeping A Place Of Prostitution
6-2-6-3: Patronizing A Prostitute
6-2-6-4: Soliciting For A Prostitute
6-2-6-5: Pandering
6-2-6-6: Pimping
6-2-6-7: Public Indecency; Acts Or Language Prohibited
6-2-6-8: Obscenity Defined; Prohibited
6-2-6-9: Obscene Marking In Public View Prohibited
6-2-6-10: Obscenity; Affirmative Defense
6-2-6-11: Window Peeping Prohibited
6-2-6-12: Gambling Prohibited
   Article VII. Miscellaneous Provisions
6-2-7-1: Violation Of Civil Rights; Elements
6-2-7-2: Sanctions For Violation Of Civil Rights
6-2-7-3: Necessity As Affirmative Defense
6-2-7-4: Bribery; Offering Or Accepting
6-2-7-5: Solicitation To Commit Offense
6-2-7-6: Conspiracy To Commit Offense
6-2-7-7: Solicitation And Conspiracy; Affirmative Defense
6-2-7-8: Telephone Solicitation Or Promotion; Registration Required
6-2-7-9: Telephones; Obscene, Anonymous, Misrepresented Calls
6-2-7-10: False Alarms; Police, Fire, Ambulance
6-2-7-11: Climbing Utility Poles
6-2-7-12: Intimidation Defined; Prohibited
6-2-7-13: Littering On Public Or Private Property
   Article VIII. Tobacco Products
6-2-8-1: Sale, Use And Possession
6-2-8-2: Definitions
6-2-8-3: Penalty
   Article IX. Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
6-2-9-1: Definitions
6-2-9-2: Unlawful Use Or Possession Of Drug Paraphernalia
6-2-9-3: Possession Of Not More Than Ten Grams Of Cannabis
6-2-9-4: Possession Of Not More Than Thirty Grams Of Cannabis
6-2-9-5: Delivery Or Intent To Deliver Drug Paraphernalia
6-2-9-6: Advertising Drug Paraphernalia
6-2-9-7: Sale Or Delivery Of A Synthetic Alternative Drug
6-2-9-8: Possession Of A Synthetic Alternative Drug
6-2-9-9: Manufacture
6-2-9-10: Penalties
6-2-9-11: Special Fund
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
6-2-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the MISDEMEANOR CODE OF
ATLANTA, ILLINOIS, 1972. (1972 Code)
6-2-1-2: CITY JURISDICTION:
   (A)   Offenses Subject To Prosecution: A person is subject to prosecution by
the City for an offense which he commits, while either within or outside the
City, by his own conduct or that of another for whom he is legally accountable,
if:
      1.   The offense is committed either wholly or partly within the City; or
      2.   The conduct outside the City constitutes an attempt to commit an
offense within the City; or
      3.   The conduct outside the City constitutes a conspiracy to commit an
offense within the City and an act in furtherance of the conspiracy occurs in
the City; or
      4.   The conduct within the City constitutes an attempt, solicitation or
conspiracy to commit in another jurisdiction an offense under the laws of both
this City and such other jurisdiction.
   (B)   Partly Within City: An offense is committed partly within this City if
either the conduct which is an element of the offense, or the result of which
is such an element, occurs within the City.
   (C)   Omission To Perform Duty: An offense which is based on an omission to
perform a duty imposed by the laws of this City is committed within the City
regardless of the location of the offender at the time of the omission. (1972
Code)
6-2-1-3: CIVIL REMEDIES PRESERVED:
This chapter does not bar, suspend or otherwise affect any right or liability
to damages, penalty, forfeiture or other remedy authorized by law to be
recovered or enforced in a civil action for any conduct which this chapter
makes punishable; and the civil injury is not merged in the offense. (1972
Code)
6-2-1-4: PENALTIES:
Unless otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, violations of any
provision thereof shall be punishable as provided by section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1972 Code)
6-2-1-5: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter:
ACT: Includes a failure or omission to take action.
AIR RIFLE: Means and includes any air gun, air pistol, spring gun, spring
pistol, BB gun or pellet gun, which impels a pellet constructed of hard
plastic, steel, lead, stone or other hard materials with force that reasonably
is expected to cause bodily harm or property damage.
ANOTHER: A "person" or persons, as defined in this section, other than the
offender.
PERSON: Any individual, public or private corporation, government, partnership
or unincorporated association. The masculine gender shall include the feminine,
and the singular shall include the plural.
POLICE OFFICER: Any person who by virtue of his office or public employment is
vested by law with a duty to maintain public order or to make arrests for
offenses, whether that duty extends to all offenses or is limited to specific
offenses.
PUBLIC EMPLOYEE: A person, other than a public officer, who is authorized to
perform any official function on behalf of, and is paid by, the city or any of
its subdivisions or agencies.
PUBLIC OFFICER: A person who is elected to office pursuant to a statute or
ordinance, or who is appointed to an office which is established, and the
qualifications and duties of which are prescribed by statute or ordinance to
discharge a public duty for the city or any of its subdivisions or agencies.
REASONABLE BELIEF OR REASONABLY BELIEVES: The person concerned, acting as a
reasonable person, believes that the described facts exist. (1972 Code)
6-2-1-6: SAVING CLAUSE:
If any article, section or subsection of this chapter shall be held
unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such holding shall not be construed
to invalidate or impair the remaining provisions of this chapter, which shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding such holding. (1972 Code)
ARTICLE II. CIVIL EMERGENCY PROVISIONS
6-2-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this article:
CIVIL EMERGENCY: (A) Any riot or unlawful assembly characterized by the use of
actual force or violence, or any threat to use force if accompanied by
immediate power to execute, by three (3) or more persons acting together
without authority of law; or
   (B)   Any natural disaster or manmade calamity, including flood,
conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion within the corporate
limits of the city resulting in the death or injury of persons or the
destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary measures must be
taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare.
CURFEW: A prohibition against any person or persons walking, running,
loitering, standing or motoring upon any alley, street, highway, public
property or vacant premises within the corporate limits of the city, excepting
officials of any governmental unit and persons officially designated to duty
with reference to said civil emergency. (1972 Code)
6-2-2-2: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
Whenever a "civil emergency", as defined in section 6-2-2-1 of this chapter,
exists, the mayor shall declare its existence by means of a written declaration
setting forth the facts which constitute the emergency. (1972 Code)
6-2-2-3: GENERAL CURFEW:
After proclamation of a civil emergency by the mayor, he may order a general
curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the city, or the city as a
whole, as he deems advisable, and applicable during such hours of the day or
night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public safety and welfare.
(1972 Code)
6-2-2-4: GENERAL ORDERS:
After the proclamation of a civil emergency, the mayor may also, in the
interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail alcoholic liquor businesses, including
taverns and private clubs or portions thereof wherein the consumption of
intoxicating liquor and beer is permitted.
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away of
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   (E)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property.
   (F)   Call out the state militia to aid in suppressing riots or the carrying
into effect of any law or ordinance subject to approval of the governor of the
state as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-11-4. (1972 Code)
6-2-2-5: DURATION OF PROCLAMATION:
The proclamation herein authorized shall be effective for a period of forty
eight (48) hours, unless sooner terminated by a proclamation of the mayor
indicating that the civil emergency no longer exists. The mayor shall have the
power to reproclaim the existence of a civil emergency at the end of each forty
eight (48) hour period during the time the civil emergency exists. (1972 Code)
6-2-2-6: NOTICE OF PROCLAMATION:
Upon issuing the proclamation herein authorized, the chief of police shall
notify any news media situated within the city and shall cause three (3) copies
of the proclamation declaring the existence of the emergency to be posted at
the city hall. (1972 Code)
6-2-2-7: CONSTRUCTION:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to impair the powers
contained in other chapters of the municipal code of the city, or any rules or
regulations pursuant thereto, giving powers to the police and fire departments,
but shall be construed together with existing ordinances that are now, or shall
be, in effect for the safety and welfare of the citizens of the city. (1972
Code)
ARTICLE III. OFFENSES INVOLVING PUBLIC ORDER
6-2-3-1: DISORDERLY CONDUCT; BREACH OF PEACE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any violent, tumultuous,
offensive or disorderly conduct; by threatening, traducing, quarreling,
challenging to fight or fighting; or by using obscene, offensive, profane or
unseemly language to the annoyance, disturbance or vexation of another; or to
be guilty of any conduct calculated to breach the peace. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-2: PUBLIC INTOXICATION; BREACH OF PEACE; INCAPACITATED:
   (A)   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person in any public place
to be in such a state of intoxication that:
      1.   He is unreasonably loud, obscene or disorderly so as to breach the
peace; or
      2.   He is incoherent, incapacitated or asleep so as not to be able to
control, direct or protect himself.
   (B)   Duty To Arrest: It shall be the duty of police officers to arrest any
such person when they reasonably believe such condition exists. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-3: VAGRANCY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of "vagrancy", as herein
defined. The following persons shall be deemed vagrants:
   (A)   Burglar's Tools: Any person in whose possession shall be found any
instrument, tool or other implement for picking locks or pockets, or any
implement that is usually employed or that reasonably may be inferred to have
been designed to be employed in the commission of any felony or misdemeanor, or
in the violation of any ordinance, and who shall fail to account satisfactorily
for the possession of the same.
   (B)   Unlawful Occupancy: Any person wandering abroad and occupying, lodging
or sleeping in any vacant or unoccupied barn, garage, shed, shop or other
building or structure, or in any automobile, truck, railroad car or other
vehicle, without owning the same or without permission of the owner or person
entitled to the possession of the same, or sleeping in any vacant lot during
the hours of darkness and not giving a satisfactory account for himself.
   (C)   Begging: Any person wandering abroad and begging; or any person who
goes about from door to door of private homes or commercial and business
establishments, or places himself in or upon any public way or public place to
beg or receive alms for himself.
   (D)   Loitering: Any person found loitering or strolling, in, about or upon
any street, alley or other public way or public place, or at any public
gathering or assembly, or in or around any store, shop or business or
commercial establishment, or on any private property or place, without lawful
business and conducting himself in a lewd, lascivious manner in speech or
behavior. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-4: DISTURBING LAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully interrupt or disturb any
funeral assembly, funeral procession, school, any assembly met for the worship
of God or any other assembly met for a lawful purpose by any offensive
behavior, or by any disorderly conduct. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-5: DISTURBING ELECTION PROCESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to create any disturbance at an election
poll or to interfere with the election process. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-6: ASSAULT, BATTERY AND AFFRAY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly start a fight, or to fight, or
to commit any assault or assault and battery anywhere within the city. (1972
Code)
6-2-3-7: ASSAULT DEFINED:
A person commits an assault when, without lawful authority, he engages in
conduct which places another in reasonable apprehension of receiving a battery.
(1972 Code)
6-2-3-8: BATTERY DEFINED:
A person commits battery if he intentionally or knowingly, without legal
justification and by any means: a) causes bodily harm to an individual; or b)
makes physical contact of an insulting or provoking nature with an individual.
(1972 Code)
6-2-3-9: RECKLESS CONDUCT:
A person who causes bodily harm to or endangers the bodily safety of an
individual by any means commits reckless conduct if he performs recklessly the
acts which cause the harm or endangers the safety of an individual, whether
they are lawful or are unlawful. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-10: UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any two (2) or more persons to assemble
together for any unlawful purpose, or being assembled to act in concert to do
an unlawful act against the property of the city, or the person or property of
another, or against the public peace, or to make any movement or preparation
therefor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly suffer or permit any
assemblage for the purpose of committing any unlawful act or breach of the
peace or any riotous, offensive or disorderly conduct in or upon premises owned
or occupied by him, or under his control, within the city. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-11: MOB ACTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to participate in "mob action", as defined
herein:
   (A)   The use of force, violence or other disruptive conduct by two (2) or
more persons acting together, without lawful authority, so as to constitute a
breach of the peace; or
   (B)   The assembly of two (2) or more persons to do an unlawful act; or
   (C)   The assembly of two (2) or more persons without authority of law to do
violence to the person or property of another. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-12: OBSTRUCTING STAIRWAYS OR EXITS:
It shall be unlawful to obstruct or permit the obstruction of any stairway,
aisles, corridor or exit in any office building, factory, hotel, school,
church, theater, assembly hall, lodge or other public hall or any building used
by two (2) or more tenants or families in such a manner that it interferes with
the free use of such stairway, aisle, corridor or exit. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-13: RESISTING ARREST:
It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or wilfully resist an arrest
which he knows is being made by a police officer, or by a private person
summoned and directed by a police officer to make an arrest, even if he
believes that the arrest is unlawful, and the arrest is in fact unlawful. (1972
Code)
6-2-3-14: POLICE AND FIRE OFFICERS; INTERFERING AND OBEYING:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To knowingly prevent, obstruct, harass or endanger, by any means, any
police officer, fire officer or other official or employee or any military
personnel on emergency duty within the city, in the lawful performance of his
duties.
   (B)   To knowingly or wilfully refuse or neglect to obey, without reasonable
justification therefor, any lawful order or direction of any police officer,
fire officer or other official or employee or any military personnel on
emergency duty within the city. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-15: UNLAWFUL USE OF WEAPONS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
      1.   Possess or carry any bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sand club,
sandbag, metal knuckles or any knife, commonly referred to as a switchblade
knife, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand pressure applied to a
button, spring or other device in the handle of the knife; or
      2.   Carry or possess with intent to use the same unlawfully against
another, a dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, razor, stiletto, broken bottle
or other piece of glass, or any other dangerous or deadly weapon or instrument
of like character; or
      3.   Carry on or about his person or in any vehicle a tear gas gun
projector or bomb, or any object containing noxious liquid gas or substance; or
      4.   Carry concealed in any vehicle or concealed on or about his person,
except when on his land or in his own abode or fixed place of business, any
pistol, revolver or other firearm; or
      5.   Set a spring gun; or
      6.   Possess any device or attachment of any kind designed, used or
intended for use in silencing the report of any firearm; or
      7.   Possess or carry any weapon from which more than eight (8) shots or
bullets may be discharged by a single function of the firing device, any
shotgun with a barrel less than eighteen inches (18") in length, or any bomb,
bombshell, grenade, bottle or other container containing an explosive
substance, such as, but not limited to, black powder bombs and Molotov
cocktails; or
      8.   Carry or possess any firearm or other deadly weapon in any place
which is licensed to sell alcoholic liquor, or at any public gathering held
pursuant to a license issued by any governmental body or any public gathering
at which an admission is charged, excluding any place where a showing,
demonstration or lecture involving the exhibition of unloaded firearms is
conducted within the limits of the city.
   (B)   The presence in any automobile other than a public omnibus of any
weapon, instrument or substance referred to in subsection (A)7 of this section
is prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of, and is being carried
by, all persons occupying such automobile at the time such weapon, instrument
or substance is found, except under the following circumstances:
      1.   If such weapon, instrument or instrumentality is found upon the
person of one of the occupants therein; or
      2.   If such weapon, instrument or substance is found in an automobile
operated for hire by a duly licensed driver in the due, lawful and proper
pursuit of his trade, then such presumption shall not apply to the driver.
   (C)   Subsections (A)3 and (A)4 of this section shall not be construed to
apply to any duly authorized and appointed police officer or agent of this city
or of the state, or of the United States, or to any member of the armed forces
or reserve forces of the United States or the Illinois national guard, while in
the performance of their duties. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-16: FIRING OR DISCHARGING WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any firearm, air gun,
slingshot, bow, crossbow or other device designed to fire, project or throw any
stone, bullet or other hard substance within the city; provided, however, that
this section shall not apply to any police officer discharging a firearm in the
performance of his duty, nor any citizen from discharging any firearm when
lawfully defending his person or property. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-17: CARRYING LOADED WEAPONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, except persons permitted by law, to have
or carry any shotgun or rifle or air gun in or on any vehicle, unless such
shotgun or rifle or air gun is dismantled to render it incapable of being fired
or is unloaded when enclosed in a case; the mere removal of the bolt from a
bolt action rifle shall not be construed as dismantled so as to render it
incapable of firing. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-18: UNLAWFUL DISPLAY OF WEAPON:
It shall be unlawful for any person in possession of any weapon or device set
forth in this chapter to display or flourish any such weapon in a threatening
or boisterous manner such as might alarm a reasonable person. (1972 Code)
6-2-3-19: CONFISCATION AND DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS:
   (A)   Upon conviction of a violation of sections
6-2-3-15 through
6-2-3-18 of this article, any weapons seized shall be confiscated by the trial
court.
   (B)   Any stolen weapon so confiscated when no longer needed for evidentiary
purposes shall be returned to the person entitled to possession, if known. All
other confiscated weapons when no longer needed for evidentiary purposes shall,
in the discretion of the trial court, be destroyed or preserved as the property
of the city. (1972 Code)
ARTICLE IV. OFFENSES INVOLVING HEALTH, SAFETY AND CHILDREN
6-2-4-1: DANGEROUS FIRES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to start by any means, or to permit another
to start, any fire which endangers or damages the health, person or property of
another. (1972 Code)
6-2-4-2: BONFIRES:
It shall be unlawful to build or light any bonfire so close to any building or
other structure as to endanger such building or structure or upon any asphalt
street or sidewalk pavement. (1972 Code)
6-2-4-3: NUISANCES; CREATING, MAINTAINING:
   (A)   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to create or maintain
anywhere within the city any "nuisance", as declared or defined in title 7,
chapter 1 of this code, or to permit or direct another to do the same.
   (B)   Notice: Notice of such nuisance and violation thereof shall be given
to the person responsible or his agent, and to the proper city official whose
duties include the abatement of such nuisances. (1972 Code)
6-2-4-4: LOUD, DISTURBING AND UNNECESSARY NOISES:
   (A)   Prohibited: The creating of any unreasonably loud, disturbing and
unnecessary noise within the limits of the city is prohibited.
   (B)   Acts Specified: The following acts are declared to be loud, disturbing
and unnecessary noises in violation of this section; but this enumeration shall
not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      1.   Blowing Horns: The sounding of any horn or signal device on any
automobile, motorcycle or bus so as to create an unreasonably loud or harsh
sound; and the sounding of such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable
period of time.
      2.   Radios, Phonographs, Etc.: The playing of any radio, phonograph or
musical instrument with such volume, particularly between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., as to unreasonably annoy or
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, hospital,
dwelling, hotel or other such building.
      3.   Yelling, Shouting, Hooting, Etc.: Yelling, shouting, hooting,
whistling or singing, particularly on the public streets between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., or at any other time
or place so as to unreasonably annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
any person in the vicinity.
      4.   Pets: The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl which, by causing
frequent or long continued noises, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any
person in the vicinity.
      5.   Blowing Whistles: The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any
stationary boiler, other than to give notice of the time to begin or stop work,
or as a warning of fire or danger, or upon request of proper city authorities.
      6.   Exhaust Discharge: The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motor
boat engine, except through a muffler or other device which will effectively
prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom.
      7.   Building Operations: The erection (including excavation),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, or the excavation of streets
or public places in any residential area, other than between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., Monday through Saturday,
except in case of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and safety,
and then only with a written permit from the building inspector.
      8.   Noises Near Schools, Hospitals, Churches, Etc.: The creation of any
excessive noise on any street adjacent to any school, institution of learning,
church or court while the same are in session, or adjacent to any hospital
which unreasonably interferes with the workings or sessions thereof.
      9.   Noises To Attract Attention: The use of any drum, loudspeaker or
other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention by creation
of noise to any performance, show or sale or display of merchandise.
      10.   Loudspeakers Or Amplifiers: The unreasonable use of any amplifiers
or loudspeakers in the course of any public address. (1972 Code)
6-2-4-5: STENCH BOMBS; NAUSEOUS GASES AND SUBSTANCES:
   (A)   Prohibitions: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, drop,
pour, deposit or discharge upon the person or the property of another any
liquid, gaseous or solid substance which is injurious to persons or property or
which is nauseous, sickening, irritating or offensive to any of the senses,
with the intent to unlawfully injure, molest, discomfort or discommode another
in the use, management, conduct or control of his personal property. No person
shall attempt, or aid in the attempt or commission of, any act prohibited
herein.
   (B)   Accepted Uses: The prohibitions of subsection (A) of this section
shall not apply to police officers acting in line of duty or to proprietors of
business premises or to their employees using such substances for the
protection of such business premises when the substances referred to herein are
kept solely for the purpose of repelling robbers, thieves, burglars or other
such persons violating the law. (1972 Code)
6-2-4-6: THROWING MISSILES OR BOTTLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person purposely or recklessly to cast, throw,
drop or break any stone, rock, brick, glass bottle or other missile or
substance from any overpass or onto any street, alley or other public way or
in, at or against any person, residence, building, car or other property. (1972
Code)
6-2-4-7: ARTICLES IN WINDOWS:
It shall be unlawful to place any movable article on window ledges abutting a
public street, alley or sidewalk, in such a manner that the same can be or is
in danger of falling onto such street, alley or sidewalk. (1972 Code)
6-2-4-8: CURFEW FOR CHILDREN:
   (A)   Sixteen Years And Younger: It shall be unlawful for any minor person
sixteen (16) years of age or younger to be present at or upon any public
assembly, building, place, street or highway at the following times unless
accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian or other responsible
companion at least eighteen (18) years of age approved by a parent or legal
guardian, or unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws of this
state authorize a person sixteen (16) years of age or less to perform:
      1.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Friday and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. on Saturday.
      2.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Saturday and six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. on Sunday.
      3.   Between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive,
and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   (B)   Over Sixteen Years: It shall be unlawful for a person over sixteen
(16) years of age but less than eighteen (18) years of age to be present at or
upon any public assembly, building, place, street or highway at the following
times, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian, or other
responsible companion at least eighteen (18) years of age approved by a parent
or legal guardian, or unless engaged in a business or occupation which the laws
of this state authorize a person under the age of eighteen (18) years of age to
perform:
      1.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Saturday.
      2.   Between one minute after twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. and six o'clock
(6:00) A.M. on Sunday.
      3.   Between eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on Sunday to Thursday,
inclusive, and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the following day.
   (C)   Parent Violation: It shall be unlawful for a parent, legal guardian or
other person to knowingly permit a person in his or her custody or control to
violate subsection (A) or (B) of this section.
   (D)   Penalty: A person convicted of a violation of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be fined fifty dollars
($50.00) for the first offense and not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each subsequent offense. (Ord. 90-06, 4-17-1990)
6-2-4-9: SALE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person, after purchasing or otherwise obtaining
alcoholic liquor, to sell, give or deliver such alcoholic liquor to another
person under the age of twenty one (21) years, except in the performance of a
religious ceremony or service. (1972 Code)
6-2-4-10: POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR BY MINOR PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery
of alcoholic liquor is prohibited by this chapter to purchase or accept a gift
of alcoholic liquor or to have alcoholic liquor in his possession.
   (B)   The presence in a vehicle, other than a public omnibus, of any
alcoholic liquor shall be prima facie evidence that it is in the possession of,
and is being carried by, all persons occupying such vehicle at the time of
which such alcoholic liquor is found, except under the following circumstances:
      1.   If such liquor is found on the person of one of the occupants
therein; or
      2.   If such vehicle contains at least one occupant over twenty one (21)
years of age. (1972 Code)
6-2-4-11: CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR BY MINORS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person under twenty one (21) years of age to
consume alcoholic liquor. (1972 Code)
6-2-4-12: EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   Nothing in *sections
6-2-4-10 and
 6-2-4-11 of this article shall be deemed to prohibit the possession,
dispensing or consumption of a minor of alcoholic liquor in the performance of
a religious service or ceremony or the consumption by a minor under the direct
supervision and approval of the parent or parents or legal guardian of such
minor in the privacy of a home.
   (B)   Sections
6-2-4-10 and 6-4-2-11 of this article shall not apply to the sale, gift or
delivery of beer and wine to persons under the age of twenty one (21) but at
least nineteen (19) years of age. (Ord. 1006, 11-6-1973)
6-2-4-13: USE OF FORGED IDENTIFICATION CARD TO OBTAIN LIQUOR PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to display an
identification card that:
      1.   Is altered or defaced in any manner; or
      2.   Is false or forged; or
      3.   Is the identification card of another; or
      4.   Was obtained by means of false information; to induce another to
sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to the bearer.
   (B)   Defined: For the purposes of this section, an "identification card" is
defined as any document issued by a public officer in the performance of his
official duties which on its face purports to identify the name and age of the
bearer. (1972 Code)
6-2-4-14: SALE OF FIREARMS OR WEAPONS TO MINORS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell to any minor person any
firearm, bludgeon, blackjack, slingshot, sand club, sandbag, metal knuckles,
dagger, dirk, billy, dangerous knife, stiletto or any knife commonly referred
to as a switchblade, which has a blade that opens automatically by hand
pressure applied to a button, spring or other device in the handle of the
knife.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, lend, rent, give or
otherwise transfer any "air rifle" to a person under thirteen (13) years of age
except where the relationship of parent-child, guardian-ward, or adult
instructor-pupil exists between such person and the person under thirteen (13)
years of age.
   (C)   It shall be an affirmative defense for any person having sold such
weapon that:
      1.   The minor procured the sale by use of false or forged identification
cards; and
      2.   That he did not know, and could not reasonably have known, of the
falsity or forgery; and
      3.   That he exercised reasonable diligence to determine the veracity of
the representation. (1972 Code)
6-2-4-15: SNIFFING OR INHALING OF INTOXICANTS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sniff, inhale or breathe the
vapors of any glue, kerosene, gasoline, cleaning fluid or other substance not
manufactured or produced for such human consumption for the purpose of becoming
intoxicated.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to command, encourage, request,
aid or abet any other person to violate the provisions of this section. (1972
Code)
ARTICLE V. OFFENSES INVOLVING PROPERTY
6-2-5-1: CRIMINAL HOUSING MANAGEMENT:
A person commits the offense of criminal housing management when, having
personal management or control of residential real estate, whether as legal or
equitable owner, or as a managing agent or otherwise, he knowingly permits by
his gross carelessness or neglect the physical condition or facilities of the
residential real estate to become or remain so deteriorated that the health or
safety of any person is endangered. (1972 Code)
6-2-5-2: TRESPASS TO LAND AND BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Trespasses Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to commit a trespass within this municipality upon either public or
private property.
   (B)   Specifically Enumerated Trespasses, Suppression: Without constituting
any limitation upon the provisions of subsection (A) of this section, any of
the following acts by any person, firm or corporation shall be deemed included
among those that constitute trespasses in violation of the provisions of said
subsection (A) of this section, and appropriate action may be taken hereunder
at any time, or from time to time, to prevent or suppress any violation or
violations of this chapter, the aforesaid enumerated acts so included, being as
follows:
      1.   To enter upon the premises, or any part thereof, of another,
including any public property in violation of a notice posted or exhibited at
the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry or in
violation of any notice, warning or protest, given orally or in writing, by any
owner or occupant thereof; or
      2.   To pursue a course of conduct or action incidental to the making of
an entry upon the land of another in violation of a notice posted or exhibited
at the main entrance to said premises or at any point of approach or entry, or
in violation of any notice, warning or protest given orally or in writing by
the owner or occupant thereof; or
      3.   To fail or refuse to depart from the premises of another in case of
being requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by any owner or occupant
thereof; or
      4.   To enter into or upon any vehicle, aircraft or watercraft made
without the consent of the person having the right to the possession or control
thereof, or a failure or refusal to leave any such vehicle, aircraft or
watercraft after being requested to leave by the person having such right.
(1972 Code)
6-2-5-3: MALICIOUS MISCHIEF OR DESTRUCTION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously tear
up, injure, deface or destroy any property, real or personal, belonging to the
city; or any property, used in any business impressed with a public interest
and usually designated as a public service corporation, i.e., waterworks, gas,
electric light, telephone, street, railroad or steam heating companies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously
interfere or meddle in any way with the operation of any such business, as
above enumerated. (1972 Code)
6-2-5-4: COIN OPERATED MACHINES, SLUGS, TAMPERING:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to insert, or attempt to insert,
in any parking meter, vending machine or other coin operated device, any slug,
counterfeit coin or other foreign or metallic substance not a coin of the
United States currency.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to wilfully and maliciously
injure, deface, destroy or otherwise tamper with any parking meter, vending
machine or other coin operated device. (1972 Code)
ARTICLE VI. OFFENSES INVOLVING MORALITY
6-2-6-1: PROSTITUTION DEFINED:
Any person who performs or offers or agrees to perform any of the following
acts for money commits an act of prostitution:
   (A)   Any act of sexual intercourse; or
   (B)   Any act of deviate sexual conduct, meaning any act of sexual
gratification involving the sex organs of one person and the mouth or anus of
another. (1972 Code)
6-2-6-2: KEEPING A PLACE OF PROSTITUTION:
Any person who keeps, maintains or exercises control over the use of any
premises which could offer seclusion or shelter for the practice of
prostitution, and who performs any of the following acts, shall be deemed to
keep a place of prostitution:
   (A)   Knowingly grants or permits the use of such premises for the purpose
of prostitution; or
   (B)   Grants or permits the use of such premises under circumstances from
which he should reasonably be aware that such premises are used or about to be
used for purposes of prostitution; or
   (C)   Permits the continued use of premises after becoming aware of facts or
circumstances from which he should reasonably know that such premises are being
used for purposes of prostitution. (1972 Code)
6-2-6-3: PATRONIZING A PROSTITUTE:
Any person who performs any of the following acts with a person not his spouse
commits the offense of patronizing a prostitute:
   (A)   Engages in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate sexual conduct with
a prostitute; or
   (B)   Enters or remains in a place of prostitution in the company of a
prostitute with the intent to engage in an act of sexual intercourse or deviate
sexual conduct. (1972 Code)
6-2-6-4: SOLICITING FOR A PROSTITUTE:
Any person who performs any of the following acts commits soliciting for a
prostitute:
   (A)   Solicit another person for the purpose of prostitution; or
   (B)   Arranges or offers to arrange a meeting of persons for the purpose of
prostitution; or
   (C)   Directs another person to a place knowing such direction is for the
purpose of prostitution. (1972 Code)
6-2-6-5: PANDERING:
Any person who performs any of the following acts for money commits pandering:
   (A)   Compels a female to become a prostitute; or
   (B)   Arranges or offers to arrange a situation in which a female may commit
prostitution. (1972 Code)
6-2-6-6: PIMPING:
Any person who receives money or other property from a prostitute, not for a
lawful consideration, knowing it was earned in whole or in part from an act of
prostitution, commits pimping. (1972 Code)
6-2-6-7: PUBLIC INDECENCY; ACTS OR LANGUAGE PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any indecent, lewd or
lascivious act in any public place in the city, or to utter any lewd or
offensive words or to use any threatening or abusive language publicly and
within the hearing of another person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to appear in a public place in a
state of nudity, or to make any indecent exposure of his person or to be guilty
of any other lewd or indecent act or behavior.
   (C)   "Public place", for purposes of this section, means any place where
such conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others. (1972 Code)
6-2-6-8: OBSCENITY DEFINED; PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit, sell, print,
offer to sell, give away, circulate, publish, distribute or attempt to
distribute any obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, paper, writing, card,
advertisement, circular, print, picture, photograph, motion picture film, play,
image, instrument, statue, drawing or other article which is obscene.
   (B)   "Obscene", for the purpose of this section, is defined as follows:
Whether to a reasonable person applying contemporary community standards, the
dominant theme of the material taken as a whole appeals to prurient interests,
and is without redeeming social value. (1972 Code)
6-2-6-9: OBSCENE MARKING IN PUBLIC VIEW PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to write, mark, draw, cut or make any
profane or indecent words, sentence, design or figure in any place open to
public view. (1972 Code)
6-2-6-10: OBSCENITY; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
It shall be an affirmative defense to charge under sections
6-2-6-8 and
 6-2-6-9 of this article that the dissemination:
   (A)   Was not for sale or gain, and was made only to personal associates
other than children under eighteen (18) years of age; or
   (B)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other special
education purpose for possession of such material. (1972 Code)
6-2-6-11: WINDOW PEEPING PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to look, peer, peep into or be found
loitering about and within view of any window within a building occupied as a
residence of another, with the intent of watching or observing the activities
of persons therein. (1972 Code)
6-2-6-12: GAMBLING PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Prohibition: It shall be unlawful for any person to gamble within the
city, unless permitted under, and in compliance with, the Illinois video gaming
act 1 . Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to prohibit an activity lawful
under the laws of the state. (Ord. 12-08, 8-21-2012)
   (B)   Premises Used For Gambling: It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly permit any premises owned, occupied or controlled by him to be used
as a gambling place within the city.
   (C)   Gambling Defined: For the purposes of this section:
      1.   "Gambling" occurs when any person:
         (a)   Plays a game of chance or skill for money or other things of
value; or
         (b)   Makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest or any
political nomination, appointment or election; or
         (c)   Operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents, sells,
bargains for the sale or lease of any gambling device; or
         (d)   Knowingly owns or possesses any books, instruments or apparatus
by means of which bets or wagers have been or are recorded or registered; or
         (e)   Sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of skill or
chance, political nomination, appointment or election; or
         (f)   Sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell or
offers or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery; or
         (g)   Sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to sell or
knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket or other similar device; or
         (h)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game or drafts,
prints or publishes any lottery ticket or share or any policy ticket or similar
device or any advertisement of any lottery or policy game; or
         (i)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds or
chances in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs equipment for the transmission or receipt of such
information; except that nothing in this subsection shall prohibit transmission
or receipt of such information for the use of news reporting of sporting events
or contests.
      2.   "Gambling place" means any real estate, vehicle, boat or any other
property whatsoever used for the purpose of gambling.
      3.   "Gambling device" means any clock, tape machine, slot machine or
other machines or devices for the reception of money or other things of value
on chance or skill or upon the action of which money or other thing of value is
staked, hazarded, bet, won or lost, or any mechanism, furniture, fixture,
equipment or other device designed primarily for use in a gambling place.
However, a gambling device does not include:
         (a)   A coin operated mechanical device played for amusement which
awards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which device
is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operations thereof
depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the player
thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property, and which is
commonly known as a pinball machine; or
         (b)   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for
the money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard.
      4.   "Lottery" means any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes
are distributed by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration
for a chance to win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a
lottery, raffle, gift or sale of some other name.
      5.   "Policy game" means any scheme or procedure whereby a person
promises or guarantees by an instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or
other device that any particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall
in the event of any contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the
purchaser or holder to receive money, property or evidence of debt.
   (D)   Food And Liquor Licenses: Whenever any premises is determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be a gambling place, all city licenses or
permits issued authorizing the serving of food or alcoholic liquor on such
premises shall become void; and no license or permit so voided shall be
reissued for such premises for a period of sixty (60) days thereafter; nor
shall any person convicted of keeping a gambling place be reissued any such
license or permit for one year from date of his conviction, and after a second
conviction of keeping a gambling place, any such person shall not be reissued
any such license or permit.
   (E)   Seizure Of Gambling Devices And Gambling Funds: Every gambling device
which is incapable of lawful use constitutes contraband and shall be subject to
seizure and confiscation by city police officers. Any money or other thing of
value intricately related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited as
contraband to the city. Disposition of such gambling devices seized or
confiscated shall be made according to law. (1972 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.
ARTICLE VII. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
6-2-7-1: VIOLATION OF CIVIL RIGHTS; ELEMENTS:
A person commits a violation of civil rights when:
   (A)   He prevents, interferes with or denies to another, or conspires to do
the same, the full and equal access to and enjoyment of the facilities and
services of any office, place, business, accommodation, amusement or conveyance
because of race, religion, color or national ancestry; or
   (B)   As an official, he refuses to employ, discriminates in employment, or
participates in a scheme which discriminates in employment for any work, job,
office or project because of race, religion, color or national ancestry; or
   (C)   As an official, he denies or refuses to any person the full and equal
access, use or enjoyment of the services, facilities, accommodations,
advantages or privileges of his office, or of any property accommodations or
facilities under his care, because of race, religion, color or national
ancestry. (1972 Code)
6-2-7-2: SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATION OF CIVIL RIGHTS:
   (A)   Enjoining As Public Nuisance: Any violation of civil rights occurring
in any public office, accommodation or amusement is declared to be a public
nuisance and may be abated in any manner provided by this code for the
abatement of public nuisances.
   (B)   Discharge Of Public Officials: Whenever any public official shall be
found guilty of a violation of civil rights, the person aggrieved, or the city
attorney on his behalf, may file a petition in the circuit court to discharge
such official from office. The court shall order that such official be
immediately relieved of his office or duties and shall order such official to
resign or be removed or discharged. Any person violating or refusing to enforce
any such court order or decree shall be deemed in contempt of court.
   (C)   Penalties Not Exclusive: The penalties and remedies herein provided
shall not be deemed mutually exclusive. (1972 Code)
6-2-7-3: NECESSITY AS AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
Conduct which would otherwise be an offense under this chapter is justifiable
by reason of necessity if the accused was without blame in occasioning or
developing the situation, and he reasonably believed such conduct was necessary
to avoid a public or private injury greater than the injury which might
reasonably result from his own conduct. (1972 Code)
6-2-7-4: BRIBERY; OFFERING OR ACCEPTING:
It shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To offer, promise or give to any official, police officer or employee
of the city any money, reward, service, privilege or thing of value which he
may not otherwise lawfully accept, with intent to influence the performance or
nonperformance of any official act, function, duty or employment.
   (B)   To agree to accept, receive or retain any money, reward, service,
privilege or thing of value which he may not otherwise lawfully accept, knowing
or with reason to know that such benefit was offered, promised or given with
intent to influence him in the performance or nonperformance of any official
act, function, duty or employment. (1972 Code)
6-2-7-5: SOLICITATION TO COMMIT OFFENSE:
A person commits solicitation when, with intent that an offense be committed,
he commands, encourages or requests another person to commit that offense.
(1972 Code)
6-2-7-6: CONSPIRACY TO COMMIT OFFENSE:
A person commits conspiracy when, with intent that an offense be committed, he
agrees with another person to the commission of that offense. No person may be
convicted of conspiracy to commit an offense unless an act in furtherance of
such agreement is alleged and proved to have been committed by him or by a
coconspirator. (1972 Code)
6-2-7-7: SOLICITATION AND CONSPIRACY; AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE:
It shall be a defense to a charge of solicitation or conspiracy that if the
criminal objects were achieved the accused would not be guilty of the offense.
(1972 Code)
6-2-7-8: TELEPHONE SOLICITATION OR PROMOTION; REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   (A)   Certificate Of Registration: It shall be unlawful for any person in
his own name, or in the name of or for the benefit of any other person to
conduct any sales campaign or sales promotion of any nature whatsoever through
the use of the telephone, without having first obtained a certificate of
registration from the city clerk.
   (B)   Application: Application for such registration shall be made to the
city clerk, setting forth the name of the applicant, his employer or
organization, the article or goods proposed to be sold, terms of sale, length
of time such campaign or promotion is sought to be continued, and names and
addresses of all persons assisting in such campaign or promotion within the
city.
   (C)   Prohibited Solicitation: It shall be unlawful for any person to
conduct or make any solicitation by telephone for any pecuniary compensation or
other profit on behalf of any actual or purported charitable use, purpose,
association, corporation or institution. (1972 Code)
6-2-7-9: TELEPHONES; OBSCENE, ANONYMOUS, MISREPRESENTED CALLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make, or permit another to make, any
obscene, anonymous or falsely represented telephone calls to another person for
the purpose or reason of nuisance or harassment. (1972 Code)
6-2-7-10: FALSE ALARMS; POLICE, FIRE, AMBULANCE:
It shall be unlawful to intentionally make, turn in or give any false alarm of
fire or of need of police or ambulance assistance, or to aid or abet in the
commission of such act. (1972 Code)
6-2-7-11: CLIMBING UTILITY POLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to climb upon any telegraph pole, telephone
pole, electric light pole or sign pole unless in the performance of his duties.
(1972 Code)
6-2-7-12: INTIMIDATION DEFINED; PROHIBITED:
A person commits intimidation when, with intent to cause another person to
perform or to omit the performance of any act, he communicates to another
without otherwise lawful authority a threat to perform any of the following
acts:
   (A)   Inflict physical harm on the person threatened or any other person or
property; or
   (B)   Subject any person to physical confinement or restraint; or
   (C)   Commit any criminal offense; or
   (D)   Accuse any person of an offense; or
   (E)   Expose any person to hatred, contempt or ridicule; or
   (F)   Take action as a public official against anyone or anything or
withhold official action, or cause such action or withholding; or
   (G)   Bring about or continue any strike, boycott or other collective or mob
action. (1972 Code)
6-2-7-13: LITTERING ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or deposit litter:
   (A)   In any park, school grounds or other public place within the City,
except in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be
prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of such
property or upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are
not provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere; or
   (B)   On any private property within the City limits, whether owned by such
person or not, except that the owner or person in control of private property
may maintain authorized private receptacles for collection in such a manner
that litter will be prevented from being carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk or other public place or upon any private property;
or
   (C)   On any open or vacant private property within the City whether owned
by such person or not. (Ord. 97-11, 8-19-1997)
ARTICLE VIII. TOBACCO PRODUCTS
6-2-8-1: SALE, USE AND POSSESSION:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether acting individually, or
as an owner, officer, employee or agent of or on behalf of, any person, firm or
corporation to sell, buy for, distribute samples of, furnish, exchange or give
away any tobacco product in any form to any individual under the age of
eighteen (18) years.
   (B)   No individual under the age of eighteen (18) years shall have in his
or her possession or use any tobacco product in any form. It shall not be a
violation of this section for any such person to have in his or her possession
or use any tobacco product while in the presence of his or her parents or legal
guardians, or in the performance of a religious ceremony. (Ord. 97-13, 10-7-
1997)
6-2-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
POSSESSION: To knowingly have upon one's person or to have in close proximity.
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Cigarettes, cigars, any smokeless tobacco, which means
tobacco in any form which is suitable for dipping or chewing, or tobacco in any
form.
USE: To smoke, dip, or chew tobacco in any of its forms. (Ord. 97-13, 10-7-
1997)
6-2-8-3: PENALTY:
   (A)   A violation of subsection
6-2-8-1(A) of this article is a petty offense and shall be punishable by a fine
not to exceed fifty dollars ($50.00) for a first offense and a fine not to
exceed four hundred dollars ($400.00) for a second or any subsequent offense.
   (B)   A violation of subsection
6-2-8-1(B) of this article is a petty offense and may be punishable by a fine
not to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00) for a first offense or second
offense and a fine not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) for a third or
subsequent offense. (Ord. 97-13, 10-7-1997)
ARTICLE IX. POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
6-2-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
All defined terms used in this article which are not expressly defined herein
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act or the Illinois Cannabis Control Act. As used in this article,
unless the context otherwise requires:
CANNABIS: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 3 of the Illinois
Cannabis Control Act, as if that definition were incorporated herein.
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES: Shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act, as if that definition were incorporated herein.
DELIVER OR DELIVERY: The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of
possession, with or without consideration, whether or not there is an agency
relationship.
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA: (A) All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are used, intended for use or assigned for use, in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body, cannabis or a controlled substance in
violation of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act. It includes, but is not limited to:
         1. Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing cannabis or
controlled substances.
         2. Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is cannabis or a
controlled substance.
         3. Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of cannabis
or controlled substances.
         4. Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use in
weighing or measuring cannabis or controlled substances.
         5. Diluents and adulterants, such as quinine, hydrochloride, mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose used, intended for use or designed for use in
cutting cannabis or controlled substances.
         6. Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use or designed in
removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining cannabis.
         7. Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding cannabis or controlled
substances.
         8. Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of cannabis or
controlled substances.
         9. Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed for
use in storing or concealing cannabis or controlled substances.
         10. Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended for
use or designed for use in parenterally injecting cannabis or controlled
substances into the human body.
         11. Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil
into the human body, such as:
              (a) Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic
pipes with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured
metal bowls.
              (b) Water pipes.
              (c) Carburetion tubes and devices.
              (d) Smoking and carburetion masks.
              (e) Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning material,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand.
              (f) Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials.
              (g) Chamber pipes.
              (h) Carburetor pipes.
              (i) Electric pipes.
              (j) Air driven pipes.
              (k) Chillums.
              (l) Bongs.
              (m) Ice pipes or chillers.
   (B)   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or
other authority considers, in addition to all other logically relevant factors,
the following:
         1. Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use.
         2. Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in control of
the object, under any State or Federal law relating to any controlled
substance.
         3. The proximity of the object in time and space to direct violation
of this article.
         4. The proximity of the object to cannabis or a controlled substance.
         5. The existence of any residue of cannabis or controlled substances
on the object.
         6. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner or of
anyone in control of the object to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows
or should reasonably know intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
the Illinois Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act.
The innocence of an owner or of anyone in control of the object as to a direct
violation of the Illinois Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled
Substances Act shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended for use
or assigned for use as "drug paraphernalia".
         7. Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use.
        8. Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use.
         9. National and local advertising concerning its use.
         10. The manner in which the object is displayed for sale.
         11. Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products.
         12. Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise.
         13. The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community.
         14. Expert testimony concerning its use.
MANUFACTURE: The production, preparation, propagation, compounding, conversion
or processing of cannabis, either directly or indirectly, by extraction from
substances of natural origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis,
or by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis, and includes any
packaging or repackaging of cannabis or labeling of its container; except, that
manufacture does not include the preparation, compounding, packaging or
labeling of cannabis as an incident to lawful research, teaching or chemical
analysis and not for sale.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, government or governmental subdivision or
agency, business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, or any other
entity.
PRODUCE OR PRODUCTION: Planting, cultivating, tending or harvesting.
PRODUCT CONTAINING A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG: Any product containing a
"synthetic cannabinoid", as the term is defined herein, or a drug that is
misbranded or falsely advertised as a product containing a synthetic
alternative drug.
STATE: Includes the State of Illinois and any state, district, commonwealth,
territory, insular possession thereof, and any area subject to the legal
authority of the United States of America.
SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID: Any compound that functions similar to the active
ingredient in marijuana, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), including, but not limited
to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture,
preparation, substance and their analog (including isomers, esters, ethers,
salts, and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor agonist. (Ord.
17-06, 6-20-2017)
6-2-9-2: UNLAWFUL USE OR POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
It is unlawful for any person to use or to possess with intent to use drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale, or otherwise introduce into
the human body, cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the Illinois
Cannabis Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act. (Ord. 17-06, 6-
20-2017)
6-2-9-3: POSSESSION OF NOT MORE THAN TEN GRAMS OF CANNABIS:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly possess not more than ten grams (10
g) of any substance containing cannabis. (Ord. 17-06, 6-20-2017)
6-2-9-4: POSSESSION OF NOT MORE THAN THIRTY GRAMS OF CANNABIS:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly possess more than ten grams (10 g)
and not more than thirty grams (30 g) of any substance containing cannabis.
(Ord. 17-06, 6-20-2017)
6-2-9-5: DELIVERY OR INTENT TO DELIVER DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   (A)   Prohibited Generally: It is unlawful for any person to deliver,
possess with intent to deliver or manufacture with intent to deliver drug
paraphernalia knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know,
that it will be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain, inject, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human
body, cannabis or a controlled substance in violation of the Illinois Cannabis
Control Act or the Illinois Controlled Substances Act. (Ord. 17-06, 6-20-2017)
6-2-9-6: ADVERTISING DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill or
other publication any advertisement knowing, or under circumstances where one
reasonably should know, that the purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in
part, is to promote the sale of objects designed or intended for use as drug
paraphernalia. (Ord. 17-06, 6-20-2017)
6-2-9-7: SALE OR DELIVERY OF A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG:
It is unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, publicly display for
sale or attempt to sell, give, deliver, or barter any product containing a
synthetic alternative drug. (Ord. 17-06, 6-20-2017)
6-2-9-8: POSSESSION OF A SYNTHETIC ALTERNATIVE DRUG:
It is unlawful for any person to knowingly possess or deliver a product
containing a synthetic alternative drug with the intent of using the product
for ingestion, consumption, inhaling, or intravenous use. In determining intent
under this division, a trier of fact may take into consideration, among other
things: the proximity of the product to drug paraphernalia; the presence of the
product on or within drug paraphernalia; and whether or not the individual in
possession of the product is exhibiting physical effects commonly associated
with being under the influence of cannabis. (Ord. 17-06, 6-20-2017)
6-2-9-9: MANUFACTURE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to manufacture, or assemble the ingredients
with the intent to manufacture, a product containing a synthetic alternative
drug. In determining intent under this division, a trier of fact may take into
consideration, among other things: the proximity of the product or ingredients
to drug paraphernalia; the presence of the product or ingredients on or within
drug paraphernalia. (Ord. 17-06, 6-20-2017)
6-2-9-10: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of section
6-2-9-2 of this article, as it relates to cannabis, or section
6-2-9-3 of this article shall be subject to a minimum fine of two hundred fifty
dollars ($250.00) and a maximum fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
   (B)   Any person found to be in violation of section
6-2-9-2 of this article, as it relates to any drug other than cannabis, or
section
6-2-9-4,
6-2-9-5,
6-2-9-6, or
6-2-9-7 of this article shall be subject to fine of not less than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation thereof.
   (C)   Any person found to be in violation of section
6-2-9-8 or
6-2-9-9 of this article shall be subject to a fine of not less than five
hundred dollars ($500.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each violation thereof.
   (D)   Each violation of this article, or every day a violation continues to
exist, shall constitute a new and separate violation. (Ord. 17-06, 6-20-2017)
6-2-9-11: SPECIAL FUND:
One-half (1/2) of all fines and penalties received under the foregoing sections
of this article shall be placed in a special fund. The fund shall be used as
directed by the City Council from time to time for the enforcement and
prevention of alcohol and drug abuse by minors and others in the City. The
remaining one- half (1/2) of said monies shall be deposited in the City Police
Fund. (Ord. 17-06, 6-20-2017)
CHAPTER 3
ANIMALS
SECTION:
   Article I. In General; Dogs And Cats
6-3-1-1: Definitions
6-3-1-2: Dog License Required
6-3-1-3: Exceptions (Rep. by Ord. 80-101, 2-19-1980; eff. 3-11-1980)
6-3-1-4: Unauthorized Transfer Of License
6-3-1-5: Tag To Be Affixed To Collar
6-3-1-6: Unauthorized Removal Of Collar Or Tags
6-3-1-7: Penalties
6-3-1-8: Collar Required; Cats
6-3-1-9: Identification Tags Required; Cats
6-3-1-10: Impoundment Of Cats Creating Nuisances
   Article II. Rabies Control
6-3-2-1: Rabies Vaccination Required
6-3-2-2: Certificate Of Vaccination
6-3-2-3: Duties Of Owner
6-3-2-4: Duties Of Persons Suspecting Any Dog To Be Suffering From Rabies
6-3-2-5: Duties Of Police Department
6-3-2-6: Confinement For Observation
6-3-2-7: Rabies Epidemic; Power Of Mayor
6-3-2-8: Duties Of Owners Upon Proclamation Of Rabies Epidemic
6-3-2-9: Police Authorized To Kill Certain Dogs Running At Large
6-3-2-10: False Reports Prohibited
   Article III. Offenses Involving Animals
6-3-3-1: Annoying Noises
6-3-3-2: Causing Animal To Make Annoying Noises
6-3-3-3: Complaint Of Annoying Noises
6-3-3-4: Animals Disturbing The Peace Declared Nuisance
6-3-3-5: Dogs Running At Large
6-3-3-6: Dogs Running At Large Declared Nuisance
6-3-3-7: Defecation By Dogs On Private Property
6-3-3-8: Destruction Of Private Property By Dog
6-3-3-9: Restriction Of Animals From Public Places
6-3-3-10: Threatening Or Annoying Dogs
6-3-3-11: Dogs Chasing Vehicles Or Bicycles
6-3-3-12: Authority To Take Up Dogs Running At Large On Private Property Or
Public Places
6-3-3-13: Dangerous Dogs
6-3-3-14: Impounding Dangerous Dogs
6-3-3-15: Cruelty To Animals
6-3-3-16: Duty Upon Striking Animal With Motor Vehicle
6-3-3-17: Intentional Injuring Of Animals
6-3-3-18: Procurement Of Animal Without Knowledge Of Owner
6-3-3-19: Abandoning Animals Within City
6-3-3-20: Keeping Animals In Sanitary Condition
6-3-3-21: Offensive Odors
6-3-3-22: Female Dogs In Heat
6-3-3-23: Use Of Animals For Indecent Purposes
6-3-3-24: Certain Animals Prohibited In City
6-3-3-25: Diseased Or Dying Animals; Running At Large
6-3-3-26: Dead Or Dying Animals; Removal Required
6-3-3-27: Dead Or Dying Animals; Burial, Throwing Into Streets, Keeping
   Article IV. Penalties
6-3-4-1: Liability Of Owners Or Keeper; Damage To Animals
6-3-4-2: Liability Of Owners Or Keeper; Injury To Persons
6-3-4-3: Liability Of Owners Or Keeper; Damage To Property
6-3-4-4: Dangerous Animals
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL; DOGS AND CATS
6-3-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
ANIMAL: Any and all types of animals, both domesticated and wild, male and
female, singular and plural.
AT LARGE: Any animal found upon the public streets, sidewalks, alleys, parkways
or any unenclosed place, unless such animal is firmly held on a leash or is in
an enclosed vehicle.
BITING: To seize or pierce the clothing or skin, or attempt to seize or pierce
the clothing or skin, of a person or the skin of another animal, by the teeth
of an animal.
CRUELTY TO ANIMALS: Includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the following:
   (A)   Overloading, overdriving, overworking, beating, torturing, abusing,
tormenting, knowingly poisoning, knowingly attempting to poison, mutilating or
killing any animal or causing or knowingly permitting the same to be done.
   (B)   Working any old, lame, infirm, sick or disabled animal, or causing or
knowingly permitting the same to be done.
   (C)   Unnecessarily failing to provide an animal in one's charge or custody,
as owner or otherwise, with proper food, drink and proper sanitary shelter.
   (D)   Abandoning any old, lame, infirm, sick or disabled animal by leaving
such animal on any highway or public way or in any other place where it may
suffer injury, hunger, exposure or become a public charge.
DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog which has bitten any person or which causes reasonable
fear of bodily injury to any person by attacking or threatening to attack such
person.
DOG: Any and all animals of the canine species.
KENNEL: Any premises or portions thereof on which four (4) or more dogs, cats
or other household domestic animals, or any combination thereof, over four (4)
months of age are kept.
OWNER: (A) Any person owning, harboring or keeping an animal within the city.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, the person last issued a dog license
shall be presumed to be the owner of such dog.
   (C)   A person harboring or keeping an unlicensed animal in the city for a
period of five (5) days shall be presumed to be the owner of such animal. (1972
Code; amd. Ord. 80-101, 2-19-1980, eff. 3-11-1980; Ord. 06-04, 3-21-2006; Ord.
06-08, 7-25-2006)
6-3-1-2: DOG LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess or maintain any dog within
the city without first securing any license or tag required by state or county
law, or by this code. (1972 Code)
6-3-1-3: EXCEPTIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 80-101, 2-19-1980, eff. 3-11-1980)
6-3-1-4: UNAUTHORIZED TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place any license tag on any dog other
than the dog for which such tag was issued. (1972 Code)
6-3-1-5: TAG TO BE AFFIXED TO COLLAR:
   (A)   Requirements: The owner of a dog shall provide the dog with a collar
or harness made of leather, metal or other substantial material, to which shall
be securely fastened all proper license tags and also a tag issued by the state
rabies inspector, deputy inspector or any licensed veterinarian showing that
such dog has been vaccinated against rabies during the current or immediately
preceding year.
   (B)   Impound For Violation: A dog found within the city not wearing the
proper collar and tags shall be impounded. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 1001, 5-16-
1972)
6-3-1-6: UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF COLLAR OR TAGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the owner to remove or
take away any dog or cat collar or rabies vaccination tag from any dog or cat;
provided, however, that this section shall not apply to any governmental
official in the exercise of his duties. (Ord. 91-10, 11-5-1991)
6-3-1-7: PENALTIES:
In addition to the other penalties provided by this chapter, the following
penalty shall be assessed against the owner for the following violations:
   (A)   Allowing a dog to run at large in violation of section
6-3-3-5 of this chapter, or allowing a cat to violate the terms and provisions
hereof:
 
First offense        $ 35.00
Second offense       60.00
Subsequent offenses  110.00
 
   (B)   Allowing a dangerous dog to run at large in violation of section
6-3-3-13 of this chapter:
 
First offense                   $ 35.00
Second and subsequent offenses  110.00
 
   (C)   In addition to the penalties listed in subsections (A) and (B) of this
section, the owner shall pay to the city a boarding fee of twenty five dollars
($25.00) per day for each day the city temporarily impounds the owner's animal
for a violation of any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 06-08, 7-25-2006)
6-3-1-8: COLLAR REQUIRED; CATS:
No person shall own, possess, keep, maintain or harbor any cat over four (4)
months of age without providing such cat with a collar to be worn at all times.
Collars shall be a humane breakaway type or suitable harness. (Ord. 91-10, 11-
5-1991)
6-3-1-9: IDENTIFICATION TAGS REQUIRED; CATS:
All cats shall have affixed to their collars or harness an identification tag
stating the owner's name, current address and telephone number. (Ord. 91-10,
11-5-1991)
6-3-1-10: IMPOUNDMENT OF CATS CREATING NUISANCES:
No person owning, possessing or harboring any cat shall permit his/her animal
to become a nuisance. A cat shall be considered a nuisance if said animal:
   (A)   Substantially damages property other than that of the owner; or
   (B)   Causes unsanitary, dangerous or unreasonably offensive conditions; or
   (C)   Causes a disturbance by excessive caterwauling or other noisemaking;
or
   (D)   Interferes with any person or domestic animals while off the premises
of the cat owner.
Any cat found to be violating any of the provisions hereof shall be taken up
and impounded whenever possible, and any city officer or the duly designated
representatives of the city officers or officials shall be hereby authorized to
impound such cats. (Ord. 91-10, 11-5-1991)
ARTICLE II. RABIES CONTROL
6-3-2-1: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
The owner of a dog four (4) months or more of age, located within the city,
shall cause such dog to be inoculated by the state rabies inspector, or by his
deputy or by any licensed veterinarian. (1972 Code)
6-3-2-2: CERTIFICATE OF VACCINATION:
Every licensed veterinarian who vaccinates a dog shall issue a certificate of
vaccination to the owner of such dog stating the name and address of the owner,
a brief description of the dog and the date of such vaccination. (1972 Code)
6-3-2-3: DUTIES OF OWNER:
   (A)   Any owner receiving notice or having knowledge that his dog has been
bitten by any animal suffering or suspected to be suffering from rabies, or
that his dog has bitten any person, shall immediately notify or deliver his dog
to any police officer, who shall place the dog in a licensed veterinary
hospital for observation, or such owner shall himself immediately notify the
city clerk of the name and location of such hospital.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog, upon receiving notice or
having knowledge that such dog has bitten any person or that such dog has been
bitten by any animal suffering or suspected to be suffering from rabies, to
sell or give away such dog, or permit such dog to run at large, or to be taken
beyond the city, except to a veterinary hospital within the county; and it
shall also be unlawful for such owner to refuse to deliver said dog for
observation as provided herein. (1972 Code)
6-3-2-4: DUTIES OF PERSONS SUSPECTING ANY DOG TO BE SUFFERING FROM RABIES:
   (A)   Reporting Required: Every veterinarian or other person discovering or
suspecting any dog to be suffering from rabies shall immediately report this
matter to the police department, giving the name and address of the owner of
such dog, if known, the place where the dog can be found and the license tag
number of such dog, if known.
   (B)   Presumption Of Rabies: For the purposes of this section only, any dog
which has bitten any person shall be presumed to be suffering from rabies.
(1972 Code)
6-3-2-5: DUTIES OF POLICE DEPARTMENT:
Upon being notified that a dog has bitten any person or is suspected of
suffering from rabies, the police department shall:
   (A)   When the owner of the dog is known, notify such owner and direct such
owner to deliver up the dog to a licensed veterinary hospital for observation;
or
   (B)   When the owner of the dog is unknown, immediately take up said dog and
confine said dog to a licensed veterinary hospital for observation.
   (C)   When a dog is taken up under the provisions of subsection (B) of this
section, notify the owner, if known, of the confinement of such dog within
seven (7) days after the confinement begins or the identity of the owner is
discovered. (1972 Code)
6-3-2-6: CONFINEMENT FOR OBSERVATION:
   (A)   Required: Confinement of a dog for observation under this article
shall be for a period of ten (10) days. The dog shall be examined immediately
after confinement and again before the ten (10) day period has expired.
   (B)   Veterinarian Certificate: The veterinarian shall submit to the city
clerk a certificate following each examination stating whether or not the dog
shows symptoms of rabies.
   (C)   Determination Of Rabies: If the dog is found to be rabid, the dog
shall be destroyed in a humane manner. If the dog is destroyed, or if it shall
die within the ten (10) day observation period, its head shall be sent by the
veterinarian to the laboratory of the state department of public health.
   (D)   Release: If the dog is not found rabid by the end of the confinement
period, the owner shall be so notified and the dog may be released to its
owner, and the city clerk so advised. (1972 Code)
6-3-2-7: RABIES EPIDEMIC; POWER OF MAYOR:
   (A)   Proclamation: Whenever the mayor shall deem it necessary to prevent an
epidemic of rabies, he may issue a proclamation requiring the owners of all
dogs to keep them securely confined or to keep them properly muzzled or
leashed, so they cannot bite, for such times as may be designated in the
proclamation or until otherwise notified.
   (B)   Publication: The mayor shall publish such proclamation in a paper of
general circulation within the city and post such proclamation in the city
hall. (1972 Code)
6-3-2-8: DUTIES OF OWNERS UPON PROCLAMATION OF RABIES EPIDEMIC:
Following any proclamation as set forth in section
6-3-2-7 of this article, it shall be unlawful for any owner to permit his dog
to run at large in violation of the provisions of such proclamation. In
addition to the penalties provided with respect to any such owner for violating
this section, a dog running at large unmuzzled shall be impounded. (1972 Code)
6-3-2-9: POLICE AUTHORIZED TO KILL CERTAIN DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE:
Any police officer may kill a dog running at large which is suspected of
suffering from rabies if the dog, in the opinion of the police officer, cannot
be safely taken up and impounded, or if the police officer deems such killing
essential to the safety of any person. (1972 Code)
6-3-2-10: FALSE REPORTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make any report required by this article
without having a reasonable belief in its truth and accuracy. (1972 Code)
ARTICLE III. OFFENSES INVOLVING ANIMALS
6-3-3-1: ANNOYING NOISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any animal which disturbs
the peace by loud noises at any time of day or night, and it shall be unlawful
for any such person to permit any animal to make such noises. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-2: CAUSING ANIMAL TO MAKE ANNOYING NOISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to treat any animal in any manner which
causes such animal to disturb the peace by loud noises at any time of day or
night. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-3: COMPLAINT OF ANNOYING NOISES:
Any person residing in a neighborhood whose quietness has been disturbed by any
animal owned or possessed within the neighborhood may make a sworn complaint
before a police officer or the city clerk against the owner or possessor of
said animal. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-4: ANIMALS DISTURBING THE PEACE DECLARED NUISANCE:
Any animal which disturbs the peace by loud noises at any time of day or night
is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be impounded by a police officer.
(1972 Code)
6-3-3-5: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing any dog within the
city to permit such dog to run at large. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-6: DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE DECLARED NUISANCE:
Any dog running at large is hereby declared to be a nuisance, and may be taken
up and impounded by any police officer. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-7: DEFECATION BY DOGS ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor to permit a dog to walk or
defecate upon private property without the consent of the occupant thereof.
(1972 Code)
6-3-3-8: DESTRUCTION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY BY DOG:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any dog to permit such dog
to damage or destroy any personal property of another person. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-9: RESTRICTION OF ANIMALS FROM PUBLIC PLACES:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any animal to permit such
animal to enter any religious premises, public hall, bank building, automobile
gasoline station, public garage or any place where food or beverage is sold or
served during such time as those establishments are open for use to the public
or persons entitled to use the same; provided, however, that the owner of any
of the above establishments may permit a watch dog to remain therein if such
dog is held and restrained in such a way that such dog cannot injure any patron
or come in contact with any food. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-10: THREATENING OR ANNOYING DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of any dog to permit such dog
to cause reasonable fear of bodily injury to any person by attacking or
threatening to attack such person, or to permit such dog to jump upon any
person to the annoyance of said person. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-11: DOGS CHASING VEHICLES OR BICYCLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing any dog to permit such
dog to chase any motor vehicle or bicycle traveling upon any public or private
street or sidewalk. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-12: AUTHORITY TO TAKE UP DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY OR
PUBLIC PLACES:
Any person finding any dog running at large upon his property or upon any
premises enumerated in section
6-3-3-9 of this article to his injury or annoyance may take up such dog and
remove it or have it impounded. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-13: DANGEROUS DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing any dangerous dog to
permit such dangerous dog to run at large, whether such dog be muzzled or
unmuzzled. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-14: IMPOUNDING DANGEROUS DOGS:
Any dangerous dog running at large shall be taken up and impounded whenever
possible; provided, however, that if any police officer reasonably believes
that such dog in any way endangers any person, such official is authorized to
kill such dog. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-15: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to instigate, cause, procure or
encourage any fight between animals, either in private or in public.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt or attempt to kill by any
means any game animal or game birds within the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to treat any animal within the
city in any cruel manner whatsoever. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-16: DUTY UPON STRIKING ANIMAL WITH MOTOR VEHICLE:
It shall be unlawful for any person who kills or injures any animal while
driving a motor vehicle to leave the scene of the accident without first
stopping and rendering such assistance as is practical. Such person shall
immediately report the incident to the police department. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-17: INTENTIONAL INJURING OF ANIMALS:
In addition to the other prohibitions of this chapter, no person shall kill or
wound, or attempt to kill or wound, by any means whatsoever, any bird or
squirrel, or rob or injure the nest of such creatures, or enter upon any
private premises or public place, for the purpose of doing any act prohibited
by this section; provided, however, that this section shall not apply to crows,
starlings, hawks, sparrows and pigeons. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-18: PROCUREMENT OF ANIMAL WITHOUT KNOWLEDGE OF OWNER:
It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to procure or acquire, or
attempt to procure or acquire, or knowingly cause or aid in the procurement or
acquisition of any animal for any purpose without the consent of the owner
thereof. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-19: ABANDONING ANIMALS WITHIN CITY:
It shall be unlawful for any owner or person in control of any animal to
abandon such animal within the city. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-20: KEEPING ANIMALS IN SANITARY CONDITION:
   (A)   Required: Every owner or person in possession of an animal shall
maintain their animal in a clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   Adequate Shelter And Sustenance: Every owner or person in possession
of an animal shall provide adequate food, water and shelter. If sheltered
outside of a residence, the animal shelter shall conform to the following:
      1.   The shelter shall be of sufficient height and width to permit said
animal to stand up and turn around inside, when fully grown, for each animal.
      2.   Said shelter in which said animal or animals are confined shall
provide shade from the sun from ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. until four o'clock (4:
00) P.M. each day. (Ord. 06-04, 3-21-2006)
6-3-3-21: OFFENSIVE ODORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit offensive odors to
emanate from the premises where he keeps any animal. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-22: FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person in possession of any female dog to
permit such female dog to run at large within the city at any time while such
dog is in heat.
   (B)   In addition to any penalty for which the owner shall be liable under
this chapter, such dog shall be impounded. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-23: USE OF ANIMALS FOR INDECENT PURPOSES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to in any manner instigate, cause, procure,
participate in or assist in any indecent, lewd or immoral show, use or
exhibition of an animal. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-24: CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED IN CITY:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, use, keep or permit to be
at large within the city any of the following animals: bees, pigeons, horses,
cattle, sheep, ponies, mules, goats, pigs, swine, hogs, ducks, geese, chickens,
minks, skunks, foxes or any other livestock or poultry or any wild or vicious
animal dangerous to mankind.
   (B)   Any animal named in subsection (A) of this section which is found at
large within the city shall be impounded, if possible; provided, however, that
whenever any police officers believe such animal endangers any person, such
animal may be killed by said officer.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalties imposed upon any person violating
this section, such person shall also be liable for the costs of impounding or
killing such animal, if necessary. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-25: DISEASED OR DYING ANIMALS; RUNNING AT LARGE:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to allow any animal afflicted with any contagious
or infectious disease to run at large or to be exposed in any public place
whereby the health of persons or other animals may be affected; nor shall such
diseased animal be removed or shipped from the premises of the owner thereof
except under the supervision of the health officer or a licensed veterinarian.
   (B)   The health officer shall cause such disposition of any diseased animal
and such treatment of affected premises as to prevent the communication or
spread of contagion or infection.
   (C)   Whenever any animal is in any street or public place within the city
and appears, in the estimation of any police officer or health officer, to be
injured or diseased beyond recovery, and is not being attended to and properly
cared for by the owner or other proper person in control thereof, and whenever
such animal has not been removed to some private premises or other place
designated by such officer within one hour after being found or left in such
condition, such animal may be put to death by such officer or his authorized
agent and, unless at once removed by the owner, shall be treated as any other
dead animal found on a street or public place, as hereinafter provided. (1972
Code)
6-3-3-26: DEAD OR DYING ANIMALS; REMOVAL REQUIRED:
Any person possessing any dead animal injured or diseased beyond recovery,
which is not killed for meat or is improper for use as meat, or which is in an
offensive condition or sick with an infectious or contagious disease, shall at
once notify the health officer thereof, and upon the health officer's order,
such person, at his own expense, shall at once remove or cause the removal of
such animal. (1972 Code)
6-3-3-27: DEAD OR DYING ANIMALS; BURIAL, THROWING INTO STREETS, KEEPING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon, deposit or throw upon any place
or street or public water, or to offensively expose or bury anywhere within the
city the body or any part thereof of any dead or fatally diseased or injured
animal; nor shall any person keep any dead animal or any offensive meat, bird,
fowl or fish in a place where the same may be dangerous to the life or
detrimental to the health of any person. (1972 Code)
ARTICLE IV. PENALTIES
6-3-4-1: LIABILITY OF OWNERS OR KEEPER; DAMAGE TO ANIMALS:
The owner or keeper of any animal shall be liable for all damages that may
accrue to any other person by reason of any such animal pursuing, chasing,
wounding or killing any animal belonging to such other person; provided,
however, that no owner or keeper of any animal shall be liable for any damage
caused by such animal having rabies or other similar disease unknown to such
owner or keeper. (1972 Code)
6-3-4-2: LIABILITY OF OWNERS OR KEEPER; INJURY TO PERSONS:
If an animal without provocation attacks or injures any person who is peaceably
conducting himself in any place where he may lawfully be, the owner or keeper
of such animal shall be liable in damages to the person so attacked or injured
to the full amount of the injury sustained. (1972 Code)
6-3-4-3: LIABILITY OF OWNERS OR KEEPER; DAMAGE TO PROPERTY:
The owner or keeper of an animal which damages or destroys any public or
private property shall be held liable for the full value of the property
damaged or destroyed. (1972 Code)
6-3-4-4: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
In addition to any other penalty which may be imposed, any animal declared to
be a dangerous animal by a court of competent jurisdiction may be ordered by
the court to be muzzled, removed from the city limits or destroyed. (Ord. 00-
04, 4-4-2000)
CHAPTER 4
UNFAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Prohibited Acts
6-4-3: Fair Housing Board
6-4-4: Duties Of Fair Housing Board
6-4-5: Procedures
6-4-6: Penalty
6-4-7: Remedies
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, unless a different meaning clearly appears from the
context, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed:
DISCRIMINATE: Includes difference in treatment in the sale, lease, rental or
financing of housing accommodations because of race, color, creed, religion,
religious beliefs or national origin.
HOUSING: Any building or structure, or portion thereof designed, intended,
arranged or designed to be used as or occupied as a home, residence, living
quarters or sleeping place of one or more human beings.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Means and includes any building, structure or portion
thereof which is used or occupied, or is maintained, arranged or designated or
designed to be used or occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one
or more human beings.
LENDING INSTITUTION: Any bank, insurance company, savings and loan association
or person in the business of lending money or guaranteeing loans, or any person
in the business of obtaining, arranging or negotiating loans or guarantees as
an agent or broker, or any person in the business of buying or selling of loans
or instruments for the payment of money which is secured by title to or a
security interest in real estate.
OWNER: Any person who holds legal or equitable title to, or any beneficial
interest in, any dwelling or housing, or to any legal or equitable title to
shares of, or any beneficial interest in, any real estate cooperative which
owns any dwelling or housing.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any real estate broker or agent thereof or who exercises
any function of a real estate broker within the city. (1972 Code)
6-4-2: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be an unfair housing practice and unlawful for any "real estate
broker", "lending institution", "owner" or person, as defined in section
6-4-1 of this chapter, to commit any of the following acts, or acts prohibited
because of or due to race, color, creed, religion, religious beliefs or
national origin:
   (A)   Refuse to show, sell, lease or rent any dwelling or housing solely
because of race, color, creed, religion, religious beliefs or national origin.
   (B)   Make any discriminations, distinction or restriction against any
purchaser or lessee in the showing, price, terms, conditions or privileges
relating to the sale, rental, lease or occupancy of any dwelling or housing, or
in the furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Cause any written or oral inquiry or record to be made concerning such
prohibited acts, or a person seeking to purchase, rent or lease any dwelling or
housing.
   (D)   Publish, circulate, issue or display, or cause to be published,
circulated, issued or displayed, any communication, notice, advertisement, sign
or other writing of any kind relating to the sale, rental or leasing of any
housing accommodation within the city which will indicate or express any
limitation or discrimination in the sale, rental or leasing of such housing
accommodation, of any prospective buyer, lessee or renter of such property.
   (E)   To solicit for sale, lease or listing for sale or lease, of any
housing accommodations within this city on the loss of value due to the present
or prospective entry into the neighborhood of any person or persons of any
particular race, color, creed, religion, religious beliefs or national origin.
   (F)   Distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or statements
designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation to sell or lease his
property.
   (G)   Discriminate or to participate in discrimination in connection with
borrowing or lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting mortgages or
otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the purchase, acquisition,
construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of any housing
accommodation in the city.
   (H)   To exploit or overcharge any person for housing accommodations within
this city.
   (I)   To deliberately refuse examination of copies of listing of a
residential property or real estate within this city, or to accept and enter
into any limitation in such listing for causes above mentioned. (1972 Code)
6-4-3: FAIR HOUSING BOARD:
There is hereby created a fair housing board, which shall be appointed by the
mayor, and shall consist of five (5) members, to be approved by the city
council. The mayor shall designate one of its members to be chairperson. Any
three (3) members of said board shall constitute a quorum. The term of office
of each member shall be for three (3) years, or until his successor is
appointed and qualified. The mayor shall designate which of the two (2) first
appointed shall serve for two (2) year terms, and the remaining members,
including the chairperson, shall be appointed for three (3) year terms.
Thereafter, appointments shall be for the full three (3) year terms or for
unexpired terms in event of vacancy. (1972 Code)
6-4-4: DUTIES OF FAIR HOUSING BOARD:
It shall be the duty of the fair housing board to:
   (A)   Act to eliminate discriminatory practices as specified in section
6-4-2 of this chapter, and to initiate or receive and investigate complaints
charging unlawful housing practices;
   (B)   Seek conciliation of such complaints, hold public hearings, make
findings of fact, issue orders and publish its findings of fact and orders in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (C)   Render, from time to time but not less than every three (3) months, a
written report of its activities and recommendations with respect to fair
housing practices, to the mayor and city council; and
   (D)   Adopt such rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the
purposes of this chapter and the orderly handling of its business and duties.
(1972 Code)
6-4-5: PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Any person aggrieved in any manner by a violation of the provisions of
this chapter shall file a written complaint setting forth his grievance.
Complaints may be filed with the fair housing board by leaving the same with
the city clerk. Each complaint shall set forth the name and address of the
complainant, together with his telephone number; the name and address of the
person against whom the complaint is brought, and it shall state in detail the
alleged facts surrounding the alleged violation of this chapter. Any complaint
shall be filed, as aforesaid, within ninety (90) days after the alleged unfair
housing practice occurred, or it shall be barred.
   (B)   After the filing of any complaint, the chairperson of the fair housing
board shall designate two (2) members of said board to make a prompt
investigation in connection therewith; and if such members shall determine
after such investigation, that probable cause exists for crediting the
allegations of the complaint, they shall immediately endeavor to eliminate the
unlawful discriminatory practice complained of by conference, conciliation and
persuasion. In case of a determination that probable cause does not exist, the
fair housing board shall make written findings of fact and shall send copies
thereof to the complainant and the accused within twenty (20) days from the
date of such finding. If attempts at conciliation are not successful within
thirty (30) days after filing of the complaint, the board shall then proceed
promptly to a full hearing of the complaint.
   (C)   In case of the failure to so eliminate such unfair practice, or in
advance thereof, if in the judgment of the fair housing board the circumstances
so warrant, they may cause to be issued and served in the name of the fair
housing board, a written notice, together with a copy of such complaint, to all
parties, of a full hearing on the complaint at a time and place to be specified
in such notice. The notice shall be served on all parties not less than seven
(7) days before the time set for public hearing. The public hearing shall be
held not later than forty five (45) days from the date of the filing of the
complaint. A copy of the notice of public hearing shall be furnished the local
press.
   (D)   The accused shall have the right to file an answer to the complaint,
to appear at the hearing in person and/or to be represented by counsel, and to
examine witnesses and submit testimony. The complainant shall present testimony
in person and such evidence as he deems or is pertinent. He too, may be
represented by counsel.
   (E)   The fair housing board shall conduct all hearings, but shall not be
bound by the strict rules of evidence prevailing in courts of law or equity.
The fair housing board shall have full power to subpoena witnesses and
pertinent documents, which power may be enforced by said board by proper
petition to the circuit court of the eleventh judicial circuit at Logan County,
Illinois. The board, aforesaid, shall have power to administer oaths and to
take sworn testimony. At the conclusion of the hearing, the board shall render
a written report and recommendations, within ten (10) days, which shall be
served by mail upon the parties. Hearings may be continued from time to time,
but shall be heard and concluded within sixty (60) days from the date of the
first hearing. (1972 Code)
6-4-6: PENALTY:
If, upon the due consideration of all evidence produced at the hearing, the
fair housing board finds that the person against whom the complaint has been
filed has engaged in or is engaging in an unfair housing practice, as defined
in this chapter, the board shall state its finding of fact and shall issue and
cause to be served upon such person an order requiring such person or the
accused to cease and desist from such unfair housing practice and it shall take
such affirmative or other action as, in the judgment of the fair housing board,
will effectuate the purposes of this chapter, including the requirement of a
report of the manner of compliance. The board shall retain jurisdiction of the
case until it is satisfied that the accused has complied with the order. In the
event that the board determines that the accused has not complied with its
orders, it shall be empowered to recommend to the city council for authority to
have the city attorney do any one of the following:
   (A)   Institute and prosecute proceedings to enforce against the accused
found guilty in the violation of this chapter a fine as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   To apply to any court of competent jurisdiction:
      1.   For an order restraining such person from violating any provision of
this chapter;
      2.   For such other or further relief as may seem to the court
appropriate for the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of
violation hereof.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) and not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00), plus costs, and each day the violation
continues shall be a separate offense and subject to fine for each said
violation, separately. However, such fine shall not be a limitation upon nor a
consent, or prevent to also use one or more of the other remedies available
hereunder. (1972 Code)
6-4-7: REMEDIES:
Any person aggrieved by the violation of any provision of this chapter who has
exhausted the remedies provided for in this chapter may apply to any court of
competent jurisdiction for appropriate relief from such violation, including:
   (A)   An order compelling compliance with this chapter;
   (B)   An order to prohibit any person found by the court to have violated
any provision of this chapter for the sale, lease, exchange, transfer,
conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing which is subject to such
violation;
   (C)   An order requiring specific performance of any contract for the sale,
lease, exchange, transfer, conveyance or assignment of any dwelling or housing
by any person who is violating this chapter or has violated this chapter or
refuses to perform for one of the reasons herein prohibited as an unfair
practice;
   (D)   Compensatory damages; and
   (E)   Such other and further relief as may seem to the court appropriate for
the enforcement of this chapter and the elimination of the violation hereof.
(1972 Code)
TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
NUISANCES
SECTION:
   Article I. In General
7-1-1-1: Nuisances Declared Unlawful
7-1-1-2: Nuisance Defined, Generally
7-1-1-3: Nuisances Not Enumerated Herein
7-1-1-4: Enumeration Not Exclusive
7-1-1-5: Duty Of City Officers To Investigate; Power Of Entry
7-1-1-6: Notice To Proper Officials
   Article II. Certain Nuisances Declared
7-1-2-1: Foul Odors, Filth
7-1-2-2: Rubbish, Dry Grass
7-1-2-3: Weeds
7-1-2-4: Petroleum Products, Explosives
7-1-2-5: Unsafe Buildings
7-1-2-6: Abandoned Refrigerators
7-1-2-7: Junk
7-1-2-8: Inoperable Motor Vehicles, Equipment
7-1-2-9: Dust, Cinders
7-1-2-10: Scaffolding, Ladders
   Article III. Abatement
7-1-3-1: Notice To Abate Nuisance
7-1-3-2: Abatement Of Nuisances; City To Abate; Time Limits
7-1-3-3: Failure To Abate, Separate And Recurring Offense
7-1-3-4: Abatement By City
7-1-3-5: Summary Abatement By City When Emergency Or On Public Property
7-1-3-6: Costs Of Abatement; Debt Of Owner
ARTICLE I. IN GENERAL
7-1-1-1: NUISANCES DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to wilfully
or negligently create, erect, maintain or permit a nuisance to exist anywhere
within the city. (1972 Code)
7-1-1-2: NUISANCE DEFINED, GENERALLY:
Any thing, act, omission, occupation or condition which shall exist or continue
for such length of time as to:
   (A)   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, peace or
welfare of the public; or
   (B)   In any way render the public insecure in life or property; or
   (C)   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
   (D)   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, sidewalk, alley, navigable body or other
public way or place;
is hereby declared a nuisance. (1972 Code)
7-1-1-3: NUISANCES NOT ENUMERATED HEREIN:
Any nuisance declared by statute, this chapter or other provisions of this code
or ordinances of the city shall be enforceable under the provisions of this
chapter as if enumerated specifically herein. (1972 Code)
7-1-1-4: ENUMERATION NOT EXCLUSIVE:
Nuisances enumerated in this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive, but are in
addition to and to be construed in conjunction with any other nuisances
enumerated in statutes or other provisions of this code or ordinances of the
city. (1972 Code)
7-1-1-5: DUTY OF CITY OFFICERS TO INVESTIGATE; POWER OF ENTRY:
   (A)   For the purpose of discovering nuisances, it shall be the duty of
police, fire, health and building officers and inspectors to investigate,
confirm and report any nuisances coming to their attention.
   (B)   In order to investigate, confirm and report nuisances, said officers
and inspectors shall, upon proper identification, be permitted, at any
reasonable hour and in a reasonable manner, to visit and enter into or upon any
premises or property within the city to make an examination thereof, if they
shall have reasonable grounds to believe that a nuisance exists. (1972 Code)
7-1-1-6: NOTICE TO PROPER OFFICIALS:
Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to or investigated and determined by
the police, fire, health or building officers or inspectors, notice shall be
given to the owner or person in control of the property or premises involved,
and to the appropriate city officials whose functions include the abatement of
such nuisances. (1972 Code)
ARTICLE II. CERTAIN NUISANCES DECLARED
7-1-2-1: FOUL ODORS, FILTH:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance and a danger to the health, safety,
welfare, peace and comfort of the city and its residents for any person:
   (A)   Businesses: To conduct any business or to use any premises so as to
create an offensive or foul odor which taints the air and renders it nauseous
to persons in the vicinity; or
   (B)   Animals: To keep or maintain any animals in an unclean or filthy
manner or surroundings, or to keep or maintain any animals from which emit any
particularly foul or offensive odors; or
   (C)   Animal Carcasses: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any animal carcass or any offal, filth, excretion or
other noisome or noxious animal matter of any kind which is, or is likely to
become, putrid, foul or offensive; or
   (D)   Vegetable Matter: To cause or permit to be collected or to remain upon
any premises or place any slop or other vegetable matter of any kind which is,
or is likely to become, putrid, foul or offensive; or
   (E)   Cellars, Vaults, Privies: To cause or permit any cellar, vault,
cistern, drain, privy, yard or other premises whatsoever to become, from any
cause, foul or offensive or injurious to the public health; or
   (F)   Stagnant Water: To permit to be collected or to stand upon any
premises any foul or stagnant water of any kind; or
   (G)   Stables And Pigsties: To locate or maintain, or permit to exist or
remain, anywhere within the city any stable or pigsty; or
   (H)   Foul Or Noxious Substances: To use, deposit or keep any property,
substance or thing emitting or causing any foul, offensive, noisome, nauseous
or noxious odor, effluvia or stench particularly repulsive to the physical
senses and which annoys, discomforts or endangers the welfare, health or safety
of any person. (1972 Code)
7-1-2-2: RUBBISH, DRY GRASS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a nuisance
for any person to cause or permit:
   (A)   Rubbish, Rags: The deposit or accumulation of any refuse, oily rags,
rubbish or other materials or substances of any kind, so as to constitute a
fire hazard; or
   (B)   Dry Grass, Vegetation: The deposit, accumulation, existence or growth
upon any property of any dry or dead weeds, grass, vegetation or other like
substances of any kind, so as to constitute a fire hazard. (1972 Code)
7-1-2-3: WEEDS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and health and a nuisance
for any person to cause or permit:
   (A)   Jimson, Burdock: Any weeds, such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle,
cockleburs, or other weeds of a like kind, to grow in any lot or tract of land
in the city.
   (B)   Height: Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
vegetables or other ornamental plants, to grow to a height exceeding eight
inches (8") anywhere in the city.
   (C)   Barberry Bushes: Growth of the bush of the tall, common or European
barberry, further known as Berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties,
within the city. (1972 Code)
7-1-2-4: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS, EXPLOSIVES:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit:
   (A)   Petroleum Products: The accumulation or storage, within one hundred
(100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or business, other than a
licensed gasoline service station, of any petroleum, naphtha, benzine, coal
oil, gasoline, kerosene, turpentine or other petroleum products or inflammable
substances of any kind, in quantities greater than fifty (50) gallons; or
   (B)   Explosives: The deposit, accumulation, storage or presence, within one
hundred (100) yards of any building occupied as a residence or business, of any
powder magazine, nitroglycerine, dynamite or other explosive substance of any
kind. (1972 Code)
7-1-2-5: UNSAFE BUILDINGS:
   (A)   Prohibition: It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a
nuisance for any person to cause or permit the existence of any unsafe,
dilapidated or otherwise insecure building, wall, stack, chimney, cornice,
sign, awning or other like structure of any kind which, from manner of
construction, age, condition or other circumstances, is or may become a menace
to the safety of persons or property.
   (B)   Unsafe Building Defined: The term "unsafe building", as used herein,
is hereby defined to mean and include: 1) any building, shed, fence or other
manmade structure which is dangerous to the public health because of its
construction or condition, or which may cause or aid in the spread of disease
or cause injury to the health of the occupants of it or of neighboring
structures; 2) any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which,
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause,
is especially liable to fire, and constitutes or creates a fire hazard; 3) any
building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which, by reason of faulty
construction, age, lack of proper repair or any other cause, is liable to cause
injury or damage by collapsing or by a collapse or fall of any part of such a
structure; or 4) any building, shed, fence or other manmade structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to
and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure.
   (C)   Notice: If any building shall be found in a dangerous and unsafe
condition, the mayor or any official or employee designated by the city council
shall notify in writing the owner or owners thereof, directing said owner or
owners to put such building in a safe condition or to demolish it. Where, upon
diligent search, the identity or whereabouts of the owner or owners of any such
building shall not be ascertainable, such notice shall be mailed to the person
or persons in whose name such real estate was last assessed.
   (D)   Failure To Comply: If, after fifteen (15) days subsequent to the
giving of such notice, said owner or owners fail to put such building in a safe
condition or to demolish it, the mayor or any official or employee designated
by the city council shall so notify the city council, requesting the council to
direct the city attorney to apply on behalf of the city to the circuit court of
Logan County for an order authorizing the city to demolish or repair, or to
cause the demolition or repair of said building.
   (E)   Cost Recovery: The cost of such demolition or repair shall be
recoverable from the owner or owners of such real estate, and shall be a lien
thereon as provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes section 5/11-31-1, as
amended. (1972 Code)
7-1-2-6: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person to cause or permit the existence or storage in any place accessible to
children of any abandoned or discarded refrigerator, icebox, ice chest, deep
freeze or other airtight appliance or container of any kind, of a capacity of
one and one-half (11/2) cubic feet or more, from which the lids, doors or other
covers have not been removed or which cannot easily be opened by a child, by
means of pushing only, from the inside thereof. (1972 Code)
7-1-2-7: JUNK:
It is declared to be a danger to public health and safety and a nuisance for
any person to store, keep or maintain outside of a closed building any junk,
parts, machinery or equipment unless the premises upon which the same are
maintained is a properly licensed junkyard. (Ord. 86-12, 5-20-1986)
7-1-2-8: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES, EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   No person, whether as owner or lessee of a motor vehicle, or owner or
otherwise in charge of premises within the city, shall park or locate, or
permit the parking or location of, an inoperable motor vehicle or parts
thereof, for more than seven (7) days outside of a garage or other enclosed
building on any real property zoned for residential use or upon public
property. At no time shall any vehicle of any type undergo disassembly of parts
commonly called "stripping", or a major overhaul, including body work, on such
property outside of a garage or other enclosed building. This section shall not
apply to any motor vehicle located within a building when not in use, to any
vehicle registered and licensed with the state as an antique vehicle, or to a
motor vehicle on the premises of a place of business engaged in the wrecking or
junking of motor vehicles or machinery. (Ord. 00-04-1, 6-6-2000)
   (B)   "Inoperable motor vehicle" means any motor vehicle from which the
engine, wheels or other parts have been removed, or on which the engine, wheels
or other parts have been altered, damaged or otherwise so treated as to render
the vehicle incapable of being safely driven under its own motor power; and
such definition also includes an unlicensed or unregistered motor vehicle,
whether or not mechanically operable; provided, however, that this definition
shall not be construed to include any motor vehicle which has been rendered
temporarily incapable of being driven under its own power in order to perform
ordinary service or repair operations. (Ord. 88-10, 2-2-1988)
7-1-2-9: DUST, CINDERS:
   (A)   It is hereby declared a menace to the public health and a nuisance for
any person to cause or permit any operations that cause or permit any dirt,
sand, gravel, cinders, ashes, earth or other similar materials to be hauled,
moved, rolled, compacted, scraped, dragged or otherwise disturbed so as to
cause or permit dust to be raised, blown or stirred through the operation of
machinery or otherwise to the detriment of any person or property.
   (B)   Every person engaged in hauling any sand, dirt, cinders, ashes, earth
or other similar materials or substances, or engaged in the moving, rolling,
compacting, scraping, dragging or other disturbance of soil and the like, shall
make adequate provision as often as is required to arrest and prevent such dust
through the use of salts, oil, chemicals and other materials used and
recommended for retarding or eliminating such dust, subject to the supervision
and approval of the director of public works. (1972 Code)
7-1-2-10: SCAFFOLDING, LADDERS:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and a nuisance for any
person:
   (A)   To erect or use, or to cause or permit to be erected or used, any
insecure or unsafe scaffold or ladder whereby the safety of persons working
thereon or passing thereunder may in any way be endangered.
   (B)   To place or leave, or to cause or permit to be placed or left, any
tools or articles on any such scaffold or ladder in such manner that the same
may fall into any street, sidewalk or other public way, whereby the safety of
persons passing thereunder may in any way be endangered. (1972 Code)
ARTICLE III. ABATEMENT
7-1-3-1: NOTICE TO ABATE NUISANCE:
   (A)   Required: Whenever any health or building official or inspector, or
any police or fire officer, determines that a nuisance exists on any private
property or premises, except as otherwise provided herein, the proper city
official shall cause a written notice to be served personally upon the owner
or, if the owner cannot be found, upon the occupant or person in control of the
property or premises who is causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance,
and shall cause a copy of said notice to be conspicuously posted within or upon
such property or premises.
   (B)   Content: Such notice shall fairly apprise such person of the nature of
the nuisance, his duty to abate or remove the nuisance within the time provided
therein, the penalty for failure to abate the same, and shall state that, if
said nuisance is abated by the city, liability for necessary expenses so
incurred shall accrue as provided for in section 7-1-3-6 of this article. (1972
Code)
7-1-3-2: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES; CITY TO ABATE; TIME LIMITS:
It is hereby declared the duty of any person determined to have created,
caused, erected, maintained or permitted a nuisance to exist within the city to
discontinue and abate such nuisance within forty eight (48) hours or such other
time period as may be specified therein, from the time he receives written
notice thereof. (1972 Code)
7-1-3-3: FAILURE TO ABATE, SEPARATE AND RECURRING OFFENSE:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to neglect,
refuse or otherwise fail to remove or abate any nuisance after expiration of
the forty eight (48) hour or other specified time period provided by notice
thereof; and each twenty four (24) hours, or fraction thereof, during which
such nuisance continues or exists shall be deemed a separate offense. (1972
Code)
7-1-3-4: ABATEMENT BY CITY:
Whenever any nuisance is not abated by the owner, lessee or person in control
of premises or property affected within the time provided by notice, the proper
city officer shall cause the abatement or removal of such nuisance. (1972 Code)
7-1-3-5: SUMMARY ABATEMENT BY CITY WHEN EMERGENCY OR ON PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Whenever any nuisance: a) constitutes or is deemed to be an imminent or
immediate danger to public health or safety; or b) exists on public property,
the proper city officer shall cause such nuisance to be summarily and
immediately abated and removed, regardless of any forty eight (48) hour or
other time period specified by notice to the person responsible therefor;
provided, however, that in situation a) of this section, such officer shall
have first applied for and obtained the written permission of the mayor for
such summary abatement. (1972 Code)
7-1-3-6: COSTS OF ABATEMENT; DEBT OF OWNER:
   (A)   Any costs or expenses of abatement reasonably incurred by the city
pursuant to the provisions of sections
7-1-3-4 and
7-1-3-5 of this article shall be deemed a debt to the city by the owner, lessee
or person in control of premises upon which such nuisance existed; provided,
that where specifically provided in this code or by statute, such costs and
expenses shall become a lien upon the real estate or personal property
affected, superior to all other liens and encumbrances, except tax liens.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the city attorney to enforce by civil action
any and all such debts of liens as provided in subsection (A) of this section.
(1972 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER ORDINANCES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Sewer Ordinances Adopted By Reference
7-2-1: SEWER ORDINANCES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Ordinances regulating sewers within the City are hereby adopted by reference
and incorporated as fully as if set out at length herein, and said ordinances
shall be and remain on file in the Office of the City Clerk. The following is a
list of such Sewer Ordinances and amending ordinances:
Ord. No.  Description
Ord. No.   Description
           An ordinance regulating the use of public and private sewers and
           drains, private sewage disposal, the installation and connection of
           building sewers, the discharge of waters and wastes into the public
81-60     sewer system, and providing penalties for violation thereof; the
           levying of charges for wastewater services (user charges); the
           recovery of capital costs from industrial users (industrial cost
           recovery).
82-1      An ordinance to amend chapter 1, article III, section 3 of Ordinance
           81-60 (permit and inspection fee), April 7, 1981.
85-52     An ordinance adding section 3 to chapter 2, article I of Ordinance
           81-60 (deposits).
87-29     An ordinance amending article III, section 1, of Ordinance 81-60
           (penalty).
           An ordinance modifying section 3, chapter II, article I of title 7,
           which section is entitled "deposit required", which section was
89-01     added to the City Code by Ordinance 85-52 on September 17, 1985, by
           increasing the dollar amount of the deposit as set forth therein
           from $30.00 to $40.00.
92-07     An ordinance amending section 4, chapter 2, article I of Ordinance
           81-60 (basic sewerage charges).
03-09     An ordinance amending sewer charges.
06-10     An ordinance amending sewer charges.
12-01     An ordinance amending sewer charges.
14-09     An ordinance amending sewer charges.
17-02     An ordinance amending sewer charges.
18-01     An ordinance amending sewer charges.
 
CHAPTER 3
REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
SECTION:
   Article I. Definitions
7-3-1-1: Terms Defined
   Article II. Requirements For Refuse Collection And
   Disposal For One- Or Two-Family Dwelling Units
7-3-2-0: Use Of Collector
7-3-2-1: Preparation Of Garbage, Rubbish, Construction And Demolition Wastes,
Bulky Wastes And Ashes
7-3-2-2: Receptacles
7-3-2-3: Placement Of Receptacles
   Article III. Requirements For Refuse Collection And
   Disposal For Other Than One- And Two-Family Dwelling Units
7-3-3-1: Owners' Obligation And Specifications
7-3-3-2: Location Of Receptacles
   Article IV. Depositing Or Storage Of Refuse
7-3-4-1: Depositing Or Permitting Refuse To Remain
7-3-4-2: Storage Or Disposal Of Refuse
   Article V. Penalty
7-3-5-1: Penalty
   Article VI. Solid Waste
7-3-6-1: Adoption Of County Ordinance
ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS
7-3-1-1: TERMS DEFINED:
The following words and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the
meaning given to them in this article unless the context clearly indicates
otherwise:
ASHES: Residue from fires used for cooking or heating buildings, or disposing
of landscape waste.
BRUSH: Trimmings from shrubs, trees or other woody plants not less than two
feet (2') or more than six feet (6') in length.
GARBAGE: Wastes resulting from the handling, packaging, preparation, cooking or
consumption of food.
REFUSE: Garbage, rubbish, ashes, bulky wastes, brush, construction and
demolition wastes, and other wastes.
REFUSE COLLECTOR: A person, firm, or corporation which, for a fee, collects
refuse in the city.
RUBBISH: Combustibles such as paper, cardboard cartons, wood pallets, wood,
boxes, excelsior, plastic, rags, cloth, bedding, leather, rubber, or
noncombustibles such as metal, tin cans, metal foil, dirt, stone, bricks,
ceramics, crockery, glass, bottles or combinations thereof weighing thirty five
(35) pounds or less.
WASTES, BULKY: Individual items of furniture, equipment, or machinery or parts
thereof weighing more than thirty five (35) pounds, but less than five hundred
(500) pounds, including, as illustrative examples, the following: auto parts,
tires and wheels, mechanical equipment, TV sets, stoves, refrigerators,
furniture pieces, individual items which but for their weight would constitute
rubbish, individual items of construction and demolition waste, freezers,
clothes washers, clothes dryers, dishwashers, trash compactors, water heaters,
furnaces, carpeting, bed mattresses, bed box springs, powered lawn mowers, etc.
WASTES, CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION: Any lumber, plywood, paneling, plastic
board, roofing scraps, sheeting scraps, plastic, glass, concrete, rubble,
conduit, pipe, wire, or other wastes generated from the construction,
remodeling, repair, or demolition of the building, dwelling, structure or
portion thereof.
WASTES, OTHER: Any item not specifically otherwise enumerated in this article.
(Ord. 90-08, 7-3-1990)
ARTICLE II. REQUIREMENTS FOR REFUSE COLLECTION AND
   DISPOSAL FOR ONE- OR TWO-FAMILY DWELLING UNITS
7-3-2-0: USE OF COLLECTOR:
Any owner or occupant of a dwelling unit in a one- or two- family dwelling
shall utilize a refuse collector and shall do so in the following sections in
this article. (Ord. 90-08, 7-3-1990)
7-3-2-1: PREPARATION OF GARBAGE, RUBBISH, CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION WASTES,
BULKY WASTES AND ASHES:
   (A)   All garbage shall be thoroughly drained of all liquid.
   (B)   Any sharp object constituting rubbish or construction or demolition
waste shall be securely wrapped in paper.
   (C)   Ashes shall be extinguished so that no hot coal or fire remains.
   (D)   No ashes shall be mixed with garbage, rubbish, construction or
demolition waste or brush. (Ord. 90-08, 7-3-1990)
7-3-2-2: RECEPTACLES:
   (A)   Standards: Except as provided in section
7-3-2-3 of this article, all garbage, rubbish, ashes and individual items of
construction and demolition waste, after being prepared in the manner required
by section
7-3-2-1 of this article, shall be placed in a refuse receptacle meeting the
following requirements and shall be placed for collection at the time and
location provided in subsection
7-3-2-3(A) of this article:
      1.   Approved Receptacles: Receptacles shall be constructed of galvanized
metal, aluminum, plastic, or other water and weatherproof material. They shall
taper from top to bottom, be fitted with handles or bales, and be equipped with
a cover or lid. Plastic bags of at least one and one-half (1.5) mil thickness
tied at the top, may be used. Total capacity of any receptacle shall not exceed
thirty (30) gallons (30 cubic feet) and a total weight of the receptacle and
contents thereof shall not exceed thirty five (35) pounds; however, mobile
carts of up to ninety (90) gallons' capacity shall be approved receptacles
hereunder if the same are designed for mechanical dumping and the refuse
collector accepts such receptacles.
      2.   Prohibited Containers: Prohibited containers shall include, but not
be limited to, metal drums, fiber or paperboard drums, wire trash burners,
barrels, paper shopping bags, cardboard boxes, receptacles without lids, open
plastic bags, or containers having sharp or jagged exposures.
   (B)   Responsibility For Maintenance: It is the joint obligation of the
owner and occupant of any dwelling unit in a one- or two-family dwelling
desiring to utilize the refuse collection and disposal service to provide
approved refuse containers and maintain same in good repair. Whenever any
receptacle shall become defective, it is the responsibility of the owner or
occupant to repair or replace same.
   (C)   Procedure For Disposal Of Defective Receptacles: The city or the
refuse collector shall have the right to condemn any defective receptacle by
placing thereon a red tag or sticker which shall be notice to the owner or
occupant of its defective nature. The owner of such receptacle shall replace or
repair the same before it is used again and the city or collector shall have
the right to dispose of the defective receptacle during any subsequent
collection. (Ord. 90-08, 7-3-1990)
7-3-2-3: PLACEMENT OF RECEPTACLES:
   (A)   Time And Location: Not earlier than six o'clock (6:00) P.M. of the day
preceding collection, any owner, operator or occupant of a one- or two-family
dwelling utilizing a refuse collector shall place or cause to be placed
approved receptacles, at the street side, behind the pavement surface line, so
placed that the contents will not be scattered by the wind or animals.
Receptacles shall be returned to the premises within twelve (12) hours after
having been emptied. No alley pick ups will be made.
   (B)   Quantities: The weekly refuse service shall include collection of the
contents of receptacles meeting the requirements of subsection
7-3-2-2(A)1 of this article, except in the case of approved plastic bags, in
which case, both the contents and the receptacle shall be collected. (Ord. 90-
08, 7-3-1990)
ARTICLE III. REQUIREMENTS FOR REFUSE COLLECTION AND
   DISPOSAL FOR OTHER THAN ONE- AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLING UNITS
7-3-3-1: OWNERS' OBLIGATION AND SPECIFICATIONS:
The owners of business, commercial, manufacturing, industrial, mobile home
parks, or residential structures and all other collection sites, other than
one- or two-family dwellings, in which refuse is accumulated for disposal,
shall provide or cause to be provided refuse receptacles meeting the following
requirements and shall collect or have collected said refuse at least on a
weekly basis and shall further provide for private refuse collection of the
contents thereof. Such owners shall provide:
   (A)   Refuse Bins: (Referred to from time to time in this chapter as
"dumpsters".) Those first placed in service after the effective date hereof,
shall meet or exceed the standards, rules and regulations of the Consumer
Product Safety Commission and particularly those regulations promulgated in
title 16, chapter 2, subchapter B, part 1301 as published in the Monday, June
13, 1977, Federal Register, page 30296, volume 42, number 113. All others
(being refuse bins currently in service) shall be securely fastened with safety
chains to permanently fixed objects to prevent them from tipping over.
   (B)   Roll-Off Boxes: Open metal attachable containers commonly known and
referred to herein as "roll-off boxes"; provided, however, such roll-off boxes
shall not be used for the storage or disposal of garbage, rubbish or other
refuse, the accumulation of which in such an open container would constitute a
nuisance, cause an offensive odor, or be difficult because the contents would
be scattered by the wind.
   (C)   Exceptions: When the use of a dumpster or roll-off box would otherwise
be required and where conditions exist which would make the use of such a
device impossible or impractical, the city may permit the use of other
receptacles. Any person desiring to utilize a receptacle other than a dumpster
or roll-off box where the use of one would otherwise be required shall submit a
written application to the city specifying the nature of the impossibility or
impracticality and describing the proposed type of receptacle. The mayor, with
city council consent, may condition his approval in writing as necessary to
provide a safe and sanitary refuse disposal procedure. (Ord. 90-08, 7-3-1990)
7-3-3-2: LOCATION OF RECEPTACLES:
   (A)   Dumpsters: Dumpsters shall not be permitted in the front yard or in
the front or side yard on corner lots. Dumpsters located within twenty five
feet (25') of a dedicated public street shall be screened from view at all
times.
   (B)   Roll-Off Boxes: Roll-off boxes shall not be permitted in a front yard
or on a dedicated street right of way; provided, however, the mayor may issue
temporary permission for a roll- off box to be located on the public right of
way or the mayor may issue temporary permission for a roll-off box to be placed
in a required front or side yard.
   (C)   Other Receptacles: Other receptacles shall be placed and stored as
specified by approval received from the mayor.
   (D)   Exceptions: Any person desiring to locate a dumpster or roll-off box
on the dedicated public right of way in a yard where the placement of such a
receptacle would otherwise be prohibited, other than temporarily, may submit a
request to the mayor specifying the proposed location, justifying the location,
and detailing how the receptacle will be screened so as to shelter and protect
surrounding properties to the same or a greater extent than if the receptacle
were located in a yard where it would otherwise be permitted. (Ord. 90-08, 7-3-
1990)
ARTICLE IV. DEPOSITING OR STORAGE OF REFUSE
7-3-4-1: DEPOSITING OR PERMITTING REFUSE TO REMAIN:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, bury, throw, place or cause to
be deposited, buried, thrown or placed any refuse within the corporate limits
of the city. It shall be unlawful for any property owner, lessee, or tenant to
permit any refuse placed, deposited, buried, or thrown on any property owned,
leased, used, occupied, or in which such person otherwise has an interest to
remain on such property after such material has been placed, deposited, buried
or thrown thereon. Notwithstanding anything herein contained to the contrary,
any and all hazardous wastes, as defined by federal or state law, shall be
disposed of strictly in conformity with all state and federal rules and
regulations pertaining thereto. (Ord. 90-08, 7-3-1990)
7-3-4-2: STORAGE OR DISPOSAL OF REFUSE:
   (A)   Burning Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to burn or set
fire to or cause to be burned or cause to set fire to any refuse within the
city unless such material shall be burned in an incinerator or furnace properly
constructed for such purpose and approved by the environmental protection
agency.
   (B)   Requirements As To Storage Of Food: It shall be unlawful for any
person to store human or animal food or feed within the city limits in other
than a rat free and ratproof container, compartment or building.
   (C)   Refuse Placed Out For Collection In Violation Of This Chapter: It
shall be unlawful for any person to place out for collection, or cause to be
placed out for collection, any refuse within the corporate limits of the city
in a manner violating any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Refuse Placed Out For Collection On Street Medians: It shall be
unlawful for any person to place out for collection or cause to be placed out
for collection any refuse on any street median within the city. (Ord. 90-08, 7-
3-1990)
ARTICLE V. PENALTY
7-3-5-1: PENALTY:
Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, neglecting or refusing to
comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any of the provisions
of this chapter, except when otherwise specifically provided, upon conviction
thereof, shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense
shall be regarded as committed each day upon which said person shall continue
any such violation or permit any such violation to exist. (Ord. 90-08, 7-3-
1990)
ARTICLE VI. SOLID WASTE
7-3-6-1: ADOPTION OF COUNTY ORDINANCE:
The city hereby adopts the Logan County solid waste license ordinance and its
amendments, a copy of which is on file in the office of the city clerk, and the
same is hereby adopted and incorporated as fully as if set out at length
herein. (Ord. 98-17, 9-1-1998)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS, PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
8-1-1: Obstruct Streets; Building Materials
8-1-2: Moving Buildings Across, Through Streets
8-1-3: Steps Extending On Streets, Sidewalks
8-1-4: Encroachments; Removal
8-1-5: Merchandise On Sidewalks
8-1-6: Wagons, Goods On Streets; Removal
8-1-7: Interfere With Stakes
8-1-8: Throwing Debris On Streets
8-1-9: Coals, Fires On Streets
8-1-10: Traction Engines
8-1-11: Wagons, Animals; Driving On Public Ways
8-1-12: Obstructing Sidewalks
8-1-13: Water Drainage Prohibited
8-1-14: Railroads Obstructing Passage
8-1-15: Leaving Obstructions Prohibited
8-1-16: Permission To Construct Sidewalk
8-1-17: Strips For Lawns Permitted
8-1-18: Uniform Width Of Parkings
8-1-19: Driving On Parkings
8-1-20: Disturb Vehicles
8-1-21: Datum Plane
8-1-22: Trees, Planting Along Streets
8-1-23: Paved And/Or Asphalted Driveways
8-1-24: Rural Route Mailboxes
8-1-1: OBSTRUCT STREETS; BUILDING MATERIALS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to encumber or obstruct any street, alley
or sidewalk with building or other like materials without having obtained a
written permit from the mayor or city council, except in cases of urgent
necessity and for a short time only, or to allow any obstruction that he may by
himself or by agent have made, to continue in any case longer than may be
necessary in the diligent erection of such building or the prompt execution of
the work. (Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-2: MOVING BUILDINGS ACROSS, THROUGH STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to remove or cause to be removed, or aid in
removing any building through or across any street or alley, without having
first obtained a written permit from the mayor or city council. No person shall
unnecessarily encumber or obstruct any alley or street for a longer time than
is necessary in the prompt and diligent removal of such building. (Ord. 11, 2-
6-1917)
8-1-3: STEPS EXTENDING ON STREETS, SIDEWALKS:
No steps, platform or other fixture shall be built to extend into or upon any
sidewalk or alley. No cellar way or basement way shall extend into or upon any
street or sidewalk more than three feet six inches (3'6"), nor into or upon any
alley more than four feet (4'). No cellar window or coal hole shall be placed
in any street, sidewalk or alley unless well secured by an iron grating or some
similar cover. Every cellar door and grating provided for in this section shall
be laid even with the grade of the sidewalk, street or alley where situated.
(Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-4: ENCROACHMENTS; REMOVAL:
   (A)   No person shall make or cause to be made any erection or enclosure
encroaching in whole or in part upon any street, alley or sidewalk. If any
erection or enclosure encroaching upon any street or alley on the effective
date hereof, shall not be removed within ten (10) days after the owner thereof
being notified by an officer of the city to remove such erection or enclosure,
such owner shall be subject to penalty as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code.
   (B)   No fixture, building, fence or other erection, encroachment or
enclosure now extending or encroaching upon any sidewalk, street or alley
contrary to the provisions hereof shall be repaired or rebuilt. (Ord. 11, 2-6-
1917)
8-1-5: MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS:
No person shall encumber or obstruct more than four feet (4') of the outer edge
of the sidewalk with any goods, wares, merchandise, fuel or other articles or
property he may be receiving or delivering, nor shall he permit the same to
remain upon any sidewalk longer than may be necessary in the diligent removal
thereof, or in any case not longer than twenty four (24) hours. (Ord. 11, 2-6-
1917)
8-1-6: WAGONS, GOODS ON STREETS; REMOVAL:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to encumber any street, alley or
sidewalk or public grounds with wagons, mobile homes, motor vehicles, vehicles,
structures, barrels, boxes, lumber, timber, firewood, signs or any other
obstruction, or to place, throw or leave, or cause to be placed, thrown or left
any obstruction or encumbrance not authorized by ordinance in any street or
alley.
   (B)   The mayor or street commissioner may cause the removal of any
obstruction or encroachment upon any street or alley or sidewalk, and the costs
of such removal may be collected from the person causing or owning such
obstruction, with the penalty, or in a separate suit in the name of the city.
(Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-7: INTERFERE WITH STAKES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to purposely change or remove any stake,
post or stone set or placed to designate the corner or line of any lot or land,
street or alley, or to show the grade of any street, alley or sidewalk. (Ord.
11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-8: THROWING DEBRIS ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place, sweep or leave any paper,
grass from lawns, straw, ashes, dirt, filth, brush or other like substance, or
to cause the same to be thrown, placed, swept or left in or upon any street,
alley or sidewalk. (Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-9: COALS, FIRES ON STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or leave any live coals or
fire upon any planked street, alley, sidewalk or planked street crossing. (Ord.
11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-10: TRACTION ENGINES:
Any and all parties operating or running any tractor or engine in or upon any
of the streets or alleys of the city shall, in crossing a paved street or any
crossing in the city, use and employ planks, of such width and thickness
necessary to sustain the weight of such tractor or engine, to be placed on or
over such crossing and in such a manner that the wheels of such tractor or
engine shall run over the crossing on such planks. (Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-11: WAGONS, ANIMALS; DRIVING ON PUBLIC WAYS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to push, draw or run any buggy, sleigh,
wagon or other heavy vehicle, or drive, lead or ride any team or beast of
burden over or upon any paved or planked sidewalk, unless it may be necessary
in crossing the same to get into his premises, or into premises where no wagon
crossing or other suitable access is provided. (Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-12: OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct any street crossing by
unnecessarily stopping thereon with any team, vehicle, automobile or animal or
to fasten or leave any automobile or other vehicle or team or single animal so
that either of them obstructs the sidewalk or renders passage there along
unsafe, and to hinder persons desiring to use such crossing or sidewalk. (Ord.
11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-13: WATER DRAINAGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit the water to fall or drain from
any building owned by him, or under his control, to spread over the sidewalk or
front thereof. (Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-14: RAILROADS OBSTRUCTING PASSAGE:
No railroad company or conductor, engineer or other employee of any railroad
company, or other person moving or controlling any locomotive engine, car or
train of cars, upon any railroad track at the crossing of any traveled street,
or crossing, or alley intersecting such railroad, in the city limits, shall
obstruct the free passageway across the same for a longer time than five (5)
minutes, and any railroad company, its engineers, conductors or other
employees, who shall so obstruct the free passageway along any of such streets,
crossings or alleys for a longer period than above provided shall be subject to
penalty. (Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-15: LEAVING OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to place or leave, or cause to be placed or
left, any encroachment, encumbrance or obstruction in or upon any street, alley
or sidewalk, and any person so doing shall be in all cases liable to the city
and to any private person for all damages or injury arising from the same.
(Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-16: PERMISSION TO CONSTRUCT SIDEWALK:
It shall be unlawful for any person to, by himself or agent, lay, build or
place any sidewalk in, upon or along any street without having first obtained
permission therefor from the city council. (Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-17: STRIPS FOR LAWNS PERMITTED:
For the purpose of improving the looks of the streets and to encourage the
destruction of the weeds thereon, all persons may, in front of their premises
outside the business part of the city, use a strip not more than eight feet
(8') in width outside of the walk along and in front of such premises for a
lawn, and for that purpose may raise such strip by sodding or filling same up
with earth to a level with their lot or lots, under the direction of the street
commissioner and chairperson of the street committee. (Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-18: UNIFORM WIDTH OF PARKINGS:
The city street commissioner shall require all persons making such improvements
in front of their premises to have a proper regard for the width of the lawns
of the adjoining owners, and, if practicable, to require them to be uniform in
width; such widths to be determined by the chairperson of the street committee.
(Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-19: DRIVING ON PARKINGS:
Any person driving any team, wagon or other vehicle, or riding or driving any
horse, cow, steer, hog or other animals on or across any such lawns, or
wilfully or carelessly permits any such animal to go upon the same, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-20: DISTURB VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to, without the consent of the owner or
driver of any automobile, motor bicycle or horse drawn vehicle, disturb the
same or the contents thereof. (Ord. 11, 2-6-1917)
8-1-21: DATUM PLANE:
The permanent grades of streets and alleys in the city are referred to a plane
as the base, or datum, for all city levels. Said plane referred to is mean sea
level and the elevation of the top of the valve stem of the public fire
hydrants at the intersection of Arch Street and Race Street being 719.84 feet
above datum, is hereby established as a bench mark for the reference of city
elevations. (4-5-1915)
8-1-22: TREES, PLANTING ALONG STREETS:
   (A)   Species And Intervals Of Trees Approved For Planting: The species of
trees, and the intervals between them, approved for planting in the streets of
the city are: ginkgos, thirty feet (30'); ash, Norway maple, Schwendler maple,
red maple, sweet gum, tulip, red oak, white oak, willow oak, scarlet oak,
American linden and European linden, forty feet (40'); pin oak, forty five feet
(45'); honey locust, fifty feet (50').
In addition to the species of trees above permitted, other species of trees may
be approved for planting along the streets of this city as may be specified by
the appropriate committee of the city council.
   (B)   Forbidden Species Of Trees: No person shall plant any of the following
named trees in the streets of the city: evergreens; fruit and nut trees (except
oak); box elder; silver maple; ailanthus; poplar; cottonwood; willow; catalpa;
hackberry; dogwood; white fringe; red bud or elm (including Chinese elm). (Ord.
81-80, 12-1-1981)
8-1-23: PAVED AND/OR ASPHALTED DRIVEWAYS:
Each owner of a lot located within the corporate limits of the city which has a
paved and/or asphalted driveway upon said lot extending past the lot line shall
be required to cut a seam in said driveway parallel with and even with the lot
line. Said seam shall be cut at the expense of the owner of the lot. (Ord. 98-
02, 4-7-1998)
8-1-24: RURAL ROUTE MAILBOXES:
   (A)   Postal Requirements: All mailboxes in the city intended as the
receptacle of the U.S. mail shall meet those requirements of the United States
postal service for the delivery of the U.S. mail.
   (B)   Additional Placement Standards: The city, in addition to the
requirements of the United States postal service, shall require these
additional placement standards:
      1.   On noncurbed streets, the rural mailbox shall be placed a sufficient
distance from the street to allow the mail delivery vehicle to be parked at the
rural mailbox without impairing the flow of traffic on the street.
      2.   On curbed streets, that part of the mailbox closest to the street in
a line perpendicular to the exterior wall of the curbing.
   (C)   Penalty: Violation of subsection (B) of this section shall result in a
twenty five dollar ($25.00) per day fine, or may be enforced by injunctive
relief requiring the removal of the rural mailbox from any placement that
violates this section. (Ord. 03-03, 4-1-2003)
CHAPTER 2
CEMETERY
SECTION:
8-2-1: Cemetery Designated
8-2-2: Conformance Report Required
8-2-3: Supervision
8-2-4: License Required
8-2-5: Violation
8-2-1: CEMETERY DESIGNATED:
The tracts or lots of land purchased by the town, now the city of Atlanta, of
Harvey Turner and Elizabeth Turner, his wife, and particularly described in the
deed from them to the city, recorded in the recorder's office of Logan County,
Illinois, be set apart and dedicated to cemetery purposes and uses, to be kept
and controlled by the corporate authorities of the city.
Said tracts of land, and any other that may hereafter be purchased for cemetery
purposes, or as additions to said grounds, shall be under the control of the
Ladies' Cemetery Association in conformity with the deed from the city to the
association. (Ord. 17, 2-6-1917)
8-2-2: CONFORMANCE REPORT REQUIRED:
The Ladies' Cemetery Association shall at all times conform to the provisions
of this code in regard to the cemetery, as provided in the deed to the
association, and shall make to the city council an annual report of the
condition of said cemetery, which report shall be full and complete in all
particulars regarding said cemetery. (Ord. 17, 2-6-1917)
8-2-3: SUPERVISION:
All work done in the cemetery shall be done under the direction of the board of
directors of the Ladies' Cemetery Association. (Ord. 17, 2-6-1917)
8-2-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall do any work of any kind or character in the cemetery without
first having obtained a license therefor; provided, that this shall not apply
to any owner of a lot in said cemetery when working upon his own lot, or to the
members of the immediate family when working upon the lot owned by the family.
The fee for the license provided in this section shall be one dollar ($1.00)
per annum for each lot upon which any work is done by the party holding such
license, payable to the city clerk in advance.
The license fee provided herein shall, when collected by the city clerk, be
turned over to the Ladies' Cemetery Association. (Ord. 17, 2-6-1917)
8-2-5: VIOLATION:
Any unauthorized person who shall dig or cause to be dug any grave in the
cemetery and any person who shall resist the sexton of the cemetery or refuse
to obey the directions of such officer, or shall be found discharging firearms,
hunting or trespassing in any way upon said cemetery grounds, or shall trespass
upon any grave in the grounds, such person or persons shall severally be
subject to a penalty as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 17, 2-6-1917)
CHAPTER 3
EXCAVATIONS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Permit Required
8-3-2: Drains; Permit To Change; Fill
8-3-3: Barricades
8-3-4: Bonds
8-3-5: Issuance Of Permits
8-3-6: Permit Fee
8-3-7: Notice Of Improper Work
8-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to open, excavate or dig in any street,
alley or public thoroughfare in the city without first procuring a permit for
such work from the commissioner of streets, and the furnishing of a suitable
bond, based on the faithful performance of all rules and regulations prescribed
pertaining to such work, including the backfill with sand and the repaving of
such street, in the manner as directed by the commissioner. (1972 Code)
8-3-2: DRAINS; PERMIT TO CHANGE; FILL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to change, alter, fill or deposit debris or
other object in any drain, or to interfere with any drain by construction or
use of a driveway, without first obtaining a permit for such work from the
commissioner of streets, specifying in detail, the exact nature of any such
work, and such work so specified shall then be performed or constructed in
accordance with such permit. (1972 Code)
8-3-3: BARRICADES:
All openings, excavations or other diggings shall be adequately barricaded and
well lighted with stormproof lights, from sunset to sunrise, and all backfill
shall be made with sand, properly compacted and resurfaced with materials of
like kind and quality, to be approved by the commissioner of streets. (1972
Code)
8-3-4: BONDS:
Bonds shall be furnished by the person to the approval of the commissioner of
streets, based on the full and proper compliance with this chapter and to
indemnify the city against all loss or damage the city may suffer or sustain by
reason of improperly performing the work or from loss or damages caused by
reason of injury to a member of the public, which said bond shall be not less
than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) or such additional sum as the street
commissioner may deem appropriate. (1972 Code)
8-3-5: ISSUANCE OF PERMITS:
Permits shall be issued and the same shall be conspicuously posted at the site
of any such work. Such permit shall be issued under the signature of the
commissioner of streets, and bear the name and address of the person to whom
issued, and shall state the expiration date. (1972 Code)
8-3-6: PERMIT FEE:
The permit fee for such permit shall be one dollar ($1.00), to be paid to the
commissioner of streets. (1972 Code)
8-3-7: NOTICE OF IMPROPER WORK:
Any work improperly performed shall be corrected within twenty four (24) hours
after notice given by the street commissioner, and unless corrected within said
time, the city may complete such work and look to the bondsmen to make
compensation therefor, without further notice or demand whatsoever. (1972 Code)
CHAPTER 4
WATERWORKS
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Interference Or Damage To Waterworks
8-4-3: Fire Hydrants
8-4-4: Delegate Authority Prohibited; Wrenches Taken
8-4-5: Leakage Reported
8-4-6: Excavate Near Water Pipe
8-4-7: Regulations For Excavating
8-4-8: Permit To Tap, Connect
8-4-9: Supervision; Water And Sewer Committee
8-4-10: Kind And Size Of Connections
8-4-11: Rules, Rates
8-4-12: City Rights
8-4-13: Payments
8-4-14: Application For Water
8-4-15: Uses Stated In Application
8-4-16: Applicant Not Owner
8-4-17: One Pipe; Several Users
8-4-18: Permit For Additional Service
8-4-19: Expenses Paid By Applicant
8-4-20: Water Turned On
8-4-21: Water Meter
8-4-22: Owner Liable
8-4-23: Water Turned Off
8-4-24: Fixtures Kept Closed
8-4-25: Fixtures
8-4-26: City Not Liable
8-4-27: Water Rates; Charges
8-4-28: Temporary, Itinerant Housing Connection Fee
8-4-29: Violation; Water Turned Off
8-4-30: Payment Forfeited
8-4-31: Interference With Meter
8-4-32: Violation
8-4-33: Consumption Outside City Limits
8-4-34: Cross Connection Control
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases in this chapter shall, unless the same be
inconsistent with the context, be construed as follows:
CITY: The city of Atlanta, Logan County, Illinois.
CITY CLERK: The city clerk of the city.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Atlanta, Logan County, Illinois.
WATER COMMITTEE: The water committee of the council of the city.
WATER SYSTEM: The entire plant used by the city for pumping, storing and
distributing water in and about the city.
WATERWORKS: See definition of Water System. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-2: INTERFERENCE OR DAMAGE TO WATERWORKS:
No person shall wilfully or carelessly break, injure, mar, deface, interfere
with or disturb any building, machinery, apparatus, fixture, attachments or
appurtenance of the waterworks of the city, or any public or private hydrant or
watering trough, or stopcock, meter, water supply or service pipe, or any part
thereof; nor shall any person deposit anything in any stop box, or commit any
act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the above
mentioned property without having first obtained the permission of the water
and sewer committee of the city council, except in such cases as shall be
hereinafter provided for by ordinance of the city. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-3: FIRE HYDRANTS:
All the hydrants erected in the city for the purpose of extinguishing fire are
hereby declared to be public hydrants, and no person or persons (other than the
members of the fire department, and then only for the use and purposes of said
department, or persons especially authorized by the water and sewer committee
or city council, and then only in the exercise of authority as above given
them) shall open any of said hydrants or attempt to draw water from the same,
or at any time uncover or remove any protection from any of the hydrants in the
city, or in any way interfere with any of said hydrants or any other part or
parts thereto belonging. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-4: DELEGATE AUTHORITY PROHIBITED; WRENCHES TAKEN:
No person authorized to open hydrants shall delegate his authority to any other
person, or let out or suffer any other person to take the city wrenches
furnished him, or suffer them to be taken from any house of the city, except
for purposes strictly connected with the fire department, or as they accompany
hose carts on occasion of fires. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-5: LEAKAGE REPORTED:
It shall be the duty of the street commissioner and police officers of the city
to report to the mayor all cases of leakage, waste or unnecessary profusion in
the use of water, and all violations of waterworks provisions of this code that
may be brought to their notice; and they shall enforce the observance of this
chapter so far as they have authority under the provisions of this code. (Ord.
24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-6: EXCAVATE NEAR WATER PIPE:
No person shall make any excavation in any street, alley or highway, within ten
feet (10') of any laid water pipe or main while the ground is frozen, or dig up
or uncover so as to expose to the frost any water pipe of the city, except by
special permission of the water and sewer committee. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-7: REGULATIONS FOR EXCAVATING:
No person shall make any excavation in any street, highway or alley for the
purpose of laying water pipes, in connection with the waterworks, or tap any
water or service pipe laid down, without the written permission of the mayor
and water and sewer committee on blank forms furnished by the city, and on said
forms must be written correctly and fully all of the purposes for which the
water is taken, and the following regulations must be complied with:
   (A)   Streets Restored To Proper Condition: Whoever shall make any
excavation in any street or highway for laying any pipe or making any repairs
in or about the city water system or any connection therewith, shall refill
such openings and replace any ballast or portion of sidewalk or pavement in
such a manner as to put the street into as good a condition as it was before
the excavation was made, and satisfactory to the street commissioner.
   (B)   Excavations Not To Inconvenience Public More Than Necessary: In making
excavations in streets or highways, for laying service pipes or making repairs,
the planks, paving stones and earth removed must be deposited in a manner that
will occasion the least inconvenience to the public and provide for the passage
of water along the gutters.
   (C)   Barricades And Red Lights: No person shall leave any such excavation
made in any street or highway open at any time without reasonable barricades;
and during the night red warning lights shall be maintained at such excavated
places.
   (D)   Refilling, How Done: In refilling the openings after the service pipes
are laid, the earth must be laid in layers of not more than nine inches (9") in
depth, and each layer thoroughly rammed or puddled to prevent settling. (Ord.
24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-8: PERMIT TO TAP, CONNECT:
No person shall tap any water main or pipe which forms a part of the city water
system, or make any alteration or repairs in or about any tapping or connection
therewith, without having first obtained a permit therefor from the city clerk.
(Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-9: SUPERVISION; WATER AND SEWER COMMITTEE:
All tapping of water mains and of pipes forming a part of the city water system
or connected therewith, and all repairing and alterations made on such mains
and pipes and upon all connections therewith shall be done under the direct
supervision of the water and sewer committee or of their duly authorized agent.
(Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-10: KIND AND SIZE OF CONNECTIONS:
The kind and size of all connections with mains and other pipes which form a
part of the water system shall be determined in each instance by the water and
sewer committee of the city council; provided, however, that no main or other
public water pipe shall be tapped with other than a corporation cock. (Ord. 24,
2-16-1917)
8-4-11: RULES, RATES:
All provisions, rules, regulations and water rates now existing in, or
hereafter made by either the city council or the water and sewer committee,
shall be considered a part of the contract with every person, company or
corporation who is supplied with water through the water systems of this city;
and every person by taking water shall be considered as expressing his consent
to be bound thereby. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-12: CITY RIGHTS:
The right is reserved to the city council to change any provision of this code
relating to the water system to interpret the meaning of any sentence or
section thereof.
The right is reserved to the city to cut off the supply of water at any time,
any contract or permit granted to the contrary notwithstanding. (Ord. 24, 2-16-
1917)
8-4-13: PAYMENTS:
All water rentals must be paid to the city clerk at his office. Water rentals
may be paid only one year in advance in January of each year. (Ord. 24, 2-16-
1917)
8-4-14: APPLICATION FOR WATER:
Every person desiring a supply of water shall make application in writing to
the city clerk on the forms prescribed for that purpose. Blanks for that
purpose will be furnished by the city clerk. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-15: USES STATED IN APPLICATION:
The application shall state fully and correctly all the purposes for which the
water is to be used. The rates will be based on the statement furnished. (Ord.
24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-16: APPLICANT NOT OWNER:
If the applicant is not the owner of the premises for which water service is
requested, then he, or she, must present with his or her written application
the written consent of the owner of such property which written consent and
permission shall be on a form deemed appropriate by the city council, and
which, among other things, will contain an acknowledgment by the owner of such
owner's liability for any unpaid charges for water service to said property.
(Ord. 88-22, 3-21-1989)
8-4-17: ONE PIPE; SEVERAL USERS:
When more than one unit, building or tenant is supplied water service through
one service pipe, the application for such water service to such multiple
buildings, units or tenants shall be made by the owner of such units or
buildings and said owner shall be solely and completely responsible and liable
for the charges for all water supplied through such single service pipe. Said
owner shall be required to inform the city clerk of any change in the number of
occupants in said buildings or units which notification must be given within
forty eight (48) hours of said change in occupancy. (Ord. 88-22, 3-21-1989)
8-4-18: PERMIT FOR ADDITIONAL SERVICE:
After water has been introduced into any building or upon any premises, no
consumer or other person by himself or agent or plumber shall make any taps or
connections with the pipes of such premises for alterations, extensions or
attachments, unless such consumer or other person shall first obtain from the
city clerk a permit therefor and use the cocks and connections approved of by
the water and sewer committee. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-19: EXPENSES PAID BY APPLICANT:
All expenses relating to the introduction of water from the city's mains into
buildings or private premises shall be paid by the owner or tenant who applied
for the water. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-20: WATER TURNED ON:
Water shall not be turned into any building or private service pipe except upon
the order of the city clerk; nor until the applicant for water shall have paid
the water rentals due the current term or quarter, if he pays a "flat rate".
Whoever shall be convicted of violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to a fine; provided, however, nothing herein shall be construed to
prevent any plumber from testing his work if he turns off the water immediately
after the test has been completed. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-21: WATER METER:
Water shall not be turned on for any consumer for any new connections or where
it has been ordered shut off for other than repairs, until a water meter
satisfactory to and approved of by the water and sewer committee shall have
been installed, nor until the superintendent of water shall have examined the
plumbing and connections and shall have notified the city clerk that such
connections and plumbing and meter are satisfactory and safe, and in no way
violate any provision of this code or any rule of the water and sewer
committee, and that the meter is accessible for reading. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-22: OWNER LIABLE:
Every person who shall obtain water from the City shall be liable to the City
for water at the regular rates, from and after the date that the water shall be
turned on pursuant to his application for water, and until he shall notify the
City Clerk to have the water turned off. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
In the event the applicant for water service is not the owner of the property
to be served with water service pursuant to said application, then the owner of
such property shall be responsible and liable for any unpaid charges for water
service rendered to the property and shall acknowledge such responsibility in a
written consent or permission form required by the City at the time of the
application for water service. (Ord. 88-22, 3-21-1989)
8-4-23: WATER TURNED OFF:
When the water has been turned off by the City, no consumer shall turn it on,
nor permit it to be turned on, without the consent of the City Clerk. (Ord. 24,
2-16-1917)
8-4-24: FIXTURES KEPT CLOSED:
All persons using water shall keep the hydrants, taps, hose, water closets,
urinals, baths or other fixtures allotted to their use, closed, except when
obtaining water for use; and shall be responsible for any damage or injury that
may result to others from the improper use of said water. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-25: FIXTURES:
   (A)   All persons taking water shall keep their own service pipes, stopcocks
and all other apparatus in good repair and protected from frost, at their own
risk and expense, and shall prevent any unnecessary waste of water.
   (B)   All stopcocks and other appurtenances used in and about the water
system and connections therewith shall be sufficiently strong to bear the
pressure and ram of water in the mains. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-26: CITY NOT LIABLE:
It shall be considered a part of every contract made with every water taker,
and every water taker by taking water thereby binds himself to not hold the
City liable for any damage that may arise from a failure by the City to supply
water, or by reason of shutting off water for making repairs, extensions or
connections, or by reason of the breaking or freezing of any pipe or service
cock in any part of the water system. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-27: WATER RATES; CHARGES:
   (A)   1. The following tariff of rates for the use of water through the
waterworks system of the City to private citizens and corporations is hereby
established as meter rates:
 
First 2,000 gallons $40.00
Additional usage    $4.50 per 1,000 gallons or part thereof
 
For all purposes not otherwise specified, the rates shall be made and fixed by
contract, as special rates by the City Council, or, any persons, or
corporations may, by providing a meter of a kind designated or adopted by the
City Council, and by paying to install the same in place, take water at meter
rates as herein specified.
      2.   The base rate for out of City users is sixty dollars ($60.00). (Ord.
17-02, 5-2-2017, eff. 6-1-2017)
   (B)   A water meter deposit of forty dollars ($40.00) is hereby required of
all subscribers as a prerequisite to obtaining water service. In the event the
subscriber shall thereafter promptly pay for City water service for a period of
eighteen (18) months, the water meter deposit shall, upon request, be refunded
but without any obligation on the part of the City to pay interest thereon.
   (C)   There shall be a charge equal to the actual cost of the yoke, meter
and pit, payable to the City for installation of new meters. Said charge shall
be paid prior to the installation of the new meter or meters. Said charge shall
cover new construction meter installation and not replacement of old and
inoperable meters, which shall be at the City's expense. (Ord. 80-100, 2-19-
1980; amd. Ord. 88-22, 3-21-1989)
   (D)   Bills for water provided by the City waterworks system shall be
rendered as of the tenth day of the month succeeding the period for which
service is billed. All water bills are due and payable not later than the
thirtieth day of the month in which bills are rendered. Ten percent (10%) of
the amount of the water bill remaining unpaid after the thirtieth day of the
month shall be charged to the delinquent balance of the bill and shall be added
to the next water bill rendered to the user. Said penalty is in addition to any
other charges or remedies to enforce prompt payment of water bills. (Ord. 87-
28, 7-7-1987)
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything herein contained to the contrary, in the
event multiple buildings or units are supplied through one service pipe, there
shall be, at a minimum, one minimum monthly charge per building or unit served
by said single service pipe. (Ord. 88-22, 3-21-1989)
8-4-28: TEMPORARY, ITINERANT HOUSING CONNECTION FEE:
Before any connection can be made into the city water mains to provide city
water service to any owner or occupants of a housing facility of a temporary or
transient nature, such as a house trailer, which is not permanently attached to
the lot or tract of land upon which it is located within the corporate limits
of the city, the owner or occupants of such housing facility desiring the
connection shall first obtain a permit from the city clerk, who is authorized
to issue same upon the payment of a fifty dollar ($50.00) fee. In the event the
owner or occupant of such housing facility who has paid the fifty dollar
($50.00) fee shall thereafter continuously use and pay for city water service
for a period of twelve (12) successive months, he shall be entitled to a refund
of forty five dollars ($45.00) of such fifty dollar ($50.00) fee without
interest. (10-21-1958)
8-4-29: VIOLATION; WATER TURNED OFF:
   (A)   Whenever any provisions, rule or regulation now in force or hereafter
adopted by the city under this chapter is violated, the water shall be shut off
from the building or place of such violation. Further, if no payments are made
on any account for two (2) consecutive billing periods, notice shall be given
to the party responsible for the payment of said bill that the water supply
will be shut off if all such nonpaid charges are not paid in full, or
satisfactory arrangements have not been made with the office of the city clerk
within seven (7) days of the date of the notice. In addition to the foregoing,
the city council reserves the right, with respect to any account which is not
current, to issue a "final notice" statement on any water bill covering such
account. If such account is not paid in full, or satisfactory arrangements have
not been made with the city clerk within seven (7) days of the mailing of such
"final notice" bill, then water service to such account may be terminated by
the city.
   (B)   When the water shall have been shut off from any building or place
because the owner or occupant thereof was delinquent or has violated some
provision of this chapter, the water shall not be turned on again until such
owner or occupant shall have paid up all arrears of water rent and shall
reasonably have satisfied the city council or the water and sewer committee
thereof that no future delinquencies or violations of the chapter shall occur.
(Ord. 80-100, 2-19-1980; amd. Ord. 88-22, 3-21-1989)
8-4-30: PAYMENT FORFEITED:
In any case of a violation of this chapter or any provision herein, the city
council or the water committee of the council may declare any payment made for
water forfeited to the city, and said payment shall thereupon be so forfeited.
(Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-31: INTERFERENCE WITH METER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to, without authority from the city
council, adjust or regulate or impede or alter any meter or part thereof used
to measure the amount of water furnished by the city to any consumer. (Ord. 24,
2-16-1917)
8-4-32: VIOLATION:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter, a penalty or
fine for violation of which is not otherwise herein provided for, shall be
punished by a fine as provided by section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 24, 2-16-1917)
8-4-33: CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS:
The tariff or rates for use of water through the waterworks system of the city
for any individuals or entities which connect to the municipal system and
extend water lines from said systems to areas beyond the corporate limits of
the city, shall be equal to two (2) times the tariffs and rates as set forth in
section
8-4-27 of this chapter. (Ord. 88-22, 3-21-1989)
8-4-34: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL:
   (A)   All plumbing installed within the city shall be installed in
accordance with the Illinois plumbing code, 77 Illinois administrative code
890. If in accordance with the Illinois plumbing code or in the judgment of the
superintendent of water, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary
for the safety of the public water supply system, the superintendent of water
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately. The water customer shall, at his own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois
plumbing code, Illinois environmental protection agency and all applicable
local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of such approved
devices upon installation and as required by the Illinois plumbing code,
Illinois environmental protection agency and local regulations.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the city may enter the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
superintendent of water and the Illinois environmental protection agency.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the superintendent of water to cause surveys
and investigations to be made of commercial, industrial or other properties
served by the public water supply to determine whether actual or potential
hazards to the public water supply may exist. Such surveys and investigations
shall be made a matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every
two (2) years, or as often as the superintendent of water shall deem necessary.
Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review for a
period of at least five (5) years.
   (D)   The approved cross connection control device inspector shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply or distribution system of the city for the purpose of
verifying the presence or absence of cross connections, and that the water
superintendent or his authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
or distribution system of the city for the purpose of verifying information
submitted by the customer regarding the required cross connection control
inspection. On demand, the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the superintendent of water any information which he
may request regarding the piping system or systems, or water use on such
property. The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the
discretion of the superintendent of water, be deemed evidence of the presence
of improper connections as provided in this section.
   (E)   The superintendent of water of the city is hereby authorized and
directed to discontinue, after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the
water service to any property wherein any connection in violation of the
provisions of this section is known to exist, and to take such other
precautionary measures as he may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to
such property shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated
or corrected in compliance with the provisions of this section, and until a
reconnection fee of eighty dollars ($80.00) is paid to the city. Immediate
disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when the superintendent of
water is assured that imminent danger of harmful contamination of the public
water supply system exists. Such action shall be followed by written
notification of the cause of disconnection. Immediate disconnection without
notice to any party can be effected to prevent actual or anticipated
contamination or pollution of the public water supply; provided, that in the
reasonable opinion of the superintendent of water or the Illinois environmental
protection agency, such action is required to prevent actual or potential
contamination or pollution of the public water supply. Neither the public water
supply, the superintendent of water, or its agents or assigns shall be liable
to any customer for any injury, damages or lost revenues which may result from
termination of said customer's water supply in accordance with the terms of
this section, whether or not said termination was with or without notice.
   (F)   The consumer responsible for back siphoned or back pressured material
or contamination through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply
system occurs through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed,
maintained or repaired device or a device which has been bypassed, must bear
the cost of cleanup of the potable water supply system.
   (G)   The regulations for cross connection control, attached to the
ordinance codified herein, are hereby adopted by the city council and shall be
maintained by the city clerk at city hall in Atlanta, Illinois, but shall not
be printed as part of this code. (Ord. 92-01, 2-18-1992)
TITLE 9
TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Definitions
9-1-2: Obedience To Police Officers
9-1-3: Transportation Of Alcoholic Liquor; Penalty
9-1-4: Reckless Driving
9-1-5: Drag Racing
9-1-6: General Speed Restrictions
9-1-7: Special Speed Limit While Passing Schools
9-1-8: Minimum Speed Regulation
9-1-9: Following Too Closely
9-1-10: Vehicles Approaching Or Entering Intersection
9-1-11: Vehicle Turning Left
9-1-12: Vehicle Entering Stop Or Yield Intersection
9-1-13: Vehicle Entering Highway From Private Road Or Driveway
9-1-14: Operation Of Vehicle Upon Approach Of Authorized Emergency Vehicles
9-1-15: Obedience To Signal Indicating Approach Of Train
9-1-16: Removal Of Illegally Stopped Vehicles
9-1-17: Unattended Motor Vehicles
9-1-18: Limitations On Backing
9-1-19: Riding On Motorcycles
9-1-20: Following Fire Apparatus Prohibited
9-1-21: Crossing Fire Hose
9-1-22: Drivers Must Have Licenses Or Permits
9-1-23: Driving Upon Sidewalk
9-1-24: Putting Glass, Etc., On Highways
9-1-25: Approaching, Overtaking And Passing School Bus
9-1-26: Obstructing Person On Highways
9-1-27: Penalties For Misdemeanor
9-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases when used in this chapter shall, for the
purpose hereof, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this
chapter, except when the context otherwise requires, and except where another
definition set forth in another part of this code, or a designated part
thereof, is applicable:
ALLEY: A public way within a block, generally giving access to the rear of lots
or buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Emergency vehicles of municipal departments or
public service corporations as are designated or authorized by proper local
authorities; police vehicles; vehicles of the fire department and ambulances.
BICYCLE: Every device propelled by human power upon which any person may ride,
having two (2) tandem wheels either of which is more than sixteen inches (16")
in diameter.
CROSSWALK: (A) That part of a roadway at an intersection included within the
connections of the lateral lines of the sidewalks on opposite sides of the
highway measured from the curbs or, in the absence of curbs, from the edges of
the traversable roadway;
   (B)   Any portion of a roadway at an intersection or elsewhere distinctly
indicated for pedestrian crossing by lines or other markings on the surface
placed in accordance with the provisions in the state department of highways
manual for signals and markings.
DRIVER: Every person who drives or is in actual physical control of a vehicle.
HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
IMPLEMENT OF HUSBANDRY: Every vehicle designed and adapted exclusively for
agricultural, horticultural or livestock raising operations, including farm
wagons, wagon trailers or like vehicles used in connection therewith, or for
lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry; provided, that no farm wagon,
wagon trailer or like vehicle having a capacity of more than four hundred (400)
bushels or a gross weight of more than thirty thousand (30,000) pounds shall be
included hereunder.
INTERSECTION: (A) The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of
the lateral curb lines or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
roadways joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   (B)   Where a highway includes two (2) roadways forty feet (40') or more
apart, then every crossing of each roadway of such divided highway by an
intersecting highway shall be regarded as a separate intersection.
LICENSE TO DRIVE: Any driver's license or any other license or permit to
operate a motor vehicle issued under the laws of this state, including:
   (A)   Any temporary license or instruction permit;
   (B)   The privilege of any person to drive a motor vehicle whether or not
such person holds a valid license or permit;
   (C)   Any "nonresident's driving privilege", as defined in this section.
MOTOR DRIVEN CYCLE: Every motorcycle, every motor scooter, or every bicycle
with motor attached, with less than one hundred fifty (150) cubic centimeter
piston displacement.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power obtained from overhead trolley wires, but not
operated upon rails.
MOTORCYCLE: Every motor vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the
rider and designed to travel on not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the ground, but excluding a tractor.
NONRESIDENT: Every person who is not a resident of this state.
NONRESIDENT'S DRIVING PRIVILEGE: The privilege conferred upon a nonresident by
the laws of this state pertaining to the operation by such person of a motor
vehicle, or the use of a vehicle owned by such person in this state.
OWNER: A person who holds legal title of a motor vehicle, or in the event a
motor vehicle is the subject of an agreement for the conditional sale or lease
thereof with the right of purchase upon performance of the conditions stated in
the agreement and with an immediate right of possession vested in the
conditional vendee or lessee, or in the event a mortgagor of such motor vehicle
is entitled to possession, then such conditional vendee or lessee or mortgagor
shall be deemed the "owner" for the purpose of this chapter.
PERSON: Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or corporation.
POLICE OFFICER: Every officer authorized to direct or regulate traffic or to
make arrests for violations of traffic regulations.
PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY: Every way or place in private ownership and used for
vehicular travel by the owner and those having express or implied permission
from the owner, but not by other persons.
RIGHT OF WAY: The right of one vehicle or pedestrian to proceed in a lawful
manner in preference to another vehicle or pedestrian approaching under such
circumstances of direction, speed and proximity as to give rise to danger of
collision unless one grants precedence to the other.
SCHOOL BUS: Every motor vehicle of the second division owned or operated by or
for a public or governmental agency or by or for a private or religious
organization for the transportation of pupils in connection with any school
activity. This definition does not include a bus operated by a public utility
or a municipal corporation authorized to conduct local or interurban
transportation of passengers.
SIDEWALK: That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of pedestrians.
STREET: The entire width between boundary lines for every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular traffic.
THROUGH HIGHWAY: Every highway or portion thereof on which vehicular traffic is
given preferential right of way, and at the entrances to which vehicular
traffic from intersecting highways is required by law to yield right of way to
vehicles on such through highway in obedience to either a stop sign or a yield
sign, when such signs are erected as provided in this chapter.
VEHICLE: Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may be
transported or drawn upon a highway, except devices moved by human power or
used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks. (1972 Code)
9-1-2: OBEDIENCE TO POLICE OFFICERS:
No person shall wilfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or
direction of any police officer invested by law with authority to direct,
control or regulate traffic. (1972 Code)
9-1-3: TRANSPORTATION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR; PENALTY:
No person shall transport, carry, possess or have any alcoholic liquor in or
upon or about any motor vehicle except in the original package and with the
seal unbroken. A person convicted of violating this section shall be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). (1972 Code)
9-1-4: RECKLESS DRIVING:
Any person who drives any vehicle with a wilful or wanton disregard for the
safety of persons or property is guilty of reckless driving. (1972 Code)
9-1-5: DRAG RACING:
Any person who, as an operator of a motor vehicle, is convicted of being a
participant in drag racing shall be punished as by law provided. "Drag racing"
shall mean the act of two (2) or more individuals competing or racing on any
street or highway in this state in a situation in which one of the motor
vehicles is beside or to the rear of a motor vehicle operated by a competing
driver and the one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing
or overtaking him, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more
individuals competing in a race against time on any street or highway in this
state. (1972 Code)
9-1-6: GENERAL SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   No vehicle may be driven upon any highway of this state at a speed
which is greater than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic
conditions and the use of the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or
property. The fact that the speed of a vehicle does not exceed the applicable
maximum speed limit does not relieve the driver from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching and going
around a curve, when approaching a hillcrest, when traveling upon any narrow or
winding roadway, or when special hazard exists with respect to pedestrians or
other traffic or by reason of weather or highway conditions. Speed must be
decreased as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on
or entering the highway in compliance with legal requirements and the duty of
all persons to use due care.
   (B)   Unless some other speed restriction is established under this chapter,
the maximum speed limit in an urban district for all vehicles is: (1972 Code)
      1.   Twenty five (25) miles per hour; and (Ord. 1002, 9-19-1972)
      2.   Fifteen (15) miles per hour in an alley. (1972 Code)
9-1-7: SPECIAL SPEED LIMIT WHILE PASSING SCHOOLS:
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess of twenty
(20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling upon any
public thoroughfare on or across which children pass along to and from school
during school days when schoolchildren are present.
   (B)   This section shall not be applicable unless appropriate signs are
posted upon streets and highways under their respective jurisdiction and
maintained by the city wherein the school zone is located. Such signs shall
give proper due warning that a school zone is being approached and shall
indicate the school zone and the maximum speed limit in effect during school
days when schoolchildren are present. (1972 Code)
9-1-8: MINIMUM SPEED REGULATION:
   (A)   No person shall drive a motor vehicle at such a slow speed as to
impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of traffic except when
reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of his vehicle or in compliance
with law.
   (B)   The speed limits established by this chapter do not apply to
ambulances or to an authorized emergency vehicle in motion when responding to
an emergency call and when the driver thereof sounds an audible signal by bell,
siren or exhaust whistle, as may be necessary; provided, that the vehicle is
equipped with and has in operation at least one lighted lamp displaying an
oscillating, rotating or flashing red beam. An authorized emergency fire
department vehicle may be equipped with and have in operation a triple eight
moving white beam light visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a
distance of five hundred feet (500') to the front of such vehicle, in lieu of,
or in addition to, a rotating or flashing red beam in order to be exempt from
the speed limits established by this chapter. However, this provision does not
relieve the driver of an authorized emergency vehicle from the duty to drive
with due regard for the safety of all persons using the street, nor does it
protect the driver of any such vehicle from the consequence of a reckless
disregard of the safety of others. (1972 Code)
9-1-9: FOLLOWING TOO CLOSELY:
The driver of a motor vehicle shall not follow another vehicle more closely
than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard for the speed of such
vehicles and the traffic upon and the condition of the highway. (1972 Code)
9-1-10: VEHICLES APPROACHING OR ENTERING INTERSECTION:
   (A)   When two (2) vehicles approach or enter an intersection from different
roadways at approximately the same time, the driver of the vehicle on the left
must yield the right of way to the vehicle on the right.
   (B)   The right of way rule declared in subsection (A) of this section is
modified at through highways and otherwise as stated in this chapter. (1972
Code)
9-1-11: VEHICLE TURNING LEFT:
The driver of a vehicle intending to turn to the left within an intersection or
into an alley, private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to any
vehicle approaching from the opposite direction which is so close as to
constitute an immediate hazard, but said driver, having so yielded may proceed
at such time as a safe interval occurs. (1972 Code)
9-1-12: VEHICLE ENTERING STOP OR YIELD INTERSECTION:
   (A)   Preferential right of way at an intersection may be indicated by stop
or yield signs as authorized by the proper officials.
   (B)   Except when directed to proceed by a police officer or traffic control
signal, every driver of a vehicle approaching a stop intersection indicated by
a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none, before
entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then
at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a view of
approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection. After having stopped, the driver shall yield the right of way to
any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another roadway or which is
approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an immediate hazard
during the time when the driver is moving across or within the intersection,
but said driver having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe interval
occurs.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle approaching a yield sign shall in obedience to
such sign slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing conditions and, if
required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if
none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if
none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the driver has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway. After slowing or
stopping, the driver shall yield the right of way to any vehicle in the
intersection or approaching on another roadway so closely as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time such driver is moving across or within the
intersection.
   (D)   If a driver is involved in a collision at an intersection or
interferes with the movement of other vehicles after driving past a yield right
of way sign, such collision or interference shall be deemed prima facie
evidence of the driver's failure to yield right of way. (1972 Code)
9-1-13: VEHICLE ENTERING HIGHWAY FROM PRIVATE ROAD OR DRIVEWAY:
The driver of a vehicle about to enter or cross a highway from an alley,
building, private road or driveway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles
approaching on the highway to be entered. (1972 Code)
9-1-14: OPERATION OF VEHICLE UPON APPROACH OF AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES:
   (A)   Upon the immediate approach of an authorized emergency vehicle making
use of audible and visual signals meeting the requirements of this chapter or a
police vehicle properly and lawfully making use of an audible or visual signal,
the driver of every other vehicle on the same roadway shall yield the right of
way and shall immediately drive to a position parallel to, and as close as
possible to, the right hand edge or curb of the highway clear of any
intersection and shall stop if possible and remain in such position until the
authorized emergency vehicle has passed, except when otherwise directed by a
police officer.
   (B)   This section shall not operate to relieve the driver of an authorized
emergency vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all
persons using the highway. (1972 Code)
9-1-15: OBEDIENCE TO SIGNAL INDICATING APPROACH OF TRAIN:
Whenever any person driving a vehicle approaches a railroad grade crossing,
such person must exercise due care and caution as the existence of a railroad
track across a highway is a warning of danger, and under any of the
circumstances stated in this section, the driver shall stop within fifty feet
(50') but not less than fifteen feet (15') from the nearest rail of the
railroad and shall not proceed until he can do so safely. The foregoing
requirements shall apply when:
   (A)   A clearly visible electric or mechanical signal device gives warning
of the immediate approach of a railroad train;
   (B)   A crossing gate is lowered or a human flagman gives or continues to
give a signal of the approach or passage of a railroad train;
   (C)   A railroad train approaching a highway crossing emits a warning signal
and such railroad train, by reason of its speed or nearness to such crossing,
is an immediate hazard;
   (D)   An approaching railroad train is plainly visible and is in hazardous
proximity to such crossing;
   (E)   A railroad train is approaching so closely that an immediate hazard is
created. (1972 Code)
9-1-16: REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES:
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, such officer is authorized
to move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved or main
traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Any police officer is hereby authorized to remove or cause to be
removed to a place of safety at the expense of the owner any unattended,
abandoned or disabled vehicle left standing upon any highway, bridge, causeway
or elevated structure, or within a tunnel underpass or subway in such a
position or under such circumstances as to obstruct the normal movement of
traffic, or any vehicle left unattended on any highway outside the corporate
limits for a period of twenty four (24) hours or more. The same authority is
also granted regarding any vehicle found upon any highway when:
      1.   Report has been made that such vehicle has been stolen or taken
without the consent of its owner; or
      2.   The person or persons in charge of such vehicle are unable to
provide for its custody or removal; or
      3.   When the person driving or in control of such vehicle is arrested
for an alleged offense for which the officer is required by law to take the
person arrested before a proper judicial official without unnecessary delay.
(1972 Code)
9-1-17: UNATTENDED MOTOR VEHICLES:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine and removing the ignition key, and
when standing upon any perceptible grade, without effectively setting the brake
and turning the front wheels to the curb or side of the highway. (1972 Code;
amd. Ord. 95-06, 11-21-1995)
9-1-18: LIMITATIONS ON BACKING:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same unless such movement
can be made with safety and without interfering with other traffic.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle shall not back the same upon any controlled
access highway. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 95-06, 11-21-1995)
9-1-19: RIDING ON MOTORCYCLES:
The operator of a motorcycle shall ride only astride the permanent and regular
seat or saddle attached thereto, and the operator shall not permit more than
one other person to ride thereon, nor shall such other person ride on the
motorcycle unless it is designed to carry two (2) people, in which event the
passenger shall also ride astride the permanent and regular seat or saddle if
it is designed for two (2) persons, or astride another seat or saddle firmly
attached to the rear of the operator; however, any seat or saddle designed for
a passenger must be equipped with permanent handgrips and, in addition, the
motorcycle must be equipped with footrests adjusted to fit such passenger. A
sidecar may be attached to a motorcycle in which additional persons may ride.
(1972 Code; amd. Ord. 95-06, 11-21-1995)
9-1-20: FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS PROHIBITED:
The driver of any vehicle other than one on official business shall not follow
any fire apparatus traveling in response to a fire alarm closer than five
hundred feet (500') or drive into or park such vehicle within the block where
fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a fire alarm. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 95-
06, 11-21-1995)
9-1-21: CROSSING FIRE HOSE:
No vehicle shall be driven over any unprotected hose of a fire department when
laid down on any street, private road or driveway to be used at any fire or
alarm of fire, without the consent of the fire department official in command.
(1972 Code; amd. Ord. 95-06, 11-21-1995)
9-1-22: DRIVERS MUST HAVE LICENSES OR PERMITS:
   (A)   No person shall drive any motor vehicle, motorcycle or motor driven
cycle upon any highway, street or alley in the city unless such person has a
valid license or permit, or a restricted driving permit, issued by the state.
   (B)   No person shall cause, authorize or knowingly permit a motor vehicle,
motorcycle or motor driven cycle owned by him or under his control to be driven
upon any highway, street, alley or sidewalk in the city by any person who is
not authorized or licensed to drive by the state.
   (C)   Those persons listed as exempt in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
section 5/6-102, as amended, shall also be exempt from the requirement of
subsections (A) and (B) of this section. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 95-06, 11-21-
1995)
9-1-23: DRIVING UPON SIDEWALK:
No person shall drive any motor driven vehicle, motorcycle or motor driven
cycle upon a sidewalk or sidewalk area except upon a permanent or duly
authorized temporary driveway, or for routine maintenance, utility or emergency
service, or for special delivery or pick up involving goods or customer
services. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 95-06, 11-21-1995)
9-1-24: PUTTING GLASS, ETC., ON HIGHWAYS:
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit upon any highway any glass bottle,
nails, tacks, wire, cans, or any other substance likely to injure any person,
animal or vehicle upon such highway.
   (B)   Any person who drops or permits to be dropped or thrown upon any
highway any destructive, dangerous, hazardous or injurious material shall
immediately remove the same or cause it to be removed.
This subsection shall not apply to implements of husbandry designed and adapted
exclusively for agricultural, horticultural or livestock raising operations
that may inadvertently deposit dirt or other substances upon the highway.
   (C)   Any person removing a wrecked or damaged vehicle from a highway shall
remove any glass or other injurious substance dropped upon the highway from
such vehicle. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 95-06, 11-21-1995)
9-1-25: APPROACHING, OVERTAKING AND PASSING SCHOOL BUS:
   (A)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway upon meeting or overtaking,
from either direction, any school bus which has stopped on the highway for the
purpose of receiving or discharging any school children, shall stop the vehicle
before reaching the school bus when there is in operation on the school bus a
visual signal as specified in this chapter, and the driver shall not proceed
until the school bus resumes motion or the driver of the vehicle is signaled by
the school bus driver to proceed or the visual signals are no longer actuated.
   (B)   Every school bus when used for the transportation of school children
must comply with the color requirements established by the superintendent of
public instruction and shall bear upon the front and rear thereof plainly
visible signs containing the words "SCHOOL BUS" in letters not less than eight
inches (8") in height, and in addition shall be equipped with visual signals
meeting the requirements of this chapter, which shall be actuated by the driver
of the school bus immediately preceding the point at which the school bus stops
for the purpose of loading or discharging passengers. Such visual signals shall
be actuated by the driver continuously during not less than the last one
hundred feet (100') traveled by the school bus within a business or residence
district, except that outside a business or residence district such visual
signals shall be given continuously during not less than the last two hundred
feet (200') traveled by the school bus. Such visual signals must remain
actuated when children are loading or unloading from a school bus which is
stopped on a roadway. At no other time shall these visual signals be actuated.
   (C)   The driver of a vehicle upon a highway of which the roadways for
traffic moving in opposite directions are separated by a strip of ground which
is not surfaced or suitable for vehicular traffic need not stop his vehicle
upon meeting or passing a school bus which is on the opposite roadway; and need
not stop his vehicle when driving upon a controlled access highway when a
school bus is stopped in a loading zone adjacent to the surfaced or improved
part of the controlled access highway where pedestrians are not permitted to
cross such controlled access highway.
   (D)   When a school bus is being operated upon a highway for purposes other
than the actual transportation of children either to or from school or in
connection with any school activity, all signs thereon indicating "SCHOOL BUS"
shall be covered or concealed. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 95-06, 11-21-1995)
9-1-26: OBSTRUCTING PERSON ON HIGHWAYS:
Any person who shall wilfully and unnecessarily hinder, obstruct or delay, or
who shall wilfully and unnecessarily attempt to delay, hinder or obstruct any
other person in lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any state highway
or who shall offer for barter or sale merchandise on said highway so as to
interfere with the effective movement of traffic, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 95-06, 11-21-1995)
9-1-27: PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR:
   (A)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any provision of this
chapter unless such violation is by other law of this state declared to be a
felony.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter for which another penalty is not provided shall for
a first conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not less than ten dollars
($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00), or by imprisonment for
not more than ten (10) days; for a second such conviction within one year
thereafter, such person shall be punished by a fine of not less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00), or by
imprisonment for not more than twenty (20) days, or both; and for a third or
subsequent conviction within one year after the first conviction, such person
shall be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or by imprisonment for not more than
six (6) months, or both. (1972 Code; amd. Ord. 95-06, 11-21-1995)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Unattended Vehicles
9-2-2: Signs
9-2-3: Parking At Curb
9-2-4: Parking Prohibited
9-2-5: Handicapped Parking
9-2-6: Vehicles For Sale
9-2-7: Obstructing Traffic Prohibited
9-2-8: Authority To Prohibit Parking
9-2-9: Abandonment Of Vehicles
9-2-10: Report Of Abandonment
9-2-11: Towing Of Vehicles
9-2-12: Towing Report
9-2-13: Identity Of Owner Of Towed Vehicle; Notice
9-2-14: Notice And Sale Of Towed Vehicles
9-2-15: Reclamation By Owner Of Towed Vehicles
9-2-16: Disposition Report
9-2-17: Proceeds Of Sale
9-2-18: Notice Of Illegally Parked Vehicles
9-2-19: Emergency Authority To Move Vehicles
9-2-20: Parking On Snow Emergency Routes
9-2-21: Street Repair And/Or Maintenance
9-2-1: UNATTENDED VEHICLES:
No person driving or in charge of a motor vehicle shall permit it to stand
unattended without first stopping the engine, locking the ignition, and
removing the key, or when standing upon any perceptible grade without
effectively setting the brake thereon and turning the front wheels to the curb
or side of the highway. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-2: SIGNS:
Appropriate signs shall be posted in all areas where parking is limited or
prohibited, indicating such limitations or prohibitions. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-
1997)
9-2-3: PARKING AT CURB:
No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the curb
except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb or with two (2) right
wheels of the vehicle within twelve inches (12") of the regularly established
curb line, except that upon those streets that have been marked for angle
parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such
marks. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-4: PARKING PROHIBITED:
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon any approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of the property;
      8.   Within twenty feet (20') of the nearest rail or railroad gate
crossing;
      9.   Within twenty feet (20') of a driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
fifty feet (50') of said entrance when properly signposted;
      10.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such parking would obstruct traffic;
      11.   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      12.   Upon any bridge or elevated structure upon a highway or within a
highway tunnel;
      13.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
      14.   Within any designated bus zone, where such zone is marked by
signals or pavement markings;
      15.   Upon a railroad track or between any railroad tracks and in a line
and parallel with and ten feet (10') distant from the outer rail thereof;
      16.   Within fifteen feet (15') of any alley entrance or exit; and
      17.   Next to any curbing painted with alternating red and white stripes
or painted with solid yellow paint which has been placed on said curbing by the
city or the state department of transportation.
   (B)   Whenever signs posted by the city or the state department of
transportation limit parking in a certain area to a specified length of time,
no person shall park a vehicle within such area beyond said specified time,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   (C)   Whenever signs are posted by the city or the state department of
transportation or painted in specific areas, public or private, which designate
such specific areas as fire lanes, no person shall park a vehicle within such
area, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with directions of a police officer or traffic control device.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person or operator, except physically
handicapped persons or those transporting physically handicapped persons, as
described in section
9-2-5 of this chapter, to park a vehicle anytime in parking areas designated
for physically handicapped persons only or in areas in private lots designated
for the physically handicapped, except when necessary to avoid conflict with
other traffic or in compliance with directions of a police officer or other
traffic control device. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-5: HANDICAPPED PARKING:
   (A)   Physically handicapped persons and transporters of physically
handicapped persons who have been issued handicapped license plates, or other
such identifying sticker placed in an area of visibility on a vehicle by a
governmental unit, may park vehicles in a designated handicapped public parking
area for periods not to exceed two (2) hours at any one time.
   (B)   Any vehicle parked in a handicapped parking space must display a
handicapped license plate, or other such identifying sticker, placed in an area
of visibility on a vehicle, issued by a governmental unit thus indicating the
right to park in the handicapped area under this section.
   (C)   The city council is authorized to determine and designate by proper
signs places which shall be reserved for the parking of vehicles for physically
handicapped persons. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-6: VEHICLES FOR SALE:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale, or to park any vehicle upon any business street from
which vehicle merchandise is peddled. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-7: OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC PROHIBITED:
No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than fifteen feet (15') of the width of
the roadway for free movement of vehicular traffic on a two-way street or less
than ten feet (10') of the width of the roadway for free movement of vehicular
traffic on a one-way street. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-8: AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT PARKING:
   (A)   The city council is hereby authorized to erect signs indicating no
parking upon that side of any street adjacent to any school property or
playground when such parking interferes with traffic or creates a hazardous
situation.
   (B)   When official signs are erected indicating no parking upon that side
of a street adjacent to any school property or playground, no person shall park
a vehicle in any such designated area. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-9: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES:
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following words shall have the
meanings ascribed to them as follows:
    ABANDONED VEHICLE: All vehicles in a state of disrepair rendering the
vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition or any vehicle that has not
been moved or used for seven (7) consecutive days or more and is apparently
deserted.
   ANTIQUE VEHICLE: A motor vehicle that is more than twenty five (25) years of
age or a bona fide replica thereof and which is driven on the highways only
going to and returning from an antique auto show or an exhibition, or for
servicing or demonstration, or firefighting vehicle more than twenty (20) years
old which is not used as firefighting equipment but is used only for the
purpose of exhibition or demonstration.
   HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
within the city when any part thereof is opened to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   (B)   The abandonment of a vehicle or any part thereof on any highway in
this city is unlawful and subject to penalties as set forth herein. The
abandonment of a motor vehicle or other vehicle or any part thereof on private
or public property, other than a highway, in view of the general public,
anywhere in this city is unlawful except on property of the owner or bailee of
such abandoned vehicle. A vehicle or any part thereof so abandoned on private
property may be authorized for removal by or upon the order of the chief of
police after a waiting period of seven (7) days or more has expired. (Ord. 97-
12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-10: REPORT OF ABANDONMENT:
When an abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle comes into the temporary
possession or custody of a person in this state, not the owner of the vehicle,
such person shall immediately notify the police department when the vehicle is
within the corporate limits of the city. Upon receipt of such notification, the
chief of police shall authorize a towing service to remove and take possession
of the abandoned, lost, stolen or unclaimed vehicle. The towing service will
safely keep the towed vehicle and its contents, maintain a record of the tow
until the vehicle is claimed by the owner or any other person legally entitled
to the possession thereof, or until it is disposed of as provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-11: TOWING OF VEHICLES:
   (A)   The chief of police or any member of his department designated by him
is hereby authorized to remove or have removed by a towing service any vehicle
left at any place within the city which reasonably appears to be in violation
of this chapter or which reasonably appears to be lost, stolen or unclaimed,
abandoned, or which is an inoperable vehicle, as defined herein.
   (B)   When an abandoned, unattended, wrecked, burned or partially dismantled
vehicle is creating a traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the
highway or its physical appearance is causing the impeding of traffic, its
immediate removal from the highway or private property adjacent to the highway
by a towing service may be authorized by order of the chief of police.
   (C)   When a vehicle removed from either public or private property is
authorized by order of the chief of police, the owner of the vehicle will be
responsible for all towing costs.
   (D)   Any police officer, the police department, towing service owner,
operator or employee shall not be held to answer or be liable for damages in
any action brought by the registered owner, former registered owner or his
legal representative or any other person legally entitled to the possession of
a vehicle when the vehicle was processed and sold or disposed of as provided by
this chapter. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-12: TOWING REPORT:
When a vehicle is authorized to be towed away, the police department shall keep
and maintain a record of the vehicle towed, listing the color, year of
manufacture, manufacturer's trade name, manufacturer's series name, body style,
vehicle identification number, license plate year and number and registration
sticker year and number displayed on the vehicle. The record shall also include
the date and hour of tow, location towed from, location towed to, reason for
towing and the name of the officer authorizing the tow. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-13: IDENTITY OF OWNER OF TOWED VEHICLE; NOTICE:
   (A)   When the police department does not know the identity of the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, they will cause the motor
vehicle registration records of the state to be searched by the secretary of
state for the purpose of obtaining the required ownership information.
   (B)   The police department will cause the stolen motor vehicle files of the
state police to be searched by a direct communication to the state police for
stolen or wanted information on the vehicle. When the state police files are
searched with negative results, the information contained in the national crime
information center (NCIC) files will be searched by the state police. The
information determined from these record searches will be used by the police
department in sending a notification by certified mail to the owner or legally
entitled person advising where the vehicle is held, requesting a disposition be
made and setting forth public sale information. Exceptions to a notification by
certified mail to the registered owner or other legally entitled person are set
forth in section
9-2-14 of this chapter.
   (C)   When the registered owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of a vehicle cannot be identified from the registration files of
this state or from the registration files of a foreign state, if applicable,
the police department shall notify the state police for the purpose of
identifying the vehicle owner or other person legally entitled to the
possession of the vehicle. The information obtained by the state police will be
immediately forwarded to the law enforcement agency having custody of the
vehicle for notification of owner purposes as set forth in subsection (A) of
this section. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-14: NOTICE AND SALE OF TOWED VEHICLES:
   (A)   Whenever a towed vehicle remains unclaimed by the registered owner or
other person legally entitled to its possession for a period of thirty (30)
days after notice has been given as provided herein, the police department or
towing service having possession of the vehicle shall cause it to be sold at
public sale to the highest bidder. Notice of the time and place of the sale
shall be posted in a conspicuous place for at least ten (10) days prior to the
sale on the premises where the vehicle has been impounded. At least ten (10)
days prior to the sale, the police department where the vehicle is impounded or
the towing service where the vehicle is impounded, shall cause a notice of the
time and place of the sale to be sent by certified mail to the registered owner
or other person known by the police department or towing service to be legally
entitled to the possession of the vehicle. Such notice shall contain a complete
description of the vehicle to be sold and what steps must be taken by any
legally entitled person to reclaim the vehicle.
   (B)   In those instances where the certified notification specified herein
has been returned by the postal authorities to the police department or towing
service due to the addressee having moved, or being unknown at the address
obtained from the registration records of this state, the sending of a second
certified notice will not be required.
   (C)   A vehicle classified as an antique vehicle may, however, be sold to a
person desiring to restore it. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-15: RECLAMATION BY OWNER OF TOWED VEHICLES:
Anytime before a vehicle is sold at public sale or disposed of as provided
herein, the owner or other person legally entitled to its possession may claim
the vehicle by presenting to the police department proof of ownership or the
proof of the right to possession of the vehicle. No vehicle shall be released
to the owner or other person under this section until all towing and storage
charges have been paid. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-16: DISPOSITION REPORT:
When a vehicle in the custody of the police department is reclaimed by the
registered owner or other legally entitled person, or when the vehicle is sold
at public sale or otherwise disposed of as provided by this chapter, a report
of the transaction will be maintained by the police department for a period of
one year from the date of the sale or disposal. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-17: PROCEEDS OF SALE:
When a vehicle located within the corporate limits of this city is authorized
to be towed away by the chief of police and disposed of as set forth in this
chapter, the proceeds of the public sale or disposition, after the deduction of
towing, storage and processing charges, shall be deposited in the city
treasury. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-18: NOTICE OF ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLES:
   (A)   Whenever any vehicle is parked in violation of the provisions of any
ordinance prohibiting or restricting parking, a police officer shall issue a
ticket to the offender. If the offender is not personally present, the ticket
shall be affixed to the motor vehicle. The ticket shall specify the parking
regulations violated and inform the offender that he/she may compromise and
avoid prosecution for the parking offense by paying to the city the following
applicable fine:
      1.   Five dollars ($5.00) if paid within fourteen (14) days of the
issuance of the ticket;
      2.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) if paid after fourteen (14) days, but
within thirty (30) days after issuance of the ticket; or
      3.   Fifty dollars ($50.00) if paid after thirty (30) days of the
issuance of the ticket.
If the offender does not pay the fine and the city either prosecutes the ticket
in court or pursues collection of the fine through other means, the fine shall
be not less than fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the driver of the
vehicle to which said notice is attached, to remove the same from said vehicle.
(Ord. 00-06, 7-5-2000)
9-2-19: EMERGENCY AUTHORITY TO MOVE VEHICLES:
When any emergency arises necessitating the removal of any vehicle upon any
public way, members of the police department are hereby authorized to remove or
have removed any such vehicle from one location to any other location. (Ord.
97-12, 8-19-1997)
9-2-20: PARKING ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES:
Whenever the commissioner of streets or his designated representative finds, on
the basis of falling snow, sleet or freezing rain, or weather service reports
of snow, sleet or freezing rain, that weather conditions will make it necessary
that motor vehicle traffic be expedited and that parking on city streets be
prohibited or restricted for snow plowing or other purposes, the commissioner
of streets or his designated representative shall put into effect a parking
prohibition on part or all city streets as is necessary by declaring said
prohibition in the manner prescribed in this section. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
   (A)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, a parking prohibition
shall automatically go into effect on any part of any city street on which
there has been an accumulation of snow and/or ice of two inches (2") or more,
or the commissioner of streets has declared a snow emergency. (Ord. 02-01, 2-5-
2002)
   (B)   A prohibition under this section shall remain in effect for forty
eight (48) hours after said accumulation unless the commissioner or his
designated representative, by declaration prior to the end of such forty eight
(48) hour period and in the manner prescribed in this section, extends such
prohibition beyond the initial forty eight (48) hour period.
   (C)   Whenever the commissioner of streets or his designated representative
shall find that some or all of the conditions which give rise to a parking
prohibition in effect pursuant to this section no longer exists, he may declare
the prohibition terminated, in whole or in part. The termination of a parking
prohibition pursuant to this subsection shall be effective immediately upon
declaration, such declaration to be made in the manner prescribed in this
section.
   (D)   Parking on all declared or designated city streets is prohibited
during such declared snow emergencies.
   (E)   The commissioner of streets or his designated representative shall
cause each declaration of a snow emergency made by him pursuant to this section
to be publicly announced through the news media. Each declaration shall
describe the action taken by the commissioner of streets or his designated
representative, including the time such action became or will become effective,
and shall specify the streets affected.
The commissioner of streets or his designated representative shall make or
cause to be made a record of each time and date when any declaration is
announced to the public in accordance with this section. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-
1997)
9-2-21: STREET REPAIR AND/OR MAINTENANCE:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or portion
thereof in the city at any time when such street is being repaired. Signs
indicating that street or portion thereof is being repaired shall be posted
before the repairing of the street, and shall be removed after the repairing of
the street is completed. (Ord. 97-12, 8-19-1997)
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Effect Of Regulations
9-3-2: License Required
9-3-3: License Application; Issuance
9-3-4: Attachment Of License Plate
9-3-5: Inspection Of Bicycles
9-3-6: Testing Of Applicant
9-3-7: Renewal Of License
9-3-8: Transfer Of Ownership
9-3-9: Rental Agencies
9-3-10: Bicycle Dealers
9-3-11: Traffic Laws Apply
9-3-12: Obedience To Traffic Control Devices
9-3-13: Riding On Bicycles
9-3-14: Riding On Roadways And Bicycle Paths
9-3-15: Speed
9-3-16: Emerging From Alley Or Driveway
9-3-17: Clinging To Vehicles
9-3-18: Carrying Articles
9-3-19: Parking
9-3-20: Riding On Sidewalks
9-3-21: Lamps And Other Equipment
9-3-22: Penalties
9-3-23: Complaint; Hearing
9-3-1: EFFECT OF REGULATIONS:
   (A)   It is a violation of this chapter for any person to do any act
forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this chapter.
   (B)   These regulations applicable to bicycles shall apply whenever a
bicycle is operated upon any street, public ground or upon any public path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, subject to those exceptions stated
herein. (7-7-1964)
9-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Every person of the age of six (6) years or over, who resides within the city
and who shall ride or propel a bicycle on or upon any street, public ground or
path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles, is required to have the
bicycle so operated by such person licensed and the license plate attached
thereto as provided herein. These requirements for the licensing of bicycles
shall apply to all bicycles which have a bicycle wheel with a diameter of
twenty inches (20") or more. (7-7-1964)
9-3-3: LICENSE APPLICATION; ISSUANCE:
   (A)   Application; Fee: Application for a bicycle license and license plate
shall be made upon a form provided by the city and shall be made to the chief
of police. An annual license fee of twenty five cents ($0.25) shall be paid to
the city before each license or renewal thereof is granted.
   (B)   Issuance Requirements: The following requirements shall be met
regarding the issuance of a bicycle license:
      1.   The chief of police, upon receiving proper application therefor, is
authorized to issue a bicycle license which shall be effective until the next
succeeding July 1.
      2.   The chief of police shall not issue a license for any bicycle when
he knows or has reasonable ground to believe that the applicant is not the
owner of, or entitled to, the possession of such bicycle.
      3.   The chief of police shall keep a record of the number of each
license, the date issued, the name and address of the person to whom issued,
the number on the frame of the bicycle for which issued and a record of all
bicycle license fees collected by him.
   (C)   Time Limit To Apply; Renewals: Applications for the licenses required
hereunder for the first year shall be made any time after July 15, 1964,
through August 15, 1964. The license required hereunder shall be obtained and
placed on the bicycles as required herein prior to August 15, 1964. For such
persons as become owners of bicycles after July 1, 1964, and after July 1 of
each year thereafter, such persons shall apply for and obtain a license within
thirty (30) days after acquiring possession of said bicycle. Beginning with
July 1, 1965, applications for renewals of bicycle licenses shall be made and
said licenses shall be obtained within a period of sixty (60) days prior to
July 1, 1965, and for each subsequent year, application for renewal shall be
made and license obtained, within a period of sixty (60) days prior to July 1
of each succeeding year. (7-7-1964)
9-3-4: ATTACHMENT OF LICENSE PLATE:
   (A)   The chief of police, upon issuing a bicycle license, shall also issue
a license plate bearing the license number assigned to the bicycle, the name of
the city, the fiscal year for which issued and the expiration date thereof.
   (B)   The chief of police shall cause such license plate to be firmly
attached to the rear mudguard or frame of the bicycle for which issued in such
position as to be plainly visible from the rear.
   (C)   No person shall remove a license plate from a bicycle during the
period for which issued except upon a transfer of ownership or in the event the
bicycle is dismantled and is no longer operated upon any street in the city.
(7-7-1964)
9-3-5: INSPECTION OF BICYCLES:
The chief of police or an officer assigned such responsibility shall inspect
each bicycle before licensing the same and shall refuse a license for any
bicycle which he determines is in unsafe mechanical condition. (7-7-1964)
9-3-6: TESTING OF APPLICANT:
The chief of police or other person assigned the responsibility shall test, by
appropriate means, the applicant's knowledge of traffic rules and safe riding
practices. The applicant shall also determine his ability to ride and handle
his bicycle properly by completing satisfactorily, a prescribed riding course.
This section shall not be required of an applicant who is applying for a
renewal license. (7-7-1964)
9-3-7: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Upon the expiration of any bicycle license, the same may be renewed upon
application and payment of the same fee as upon an original application, upon
completion of the other requirements herein. (7-7-1964)
9-3-8: TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP:
Upon the sale or other transfer of a licensed bicycle, the licensee shall
remove the license plate and shall either surrender the same to the chief of
police or may, upon proper application, but without payment of additional fee,
have said plate assigned to another bicycle owned by the applicant. (7-7-1964)
9-3-9: RENTAL AGENCIES:
A rental agency shall not rent or offer any bicycle for rent unless the bicycle
is licensed and a license plate is attached thereto as provided herein, and
such bicycle is equipped with the lamps and other equipment required in this
chapter. (7-7-1964)
9-3-10: BICYCLE DEALERS:
Every person engaged in the business of buying or selling new or secondhand
bicycles shall make a report to the chief of police of every bicycle purchased
or sold by such dealer, giving the name and address of the person from whom
purchased or to whom sold, a description of such bicycle by name or make, the
number of license plate, if any, found thereon. Said report by such dealer
shall be made monthly, giving the above information for any new or secondhand
bicycle so sold by the dealer during the month. (7-7-1964)
9-3-11: TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY:
Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all of the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by
the traffic provisions of this code applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those
provisions of laws and ordinances which by their nature can have no
application. (7-7-1964)
9-3-12: OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES:
   (A)   Any person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of official
traffic control signals, signs and other control devices applicable to
vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or U-turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians. (7-7-1964)
9-3-13: RIDING ON BICYCLES:
   (A)   A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped. (7-7-1964)
9-3-14: RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS:
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
(2) abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive
use of bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway. (7-
7-1964)
9-3-15: SPEED:
No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing. (7-7-1964)
9-3-16: EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY:
The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway or building shall,
upon approaching a sidewalk or sidewalk area extending across any alleyway,
yield the right of way to all pedestrians approaching on said sidewalk or
sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right of way to
all vehicles approaching on said roadway. (7-7-1964)
9-3-17: CLINGING TO VEHICLES:
No person riding upon any bicycle shall attach the same or himself to any
vehicle upon a roadway. (7-7-1964)
9-3-18: CARRYING ARTICLES:
No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or article which
prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars. (7-7-
1964)
9-3-19: PARKING:
No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than upon the roadway
against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle or
against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic. (7-7-1964)
9-3-20: RIDING ON SIDEWALKS:
   (A)   No person shall ride a bicycle, skateboard or skates upon a sidewalk
within a business district.
   (B)   The chief of police is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk or
roadway prohibiting the riding of bicycles, skateboards and skates thereon by
any person, and when such signs are in place no person shall disobey the same.
   (C)   Whenever any person is riding a bicycle, skateboard or skates upon a
sidewalk in a district other than a business district, such person shall yield
the right of way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before
overtaking and passing such pedestrian. (Ord. 92-03, 7-14-1992)
9-3-21: LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a
type which shall be visible from all distances up to three hundred feet (300')
to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a
motor vehicle. A lamp emitting a red light visible from a distance of five
hundred feet (500') to the rear may be used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   No person shall operate a bicycle unless it is equipped with a bell or
other device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance of at least one
hundred feet (100'), except that a bicycle shall not be equipped with nor shall
any person use upon a bicycle, any siren or whistle.
   (C)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheel skid on dry, level, clean pavement. (7-7-
1964)
9-3-22: PENALTIES:
Every person found to have violated any provision of this chapter shall be
punished by the impoundment of such person's bicycle, skateboard or skates for
a period not to exceed seven (7) days, or by any combination thereof, for a
first offense. For a second, and every subsequent offense, the punishment shall
be the impoundment of such person's bicycle, skateboard or skates for a period
of time not to exceed thirty (30) days, or any combination thereof. (Ord. 92-
03, 7-14-1992)
9-3-23: COMPLAINT; HEARING:
Upon complaint made to the chief of police of any violation of this chapter,
the chief of police shall cause an investigation to be made and a hearing held
thereon, and the chief of police is hereby authorized to invoke the penalties
herein provided. (7-7-1964)
CHAPTER 4
MOTOR VEHICLE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Parking Prohibited In Specific Places
9-4-2: Obstruction Of Driver's View Or Driving Mechanism
9-4-3: Vehicle Equipment Requirements
9-4-4: When Lighted Lamps Are Required
9-4-5: Projecting Loads
9-4-6: Signal Lamps And Signal Devices
9-4-7: Brakes
9-4-8: Horns And Warning Devices
9-4-9: Mufflers, Prevention Of Noise
9-4-10: Driver And Passenger Required To Use Safety Belts
9-4-11: Child Passenger Protection
9-4-12: Tires, Prevention Of Noise
9-4-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIC PLACES:
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or traffic control device, in any of the following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
      8.   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty feet
(30') of points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone,
unless the department or the local authorities on highways under their
respective jurisdiction indicate a different length by signs or markings;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or curb
within a highway tunnel;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   No person, other than a police officer, shall move a vehicle into any
such prohibited area or away from a curb such distance as is unlawful, or start
or cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or shift, change or move
the levers, brake, starting device, gears or other mechanism of a parked motor
vehicle to a position other than that in which it was left by the owner or
driver thereof, or attempt to do so. (Ord. 95-07, 11-21-1995)
9-4-2: OBSTRUCTION OF DRIVER'S VIEW OR DRIVING MECHANISM:
   (A)   No person may drive a vehicle when it is so loaded, or when there are
in the front seat such number of persons, as to obstruct the view of the driver
to the front or sides of the vehicle, or as to interfere with the driver's
control over the driving mechanisms of the vehicle.
   (B)   No passenger in a vehicle or streetcar may ride in such position as to
interfere with the driver's or motorman's view ahead or to the sides, or to
interfere with his control over the driving mechanisms of the vehicle or
streetcar. (Ord. 95-07, 11-21-1995)
9-4-3: VEHICLE EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
It is unlawful for any person to drive or move or for the owner to cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved on any highway any vehicle or
combination of vehicles which is in such unsafe condition as to endanger any
person or property, or which does not contain those parts or is not at all
times equipped with such lamps and other equipment in proper condition and
adjustment as required in this chapter, or which is equipped in any manner in
violation of this chapter, or for any person to do any act forbidden or fail to
perform any act required under this chapter. (Ord. 95-07, 11-21-1995)
9-4-4: WHEN LIGHTED LAMPS ARE REQUIRED:
There is hereby incorporated by reference 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
section 5/12-201 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 95-07, 11-21-1995)
9-4-5: PROJECTING LOADS:
Whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet (4') or more
beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme
rear end of the load, at the times specified by law, a red light or lantern
plainly visible from a distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the
sides and rear. The red light or lantern required herein shall be in addition
to the red rear light required upon every vehicle. At any other time there
shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a red flag or cloth not
less than twelve inches (12") square. (Ord. 95-07, 11-21-1995)
9-4-6: SIGNAL LAMPS AND SIGNAL DEVICES:
There is hereby incorporated by reference 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
section 5/12-208 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 95-07, 11-21-1995)
9-4-7: BRAKES:
There is hereby incorporated by reference 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
section 5/12-301 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 95-07, 11-21-1995)
9-4-8: HORNS AND WARNING DEVICES:
There is hereby incorporated by reference 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
section 5/12-601 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 95-07, 11-21-1995)
9-4-9: MUFFLERS, PREVENTION OF NOISE:
There is hereby incorporated by reference 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
section 5/12-602 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 95-07, 11-21-1995)
9-4-10: DRIVER AND PASSENGER REQUIRED TO USE SAFETY BELTS:
There is hereby incorporated by reference 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
section 5/12-603.1 of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 95-07, 11-21-1995)
9-4-11: CHILD PASSENGER PROTECTION:
   (A)   Transporting Child Under Age Of Four: When any person is transporting
a child in this state under the age of four (4) years in a noncommercial motor
vehicle of the first division, a motor vehicle of the second division with a
gross weight rating of nine thousand (9,000) pounds or less, or a recreational
vehicle, on the roadways, streets or highways of this state, such person shall
be responsible for providing for the protection of such child by properly
securing him or her in a child restraint system. The parent or legal guardian
of a child under the age of four (4) years shall provide a child restraint
system to any person who transports his or her child. Any person who transports
the child of another shall not be in violation of this section, unless a child
restraint system was provided by the parent or legal guardian but not used to
transport the child.
   (B)   Securing Child: Every person, when transporting a child four (4) years
of age or older but under the age of six (6), as provided in subsection (A) of
this section, shall be responsible for securing that child in either a child
restraint system or seat belts.
   (C)   Definition: For purposes of this section, "child restraint system"
means any device which meets the standards of the United States department of
transportation designed to restrain, seat or position children. (Ord. 95-07,
11-21-1995)
9-4-12: TIRES, PREVENTION OF NOISE:
No person operating any motor vehicle shall cause or permit the tires of said
motor vehicle to emit unreasonably loud squealing or screeching except when
necessary to ensure the safe operation of the motor vehicle. (Ord. 95-07, 11-
21-1995)
CHAPTER 5
GOLF CARTS AND NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLES
SECTION:
9-5-1: Short Title
9-5-2: Definitions
9-5-3: Requirements
9-5-4: Permit Required
9-5-5: Violations
9-5-6: Penalties
9-5-1: SHORT TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as the GOLF CART AND NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLES
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 10-01, 2-2-2010)
9-5-2: DEFINITIONS:
CITY STREETS: The city streets consist of any of the streets within the
boundaries of the city of Atlanta.
GOLF CART: A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purposes of
transporting one or more persons and their golf clubs or maintenance equipment
while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the play of golf, or
maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or private golf course.
NEIGHBORHOOD VEHICLE: A self-propelled electrically powered four (4) wheeled
motor vehicle (or a self-propelled, gasoline powered, 4 wheeled motor vehicle
with an engine displacement under 1,200 cubic centimeters) that is capable of
attaining in one mile speed of more than twenty (20) miles per hour but not
more than twenty five (25) miles per hour, and which conforms to the federal
regulations under title 49 CFR part 571.500. (Ord. 10-01, 2-2-2010)
9-5-3: REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   All persons wishing to operate a golf cart or a neighborhood vehicle
on the city streets must ensure compliance with the following requirements:
      1.   Make application to the secretary of state for a certificate of
title if applicable.
      2.   Make application to the secretary of state for registration, or
renewal of registration if applicable.
      3.   Apply for and receive a permit issued by the city of Atlanta.
      4.   Have and maintain proof of current liability insurance.
      5.   Have the vehicle inspected by the chief of police or his duly
authorized designee and receive a certification or permit from the city.
      6.   Comply with the published "Rules Concerning Alternate Transportation
For The City Of Atlanta" as periodically updated.
      7.   Have a decal or registration approved by the city on the rear of the
vehicle.
      8.   Have a copy of the permit issued by the city, valid registration,
and valid insurance in the golf cart or neighborhood vehicle at all times.
      9.   Have a current, valid Illinois driver's license.
      10.   Be at least twenty one (21) years of age.
      11.   Be equipped with a minimum of the following properly operating and
appropriate equipment:
         (a)   Brakes.
         (b)   A steering wheel apparatus.
         (c)   Tires.
         (d)   Rearview mirror.
         (e)   Red reflectorized warning devices in the front and rear.
         (f)   Approved "slow moving vehicle" emblem 1  on the rear of the
vehicle.
         (g)   Headlight that emits a white light visible from a distance of
five hundred feet (500') to the front which must be illuminated when in
operation.
         (h)   Taillamp that emits red light visible from at least one hundred
feet (100') from the rear which must be illuminated when in operation.
         (i)   Brake lights.
         (j)   Turn signals.
      12.   Obey all traffic laws of the state of Illinois and the city of
Atlanta.
      13.   Be operated only on city streets, except where prohibited.
      14.   Not be operated on old Route 66 or any other Illinois department of
transportation road except to cross the roadways at any intersection.
      15.   Not be operated in excess of posted speed limits and, with respect
to neighborhood vehicles, may not exceed twenty five (25) miles per hour.
      16.   A person operating or who is in actual physical control of a golf
cart or neighborhood vehicle as described herein on a roadway while under the
influence is subject to section 11-500 through 11-502 of the Illinois Complied
Statutes 2 .
      17.   Golf carts and neighborhood vehicles shall not be operated on
sidewalks or in the village parks other than parking areas.
      18.   All golf carts and neighborhood vehicles shall be limited to the
number of passengers per the manufacturer's requirements.
      19.   Comply with all other standards and requirements set forth by the
manufacturer. (Ord. 10-01, 2-2-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/12-709.
2 1. 625 ILCS 5/11-500 - 5/11-502.
9-5-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
   (A)   Required: No person shall operate a qualified golf cart or
neighborhood vehicle without first obtaining a permit from the chief of police
of the city of Atlanta as provided herein. Permits shall be granted for a
period of one year and renewed annually. Insurance coverage shall be submitted
and verified by the police department when obtaining or renewing a permit.
   (B)   Application: Every application for a permit shall be made on a form
supplied by the city and shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
      1.   Name and address of applicant;
      2.   Name and liability insurance carrier and proof of insurance;
      3.   The serial number, make, model and description of a golf cart or
neighborhood vehicle;
      4.   Signed waiver of liability by applicant releasing the city of
Atlanta and agreeing to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any and all
future claims resulting from operation of their golf cart or neighborhood
vehicle on city of Atlanta streets;
      5.   Photocopy of applicable liability insurance coverage card
specifically for the vehicle to be operated pursuant to the permit;
      6.   The name of all operators of the vehicle with no more than four (4)
operators being allowed. All operators shall be required to submit all
documents and information and meet all the requirements of this chapter;
      7.   Proof of license and registration from the state of Illinois if
applicable;
      8.   Such other information as the city may require.
   (C)   Conditions: No permit shall be granted unless the following conditions
are met:
      1.   The vehicle must be inspected by the city of Atlanta chief of police
or his duly authorized designee to ensure that the vehicle is safe to operate
on the city streets and is in compliance with this chapter and with the state
of Illinois motor vehicle code.
      2.   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance in compliance with
the provisions of the Illinois statutes regarding minimum liability insurance
of passenger motor vehicles to be operated on the roads of the state of
Illinois.
   (D)   Violation: The city may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder
upon finding that the holder thereof has violated any provision of this chapter
or there is evidence that the permittee cannot safely operate a qualified golf
cart or neighborhood vehicle on the designated roadways.
   (E)   Fees: The cost of a permit is one hundred dollars ($100.00) annually.
   (F)   Exception:
      1.   The permit fee shall be waived for all governmental or recognized
not for profit entities.
      2.   The city may issue a temporary event permit for use of golf carts or
neighborhood vehicles that may not be in compliance with the requirements of
this chapter and that are valid and issued only during the event. (Ord. 10-01,
2-2-2010)
9-5-5: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate any golf cart or
neighborhood vehicle in the following ways:
      1.   Chapter Requirements: In violation of any requirement of this
chapter.
      2.   Careless Operation: No person shall operate any golf cart or
neighborhood vehicle in a careless or heedless manner so as to be grossly
indifferent to the person or property of other persons, or at any rate of speed
greater than will permit him in the exercise of reasonable care to stop with
the assured clear distance ahead.
      3.   Reckless Operation: No person shall operate any golf cart or
neighborhood vehicle in such a manner as to endanger the life, limb or property
of any person.
      4.   Nature Preserves: Within any nature preserve as defined in section
3.11 of the Illinois natural areas preservation act.
      5.   Railroads: On the tracks or right of way of an operating railroad.
      6.   Tree Nursery: In any tree nursery or planting in a manner which
damages or destroys growing stock, or creates a substantial risk thereto.
      7.   Private Property: On private property, without written or verbal
consent of the owner or lessee thereof. Any person operating a golf cart or
neighborhood vehicle upon lands of another shall stop and identify himself upon
the request of the landowner or his duly authorized representative, and, if
requested to do so by the landowner shall promptly remove the golf cart or
neighborhood vehicle from the premises.
Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, an owner, lessee, or occupant of
premises owes no duty of care to keep the premises safe for entry or use by
others for use by a golf cart or neighborhood vehicle, or to give warning of
any condition, use, structure or activity on such premises. This subsection
does not apply where permission to drive or operate a golf cart or neighborhood
vehicle is given for a valuable consideration other than to this state, any
political subdivision or municipality of this state, or any landowner who is
paid with funds from the off highway vehicle trails fund. In the case of land
leased to the state or a subdivision of the state, any consideration received
is not valuable consideration within the meaning of this section.
Nothing in this subsection limits in any way liability which otherwise exists
for wilful or malicious failure to guard or warn against a dangerous condition,
use, structure, or activity.
      8.   Publicly Owned Land: On publicly owned land unless such lands are
designated for use by golf carts or neighborhood vehicles. For publicly owned
lands to be designated for use by golf carts or neighborhood vehicles a public
hearing shall be conducted by the governmental entity that has jurisdiction
over the proposed land prior to the designation. Nothing in this subsection
limits in any way liability which otherwise exists for wilful or malicious
failure to guard or warn against a dangerous condition, use, structure, or
activity:
         (a)   At a rate of speed too fast for conditions, and the fact that
the speed of the golf cart or neighborhood vehicle does not exceed the
applicable maximum speed limit allowed does not relieve the driver from the
duty to decrease speed as may be necessary to avoid colliding with any person,
vehicle, or object within legal requirements and the duty of all persons to use
due care.
         (b)   On the frozen surface of public waters of this state within one
hundred feet (100') of a person, including a skater, not in or upon a golf cart
or neighborhood vehicle; within one hundred feet (100') of a person engaged in
fishing, except at the minimum speed required to maintain forward movement of
the golf cart or neighborhood vehicle; on an area which has been cleared of
snow for skating purposes unless the area is necessary for access to the frozen
waters of this state.
         (c)   Within one hundred feet (100') of a dwelling between twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. at a speed greater than
the minimum required to maintain forward movement of the golf cart or
neighborhood vehicle. This subsection does not apply on private property where
verbal or written consent of the owner or lessee has been granted to drive or
operate a golf cart or neighborhood vehicle upon the private property or frozen
waters of this state.
      9.   Other Prohibitions:
         (a)   No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or
ride a golf cart or neighborhood vehicle with any firearm in his or her
possession unless he or she is in compliance with section 2.33 of the wildlife
code.
         (b)   No person shall operate any golf cart or neighborhood vehicle
emitting pollutants in violation of standards established pursuant to the
environmental protection act.
         (c)   No person shall deposit from the golf cart or neighborhood
vehicle on the snow, ice or ground surface, trash, glass, garbage, insoluble
material, or other offensive matter. (Ord. 10-01, 2-2-2010)
9-5-6: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor and shall be punished by a minimum fine of seventy five
dollars ($75.00). Any subsequent offense shall result in the revocation of the
permit for a period of not less than three (3) nor more than five (5) years. To
the extent that any violation of this chapter also constitutes a violation of a
criminal statute of the state of Illinois, then the violator shall also be
subject to criminal prosecution. (Ord. 10-01, 2-2-2010)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE, DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Purpose
10-1-3: Definitions
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This comprehensive zoning title shall be known as the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE
CITY OF ATLANTA, ILLINOIS. The zoning map herein referred to is identified by
the title "zoning districts, City of Atlanta, Illinois", and dated January 2,
1968. All explanatory matter thereon is hereby adopted and made a part of this
title. (1-2-1968)
10-1-2: PURPOSE:
The zoning regulations and districts as herein have been made with these
objectives: the assuring that adequate light, air and safety from fire and
other dangers may be secured; that property values be conserved; that traffic
congestion be lessened or avoided; and that public health, safety, comfort,
morals and welfare might otherwise be promoted. (1-2-1968)
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
All words used in the present tense include the future tense. All words in the
singular include plural and all words in the plural include the singular. The
word "shall" is mandatory and not directory. The word "used" shall be deemed to
include "designed, intended, or arranged to be used".
For the purpose of this title, certain terms or words used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
ACCESSORY USE OR BUILDING: A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use or building and located on the same lot with such principal use
or building.
AGRICULTURAL USES, BONA FIDE: The growing of crops in the open, raising of
stock and poultry, forestry, mushroom growing, flower gardening, operation of
apiaries and aviaries, nurseries, orchards, fur farms, roadside stands, signs
and billboards relating to the sale or use of products produced thereon, and
necessary structures and farm dwellings for such uses.
ALLEY: Any public or private way dedicated to public travel and less than
twenty feet (20') in width.
BUILDING: Any structure constructed or used for residence, business, industry
or other public or private purposes, or accessory thereto, and including tents,
trailers, billboards, signs and similar structures whether stationary or
movable.
CONFINEMENT FEEDING, COMMERCIAL FEED LOT: Confinement feeding is characterized
in two (2) ways:
   (A)   Maintaining animals on a solid material (wood, concrete, blacktop,
etc.) making manure disposal possible.
   (B)   Maintaining animals in a commercial feeding operation wherein eighty
percent (80%) of the feed is purchased.
DECK: A roofless, floored structure, typically with a railing, that adjoins a
house.
DWELLING: A permanent building used primarily for human habitation, but not
including facilities for the housing of transient residents nor to include
mobile homes.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A permanent building or portion thereof providing
separate living accommodations for three (3) or more families. "Efficiency
dwelling unit" or "efficiency apartment" is a dwelling unit consisting of not
more than one room in addition to kitchen and necessary sanitary facilities.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A permanent building, separate and freestanding in
itself, providing living accommodations for one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A permanent building designed exclusively for occupancy
by two (2) families.
FENCE: A freestanding structure made of metal, masonry, composite, wood,
plantings, or a combination thereof, including gates, resting on or partially
buried in the ground level, and used to delineate a boundary, barrier or means
of protection or screening.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance from the established average sidewalk
grade, street grade or finished grade, at the building line, whichever is the
highest, to the highest point of the building.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any use conducted entirely within a dwelling by the occupant
of the dwelling and as a secondary use which is clearly incidental to the use
of the dwelling for residential purposes. Such a use shall employ not more than
one person outside the family resident in dwelling.
LOT: A piece, parcel or plot of land occupied or to be occupied by one
principal building and its accessory buildings and including the open spaces
required under this title.
MOBILE HOME: A movable or portable unit designed and constructed to be
transported, comprised of a frame and/or wheels and so designed to be connected
to utilities of year round occupancy and provide complete independent living
facilities, including facilities for cooking, sleeping and sanitation. The term
includes units containing parts that may be collapsed or telescoped when being
transported and then expanded to provide additional cubic capacity, and units
composed of two (2) or more separately transportable components designed to be
joined into an integral unit capable of being separated again into components
for repeated transporting. Removal of wheels, towing devices or any other
alteration does not qualify a mobile home as a conventional single-family
dwelling unless such alterations enable the unit to meet the National Building
Code, latest edition, the BOCA (Building Officials and Code Administrators
International) Basic Building Code 1 , latest edition, Uniform Building Code,
1970 edition, or the Federal Housing Authority's minimum property standards for
one- and two-family living units.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use of building or land lawful at the time of enactment of
this title that does not conform with the "permitted use" provisions of this
title.
PORCH: An exterior appendage to a building, forming a covered approach or
vestibule to a doorway.
STREET: Any public or private way dedicated to public travel twenty feet (20')
or more in width. The word "street" shall include the words "road", "highway"
and "thoroughfare".
STRUCTURE: Anything built or constructed.
USE: The purpose or activity for which a building, structure or land is
occupied or maintained.
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a principal building, open, unoccupied
and unobstructed by buildings, except as otherwise provided in this title.
   (A)   Front Yard: The yard extending across the entire width of the lot
between the principal building and the right-of-way line or street line which
the building faces. The depth of the front yard shall be measured between the
front line of the building and the street line (or if street is less than
proposed right-of-way as indicated on the official map, from the proposed
street lines).
   (B)   Rear Yard: The yard extending across the entire width of the lot
between the rear lot line and the nearest part of the principal building.
   (C)   Side Yard: The yard extending along the side lot line from the front
yard to the rear yard and lying between the side lot line and the nearest part
of the principal building. Where the required side yard is adjacent to a
street, the width of such yard shall be measured between the building and the
street line (or if such street is less than the proposed right-of-way as
indicated on the official map, from the proposed right-of-way line).
   (D)   Right-Of-Way Lines: Street right-of-way lines are not the pavement
edge, but are the outer extremities of the property dedicated to public travel.
(1-2-1968; amd. Ord. 86-8, 3-4-1986; Ord. 05-09, 7-19-2005; Ord. 17-07, 5-16-
2017)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  4-2-1 of this Code.
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL REGULATIONS; MAP
SECTION:
10-2-1: Establishment Of Districts
10-2-2: Boundaries Of Districts
10-2-3: Application Of Regulations
10-2-4: Continuance Of Nonconforming Uses And Structures
10-2-5: Off Street Parking
10-2-6: Off Street Loading
10-2-7: Obstructions To Vision At Intersections Prohibited
10-2-8: Outdoor Advertising Signs
10-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS:
For the purpose of this title, all land within the City and its contiguous area
is hereby designated on the zoning map as being one of the following districts:
AG  - Agricultural
R   - One-Family Residential
R-A - One-Family Residential/zero lot line developments
R-1 - One- and Two-Family Residential
R-2 - Multiple-Family Residential
C-1 - General Retail
C-2 - Service Retail
I-1 - Light Industrial
I-2 - Heavy Industrial
 
(Ord. 98-10, 7-21-1998)
10-2-2: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
The boundary lines of the districts are amended and established following lot
lines, centerlines of streets, alleys or railroad rights-of-way, or such
centerlines extended, centerlines of creeks or the corporate limit line as
shown on the zoning district map attached and marked as exhibit A attached to
the ordinance codified herein. Said zoning district map is hereby adopted as
the zoning district map for the City of Atlanta, Illinois, and all previous
zoning district maps are hereby repealed. (Ord. 00-01, 3-22-2000)
10-2-3: APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Building Or Land Use: No building or land shall hereafter be used and
no building or part thereof shall be erected, moved or altered unless for a use
expressly permitted by and in conformity with the regulations for the district
in which it is located.
   (B)   Zoning Of Annexed Areas: All territory which may hereafter be annexed
to the City shall from time of annexation be considered as being in the R-
1 District until and unless otherwise designated by zoning title amendment as
specified in the procedure in chapter 9 of this title, or unless otherwise
designated at the time of annexation. (1-2-1968)
10-2-4: CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES:
Any lawful use of land or structure existing at the time of adoption of this
title, or subsequent amendment of this title, may be continued with the
following limitations: (Ord. 15-02, 4-21-2015)
   (A)   Nonconforming Use Not To Expand: Any structure containing a
nonconforming use may not be expanded nor substantially remodeled. Structures
may be repaired or remodeled to maintain original uses. Nonconforming use
porches shall be allowed to be reconstructed in residential districts only, but
shall not be expanded from the original footprint. (Ord. 15-02, 4-21-2015; amd.
Ord. 17-07, 5-16-2017)
   (B)   Nonconforming Use Not To Rebuild: Any structure containing a
nonconforming use, which has been damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%)
of its current fair value, as estimated immediately prior to damage, shall not
be repaired or reconstructed except in conformity with this title.
   (C)   Discontinued Nonconforming Use Not To Reestablish After One Year: No
nonconforming use shall be reestablished after having been discontinued for
twelve (12) months. Vacating of premises or building or nonoperative status
shall be evidence of a discontinued use.
   (D)   Nonconforming Use Not To Be Substituted: No nonconforming use may be
substituted for any other nonconforming use or any conforming use. (Ord. 15-02,
4-21-2015)
10-2-5: OFF STREET PARKING:
   (A)   Hard surfaced off street automobile parking shall be provided on any
lot on which any of the following uses are hereafter established; such space
shall be provided with vehicular access to a street or alley. For purposes of
computing gross off street parking area required, the ratio of two hundred
fifty (250) square feet per parking space shall be used. Following are minimum
requirements for specific uses: (1-2-1968)
Boarding and rooming houses           1 space for each 2 rooms occupied by
                                       boarders or roomers
Dwellings                             2 spaces per dwelling; 2 spaces per
                                       duplex
Hospitals and other institutions for   1 space for each 4 beds, plus 1 space
care and treatment                    for each staff and visiting doctor, plus
                                       1 space for each 3 employees
Office uses                           1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Retail establishments                 1 space for each 300 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Theater, auditorium including school   1 space for each 8 seats available at
auditorium, church or other place of  maximum capacity
public assembly
Tourist accommodations                1 space for each room offered for
                                       tourist accommodations
Wholesale, storage and manufacturing  1 space for each 5 employees
establishments
 
(1-2-1968; amd. Ord. 00-02, 3-22-2000)
   (B)   If off street parking space for nonresidential uses as required in
subsection (A) of this section cannot be provided on the same lot on which the
principal use is conducted, the Zoning Enforcing Officer may permit such space
to be provided on other off street property, provided such space is within four
hundred feet (400') of the main entrance to such principal use. Such off street
parking space shall thereafter be deemed to be required open space associated
with this permitted use and shall not be reduced nor encroached upon in any
manner. (1-2-1968)
10-2-6: OFF STREET LOADING:
Every building or structure used for other than residential uses and
constructed after the adoption of this title shall provide space on the
property to be used exclusively for loading and unloading of vehicles. Such
space shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
 
Required Spaces Building Gross Floor Area (Square Feet)
1               0 - 8,000
2               8,000 - 25,000
3               25,000 - 40,000
4               40,000 - 100,000
5               100,000 - 250,000
6               250,000 - 400,000
 
For buildings over 400,000 square feet, 6 spaces, plus 1 additional space for
each additional 200,000 square feet.
For the purpose of determining adequacy of loading area, each space shall be
not less than ten feet (10') in width, forty five feet (45') in length and
fourteen feet (14') in height. (1-2-1968)
10-2-7: OBSTRUCTIONS TO VISION AT INTERSECTIONS PROHIBITED:
On any corner lot in all districts, except the C-1 General Retail District,
there shall be no obstruction to traffic visibility within thirty five feet
(35') of the intersection of the two (2) street property lines of the corner
lot. (1-2-1968)
10-2-8: OUTDOOR ADVERTISING SIGNS:
   (A)   Newly constructed outdoor advertising signs along the U.S. 66 and
Interstate 55 corridors shall not be closer than two thousand five hundred feet
(2,500') from any other outdoor advertising sign on said corridors.
   (B)   Signs that are erected on the U.S. 66 and Interstate 55 corridors
shall be constructed not more than twenty five feet (25') distant from the road
right-of-way. (Ord. 07-01, 4-17-2007)
CHAPTER 3
AG DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Purpose
10-3-2: Uses Permitted
10-3-3: Special Uses
10-3-4: Required Lot Area And Width
10-3-5: Height Regulations
10-3-6: Required Yards
10-3-7: Off Street Parking
10-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the AG district is to encourage the preservation of a proper
setting for the pleasant approaches to the city; to provide an area for
agricultural pursuits protected from infringement of unguided urban
development; to conserve areas physically unsuitable for intensive development
and to provide in the area immediately surrounding the city an environment
capable of accommodating future expansion of the city in an orderly and
efficient manner. (1-2-1968)
10-3-2: USES PERMITTED:
The following uses are permitted in the AG district:
Accessory buildings and uses.
Bona fide agricultural uses (including farm dwellings), commercial grain
storage.
Community buildings, utility and service system buildings and lands, libraries
and museums, picnic grounds, religious, educational or charitable institutions.
Lakes (artificial).
Public parks and forest preserves.
Public picnic grounds, marinas and beaches.
Public utility substations, booster stations, radio and television relay
towers, repeater stations, etc., but not including power generation or gas
manufacturing plants.
Unlighted signs notifying of sale, rental or lease of land or sale of farm
goods on the premises on which the sign is maintained having not over fifty
(50) square feet of sign area; signs announcing meeting time and place of civic
organizations. (1-2-1968; amd. Ord. 14-11, 10-21-2014)
10-3-3: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses are permitted as special uses when authorized by the mayor
and city council after a public hearing and recommendation by the planning
commission. Such special use shall be subject to the following requirements and
any other requirements the planning commission feels necessary to further the
purpose of the agricultural district as stated in section
10-3-1 of this chapter:
Cemeteries.
Commercial resort uses, such as lodges, restaurants, rental cottages, riding
stables, golf courses, swimming pools, tennis courts and other such
recreational facilities.
Feeding yards for animals in farm to market transit or stock raising yards
(confinement feeding of livestock) where the yard is less than one mile from a
residential, commercial or industrial district, or a residence other than the
residence of the owner or lessor of the lot.
Outdoor advertising structures, provided not closer than three hundred feet
(300') to the nearest highway right of way, or five hundred feet (500') to the
nearest residential or public or semipublic property, and that permits are
issued for not longer than five (5) years.
Uses of land including quarrying and mining of natural resources, sanitary
landfill and other types of landfill, refuse disposal and dumps. (1-2-1968)
10-3-4: REQUIRED LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
No dwelling shall be located on a lot less than one acre in area nor one
hundred fifty feet (150') in width. (1-2-1968)
10-3-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No residential dwelling shall exceed two (2) stories or thirty feet (30') in
height. (1-2-1968)
10-3-6: REQUIRED YARDS:
   (A)   All structures shall have the following minimum yard spaces:
      1.   Front yard, fifty feet (50').
      2.   Side yard, each not less than fifteen feet (15').
      3.   Rear yard, not less than thirty feet (30').
   (B)   Corner lots shall provide the minimum front yard requirements on each
street side of the lot. (1-2-1968)
10-3-7: OFF STREET PARKING:
There shall be provided in the AG district off street parking in accordance
with chapter 2 of this title. (1-2-1968)
CHAPTER 4
RESIDENCE DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Purpose
10-4-2: Uses Permitted In R District
10-4-3: Uses Permitted In R-1 District
10-4-3-1: Uses Permitted In R-A District
10-4-4: Uses Permitted In R-2 District
10-4-5: Special Uses
10-4-6: Required Lot Area And Width
10-4-7: Building Height Regulations
10-4-8: Yards Required
10-4-9: Off Street Parking
10-4-10: Supplemental Regulations For Single-Family Dwellings In R-A District
10-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the residence districts is to provide an area for residential
uses and those public and semipublic uses normally considered an integral part
of the residential neighborhood they serve. (1-2-1968)
10-4-2: USES PERMITTED IN R DISTRICT:
Accessory buildings and uses.
   (A)   Accessory buildings cannot contain more square footage than the
principal building, excluding basement square footage, or thirty percent (30%)
of the lot size, whichever is less.
   (B)   The maximum size of an accessory building cannot exceed one thousand
one hundred fifty two (1,152) square feet, regardless of lot size.
   (C)   The exterior covering of an accessory building must be the same as, or
similar to, the exterior covering of the principal building.
   (D)   The roof eves of an accessory building cannot exceed twelve feet (12')
in height.
   (E)   Buildings up to twelve feet by twenty four feet (12' x 24') (i.e., 288
square feet) in size are exempt.
Churches, schools, libraries, museums, and art galleries, parks, playgrounds,
community centers, cemeteries, public service and utility buildings.
Home occupations (as defined in section
10-1-3 of this title).
Light agricultural uses, including nurseries and raising of farm products, not
to include livestock or sale of products on premises.
Off street storage of not more than one recreational vehicle per family unit.
Single-family residence dwellings and related accessory buildings.
Unlighted real estate, nonconforming business use signs, and public building or
church signs or bulletin boards pertaining to the property on which they are
placed and not having over twelve (12) square feet of sign area. (Ord. 80-501,
6-3-1980, eff. 6-3-1980; amd. Ord. 86-8, 3-4-1986; Ord. 07-06, 10-16-2007)
10-4-3: USES PERMITTED IN R-1 DISTRICT:
Any use permitted in the R district.
Two-family dwellings, and the leasing of rooms to not more than two (2)
families.
Unlighted signs as described in the R district above. (Ord. 80-501, 6-3-1980,
eff. 6-3-1980)
10-4-3-1: USES PERMITTED IN R-A DISTRICT:
Any use permitted in the R district.
Zero lot line developments.
The R-A district shall apply only to and shall be allowed only for developments
containing two (2) acres or more which were subdivided and platted on or after
August 1, 1995. (Ord. 98-10, 7-21-1998)
10-4-4: USES PERMITTED IN R-2 DISTRICT:
Any use permitted in the R-1 district.
Multiple-family dwelling, tourist homes and lodging uses with accommodations
for not more than fifteen (15) persons. (Ord. 00-02, 3-22-2000)
10-4-5: SPECIAL USES:
The following uses are permitted as special uses in the R, R-A, R-1 and R-
2 districts when authorized by the city council after a public hearing and
recommendation by the planning commission. Such special use shall be subject to
the following requirements and any other requirements the planning commission
feels necessary to further the purpose of the residence districts as stated in
section
10-4-1 of this chapter:
   (A)   Planned residential development under single ownership in which
incidental business and recreational facilities for the convenience of the
occupants may be furnished; provided, however, that the property shall have a
gross area of thirty (30) acres and that permitted business uses shall be
limited to those uses allowed in the C-2 district, and they shall occupy not
more than ten percent (10%) of the gross land area of the development. Such
planned developments may vary the dwelling type requirements, yard, height or
area per dwelling requirements; providing, however, that the total number of
dwelling units to be accommodated is not greater than would otherwise be
allowed under normal development.
   (B)   Mobile home parks with permanent accommodations for mobile homes,
subject to the provisions of title 3, chapter 3 of this code.
   (C)   Multiple-family dwellings and bed and breakfast establishments for not
more than fifteen (15) persons. (Ord. 00-02, 3-22-2000)
10-4-6: REQUIRED LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
  Minimum Lot Area Per Family Minimum Lot Width Per Minimum Floor Area Per
  (Square Feet)               Structure (Feet)      Dwelling Unit (Square Feet)
                      Minimum Lot Area    Minimum Lot Width Minimum Floor Area
                      Per Family (Square  Per Structure     Per Dwelling Unit
                      Feet)               (Feet)            (Square Feet)
In The R And R-                                            
1 Districts:
Single-family                                              
dwelling:
  With public water
 and public sanitary 6,000               50                 
  sewer1
  With public water
 supply or public    10,000              80                 
  sanitary sewer
  With neither public
 water supply nor    20,000              100                
  public sanitary
  sewer
Two-family dwelling:                                       
  With public water   4,500 (9,000 per 2-
 and public sanitary family dwelling)    75/2 family lot    
  sewer
  With public water   7,500 (15,000 per
 or public sanitary  2-family dwelling)  100/2-family lot   
  sewer
  With neither public 15,000 (30,000 per
 water nor public    2 family dwelling)  125/2 family lot   
  sanitary sewer
In The R-A District:                                       
 Single-family       6,000               50                n/a
  dwelling
  Single-family
  dwelling/zero lot
 line dwelling unit  3,600               30                1,200
  where one lot of
  record contains one
  side yard of 1 inch
In The R-2 District:                                       
 Single-family       6,000               50                 
  dwelling
 Two-family          3,000               50                 
  dwelling2
 Multiple-family                                          
  dwelling2:
 Efficiency units    1,500               50                 
 1, 2 or more        2,000               50                 
  bedroom units
 Rooming or lodging  1,500               50                 
  house
 
Notes:
   1.   Sewage treatment on an individual lot basis (such as individual septic
tanks) shall not be interpreted as public sanitary sewer in this table.
   2.   All multi-family dwellings shall have a minimum of 400 square feet per
unit.
(1-2-1968; amd. Ord. 98-10, 7-21-1998; Ord. 00-02, 3-22-2000)
10-4-7: BUILDING HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building shall exceed two (2) stories or thirty feet (30') in height, unless
each side yard is increased over the required minimum by five feet (5') for
every five feet (5'), or fraction thereof, of additional height over thirty
feet (30'). In no case shall the building height exceed fifty feet (50'). (1-2-
1968)
10-4-8: YARDS REQUIRED:
All structures to be constructed, altered or moved in the R, R-A, R-1 and R-
2 Districts shall provide yards of the following minimum depths: (Ord. 00-02,
3-22-2000)
Front yard: Twenty feet (20').
Except: Front yards shall be not less than twenty feet (20'), unless forty
percent (40%) or more of the frontage is improved with buildings that have
observed a greater or lesser depth of front yard, in which instance no new
building or portion thereof shall project beyond a straight line drawn between
the point closest to the front property line of the residence upon either side
of the proposed structure. When measuring the required building setback from
the front property line of the residence, the steps leading to a structure
shall not be considered in the calculated distance from the front property
line. The structures used as a point of reference must be located on the same
block as the lot in question. But this regulation shall not be interpreted to
require a front yard of more than fifty feet (50'), nor to permit a front yard
of lesser depth than that of the nearest building on the same block. Where the
street is curved, the line shall follow the curve of the street rather than a
straight line. (Ord. 17-08, 7-18-2017)
Side yard: Five feet (5') minimum, two (2) side yards required. (Ord. 15-02, 4-
21-2015)
Rear yard: Twenty feet (20') or twenty percent (20%) of the lot depth,
whichever is greater.
Yards of corner lots: Corner lots shall provide a front yard on each street
side, not, however, to reduce the buildable width of the lot below thirty two
feet (32').
Fences shall be allowed into yards so long as said fences meet the requirements
of subsection
10-7-2(D) of this title. (Ord. 00-02, 3-22-2000)
10-4-9: OFF STREET PARKING:
There shall be provided in the R, R-1, R-A and R-2 Districts adequate off
street parking in accordance with the schedule in chapter 2 of this title. (1-
2-1968)
10-4-10: SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS IN R-A DISTRICT:
   (A)   Connecting Features: Fences, walls, trellis and similar structures may
be used as connecting features between single- family dwellings on adjacent
lots. Garages, carports, and utility storage structures shall be permitted
accessory uses; however, said structures shall not be used as connecting
features.
   (B)   Obstructions Permitted In Required Side Yard: Patios, terraces, garden
features and other similar elements may be permitted in the required side yard;
provided, however, no structure, with the exception of fences or walls, shall
be placed within any easement.
   (C)   Openings Prohibited On Zero Lot Line Side: One wall of the dwelling
located on the interior side lot line shall have no windows, doors, air
conditioning units, ducts, vents, apertures, or any other type of opening;
provided, however, that atriums or courts shall be permitted on the zero lot
line side when such court or atrium is enclosed by three (3) walls of the
dwelling unit and a solid opaque wall of at least eight feet (8') in height is
constructed on the zero lot line side and is constructed of the same materials
as the exterior walls of the dwelling unit. Said wall of the dwelling located
on the interior side lot line shall be a Class A firewall with a two (2) hour
fire rating.
   (D)   Maintenance And Drainage Easements: A perpetual wall maintenance
easement at least six feet (6') in width shall be provided on the lot adjacent
to the zero lot line, which, with the exception of walls and/or fences, shall
be kept clear of structures. Such easement shall be shown on the plat
incorporated into each deed transferring title to the property. Overhanging
eaves and gutters may not penetrate such easement on the adjacent lot, but the
roof shall be so designed that water runoff from the dwelling constructed on
the lot line is limited to such easement area. Footings for buildings, fences
and walls may extend into such easement at heights no less than and at
extension distances no greater than as originally constructed. (Ord. 98-10, 7-
21-1998)
CHAPTER 5
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Purpose
10-5-2: Uses Permitted; C-1 District
10-5-3: Uses Permitted; C-2 District
10-5-4: Required Lot Area And Width
10-5-5: Building Height Regulations
10-5-6: Yards Required
10-5-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-5-8: Screening Required
10-5-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the C-1 general retail district is to provide for a wide range
of retail facilities and services of such a nature as to be fully compatible in
the proximity they must enjoy in the central business district or in the
neighborhood shopping areas.
The purpose of the C-2 service retail district is to provide for those retail
businesses and services which require a location other than the central
business district or the neighborhood business district, requiring either large
tracts of land or a highway location. (1-2-1968)
10-5-2: USES PERMITTED; C-1 DISTRICT:
Accessory uses or buildings.
Any uses permitted in a residential district but excluding mobile homes and
mobile home parks and excluding single-, dual- and multiple-family dwellings,
except that a special use permit may be granted in accordance with section
10-4-5 of this title for single-family residential dwellings on the second
floor of the building.
Automotive and related uses: new and used car sales, service and repair
(providing such repairs are of a minor nature and totally contained within
buildings), gasoline filling stations, motorcycle and bicycle shops, cab and
bus stands and depots.
Business and advertising signs pertaining to the business on the property on
which the sign is located; providing that: a) illumination of all signs shall
be diffused or indirect and shall be arranged so as not to reflect direct rays
of light into adjacent residential districts or into the public way; and b)
that any sign located in the direct line of vision of any traffic control
signal shall not have flashing intermittent red, green or amber illumination.
Business and professional offices: medical and dental offices and clinics; law
offices; insurance and real estate offices; banks, finance and utility
companies.
Food, drug and beverage: grocery stores, supermarkets, meat markets, drugstores
and liquor stores, bakery in conjunction with retail sales, restaurants,
tearooms and taverns.
Major retail outlets: furniture, department, clothing, shoe and variety stores;
hardware, appliance, paint and wallpaper stores.
Service and recreation: motels and hotels; laundromats; dry cleaning and
laundry pick up stations; barber and beauty shops; shoe repair and tailor
shops; mortuaries, newspaper publishing, printing shop with not more than ten
(10) full time regular employees; storage and transfer establishments; places
of amusement and assembly, commercial recreation.
Specialty shops: gift shops, magazine, book and stationery outlets, florist
shops, camera and photography shops, sporting goods. (Ord. 00-02, 3-22-2000)
10-5-3: USES PERMITTED; C-2 DISTRICT:
Accessory uses or buildings.
Any uses permitted in C-1 general retail district.
Building trades or equipment: building, concrete, electrical, masonry, sheet
metal, plumbing and heating shops, building material establishments (providing
no assembly, construction, millwork or concrete block manufacture is done on
premises).
Business and advertising signs pertaining to the business on the property on
which the sign is located; providing, that: a) illumination of all signs shall
be diffused or indirect and shall be arranged so as not to reflect direct rays
of light into adjacent residence districts or into the public way; and b) that
any sign located in the direct line of vision of any traffic control signal
shall not have flashing intermittent red, green or amber illumination.
Heavy service and processing facilities: laundry and dry cleaning plants;
linens, towel, diaper and similar supply services; animal pounds, kennels and
veterinary establishments; frozen food lockers; seed and food processing
plants; dairies.
Mobile homes and mobile home parks.
Multiple-family housing.
Vehicle drive-in and heavy vehicle service: drive-in theaters, drive-in
restaurants and refreshment stands; express, cartage and trucking facilities;
large item machinery or bulk sales and storage not including outdoor unfenced
storage. (Ord. 00-02, 3-22-2000; amd. Ord. 16-04, 7-5-2016)
10-5-4: REQUIRED LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
   (A)   Each residential use to be accommodated in the C-1 and C-2 commercial
districts shall meet the minimum lot area and minimum lot width requirements of
the R-2 residence district.
   (B)   Each business use to be accommodated in the C-1 and C-2 commercial
districts shall provide a minimum lot area of two thousand five hundred (2,500)
square feet; no minimum lot width is required for business uses. (1-2-1968)
10-5-5: BUILDING HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   In the C-1 general retail district, no building shall exceed three (3)
stories or forty five feet (45').
   (B)   In the C-2 service retail district, no building shall exceed two (2)
stories or thirty feet (30'). (1-2-1968)
10-5-6: YARDS REQUIRED:
All buildings to be constructed, altered, or moved in the commercial districts
shall meet the following minimum requirements:
   (A)   Yards Required In C-1 General Retail District And C-2 Service Retail
District:
      1.   Front Yard: No minimum yard required.
      2.   Side Yard: No minimum yard required except lots adjoining a
residential district shall provide a side yard on that adjoining side equal to
that required in the adjoining residential district.
      3.   Rear Yard: No minimum rear yard required except lots abutting an
alley shall provide a rear yard that is one-half (1/2) of the width of such
alley. (Ord. 15-11, 1-5-2016)
10-5-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
There shall be provided in the C-1 and C-2 commercial districts off street
parking and loading in accordance with the schedule in chapter 2 of this title.
(1-2-1968)
10-5-8: SCREENING REQUIRED:
Newly established or newly expanding commercial uses which are adjacent or
backing on existing residential properties shall provide within the commercial
property along that adjacent property line, a properly maintained dense hedge,
tree row or other suitable landscape device to visually screen the commercial
area from such adjacent residential area. Failure to provide or maintain such
planting buffer shall constitute a violation of this title. (1-2-1968)
CHAPTER 6
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Purpose
10-6-2: Uses Permitted; I-1 District
10-6-3: Uses Permitted; I-2 District
10-6-4: Required Lot Area And Width
10-6-5: Building Height Regulations
10-6-6: Yards Required
10-6-7: Off Street Parking And Loading
10-6-8: Screening Required
10-6-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the I-1 light industrial district is to provide for commercial
uses, storage and those manufacturing uses not normally creating a nuisance
discernible beyond the property line.
The purpose of the I-2 heavy industrial district is to provide for industrial
uses not allowed in any other district; providing, that within this district,
uses of a hazardous nature or those producing extensive smoke or odor shall not
be located so that the general hazard or nuisance affects a large segment of
the community. (1-2-1968)
10-6-2: USES PERMITTED; I-1 DISTRICT:
Any use permitted in the C-1 and C-2 commercial districts except residential
uses.
Manufacturing: Manufacture or processing of small items, including gloves,
footwear, bathing caps, boxes, cartons, and cans, hardware, toys, electric
batteries, motors or generators; textile products manufacture; glass, plastics,
cement and stone products manufacture; furniture manufacture; food manufacture
or processing including hatcheries, canning, freezing, storage and bottling.
Other manufacturing uses of a light nature, free from any objectionable odors,
fumes, dirt, vibration, or noise detectable at the lot line. Such uses shall
not be established without an application for a permit which shall be
accompanied by a certification by a registered engineer or architect indicating
that fumes, odors, dirt, vibration or noise produced by the industry will not
be detectable at the lot line. In the event of the denial of such permit, the
applicant shall have the right of appeal to the zoning board of appeals, in
accordance with title 2, chapter 3 of this code.
Warehousing and storage: Indoor and outdoor storage of goods and materials,
including warehousing, pole yards, building material storage and trucking
storage. (1-2-1968)
10-6-3: USES PERMITTED; I-2 DISTRICT:
   (A)   All uses not otherwise prohibited by law, except residential uses;
provided, however, that the following uses will be permitted only as special
uses in the I-2 district and only when authorized by the city council after
public hearing and recommendation by the planning commission:
Bag cleaning, boiler and tank works; central mixing plant for cement, mortar,
plaster or paving materials; coke oven, curing, tanning and storage of raw
hides and skins; distillation of bones, coal, wood or tar; fat rendering; forge
plant; foundry or metal fabrication plant; gasoline or oil storage aboveground
in excess of five hundred (500) gallons; slaughterhouse or stockyards; smelting
plant; and the manufacture of acetylene, acid, alcohol or alcoholic beverages;
ammonia, bleaching powder, chemicals, brick, pottery, terra cotta, or tile;
candles; disinfectants; dyestuffs; fertilizers; linseed oil, paint, oil,
turpentine, varnish, soap and tar products or any other use which, in the
opinion of the planning commission, would emit detrimental or obnoxious noise,
vibrations, smoke, odors, dust or other objectionable conditions beyond the
confines of its property.
   (B)   The planning commission shall recommend city council approval if it
determines that the proposed use will not extend its detrimental or obnoxious
effects beyond the limits of the heavy industrial district in which it is
located. Such special uses shall be subject to any requirements the planning
commission feels necessary to further the purpose of the industrial district as
stated in section
10-6-1 of this chapter. (1-2-1968)
10-6-4: REQUIRED LOT AREA AND WIDTH:
Each use to be established in the I-1 or the I-2 district shall provide a
minimum lot area of five thousand (5,000) square feet and a minimum lot width
of fifty feet (50'). (1-2-1968)
10-6-5: BUILDING HEIGHT REGULATIONS:
No building in the I-1 or I-2 district shall exceed fifty feet (50') in height.
(1-2-1968)
10-6-6: YARDS REQUIRED:
All structures to be constructed, altered or moved, in the I-1 and I-
2 districts shall provide yards of the following minimum depths:
   (A)   Front yard: Twenty five feet (25').
   (B)   Side yard: Ten feet (10'), except where a side yard abuts a
residential district in which case a side yard of twenty five feet (25') shall
be provided.
   (C)   Rear yard: Twenty five feet (25'). (1-2-1968)
10-6-7: OFF STREET PARKING AND LOADING:
There shall be provided in the I-1 and I-2 districts adequate off street
parking and loading in accordance with the schedule in chapter 2 of this title.
(1-2-1968)
10-6-8: SCREENING REQUIRED:
Newly established or newly expanding industrial uses which are adjacent or
backing on existing residential properties shall provide within the industrial
property along that adjacent property line, a properly maintained dense hedge,
tree row or other suitable landscape device to visually screen the industrial
area from such adjacent residential area. Failure to provide or maintain such
planting buffer shall constitute a violation of this title. (1-2-1968)
CHAPTER 7
EXCEPTIONS; MODIFICATIONS
SECTION:
10-7-1: Lot Of Record
10-7-2: Exceptions To Yard Requirements
10-7-3: Exceptions To Height Limits
10-7-1: LOT OF RECORD:
When a lot which is an official lot of record at the time of adoption of this
title does not comply with the area, yard or other requirements of this title,
an application may be submitted to the board of appeals for a variance from the
terms of this title in accordance with the procedure outlined in title 2,
chapter 3 of this code. Such a lot may be used as a building site; provided,
however, that the yard and other requirements of the district are complied with
as closely as possible in the opinion of the board of appeals. (1-2-1968)
10-7-2: EXCEPTIONS TO YARD REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Allowable Projections Of Residential Structures Into Yard:
Architectural features of residential buildings such as windowsills, cornices
and roof overhangs may project into the required yard, provided such
projections are not more than four feet (4') and do not reach closer than four
feet (4') to any lot line.
   (B)   Allowable Projections Of Business Structures Over Sidewalk: Signs,
awnings, canopies and marquees are permitted to overhang the sidewalk in the C-
1 general retail district only; providing, that overhanging signs are a minimum
of eight feet (8') above the sidewalk at any point and that all other
structures are a minimum of six feet eight inches (6'8") above the sidewalk at
any point. (1-2-1968)
   (C)   Allowable Projections Of Accessory Building Into Rear Yard: One-story
accessory buildings, when separated from the principal structure on the lot by
ten feet (10') or more, may project into the rear yard, providing such
projection extends not closer than five feet (5') to the rear lot line. (Ord.
15-02, 4-21-2015)
   (D)   Allowable Projections Of Fences Into Yards:
      1.   Within residential districts, fences may be constructed in or
project into yards; providing, that: a) no fence or planting more than three
feet (3') high or thirty percent (30%) solid shall be located within thirty
feet (30') of a street intersection; b) no fence more than four feet (4') high
may be located closer to the front of the lot than the principal building; and
c) no fence more than six feet (6') high shall be allowed on any other part of
the lot. (1-2-1968)
      2.   All fences erected after the effective date hereof shall be set back
two feet (2') from the property line, with the said two foot (2') setback to be
free of all obstructions, to allow for passage and mowing of the said two feet
(2'). (Ord. 05-02, 5-3-2005)
10-7-3: EXCEPTIONS TO HEIGHT LIMITS:
The height limitations of this title shall not apply to church spires,
belfries, cupolas and domes not intended for human occupancy; monuments, water
towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smokestacks, derricks, conveyors,
flagpoles, radio towers, masts and aerials. (1-2-1968)
CHAPTER 8
ENFORCEMENT; PENALTIES
SECTION:
10-8-1: Zoning Enforcing Officer
10-8-2: Building Permits And Certificates Of Occupancy
10-8-3: Remedies And Penalties
10-8-1: ZONING ENFORCING OFFICER:
This title shall be administered and enforced by the zoning enforcing officer,
who shall be appointed by the mayor, with the city council's concurrence. (1-2-
1968)
10-8-2: BUILDING PERMITS AND CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY:
   (A)   Building Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to commence the
excavation for or the construction of any building or structure, including, but
not limited to, accessory buildings, decks, porches, fences, screens or
concrete pads, or to commence the moving or alteration of any building or
structure, including, but not limited to, accessory buildings, decks, porches,
fences, screens or concrete pads, until the zoning enforcing officer has issued
a building permit. Interior remodeling, siding, windows, doors and exterior
painting shall not require a building permit. Roofing shall not require a
building permit, however, in the case of contracted work, the contractor must
be a licensed roofer. No alteration to any city property shall be made without
the written permission of the city. (Ord. 05-09, 7-19-2005)
   (B)   Issuance Of Building Permit: In applying to the zoning enforcing
officer for a building permit, the applicant shall submit a dimensioned, sketch
or scale plan indicating the shape, size, height and location of all buildings
to be erected, altered or moved, and of any building already on the lot. He
shall also state the existing and intended use of all such buildings and supply
such other information as may be required by the zoning enforcing officer for
determining whether the provisions of this title are being observed. If the
proposed excavation or construction as set forth in the application is in
conformity with the provisions of this title and other provisions of this code,
the zoning enforcing officer shall issue a building permit for such excavation
or construction. If a building permit is refused, the zoning enforcing officer
shall state such refusal in writing, with the cause, and shall immediately
forward such notice of refusal to the applicant. The zoning enforcing officer
shall grant or deny the permit within ten (10) days from the date the
application is submitted.
      1.   The issuance of a building permit shall in no case be construed as
waiving any provisions of this title. (1-2-1968)
      2.   A building permit shall become void ninety (90) days after issuance
unless substantial progress has been made by that date on the project described
therein, but in all cases, a building permit shall become void one year after
issuance, unless otherwise specified at issuance. (Ord. 00-02, 3-22-2000)
      3.   To partially defray the expense of administering this title, a fee
shall be collected by the zoning enforcing officer in accordance with the
following schedule: (1-2-1968)
         (a)   Residential Uses: Building permits for all residential uses
shall be a minimum of thirty five dollars ($35.00), plus an additional one
dollar ($1.00) for each one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) of improvement over
five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). (Ord. 09-01, 3-3-2009)
         (b)   Commercial And Industrial Uses: Building permits for commercial
and industrial uses shall be a minimum of five dollars ($5.00), plus an
additional fifty cents ($0.50) for each five hundred dollars ($500.00) up to
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), plus an additional fifty cents ($0.50)
for each one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) of improvement beyond twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00). (10-20-1970)
   (C)   Certificate Of Occupancy: No land or building or part thereof
hereafter erected or altered in its use or structure shall be used until the
zoning enforcing officer shall have issued a certificate of occupancy
indicating that such land, building or part thereof, and the proposed use
thereof, are found to be in conformity with the provisions of this title.
Within three (3) days after notification that a building or premises or part
thereof is ready for occupancy or use, it shall be the duty of the zoning
enforcing officer to make a final inspection thereof and to issue a certificate
of occupancy if the land, building or part thereof and the proposed use thereof
are found to conform with the provisions of this title; or if such certificate
is refused, to state refusal in writing, with the cause, and immediately
forward such notice of refusal to the applicant. (1-2-1968)
10-8-3: REMEDIES AND PENALTIES:
In case any building or structure is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any building, structure or land
is used in violation of this title, the proper authorities of the city council,
in addition to other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or
proceedings to prevent the occupancy of such building, structure or land. (1-2-
1968)
CHAPTER 9
AMENDMENTS
SECTION:
10-9-1: Right To Amend
10-9-2: Procedure
10-9-3: Approval Of Planning Commission
10-9-4: Zoning Map To Be Published
10-9-1: RIGHT TO AMEND:
The mayor and city council may amend, supplement, change, modify or repeal the
regulations, restrictions and boundaries as provided for in this title. (1-2-
1968)
10-9-2: PROCEDURE:
A public hearing shall be held by the planning commission before adoption of
any amendment, supplement or change by the city council. Public notice of such
public hearing shall be placed in a newspaper of general circulation within the
community not more than thirty (30) days nor less than fifteen (15) days before
the hearing.
In case of a written protest against any proposed amendment of the regulations
or districts, signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of
the frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%)
of the frontage immediately joining or across an alley therefrom, or by the
owners of twenty percent (20%) of the frontage directly opposite the frontage
proposed to be altered, such protest being filed with the city clerk, the
amendment shall not be passed except by a favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of
all the members of the city council.
In order to partially defray the expenses of a zoning change public hearing,
each person petitioning for a zoning change shall deposit with the city
treasurer the sum of thirty five dollars ($35.00). No part of such amount shall
be refunded for failure of said amendment to be enacted into law. (1-2-1968)
10-9-3: APPROVAL OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
No amendment shall become effective unless it is first submitted to and
approved by the planning commission, or if disapproved, shall receive a two-
thirds (2/3) majority vote of the entire city council. (1-2-1968)
10-9-4: ZONING MAP TO BE PUBLISHED:
The city council shall cause to be published no later than March 31 of each
year a map clearly showing the existing zoning divisions and classifications.
If in any calendar year there are no changes in zoning divisions, no map shall
be published for such calendar year. (1-2-1968)
CHAPTER 10
LEGAL STATUS
SECTION:
10-10-1: Interpretation
10-10-2: Validity
10-10-1: INTERPRETATION:
In the interpretation and application of this title, the provisions contained
herein shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of
public health, morals, safety and general welfare.
Any existing ordinance or part thereof which conflicts with the whole or any
part of this title is hereby repealed.
In the case of any conflict between this title, or part thereof, and the whole
or part of any existing or future private covenants or deeds, the most
restrictive shall apply. (1-2-1968)
10-10-2: VALIDITY:
If any section, clause, provision or portion of this title shall be held to be
invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
holding shall not affect any other section, clause, provision or portion of
this title which is not in itself invalid or unconstitutional. (1-2-1968)
CHAPTER 11
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY TELECOMMUNICATIONS OVERLAY DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-11-1: Purpose
10-11-2: Uses Not Covered
10-11-3: Interpretation And Definitions
10-11-4: Designation And Applicability
10-11-5: Allowable Uses; Development Criteria
10-11-6: Review Process
10-11-7: Approval Process
10-11-8: Shared Facilities And Collocation Policy
10-11-9: Removal Of Abandoned Wireless Communication Facilities
10-11-10: Nonconforming Wireless Communication Facilities
10-11-11: Revocation Of Tower Use Permits
10-11-12: Penalty
10-11-13: Annual Review
10-11-1: PURPOSE:
Specifically, this wireless communication facility telecommunications overlay
districts chapter is designed to achieve the following:
   (A)   Provide a range of locations for wireless communication facilities in
various zoning districts;
   (B)   Encourage the location of wireless communication facilities onto
existing structures to reduce the number of new communication towers needed
within the city;
   (C)   Encourage collocation and site sharing of new and existing wireless
communication facilities;
   (D)   Control the type of tower facility constructed, when towers are
permitted;
   (E)   Establish adequate development and design criteria to enhance the
ability of providers of telecommunications services to provide service to the
community quickly, effectively and efficiently;
   (F)   Protect residential, historical preservation areas and scenic
corridors from the uncontrolled development of wireless communications
facilities by requiring reasonable siting conditions;
   (G)   Promote the use of suitable sites (public and private) for the
location of wireless antennas, towers and/or wireless communication facilities;
   (H)   Ensure the harmonious, orderly and efficient growth and development of
the city;
   (I)   Stabilize the economy of the city through the continued use of the
city's suitable public resources;
   (J)   Provide overlay districts in which the zoning regulations permit the
development of wireless communication facilities which are consistent with the
requirements of the telecommunications act of 1996 and in the best interest of
the future of the city;
   (K)   Provide clear performance standards addressing the siting of wireless
communication facilities; and
   (L)   Streamline and expedite the permitting procedures to effect compliance
with the federal telecommunications act of 1996. (Ord. 03-05, 6-17-2003)
10-11-2: USES NOT COVERED:
Nothing in this chapter shall reduce any of the permitted uses of any zoned
property within the city. Nothing in this chapter shall affect the right of a
property owner to use or develop their property consistent with existing zoning
regulations. Nothing in this chapter shall affect the right of a property owner
to continue any legal nonconforming use. (Ord. 03-05, 6-17-2003)
10-11-3: INTERPRETATION AND DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Construction Of Other Ordinances: To the extent this chapter conflicts
with this title, the sign ordinance or any other ordinance of the city, this
chapter shall control.
   (B)   Rules For Words And Phrases: For the purposes of this chapter, words
used in the present tense include the future tense; words in the singular
number include the plural number, and words in the plural number include the
singular number; the word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive;
the word "used" includes "designed" and "intended" or "arranged to be used or
occupied"; and the word "person" includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, foundation, company or corporation, as well as an
individual.
   (C)   Definitions:
      1.   For the purpose of this chapter, certain words, phrases and terms
used herein shall be interpreted as stated in this section. The zoning
administrator shall define any word, phrase or term not defined herein.
      2.   For the purpose of this chapter, all definitions defined herein are
in addition to all definitions in the city zoning ordinance.
ANTENNA ARRAY: One or more rods, panels, disks or similar devices used for the
transmission or reception of radio frequency signals, which may include
omnidirectional antenna (rod), directional antenna (panel) and parabolic
antenna (disk). The antenna array does not include the support structure.
ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: An antenna array that is attached to
a existing building or structure (attachment structure), which structures shall
include, but not be limited to, utility poles, signs, water towers, rooftops,
towers with any accompanying pole or device (attachment device) which attaches
the antenna array to the existing building or structure and associated
connection cables, and an equipment facility which may be located either inside
or outside of the attachment structure.
COLLOCATION/SITE SHARING: Use of a common wireless communication facility or
common site by more than one wireless communication license holder or by one
wireless license holder for more than one type of communications technology,
and/or placement of a wireless communication facility on a structure owned or
operated by a utility or other public entity.
EQUIPMENT FACILITY: Any structure used to contain ancillary equipment for a
wireless communication facility, which includes cabinets, shelters, a building
out of an existing structure, pedestals, and other similar structures.
FAA: Federal aviation administration.
FCC: Federal communications commission.
FTA: Federal telecommunication act of 1996.
HEIGHT: When referring to a wireless communication facility, height shall mean
the distance measured from ground level to the highest point on the wireless
communication facility, excluding the antenna array.
SETBACK: The required distance from the property line of the parcel on which
the wireless communication facility is located, to the base of the support
structure and equipment shelter or cabinet where applicable, or in the case of
guywire supports, the guy anchors.
SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A structure designed and constructed specifically to support
an antenna array, and may include a monopole, self-supporting (lattice) tower,
guywire support tower and other similar structures. Any device (attachment
device) which is used to attach an attached wireless communication facility to
an existing building or structure (attachment structure) shall be excluded from
the definition of and regulations applicable to support structures.
TEMPORARY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: A wireless communication facility to
be placed in use for ninety (90) or fewer days.
TOWER USE PERMIT (TUP): A permit used by the city of Atlanta specifically for
the location, construction and use of a wireless communication facility subject
to an approved site plan and any special conditions determined by the zoning
administrator to be appropriate under the provision of this chapter.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY: Any unstaffed facility for the transmission
and/or reception of wireless telecommunications services, usually consisting of
an antenna array, connection cables and equipment facility, and a support
structure to achieve the necessary elevation.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS: Any personal wireless services as defined in the
telecommunications act of 1996, which includes FCC licensed commercial wireless
telecommunications services, including cellular, personal communication
services (PCS), specialized mobile radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobile
radio (ESMR), paging, and similar services that currently exist. (Ord. 03-05,
6-17-2003)
10-11-4: DESIGNATION AND APPLICABILITY:
   (A)   Districts Outlined: The city shall be divided into two (2) wireless
communication facility overlay districts. Said districts shall include all
lands situated within the city.
      1.   Wireless communication facility overlay district 1 shall include
only those areas described in appendix A of the ordinance codified herein, and
any areas subsequently added thereto less any areas subsequently deleted
therefrom. Attached wireless communication facilities with support structure
shall be permitted as provided herein in wireless communication facility
overlay district 1.
      2.   Wireless communication facility overlay district 2 shall consist of
all lands not included in wireless communication facility telecommunications
overlay district 1 which are located within the city. Attached wireless
communications facilities shall be permitted as set out herein in wireless
communication facility overlay district 2. Wireless communication facilities
with support structure shall not be permitted under this chapter in wireless
communication facility overlay district 2.
   (B)   Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall install or
construct any wireless communication facility unless and until a tower use
permit (TUP) has been issued pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Preexisting Wireless Communications Facility: Wireless communications
facilities for which a permit has been issued prior to the effective date
hereof shall be considered nonconforming and shall not be required to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Amateur Radio Exclusion: This chapter shall not govern the
installation of any amateur radio facility that is owned and operated by a
federally licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively to
receive-only antennas. Such installations shall comply with any other
applicable provisions of this title.
   (E)   Relationship To Other Ordinances: This chapter shall supersede all
conflicting requirements of other ordinances regarding the locating and
permitting of wireless communication facilities.
   (F)   Airport Zoning: Any wireless communication facility located or
proposed to be located in airport areas governed by the federal aviation
administration shall also comply with the provisions of all applicable local,
state and federal airport regulations.
   (G)   Building Codes: Construction of all wireless communication facilities
shall comply with the requirements of the city building codes and permitting
process in addition to the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 03-05, 6-17-
2003)
10-11-5: ALLOWABLE USES; DEVELOPMENT CRITERIA:
Allowable uses, subject to the limitations within each overlay district, will
include the underlying zoning district plus wireless communication facilities
in compliance with the following development criteria:
   (A)   Height Standards: The following height standards shall apply to all
wireless communication facility installations:
      1.   Attached Wireless Communication Facilities: Attached wireless
communications facilities shall not add more than twenty feet (20') to the
height of the existing building or structure to which it is attached
(attachment structure). However, antenna attachments to existing communication
towers shall not increase the height of tower above the maximum permitted
height of that tower.
      2.   Wireless Communication Facilities With Support Structures: Wireless
communication facilities with support structures shall have a maximum height as
set out in appendix A of the ordinance codified herein in wireless
communication facility overlay district 1.
   (B)   Setback Standards: The following setback standards shall apply to all
wireless communication facility installations:
      1.   Attached Wireless Communication Facilities: Attached wireless
communication facilities shall meet the setback provisions of the zoning
district in which they are located. However, an attached wireless communication
facility antenna array may extend up to thirty inches (30") horizontally beyond
the edge of the attachment structure so long as the antenna array does not
encroach upon an adjoining parcel.
      2.   Wireless Communication Facilities With Support Structures: Wireless
communications facilities with support structures shall meet the setback
requirements for principal structures of the underlying zoning district in
which they are located.
   (C)   Landscaping: The following landscaping requirements shall apply to all
wireless communications facility installations:
      1.   New Construction: New wireless communications facilities with
support structures and attached wireless communication facilities with new
building construction shall be landscaped in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the landscape ordinance that may now or hereafter be adopted.
      2.   Land Form Preservation: Existing mature tree growth and natural land
form on the site shall be preserved to the extent feasible; provided, however,
that vegetation that causes interference with the antennas or inhibits access
to the equipment facility may be trimmed or removed.
      3.   Existing Vegetation: Existing vegetation on a wireless communication
facility site may be used in lieu of required landscaping where approved by the
zoning administrator.
   (D)   Aesthetics, Placement, Materials And Colors: Wireless communications
facilities shall be designed so as to be compatible with the existing
structures and surroundings to the extent feasible, including placement in a
location which is consistent with proper functioning of the wireless
communication facility, the use of compatible or neutral colors, or camouflage
technology.
   (E)   Lighting And Signage: The following lighting and signage requirements
shall apply to all wireless communication facility installations:
      1.   Artificial Illumination: Wireless communications facilities shall
not be artificially illuminated, directly or indirectly, except for:
         (a)   Security and safety lighting of equipment buildings if such
lighting is appropriately down shielded to keep light within the boundaries of
the site;
         (b)   Such illumination of the wireless communications facility as may
be required by the FAA or other applicable authority installed in a manner to
minimize impacts on adjacent residences;
         (c)   Unless otherwise required by the FAA or other applicable
authority, the required light shall be red and shielded upward.
      2.   Signage: Wireless communications facilities shall not display any
signage, logos, decals, symbols or any messages of a commercial or
noncommercial nature, except for a small message containing provider
identification and emergency telephone numbers, and such other information as
may be required by local, state or federal regulations governing wireless
communications facilities.
   (F)   Fencing: Wireless communication facilities with support structures
shall be enclosed by an opaque fence (excluding slatted chainlink) not less
than six feet (6') in height. Security features may be incorporated into the
buffer and landscaping requirements for the site. Nothing herein shall prevent
fencing that is necessary to meet requirements of state and federal agencies.
   (G)   Radio Frequency Emission/Sound: The following radio frequency
emissions standards shall apply to all wireless communications facility
installations:
      1.   Radio Frequency Impact: The FTA gives the FCC jurisdiction of the
regulation of radio frequency (RF) emissions, and wireless communications
facilities that do not exceed the FCC standards shall not be conditioned or
denied on the basis of RF impact.
      2.   FCC Compliance: In order to provide information to its citizens,
copies of ongoing FCC information concerning wireless communication facilities
and RF emission standards may be requested. Applicants for wireless
communications facilities shall be required to provide information with the
application on the measurement of the effective radiated power of the facility
and how this meets the FCC standards.
      3.   Sound Prohibited: No unusual sound emissions such as alarms, bells,
buzzers or the like are permitted.
   (H)   Structural Integrity: Wireless communications facilities with support
structures shall be constructed to the Electronics Industries Association/
Telecommunications Industries Association (EIA/TIA) 222 revision F standard
entitled "Structural Standards For Steel Antennas, Towers And Antenna Support
Structures" (or equivalent), as it may be updated and amended. Each support
structure shall be capable of supporting multiple antenna arrays.
   (I)   Collocation Agreement: All applicants for wireless communications
facilities are required to submit a statement with the application agreeing to
allow and reasonably market collocation opportunities to other wireless
communications facility users. The statement shall include the applicant's
policy regarding collocation of other providers and the methodology to be used
by the applicant in determining reasonable rates to be charged other providers.
The collocation agreement shall be considered a condition of issuance of a TUP
(tower use permit). A TUP shall not be issued unless the applicant complies
with the collocation policy outlined in section
10-11-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 03-05, 6-17-2003)
10-11-6: REVIEW PROCESS:
   (A)   Development Criteria: The applicable development criteria referred to
herein are those set forth in section
10-11-5 of this chapter.
   (B)   Permitting Procedures:
      1.   Attached wireless communications facilities with or without new
building construction that meet the development criteria may be permitted by
the administrative review in all zoning districts except as hereinafter
specified. All monopole type (or other tower types, if any, specified in
appendix A of the ordinance codified herein) wireless communications facilities
with support structures that meet the development criteria and that are located
on properties in wireless communication facility overlay district 1 (listed in
appendix A of the ordinance codified herein) may be permitted by administrative
review, except as hereinafter specified. All others, regardless of type or
location, shall be subject to the planning commission hearing process and may
not be approved by the administrative review process.
      2.   Any wireless communications facility (attached or with a support
structure), regardless of type, to be located within an established historic
area, historic district or other designated overlay district, will be subject
to review by the appropriate district commission and the planning commission.
Review by the district commission shall be in accordance with that district
ordinance administrative procedures for a certificate of appropriateness. All
wireless communications facility applications that do not conform to the
development criteria or are otherwise not eligible for administrative review
shall be subject to the planning commission review process.
   (C)   Wireless Communications Facilities As Part Of Coordinated Development
Approval: Wireless communications facilities as part of proposed residential or
nonresidential subdivision, planned unit development, site plan, conditional
rezoning, or other coordinated development approval, shall be reviewed and
approved through those processes.
   (D)   Wireless Communications Facilities For Temporary Term: Temporary
wireless communication facilities may be permitted by administrative approval
for a term not to exceed ninety (90) days. Once granted, a temporary wireless
communication facility permit may be extended for an additional ninety (90)
days upon evidence of need by the applicant. In case of emergency (e.g., storm
damage to an existing tower or other circumstances resulting in the
interruption of existing service), the administrative review shall be expedited
to the extent feasible. (Ord. 03-05, 6-17-2003)
10-11-7: APPROVAL PROCESS:
   (A)   Application Submission: All requests for a tower use permit,
regardless of wireless communication facility type, shall submit an application
in accordance with the requirements of this section.
      1.   Application Contents: Each applicant requesting a TUP under this
chapter shall submit a complete set of drawings prepared and sealed by a
licensed architect and engineer that will include a site plan, elevation view
and other supporting drawings, calculations and other documentation showing the
location and dimensions of the wireless communication facility and all
improvements associated therewith, including information concerning
specifications, antenna locations, equipment facility and shelters,
landscaping, parking, access, fencing and, if relevant as determined by staff,
topography, adjacent uses and existing vegetation. Applicants proposing to
collocate on an existing wireless communication facility shall include a radio
frequency intermodulation study with their application.
      2.   Submission Requirements: Application for a TUP shall be submitted to
the zoning administrator on forms prescribed by the city. The application shall
be accompanied by a site plan containing the information described above and a
copy of the appropriate FCC license. If planning commission or district
commission review is required, the application and site plan shall be placed on
the next available commission agenda in accordance with the agenda deadlines
established by the commission.
      3.   Application Fees: A plan review fee of five hundred dollars
($500.00) and a radio frequency intermodulation study review fee of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) (collocation applicants only) shall accompany each
application. These fees may be used by the city to engage an engineer or other
qualified consultant to review the technical aspects of the application and
radio frequency intermodulation study (if required).
      4.   Technical Assistance: In the course of its consideration of an
application, the city, the zoning administrator, the planning commission or the
city council may deem it necessary, in complex situations, to employ an
engineer or other consultant qualified in the design and installation of
wireless communications facilities to assist the city in the technical aspects
of the application. In such cases, any additional reasonable costs incurred by
the city not to exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for the
technical review and recommendation shall be reimbursed by the applicant prior
to the final hearing on the TUP.
   (B)   Administrative Review: The following administrative review process
shall apply to all wireless communication facility applications:
      1.   Review Authority: Review of wireless communication facilities under
this section shall be conducted by the city consultant and the zoning
administrator or his designee upon filing a wireless communication facility
application.
      2.   Review Criteria: Each application shall be reviewed for compliance
with the development criteria specified in section
10-11-5 of this chapter.
      3.   Timing Of Decision: The zoning administrator shall render a decision
on the wireless communication facility application by written response to the
applicant within ten (10) business days after receipt of the complete
application, except that an extension may be agreed upon by the applicant. Any
application that is not reviewed within ten (10) business days shall be
submitted to the planning commission for review.
      4.   Deferral: The zoning administrator may defer administrative approval
of wireless communication facilities for any reason. Deferral of administrative
approval shall require submission to the planning commission for review.
      5.   Application Denial; Appeal: If administrative approval is not
obtained or is denied due to noncompliance with the development criteria, the
applicant may appeal the denial by applying for planning commission review.
      6.   Application Approval: If the TUP application is in compliance with
the development criteria and otherwise meets the requirements of this section,
the zoning administrator shall issue a tower use permit.
   (C)   Planning Commission Review: The following shall apply to all tower use
permit applications requiring submission to the planning commission:
      1.   Review Authority: The planning commission shall be the review
authority to TUP applications not eligible for administrative review or
otherwise referred to the commission.
      2.   Notice: Notice of the application and the public hearing by the
planning commission shall be accomplished in the same manner as a special use
permit under this title.
      3.   Hearing: The planning commission shall review and consider the TUP
application at a public hearing. At the hearing, interested persons may appear
and offer information in support or opposition to the proposed application. The
planning commission shall consider the following in reaching a decision:
         (a)   Development Criteria: The tower use permit application shall be
reviewed for compliance with the development criteria set forth in section
10-11-5 of this chapter; provided, that the applicable development criteria may
be amended or waived so long as the approval of the wireless communication
facility meets the goal and purposes of this chapter. The planning commission
may recommend alternative development criteria by specific inclusion in a
motion for approval.
         (b)   Tower Siting Conditions: The planning commission may impose
conditions and restrictions on the application or on the premises benefited by
the TUP, as it deems necessary to reduce or minimize any adverse effects and to
enhance the compatibility of the wireless communication facility with the
surrounding property, in accordance with the purpose and intent of this
chapter. The violation of any condition shall be grounds for revocation of the
TUP. The planning commission may recommend such conditions in addition to the
development criteria upon the following findings:
            (1)   The wireless communication facility would result in
significant adverse visual impact on nearby residences.
            (2)   The conditions are based upon the purpose and goals of this
chapter.
            (3)   The conditions are reasonable and capable of being
accomplished.
         (c)   Action: Following the public hearing and presentation of
evidence, the planning commission shall take one of the following actions:
            (1)   Recommend the application as submitted;
            (2)   Recommend the application with conditions or modification;
            (3)   Defer the application for additional information or
neighborhood input; or
            (4)   Deny the application in writing.
      4.   Findings: All decisions rendered by the planning commission
concerning a tower use permit shall be supported by written findings of fact
and conclusions of law based upon substantial evidence of record.
      5.   Timing Of Decision: The planning commission shall render its
decision within sixty (60) days or less of the final submission of all required
application documents and technical review. However, this time may be increased
due to deferrals by either the applicant or the planning commission.
      6.   Appeals: The decision of the planning commission may be appealed to
the city council under the following circumstances:
         (a)   An appeal shall be filed no later than thirty (30) days after
the final action by the zoning administrator or the planning commission. Only
the applicant and those who registered an objection to the TUP in the record of
the planning commission shall have standing to appeal.
         (b)   Only such evidence or testimony in support of or opposition to
the issuance of the TUP which was provided to the planning commission may be
presented to the city council unless the city council, by majority vote,
decides to hear new information.
         (c)   Notice of appeal shall be accomplished by the appellant in the
same manner as a special use permit under this title. (Ord. 03-05, 6-17-2003)
10-11-8: SHARED FACILITIES AND COLLOCATION POLICY:
   (A)   Collocation: All new wireless communication facilities shall be
engineered, designed and constructed to be capable of sharing the facility with
other providers, to collocate with other existing wireless communication
facilities and to accommodate the future collocation of other wireless
communication facilities. A TUP shall not be issued until the applicant
proposing a new wireless communications facility shall demonstrate that it has
made a reasonable good faith attempt to locate its wireless communication
facility onto an existing structure. Competitive conflict and financial burden
are not deemed to be adequate reasons against collocation.
   (B)   Engineering And Construction: All wireless communication facilities
with support structure up to a height of one hundred fifty feet (150') shall be
engineered and constructed to accommodate at least three (3) antenna array. All
wireless communication facilities with support structures up to a height of
more than one hundred fifty feet (150') shall be engineered and constructed to
accommodate at least four (4) antenna array. (Ord. 03-05, 6-17-2003)
10-11-9: REMOVAL OF ABANDONED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
Any wireless communications facility that is not operated for a continuous
period of twelve (12) months shall be considered abandoned, and the city, at
its election, may require the wireless communications facility owner to remove
the wireless communications facility within ninety (90) days after notice from
the city to remove the wireless communications facility. If the abandoned
wireless communications facility is not removed within ninety (90) days, the
city may remove it and recover its costs from the wireless communications
facility owner. If there are two (2) or more users of a single wireless
communications facility, this provision shall not become effective until all
providers cease to use the wireless communications facility. If the owner of an
abandoned wireless communications facility cannot be located or is no longer in
business, the requirements of this section shall be the responsibility of the
landowner on whose property the wireless communications facility is located.
(Ord. 03-05, 6-17-2003)
10-11-10: NONCONFORMING WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES:
Wireless communication facilities in existence on the effective date hereof,
which do not comply with the requirements of this chapter (nonconforming
wireless communication facility) are subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   Expansion: Nonconforming wireless communication facilities may
continue in use for the purpose now used, but may not be expanded without
complying with this chapter, except as further provided in this section.
   (B)   Additions: Nonconforming wireless communications facilities may add
additional antennas (belonging to the same provider or other providers) subject
to administrative review under this chapter.
   (C)   Repairs And Reconstruction: Nonconforming wireless communications
facilities, which become damaged due to any reason or cause, may be repaired
and restored to its former use, location and physical dimensions subject to the
provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that if damage to the wireless
communication facility exceeds fifty percent (50%) of replacement cost, said
wireless communication facility may only be reconstructed or repaired in
compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Abandoned Facility: Any wireless communications facility not in use
for six (6) months shall be deemed abandoned and all rights as a nonconforming
use shall cease. (Ord. 03-05, 6-17-2003)
10-11-11: REVOCATION OF TOWER USE PERMITS:
Any tower use permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked after a
hearing as provided hereinafter. If the zoning administrator finds that any
permit holder has violated any provision of this chapter, or has failed to make
good faith reasonable efforts to provide or seek collocation, the zoning
administrator shall notify the permit holder, in writing, that the TUP is
revocable due to the permit holder's noncompliance with the conditions of the
permit, and the zoning administrator shall convene a meeting with permit holder
no later than thirty (30) days from the date of this letter. The zoning
administrator may recommend to the city council that the tower use permit be
revoked. After the appropriate public hearing, the mayor and the city council
may revoke the tower use permit (TUP) upon such terms and conditions, if any,
that the mayor and city council may determine. Prior to initiation of
revocation proceedings, the zoning administrator shall notify the permit
holder, in writing, of the specific areas of noncompliance and specify the date
by which such deficiencies must be corrected. The time for correction of
deficiencies shall not exceed sixty (60) days. The permit holder shall provide
the zoning administrator with evidence that the required corrective action has
been taken. Should the permit holder fail to correct any deficiencies in the
time required, the mayor and the city council shall convene a public hearing to
consider revocation of the tower use permit. The hearing shall be conducted
pursuant to notice by publication in a newspaper with general circulation in
the city, not less than ten (10) days prior to the hearing, and by written
notice to the permit holder. At any such hearing, the permit holder may be
represented by an attorney and may cross examine opposing witnesses. Other
interested persons may comment. The mayor and city council may impose
reasonable restrictions with respect to time and procedure. The proceedings
shall be recorded; provided, however, that stenographic services, if desired,
shall be provided by the requesting party at that party's expense. (Ord. 03-05,
6-17-2003)
10-11-12: PENALTY:
The fine or penalty for violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction in the municipal court, not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
for any one specified offense or violation. Further, that if a thing prohibited
or rendered unlawful is, in its nature, continuous in respect to time, the fine
or penalty for allowing the continuance thereof in violation of this chapter
shall not exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each day that it may be
unlawfully continued. (Ord. 03-05, 6-17-2003)
10-11-13: ANNUAL REVIEW:
The mayor and city council shall review this chapter on an annual basis and
shall alter or amend the same as required in the manner provided by law. (Ord.
03-05, 6-17-2003)
CHAPTER 12
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
10-12-1: Purpose
10-12-2: Definitions
10-12-3: Permit Requirements
10-12-4: Permit Application
10-12-5: Duties Of The Zoning Officer
10-12-6: Review Of Proposed Development
10-12-7: Review Of Permit Application
10-12-8: Review Of Subdivision Proposals
10-12-9: Water Supply Systems
10-12-10: Sanitary Sewage And Waste Disposal Systems
10-12-11: Variances
10-12-12: Penalty
10-12-13: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
10-12-14: Disclaimer Of Liability
10-12-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to the city of
Atlanta by the Illinois municipal code 1  in order to accomplish the following
purposes:
   (A)   To prevent unwise developments from increasing flood or drainage
hazards to others;
   (B)   Protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from flood
damage;
   (C)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   (D)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control, repairs to
public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and relief operations;
   (E)   Maintain property values and a stable tax base by minimizing the
potential for creating blight areas;
   (F)   Make federally subsidized flood insurance available; and
   (G)   To preserve the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses
and floodplains in order to moderate flood and storm water impacts, improve
water quality, reduce soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat,
provide recreational opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance
community and economic development. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, 5/11-31-2.
10-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter shall
be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common usage
and so as to give this document its most reasonable application.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate including, but not necessarily
limited to:
   (A)   Demolition, construction, reconstruction, repair, placement of a
building, or any structural alteration to a building;
   (B)   Substantial improvement of an existing building;
   (C)   Installation of a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one
hundred eighty (180) days per year;
   (D)   Installation of utilities, construction of roads, bridges, culverts or
similar projects;
   (E)   Construction or erection of levees, dams, walls, or fences;
   (F)   Drilling, mining, filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or
other alterations of the ground surface;
   (G)   Storage of materials including the placement of gas and liquid storage
tanks; and
   (H)   Channel modifications or any other activity that might change the
direction, height, or velocity of flood or surface waters.
"Development" does not include routine maintenance of existing buildings and
facilities; resurfacing roads; or gardening, plowing, and similar practices
that do not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from the overflow, the unusual and rapid accumulation,
or the runoff of surface water from any source.
FLOODPLAIN: Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source (see definition of Flood).
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes, or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure transportable in one or more sections, that is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to required utilities.
STRUCTURE: For floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building,
including gas or liquid storage tanks, that is principally above ground. The
term includes RVs and travel trailers on site for more than one hundred eighty
(180) days.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred regardless of actual repair work performed. Volunteer labor and
materials must be included in this determination.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent
(50%) of the market value of the structure before the improvement or repair is
started. "Substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the
building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include either: a) any
project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to
assure safe living conditions or b) any alteration of a structure listed on the
national register of historic places or the Illinois register of historic
places. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by state law
shall commence any development activity without first obtaining a development
permit from the Atlanta City Hall. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-4: PERMIT APPLICATION:
To obtain a permit the applicant must first file a permit application on a form
furnished for that purpose. The form must be completed and submitted to the
city hall of Atlanta. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-5: DUTIES OF THE ZONING OFFICER:
The zoning officer shall be responsible for the general administration of this
chapter and ensure that all development activities under the jurisdiction of
the city of Atlanta meet the requirements of this chapter. The zoning officer
shall be responsible for receiving applications and examining the plans and
specifications for the application. The zoning officer shall require any
additional measures which are necessary to meet the minimum requirements of
this chapter. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-6: REVIEW OF PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT:
   (A)   The zoning officer shall review proposed development to assure that
all necessary permits have been received from those governmental agencies from
which approval is required by federal or state law, including section 404 of
the federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972, 33 USC 1334.
   (B)   If the development is proposed for a channel or adjacent area of a
stream draining one square mile or more, the applicant must first secure a
permit from the Illinois division of water resources, or a letter stating
"permit not required". (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-7: REVIEW OF PERMIT APPLICATION:
The zoning officer shall review all permit applications to determine whether
proposed building sites will be reasonably safe from flooding. If a proposed
building site is in a flood prone area, all new construction and substantial
improvements (including the placement of prefabricated buildings and
manufactured homes) shall:
   (A)   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure,
   (B)   Be constructed with materials resistant to flood damage,
   (C)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage,
   (D)   Be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or
located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating within the
components during flooding. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-8: REVIEW OF SUBDIVISION PROPOSALS:
The zoning officer shall review subdivision proposals and other proposed new
development to determine whether such proposals will be reasonably safe from
flooding. If a subdivision proposal or other proposed new development is in a
flood prone area, any such proposals shall be reviewed to assure that:
   (A)   All such proposals are consistent with the need to minimize flood
damage within the flood prone area,
   (B)   All public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical,
and water systems are located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood
damage, and
   (C)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure of flood hazards.
(Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-9: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS:
The zoning officer shall require within flood prone areas new and replacement
water supply systems to be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of
floodwaters into the systems. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-10: SANITARY SEWAGE AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
The zoning officer shall require within flood prone areas:
   (A)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems to be designed to minimize
or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and discharges from
the systems into floodwaters; and
   (B)   On site waste disposal systems to be located to avoid impairment to
them or contamination from them during flooding. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-11: VARIANCES:
Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a specific
development proposal, the applicant may apply to the zoning board of appeals
for a variance. The zoning board of appeals shall review the applicant's
request for a variance and shall submit its recommendation to the zoning
officer. The zoning officer may attach such conditions to granting of a
variance as it deems necessary to further the intent of this chapter.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that
all of the following conditions are met:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the floodplain.
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance was not
granted.
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary.
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety or
creation of a nuisance.
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities.
      6.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not establish a
pattern inconsistent with the intent of the NFIP, and
      7.   All other state and federal permits have been obtained.
   (B)   The zoning board of appeals shall notify an applicant in writing that
a variance from the requirements of the building protection standards that
would lessen the degree of protection to a building will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that the applicant acknowledge in writing the assumption of the risk and
liability. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-12: PENALTY:
Any person who violates this chapter shall upon conviction thereof be fined not
less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00). A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-13: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
This chapter repeals and replaces other ordinances adopted by the city council
of the city of Atlanta to fulfill the requirements of the national flood
insurance program. However, this chapter does not repeal the original
resolution or ordinance adopted to achieve eligibility in the program. Nor does
this chapter repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. Where this chapter and other ordinance easements, covenants
or deed restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
10-12-14: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
The degree of protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on available information derived from
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur or flood
heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that development either inside or outside of the floodplain will be free
from flooding or damage. This chapter does not create liability on the part of
the city of Atlanta or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage
that results from proper reliance on this chapter or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder. (Ord. 11-01, 2-8-2011)
