ATWOOD, ILLINOIS
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Local legislation current through Ord. 20-O-7, passed 11-9-2020
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section headings
   
10.04   Rules of construction
   
10.05   Official time
   
10.06   Revivor; effect of amendment or repeal
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Conflicting provisions
   
10.09   Amendments to code
   
10.10   Severability
   
10.11   Reference to public office or officer
   
10.12   Errors and omissions
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Ordinances saved
   
10.16   Technical codes
   
10.17   Historical and statutory references
   
10.18   Distinction between wholesaler and retailer
   
10.19   Printing
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification by and for the Village of Atwood shall be designated as
the Code of Atwood, Illinois, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANOTHER. When used to designate the owner of property which is the subject
of an offense, includes not only natural persons but also every other owner of
property.
   BOARD OF TRUSTEES or VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   COUNTY. Douglas and Piatt Counties, Illinois.
   COUNTY BOARD. The Governing Boards or Councils of Douglas and Piatt
Counties, Illinois.
(5 ILCS 70/1.07)
   COURT. Construed to mean any court of competent jurisdiction.
   DECREE. Synonymous with JUDGMENT. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.24)
   ELECTORS. Persons qualified to vote for elective officers at municipal
elections. 
(65 ILCS 5/1-1-2)
   EXECUTIVE OFFICER. Words used for an executive or ministerial officer may
include any deputy or other person performing the duties of that officer,
either generally or in special cases. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.08)
   HERETOFORE or HEREAFTER.HERETOFORE means any time previous to the day on
which the ordinance, resolution, or statute takes effect; HEREAFTER means at
any time after that date. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.17)
   HIGHWAY,ROAD, or STREET. May include any road laid out by authority of the
United States, or of this state, or of any town or county of this state, and
all bridges thereupon.
(5 ILCS 70/1.16)
   ILCS. Illinois Compiled Statutes, 1992, as heretofore and hereafter amended.
   KEEPER or PROPRIETOR. Includes all persons, whether acting by themselves, or
as a servant, agent, or employee.
   LAND or REAL ESTATE. Includes rights and easements of an incorporeal nature.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
   MUNICIPAL CODE. The Illinois Municipal Code, 65 ILCS 5.
   OATH. Includes affirmation, and SWEAR includes affirm.
(5 ILCS 70/1.12)
   OWNER. When applied to property, includes any part owner, joint owner,
purchaser and seller under a contract and/or deed, or tenant in common of the
whole or part of the property, and includes any beneficiary of a land trust
which owns property.
   PERSON. Any legal person; includes associations, partnerships, corporations,
joint ventures, and bodies politic and corporate as well as individuals. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.05)
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Includes all property except real.
   POLICE OFFICERS.
      (1)   Police officers employed and in the service of the Village of
Atwood.
      (2)   POLICE FORCE  shall be construed to include those persons in the
employ of a village as members of the Department of Police, who are or shall
hereafter be appointed and sworn as POLICE OFFICERS.
(5 ILCS 70/1.20)
   PREMISES. As applied to property, includes land and buildings.
   PRESIDENT/MAYOR. The President of the Village of Atwood.
   PROPERTY. Includes real, personal, mixed estates, and other interests.
   PUBLIC AUTHORITY. Includes school districts; units of legal government; the
village, county, state, or federal governments, officers and agencies thereof,
or any commissions or committees thereof; or any duly authorized public
official.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Includes any street, sidewalk, park, cemetery, school yard,
body of water or watercourse, public conveyance, or any other place for the
sale of merchandise, public accommodation, or amusement.
   REAL PROPERTY. Includes lands, tenements, and hereditaments.
   REGISTERED MAIL. Includes certified mail and CERTIFIED MAIL includes
registered mail.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines, intended for use of
pedestrians.
(625 ILCS 5/1-188)
   SPECIAL DISTRICTS. The meaning ascribed in Article VII of the Constitution
of the State of Illinois of 1970. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.29)
   STATE. The State of Illinois.
   STREET. Where the context admits, includes alleys, lanes, courts,
boulevards, squares, and other public thoroughfares.
   TENANT or OCCUPANT. As applied to premises, includes any person holding a
written or oral lease, or who actually occupies the whole or any part of the
premises, alone or with others.
   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. The village code hereby adopted, and
as hereinafter modified by amendment, revision, and by the adoption of new
titles, chapters, or sections.
   UNITS OF LOCAL GOVERNMENT. The meaning established in § 1 of Article VII of
the Constitution of the State of Illinois of 1970.
(5 ILCS 70/1.28)
   WEEK. Seven consecutive days.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Atwood, Illinois.
   WHOEVER. Includes all persons, natural and artificial; partners; principals,
agents, and employees; and all officials, public or private.
   WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes printing, electronic,  and any other mode of
representing words and letters; but when the written signature of any person is
required by law on any official or public writing or bond, required by law,
except as otherwise provided by law it shall be:
      (1)   In the proper handwriting of that person, or in case he or she is
unable to write, his or her proper mark; or
      (2)   An electronic signature as defined in the Electronic Commerce
Security Act, 5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq., except as otherwise provided by law.
(5 ILCS 70/1.15)
   YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed; and the word YEAR alone is
equivalent to the expression “Year of Our Lord”. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.10)
§ 10.03  SECTION HEADINGS.
   Headings and captions used in this code are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.04  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Words and phrases shall be read in context and construed according to
the rules of grammar and common usage. Words and phrases that have acquired a
technical or particular meaning, whether by legislative or judicial definition
or otherwise, shall be construed accordingly.
   (B)   As used in this code, unless the context otherwise requires, the
following rules will be followed.
      (1)   The singular shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.03)
      (2)   Words of one gender shall include the other genders.
(5 ILCS 70/1.04)
      (3)   Words in the present tense shall include the future.
(5 ILCS 70/1.02)
      (4)   AND may be read OR, and OR may be read AND, if the context admits.
   (C)   The time within which any act provided by law is to be done shall be
computed by excluding the first day and including the last, unless the last day
is Saturday or Sunday or is a holiday as defined or fixed in any statute now or
hereafter in force in this state, and then it shall also be excluded.  If the
day succeeding Saturday, Sunday, or a holiday is also a holiday or a Saturday
or Sunday, then the succeeding day shall also be excluded. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.11)
   (D)   When the law requires an act to be done which may by law as well be
done by an agent as by the principal, the requirement shall be construed to
include all such acts when done by an authorized agent.
   (E)   Words purporting to give joint authority to three or more municipal
officers or other persons shall be construed as giving authority to a majority
of the officers or persons.
(5 ILCS 70/1.09)
   (F)   These rules of construction shall not apply to any provision of this
code which shall contain any express provision excluding that construction, or
when the subject matter or context of this code may be repugnant thereto.
   (G)   All general provisions, terms, phrases, and expressions shall be
liberally construed in order that the true intent and meaning of the President/
Mayor and Board of Trustees may be fully carried out. 
(5 ILCS 70/1.01)
   (H)   The provisions of any ordinance, insofar as they are the same as those
of any prior ordinance, shall be construed as a continuation of the prior
provisions, and not as a new enactment.
(5 ILCS 70/2)
§ 10.05  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time for the village shall be as set by federal law.
§ 10.06  REVIVOR; EFFECT OF AMENDMENT OR REPEAL.
   (A)   The repeal of a repealing ordinance does not revive the ordinance
originally repealed, nor impair the effect of any saving clause therein.
   (B)   The reenactment, amendment, or repeal of an ordinance does not do any
of the following, except as provided in division (C) below:
      (1)   Affect the prior operation of the ordinance or any prior action
taken thereunder;
      (2)   Affect any validation, cure, right, privilege, obligation, or
liability previously acquired, accrued, accorded, or incurred thereunder;
      (3)   Affect any violation thereof or penalty, forfeiture, or punishment
incurred in respect thereto, prior to the amendment or repeal; or
      (4)   Affect any investigation, proceeding, or remedy in respect of any
privilege, obligation, liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment.  The
investigation, proceeding, or remedy may be instituted, continued, or enforced,
and the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment imposed, as if the ordinance had not
been repealed or amended.
   (C)   If the penalty, forfeiture, or punishment for any offense is reduced
by a reenactment or amendment of an ordinance, the penalty, forfeiture, or
punishment, if not already imposed, shall be imposed according to the ordinance
as amended.
§ 10.07  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   (A)   Wherever in a penalty section reference is made to a violation of a
section or an inclusive group of sections, the reference shall be construed to
mean a violation of any provision of the section or sections included in the
reference.
   (B)   References in this code to action taken or authorized under designated
sections of this code include, in every case, action taken or authorized under
the applicable legislative provision which is superseded by this code.
   (C)   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof,
the reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision and the context
clearly indicates that the reference to the section as amended or revised was
not intended.
§ 10.08  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   If the provisions of different codes, chapters, or sections of these
codified ordinances conflict with or contravene each other, the provisions
bearing the latest passage date shall prevail.
   (B)   If the conflicting provisions bear the same passage date, the conflict
shall be construed so as to be consistent with the meaning or legal effect of
the questions of the subject matter taken as a whole.
§ 10.09  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Reference to code. Any addition or amendments to this code, when
passed in such form as to indicate the intention of the Village Board to make
the same a part of this code of ordinances shall be deemed to be incorporated
in this code of ordinances so that a reference to the Municipal Code of Atwood
shall be understood to include them.
(2016 Code, § 23.201)
   (B)   Recording amendments. It shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to
keep at least one copy of the Municipal Code of Atwood which he or she shall
mark in the following manner: Whenever any ordinance which amends or makes an
addition to the code is passed and approved, he or she shall note on the margin
of the section or sections amended that such amendment has been made, with a
reference in the amendment, hereinafter described where the amendment may be
found, and in the case of an addition he or she shall mark in the appropriate
place a notation that such addition has been made, with a similar reference to
the aforementioned amendment book.
(2016 Code, § 23.203)
   (C)   Reference copy. The Village Clerk shall also keep a separate book
containing every amendment or addition passed to this code, with a reference on
each copy of such amendment or addition as to the place in the record of the
ordinances where the original ordinance may be found. The above mentioned
records shall be kept in addition to the record of ordinances which the Clerk
is required to keep by statute.
(2016 Code, § 23.203)
§ 10.10  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provisions of a section of these codified ordinances or the
application thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the
invalidity shall not affect other provisions or applications of the section or
related sections which can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application, and to this end the provisions are severable.
§ 10.11  REFERENCE TO PUBLIC OFFICE OR OFFICER.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary. These references
shall also include the designee or agent of the officer or office, unless the
law or the context clearly requires otherwise.
§ 10.12  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered consisting of the misspelling of any word
or words, the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected, the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached, or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected, and
the word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provision shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration
shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or
extent of the error.
§ 10.13  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code of
ordinances.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature (including, but not limited
to, tax levy ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to
boundaries and annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting
special rights to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances
authorizing the execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary
ordinances; ordinances establishing, naming, or vacating streets, alleys, or
other public places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances
relating to elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of
real estate by or from the village; and all special ordinances) as well as any
other ordinances pertaining to subjects not enumerated and embraced in this
code of ordinances, shall remain in full force and effect unless herein
repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15  ORDINANCES SAVED.
   Whenever an ordinance by its nature either authorizes or enables the Board
of Trustees or a certain village officer or employee to make additional
regulations for the purpose of carrying out the intent of the ordinance, all
regulations of a similar nature serving that purpose effected prior to the
codification and not inconsistent thereto, shall remain in effect and are
saved.
§ 10.16  TECHNICAL CODES.
   (A)   Whenever any technical codes are incorporated herein by reference, any
subsequent amendments or revisions to the technical codes shall automatically
become a part of this code and shall be made available for public inspection by
the village.
   (B)   Further, to the extent of any conflict between the technical
provisions of this code and any technical codes adopted by reference, the most
restrictive provision shall prevail.
§ 10.17  HISTORICAL AND STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.  Example:  (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-1960;
Ord. 15, passed 1-1-1970; Ord. 20, passed 1-1-1980; Ord. 25, passed 1-1-1985)
   (B)   An “ILCS” cite included in the history indicates that the text of the
section reads either verbatim or substantially the same as the statute. 
Example: 
(65 ILCS 5/3.1-2-1) 
   (C)   An “ILCS” cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the text
of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.  Example:
      § 38.04  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
         The village shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying
      all public records, as provided in the Illinois Freedom of Information
Act.
      Statutory reference:
         Freedom of Information Act, see 5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.
§ 10.18  DISTINCTION BETWEEN WHOLESALER AND RETAILER.
   In all cases where the words WHOLESALER or WHOLESALE DEALER are used in this
code of ordinances, unless otherwise specifically defined, they shall be
understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles, or things in
quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale, as distinguished
from a retail dealer who sells in smaller quantities direct to the consumer.
(2016 Code, § 23.103)
§ 10.19  PRINTING.
   (A)   Authorization. This code of ordinances shall be printed and published
in book form.
(2016 Code, § 23.301)
   (B)   Distribution of copies.
      (1)   All of the printed copies of this code of ordinances belonging to
the village shall be deposited with the Clerk.
      (2)   He or she shall deliver one copy thereof to the President/Mayor and
each Trustee, and copies to such other persons as the Village Board may direct.
(2016 Code, § 23.302)
   (C)   Presentation of copies. The Village Board shall have the power to
extend or reciprocate courtesies of other municipalities by presenting them
with a copy of this code, bound at the expense of the village, as to it seems
suitable, and it shall also have the power to present two copies of this code
to the state’s Municipal League.
(2016 Code, § 23.303)
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created
by different clauses or sections of this code of ordinances, the prosecuting
officer may elect under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall
be had against the same person for the same offense; provided that, the
revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty
so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
   (B)   Whenever in this code of ordinances a minimum but not maximum fine or
penalty is imposed, the court may, in its discretion, fine the offender any sum
exceeding the minimum fine or penalty but not exceeding $1,000.
   (C)   Whenever in this code of ordinances the doing of any act or the
omission to do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this
code of ordinances, and there shall be no fine or penalty declared for such
breach, any person who shall be convicted of any such breach shall be fined $75
for the first offense, $150 for the second offense, and $1,000 plus an
appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 23.104)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNING BODY
      
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   EMERGENCY SERVICES
      
34.   TAXATION AND FINANCE
      
35.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNING BODY
Section
President/Mayor
   
30.01   Election
   
30.02   Duties
   
30.03   Appointment of officers
   
30.04   Designation of officers’ duties
   
30.05   Mayor pro tem
   
30.06   Acting Mayor
   
30.07   Formal occasions
   
30.08   Bond
   
30.09   Assistants to Liquor Commissioner
Board of Trustees
   
30.20   Elections; functions
   
30.21   Meetings
   
30.22   Special meetings
   
30.23   President of the Board to preside
   
30.24   Ordinances; approval; veto
   
30.25   Reconsideration
   
30.26   Quorum
   
30.27   Standing committees
   
30.28   Special committees
   
30.29   Membership in committees
   
30.30   Records
   
30.31   Disturbing meetings
   
30.32   Rules of order
 
   
30.99   Penalty
PRESIDENT/MAYOR
§ 30.01  ELECTION.
   The President/Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term, and shall serve
until his or her successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute.
(2016 Code, § 1.001)
§ 30.02  DUTIES.
   (A)   The President/Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the
village and shall preside over the meetings of the Board, and perform such
duties as may be required of him or her by statute or ordinance.
   (B)   He or she shall have supervision over all of the executive officers
and employees of the village, and shall have the power and authority to inspect
all books and records pertaining to village affairs, which are kept by any
officer or employee of the village, at any reasonable time.
(2016 Code, § 1.002)
§ 30.03  APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The President/Mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent
of the Village Board, all officers of the village whose election or appointment
is not otherwise provided for.
   (B)   Any vacancies occurring in an appointive office shall be filled in the
same manner.
(2016 Code, § 1.003)
§ 30.04  DESIGNATION OF OFFICERS’ DUTIES.
   Whenever there is a dispute as to the respective duties or powers of any
appointive officer of the village, this dispute shall be settled by the
President/Mayor after consultation with the Village Attorney; and the
President/Mayor shall have power to delegate to any appointed officer any duty
which is to be performed when no specific officer has been directed to perform
that duty.
(2016 Code, § 1.004)
§ 30.05  MAYOR PRO TEM.
   During a temporary absence or disability of the President/Mayor, the Village
Board shall elect one of its members to act as President/Mayor pro tem, who
during such absence or disability shall possess the powers of President/Mayor,
as is provided by statute.
(2016 Code, § 1.005)
§ 30.06  ACTING MAYOR.
   In the event of a vacancy in the office of President/Mayor, the Board may
appoint one of its members as acting President/Mayor to serve until the vacancy
is filled at a regular or special election as provided by law.
(2016 Code, § 1.006)
§ 30.07  FORMAL OCCASIONS.
   The President/Mayor shall act for and on behalf of the village on formal
occasions and receptions; but, in his or her absence or inability to attend any
such function, the Board may select any other village officer to so act.
(2016 Code, § 1.007)
§ 30.08  BOND.
   Before entering upon the duties of office, the President/Mayor shall execute
a bond in such amount and with such sureties as may be required by the Board,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office.
(2016 Code, § 1.008)
§ 30.09  ASSISTANTS TO LIQUOR COMMISSIONER.
   The President/Mayor, as Liquor Commissioner, may appoint such number of
persons as he or she may desire to assist him or her in the performance of his
or her duties as Liquor Commissioner as provided in 235 ILCS 5/4-2.
(2016 Code, § 1.009)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
§ 30.20  ELECTIONS; FUNCTIONS.
   The members of the Village Board of Trustees shall be elected and serve for
four-year terms, qualifications of which are established by state statute. The
Board shall be the legislative division of the village government and shall
perform such duties and have such powers as may be authorized by statute. The
Board of Trustees shall be paid $25 per month for attending one Board meeting
per month and $25 per month for attending one committee meeting per month.
(2016 Code, § 2.101)
§ 30.21  MEETINGS.
   (A)   The regular meeting of the Board shall be held on the third Monday of
each month at the hour of 7:00 p.m.; provided that, if the regular meeting
falls on a legal holiday, the meeting shall take place on the next day at the
same hour.
   (B)   Adjourned meetings may be held at such other times as the Trustees may
determine.
(2016 Code, § 2.102)
§ 30.22  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the President/Mayor or three
Trustees; provided that, a written notice of such meeting shall be given to
each member of the Board of Trustees at least 24 hours before the time set for
the meeting; provided that, in case all of the elected members of the Board are
present at any special meeting, then the requirement of notice shall be
unnecessary and shall be deemed valid.
(2016 Code, § 2.103)
§ 30.23  PRESIDENT OF THE BOARD TO PRESIDE.
   The President/Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Village Board. He
or she shall not vote on any ordinance, resolution, or motion, except where the
vote of the Trustees has resulted in a tie.
(2016 Code, § 2.104)
§ 30.24  ORDINANCES; APPROVAL; VETO.
   All resolutions and motions which create any liability against the village
or which provide for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, or to sell
any village property, and all ordinances, passed by the Board of Trustees shall
be deposited with the Village Clerk. If the President approves of them, he or
she shall sign them. Those of which he or she disapproves he or she shall
return to the Board of Trustees, with his or her written objections, at the
next regular meeting of the Village Board occurring not less than five days
after their passage. The President/Mayor may disapprove of any one or more sums
appropriated in any ordinances, resolutions, or motions making an appropriation
and, if so, the remainder shall be effective. However, the President/Mayor may
disapprove entirely of an ordinance, resolution, or motion making an
appropriation. If the President/Mayor fails to return any ordinance or any
specified resolution or motion with his or her written objections, within the
designated time, it shall become effective despite the absence of his or her
signature.
(2016 Code, § 2.105)
§ 30.25  RECONSIDERATION.
   Every resolution and motion specified in §
30.24 of this chapter, and every ordinance, which is returned to the Village
Board by the President/Mayor shall be reconsidered by the Village Board. If,
after such reconsideration, two-thirds of all the Trustees elected to the
Village Board shall agree to pass an ordinance, resolution, or motion,
notwithstanding the President/Mayor’s refusal to approve it, then it shall be
effective. The vote on the question of passage over the President/Mayor’s veto
shall be by yeas and nays, and shall be recorded in the journal.
(2016 Code, § 2.106)
§ 30.26  QUORUM.
   A majority of the elected members of the Board or the President/Mayor and
one-half the elected members shall constitute a quorum thereof, but no
ordinance or measure for the expenditure of money shall be passed, except upon
the favorable vote of a majority of such members as provided by statute.
(2016 Code, § 2.107)
§ 30.27  STANDING COMMITTEES.
   The following shall be the standing committees of the Village Board of
Trustees:
   (A)   Police;
   (B)   Water and Sewer;
   (C)   Streets and Alleys;
   (D)   Finance;
   (E)   Health;
   (F)   Mosquito Spraying; and
   (G)   Civic Improvement and Public Relations Zoning.
(2016 Code, § 2.108)
§ 30.28  SPECIAL COMMITTEES.
   The President/Mayor shall appoint such special committees as he or she may
deem necessary or as may be directed by the Board.
(2016 Code, § 2.109)
§ 30.29  MEMBERSHIP IN COMMITTEES.
   The President/Mayor shall appoint the members of all standing and special
committees, in the absence of specific direction by the Board, and shall
designate the chairperson thereof. Every committee of the Board shall consist
of three members including the chairperson, unless the Board of Trustees shall
provide otherwise.
(2016 Code, § 2.110)
§ 30.30  RECORDS.
   The Village Clerk shall keep the minutes and records of the Board
proceedings.
(2016 Code, § 2.111)
§ 30.31  DISTURBING MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb any meeting of the Village Board or of any
committee thereof, or to behave in a disorderly manner at any such meeting.
(2016 Code, § 2.112)  Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.32  RULES OF ORDER.
   (A)   Order of business. The order of business at meetings of the Village
Board of Trustees shall be as follows:
      (1)   Roll call;
      (2)   Reading of minutes;
      (3)   Reports of standing committees;
      (4)   Reports of special committees;
      (5)   Reports of officers;
      (6)   Petitions and communications;
      (7)   Presentation of claims and accounts;
      (8)   Unfinished business;
      (9)   Miscellaneous business; and
      (10)   Adjournment.
(2016 Code, § 2.201)
   (B)   Rescinded action. No vote or action of the Village Board shall be
rescinded at any special meeting unless there is present at such special
meeting as many members of the Board as were present at the meeting when such
vote or action was taken, as provided by statute.
(2016 Code, § 2.202)
   (C)   Resolutions. Any resolution submitted to the Village Board shall be
reduced to writing before being voted upon, at the request of any two members
of the Board.
(2016 Code, § 2.203)
   (D)   Addressing meetings. No person other than the President/Mayor or a
member of the Village Board shall address that body at any regular or special
meeting of the Trustees, except upon consent of a majority of the members
present.
(2016 Code, § 2.204)
   (E)   Suspension of rules. The rules of order, other than those prescribed
by statute, may be suspended at any time by consent of a majority of the
members present at any meeting.
(2016 Code, § 2.205)
   (F)   Robert’s Rules of Order. Except when in conflict with the foregoing
provisions, Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern the deliberations of the
Board.
(2016 Code, § 2.206)
   (G)   Meetings open to the public. All meetings of the Village Board at
which any legal action is taken shall be open to the public, or as printed in
the revised statute.
(2016 Code, § 2.207)
   (H)   Public comment. The following guidelines are applicable for any person
who seeks to address the members of the official governing boards of the
village, any committee, or other official body of the village at any public
meeting. The person will be permitted to speak on any matter listed on the
agenda or on any matter of public concern, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   (a)   The presiding officer shall designate a time during the
meeting at which the public may address the members.
         (b)   The presiding officer may require persons wishing to speak
during any portion of a meeting to sign in before the start of the meeting and
to provide their names, addresses, and topics to be discussed.
      (2)   Prior to speaking, each person must be recognized by the presiding
officer and must state his or her name and address for the record.
      (3)   Public comment is limited to no more than five minutes per person
and to no more than one hour per meeting, unless extended by consent of a
majority vote of the members present. The presiding officer shall monitor the
time and shall notify the speaker when the time allotted has expired.
      (4)   The presiding officer shall have the authority to prescribe and
enforce reasonable rules to govern meeting decorum and procedure.
      (5)   (a)   Although opportunity will be allowed for a person to speak,
it shall not obligate a member of a public body to respond to comments or
answer questions put forth by the speaker at that time.
         (b)   The presiding officer shall determine how or whether the public
body responds to such comments or questions.
(Ord. 14-O-8, passed 10-20-2014)
§ 30.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
30.31 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 2.112)
CHAPTER 31:  OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Effect
   
31.02   Appointments
   
31.03   Term of office; vacancies
   
31.04   Monies received
   
31.05   Oath
   
31.06   Salaries
   
31.07   Assignment of duties
   
31.08   Records
   
31.09   Bond
   
31.10   Arrests
   
31.11   Termination of office
   
31.12   Impersonation
   
31.13   Interference with officers
   
31.14   Inspections by village officers
   
31.15   Reimbursement
   
31.16   Elections
   
31.17   Surety bonds
   
31.18   Ethics act
   
31.19   Prohibiting sexual harassment
Specific Officers and Employees
   
31.30   Village Clerk
   
31.31   Village Treasurer
   
31.32   Village Attorney
   
31.33   Superintendent of Village Services
   
31.34   Superintendent of Streets
   
31.35   Superintendent of Waterworks and Sewage Treatment Plant
   
31.36   Village Collector
   
31.37   Public Works Manager
 
   
31.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  EFFECT.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply alike to all officers and
employees of the village, regardless of the time of the creation of the office
or position or the time of the appointment of the officer or employee.
(2016 Code, § 8.101)
§ 31.02  APPOINTMENTS.
    All officers other than the elective officers shall be appointed by the
President/Mayor by and with consent of the Village Board as is provided by
statute; provided that, all employees shall, in the absence of any provisions
to the contrary, be appointed or selected by the President/Mayor.
(2016 Code, § 8.102)
§ 31.03  TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   Every appointive officer of the village shall hold office until May 1
following his or her appointment or until his or her successor is appointed and
qualified, unless it is otherwise provided by ordinance. In case of a vacancy
in any such place, it shall be filled in the same manner in which appointments
or selections are made, in the absence of provisions to the contrary.
(2016 Code, § 8.103)
§ 31.04  MONIES RECEIVED.
   Every officer of the village shall, at least once each month, turn over all
money received by him or her in his or her official capacity, to the Treasurer
with a statement showing the source from which the same was received.
(2016 Code, § 8.104)
§ 31.05  OATH.
   Every officer of the village shall, before entering upon his or her duties,
take the oath prescribed by statute.
(2016 Code, § 8.105)
§ 31.06  SALARIES.
   (A)   Certain village officers shall be compensated for each meeting of the
corporate authorities actually attended and for which public notice of said
meeting was given. All Board Trustees shall be compensated at a rate of $50 per
meeting.
   (B)   The Village President/Mayor shall be compensated at an annual salary
of $1,800 per year.
(2016 Code, § 8.106)  (Ord. 19-O-01, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 31.07  ASSIGNMENT OF DUTIES.
   The President/Mayor shall have the power to assign to any appointive officer
any duty which is not assigned by ordinance to some other specific officer and
shall determine disputes or questions relating to the respective powers or
duties of officers.
(2016 Code, § 8.107)
§ 31.08  RECORDS.
   All records kept by any officers of the village shall be open to inspection
by the President/Mayor, or any member of the Village Board at all reasonable
times, whether or not such records are required to be kept by statute or
ordinance.
(2016 Code, § 8.108)
§ 31.09  BOND.
   Every officer or employee shall, if required by the corporate authorities,
upon entering upon the duties of his or her office, give a bond in such amount
and with such sureties as may be determined by the said corporate authorities,
conditioned upon the faithful performance of the duties of his or her office or
position.
(2016 Code, § 8.109)
§ 31.10  ARRESTS.
   The President/Mayor, members of the Village Board, as well as every member
of the Police Department, are hereby declared to be conservators of the peace
with such powers to make arrests as are given to conservators of the peace by
statute.
(2016 Code, § 8.110)
§ 31.11  TERMINATION OF OFFICE.
   Every officer and employee of the village, upon expiration of his or her
term for any cause whatsoever, shall deliver to his or her successor all books
and records which may be the property of the village and, if no successor has
been appointed within one week after the termination of office, such property
shall be delivered to the Village Clerk or Village Treasurer.
(2016 Code, § 8.111)
§ 31.12  IMPERSONATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to impersonate without lawful authority
any village officer or employee.
(2016 Code, § 8.112)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.13  INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful to interfere with or hinder any officer or employee of
this village while engaged in the duties of his or her office or employment.
(2016 Code, § 8.113)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.14  INSPECTIONS BY VILLAGE OFFICERS.
   (A)   Any officer or employee of the village who is authorized to enforce
ordinances may make such inspections as may be necessary to see to the
enforcement of such ordinances. Whenever such officer or employee shall have
reason to believe that there exists on or in any premises in the village any
nuisance dangerous to public health, any fire hazard, any structural defect
likely to result in injury to person or property, or any electric wiring or
equipment in such condition as to present a fire hazard or danger to persons,
he or she shall ask permission of the occupant of such premises, or the owner
or custodian thereof, if the premises are unoccupied, to inspect the same.
   (B)   Each such occupant or owner shall permit such inspection at any
reasonable time.
(2016 Code, § 8.114)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.15  REIMBURSEMENT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ENTERTAINMENT. Includes, but is not limited to, shows, amusements,
theaters, circuses, sporting events, or any other place of public or private
entertainment or amusement, unless ancillary to the purpose of the program or
event.
      PUBLIC BUSINESS. Expenses incurred in the performance of a public purpose
which is required or useful for the benefit of the village to carry out the
responsibilities of village business.
      TRAVEL. Any expenditure directly incident to official travel by employees
and officers of the village or by wards or charges of the village involving
reimbursement to travelers or direct payment to private agencies providing
transportation or related services.
   (B)   Alcohol is specifically excluded from reimbursement.
   (C)   No reimbursement of travel, meal, or lodging expenses incurred by a
village employee or officer shall be authorized unless the “Travel, Meal, and
Lodging Expense Reimbursement Request Form” has been submitted and approved.
All documents and information submitted with the form should be subject to
disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.).
   (D)   Expenses for travel, meals, and lodging of:
      (1)   Any officer or employee that exceeds the maximum reimbursement
allowed under the regulations adopted under the code; or
      (2)   Any member of the corporate authorities of the village may only be
approved by roll call vote at an open meeting of the corporate authorities of
the village. However, in the event of an emergency or other extraordinary
circumstances, the corporate authorities may approve more than the maximum
allowable expenses set forth above.
   (E)   (1)   The village shall not reimburse any elected official, employee,
or officer for any activities which would be considered entertainment.
      (2)   Activities which would otherwise be considered entertainment, but
which are excluded from the prohibition on reimbursement due to being ancillary
to the purpose of the program or event, may be reimbursed in accordance with
the provisions of this code.
(Ord. 17-O-1, passed 1-17-2017)
§ 31.16  ELECTIONS.
   Elections for municipal offices shall be held as provided by statute, and at
the time prescribed by statute.
(2016 Code, § 8.503)
§ 31.17  SURETY BONDS.
   (A)   Whenever a surety bond to indemnify the village is required as a pre-
requisite to exercising the duties of any office or position, or to the
issuance of a license or permit or for the exercise of any special privilege,
the surety on such bond shall be a corporation licensed and authorized to do
business in this state as a surety company, in the absence of specific
provision to the contrary by ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   Whenever, in its opinion, additional sureties or an additional
surety may be needed on any bond to indemnify the village against loss or
liability because of the insolvency of the existing surety or sureties or for
any other reason, the corporate authorities may order a new surety or sureties
to be secured for such bond.
      (2)   If such new surety or sureties are not procured within ten days
from the time such order is transmitted to the principal of the bond, or his or
her assignee, the corporate authorities shall declare the bond to be void and,
thereupon, such principal or assignee shall be deemed to have surrendered the
privilege or position as condition of which the bond was required.
(2016 Code, § 8.504)
§ 31.18  ETHICS ACT.
   (A)   The regulations of § 5-15 (5ILCS 430/5-15) and Article 10 (5 ILCS 430/
10-10 through 10-40) of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act, 5 ILCS
430/1-1 et seq. (hereinafter referred to as the “Act” in this section) are
hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees
of the village to the extent required by 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the Act, by any officer or any employee of the village, is
hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village under the Act, is hereby prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the Act, by
any officer or employee of the village, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms officer and employee shall be
defined as set forth in 5 ILCS 430/70-5.
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 ILCS 430/50-5 for similar violations of the Act.
(Ord. 04-O-2, passed 5-17-2004)  Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.19  PROHIBITING SEXUAL HARASSMENT.
   The village’s sexual harassment policy is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 17-O-10, passed 12-18-2017)
SPECIFIC OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
§ 31.30  VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   Election; term. The Village Clerk shall be elected and serve for a
four-year term and until his or her successor is elected and qualified, as
provided by statute.
(2016 Code, § 3.001)
   (B)   General duties; bond. The Village Clerk shall perform such duties as
may be provided for him or her by statute or ordinance. Before entering upon
his or her duties of office, the Village Clerk shall execute a bond in such
amount, as is provided by statute, conditioned upon the faithful performance of
his or her duties.
(2016 Code, § 3.002)
   (C)   Signatures. The Village Clerk shall seal and attest all contracts of
the village and all licenses, permits and such other documents as shall require
this formality.
(2016 Code, § 3.003)
   (D)   Money collected. The Clerk shall turn over all money received by him
or her on behalf of the village to the Village Treasurer promptly upon receipt
of the same; and, with such money, he or she shall give a statement as to the
source thereof.
(2016 Code, § 3.004)
   (E)   Accounts. The Clerk shall keep accounts showing all money received by
him or her and the source and disposition thereof; and such other accounts as
may be required by statute or ordinance.
(2016 Code, § 3.005)
   (F)   Records. In addition to the record of ordinances and other records
which the Clerk is required by statute to keep, he or she shall keep a register
of all licenses and permits issued; and the payments thereof; a record showing
all of the officers and regular employees of the village and such other records
as may be required by the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 3.006)
   (G)   Seal. The Clerk shall be the custodian of the Village Seal, and shall
affix its impression on documents whenever this is required.
(2016 Code, § 3.007)
   (H)   Documents. The Clerk shall be the custodian of all documents belonging
to the village which are not assigned to the custody of some other officer.
(2016 Code, § 3.008)
   (I)   Indexes. The Clerk shall keep and maintain a proper index to all
documents and records kept by him or her so that ready access thereto and use
thereof may be had.
(2016 Code, § 3.009)
   (J)   Deputy Clerk.
      (1)   The Village Clerk is authorized to appoint a Deputy Clerk subject
to the approval of the Village Board. Such Deputy Clerk shall have the power
and duty to execute all documents required by any law or ordinance to be
executed by the Clerk, and affix the seal of the village thereto whenever
required.
      (2)   When signing any documents, the Deputy Clerk shall sign the name of
the Village Clerk  followed by the word “by” and the Deputy Clerk’s own name
and the words “Deputy Clerk”.
      (3)   The powers and duties herein described shall be exercised by such
Deputy Clerk only in the absence of the Village Clerk from his or her office in
the municipal building and only when either written direction has been given by
the Village Clerk to exercise such power or the Village Board has determined by
resolution that the Village Clerk is temporarily or permanently incapacitated
to perform such function.
      (4)   Such Deputy Clerk shall have the authority and power herein
described, and such further power and authority as may be provided by statute.
(2016 Code, § 3.010)
§ 31.31  VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the office of Treasurer of the
village, an executive office. The Village Treasurer shall be appointed by the
Mayor by and with the advice and consent of the Village Board, to serve for a
two-year term until his or her successor is qualified, as approved by statute.
(2016 Code, § 4.101)
   (B)   Bond. The Treasurer shall give bond conditioned upon the faithful
performance of his or her duties and to indemnify the village for any loss due
to neglect of duty or wrongful act on his or her part; and the amount of such
bond shall be not less than 10% of the highest amount of taxes, special
assessments and water revenue receipts received by the Treasurer during any
fiscal year in the preceding five fiscal years nor less than one and one-half
times the largest amount which the Village Board estimates will be in his or
her custody at any one time. Such bond shall be filed with the Clerk as
required by statute.
(2016 Code, § 4.102)
   (C) General duties. The Treasurer shall perform such duties as may be
prescribed for him or her by statute or ordinance. He or she shall receive all
money paid to the village, either directly from the person paying it or from
the hands of such other officer as may receive it, and he or she shall pay out
money only on vouchers or orders properly signed by the Village Clerk and the
President/Mayor.
(2016 Code, § 4.103)
   (D)   Deposit of funds. He or she shall deposit the village funds in such
depositories as may be selected from time to time as is provided by law, and he
or she shall keep the village money separate and distinct from his or her own
and shall not intermingle his or her own money with it or make private or
personal use of the village funds.
(2016 Code, § 4.104)
   (E)   Records. The Treasurer shall keep records showing all money received
by him or her, the source from which it was received, and the purpose for which
it was paid out; and he or she shall keep a record showing at all times the
financial status of the village.
(2016 Code, § 4.105)
   (F)   Accounts. The Treasurer shall keep such books and accounts as may be
required by the Village Board and shall keep them in the manner required by the
Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 4.106)
   (G)   Reports. The Treasurer shall make monthly reports to the Village Board
showing the state of finances of the village, and the amounts received and
spent during the month, which reports shall be filed. He or she shall make an
annual report after the close of the fiscal year, as required by statute, with
the total amount of all receipts and expenditures of the village and his or her
transactions as Treasurer during the preceding year. The Treasurer shall also
arrange for the auditing of accounts at the close of the fiscal year by an
outside auditor, approved by the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 4.107)
§ 31.32  VILLAGE ATTORNEY.
   (A)   Creation of office. There is hereby created the office of Village
Attorney, an executive office of the village. The Village Attorney shall be
appointed by the President/Mayor by and with the advice and consent of the
Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 4.201)
   (B)   Suits and actions. The Village Attorney shall prosecute or defend any
and all suits or actions at law or equity to which the village may be a party,
or in which it may be interested, or which may be brought against, or by, any
officer of the village on behalf of the village, or in the capacity of such
person as an officer of the village.
(2016 Code, § 4.202)
   (C)   Judgments. It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to see to the
full enforcement of all judgments or decrees rendered or entered in favor of
the village and of all similar interlocutory orders.
(2016 Code, § 4.203)
   (D)   Advice.
      (1)   The Village Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the village, and
shall render advice on all legal questions affecting the village, whenever
requested to do so by any village official.
      (2)   Upon request by the President/Mayor or by the Village Board, he or
she shall reduce any such opinion to writing.
(2016 Code, § 4.204)
   (E)   Special assessments. It shall be the duty of the Village Attorney to
see to the completion of all special assessment proceedings and condemnation
proceedings.
(2016 Code, § 4.205)
   (F)   Ordinances and documents. It shall be his or her duty to draft or
supervise the phraseology of any contract, lease, or other document or
instrument, to which the village may be a party; and upon request by the Board,
to draft ordinances or resolutions covering any subjects within the power of
the village.
(2016 Code, § 4.206)
   (G)   Additional service. He or she will give additional counsel to give
advice or render service to the village.
(2016 Code, § 4.207)
§ 31.33  SUPERINTENDENT OF VILLAGE SERVICES.
   (A)   Office created.
      (1)   There is hereby created the office of Superintendent of Village
Services, an executive office of the village.
      (2)   The Superintendent of Village Services shall be appointed by the
President/Mayor by and with the advice and consent of the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 4.301)
   (B)   Lighting. The Superintendent of Village Services shall supervise the
lighting of the public streets and alleys, and shall keep the lighting system
in efficient operation and good repair.
(2016 Code, § 4.302)
   (C)   Sewers. The Superintendent of Village Services shall see that all
sewers of the village are kept in good repair, free from obstructions and
breaks, and shall make all inspections necessary to enforce the ordinances
relating to the sewers.
(2016 Code, § 4.303)
   (D)   Employees. The Superintendent of Streets and the Superintendent of
Waterworks and all other officers and employees assigned to the Department of
Village Services shall perform their duties subject to the orders and under the
supervision of the Superintendent of Village Services.
(2016 Code, § 4.304)
   (E)   Property. The Superintendent of Village Services shall be the
custodian of all property of the village which is not assigned to the care or
custody of any other officer.
(2016 Code, § 4.305)
§ 31.34  SUPERINTENDENT OF STREETS.
   (A)   Office created. There is hereby created the office of Superintendent
of Streets, who shall be appointed by the President/Mayor, by and with the
advice and consent of the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 4.401)
   (B)   Duties. The Superintendent of Streets shall be charged with the duty
of keeping the streets and alleys clean, free from obstructions, and in good
repair. He or she shall see that all street drains and sewers are free and
unobstructed and shall perform such other duties as may be required by the
corporate authorities. He or she shall perform his or her duties under the
supervision of the Superintendent of Village Services if such office has been
filled.
(2016 Code, § 4.402)
   (C)   Ordinances. The Superintendent of Streets shall report to the
Superintendent of Village Services any ordinance violation with relation to the
care or use of streets, alleys, sewers, or sidewalks in the village, of which
he or she may become cognizant.
(2016 Code, § 4.403)
§ 31.35  SUPERINTENDENT OF WATERWORKS AND SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.
   (A)   Office created. It is hereby created the office of Superintendent of
Waterworks and Sewage Treatment Plant, an executive office of the village. He
or she shall be appointed by the President/Mayor, by and with the advice and
consent of the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 4.501)
   (B)   Duties. The Superintendent of Waterworks and Sewage Treatment Plant
shall have charge of the construction and maintenance of all water pipes and
sewage lines in the village. He or she shall have charge of the maintenance of
the waterworks and sewage treatment plant system, under the supervision of the
Superintendent of Village Services if such office has been filled.
(2016 Code, § 4.502)
§ 31.36  VILLAGE COLLECTOR.
   (A)   Office created. It is hereby created the office of Collector. The
Collector shall be appointed at the beginning of each fiscal year. He or she
shall be appointed by the President/Mayor, by and with the advice and consent
of the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 4.601)
   (B)   Duties. The Collector shall keep and preserve all warrants returned to
him or her and shall keep the books and accounts in the manner that the Village
Board may prescribe. All the warrants, books,  vouchers, and all papers
pertaining to his or her office may be examined at any time by the Mayor, City
Clerk, or any committee of the Village Board. Weekly, and more often if
required by the Board, the Collector shall pay over to the Treasurer all the
money collected by him or her from any source, taking the Village Treasurer’s
receipt therefor and filing the receipts immediately with the Village Clerk. At
that time, or on demand, the Village Clerk shall give the Village Collector a
copy of any receipt so filed.
(2016 Code, § 4.602)
§ 31.37  PUBLIC WORKS MANAGER.
   (A)   Hours and schedule.
      (1)   The work position of Public Works Manager shall be an exempt full-
time work position within the village. The work week shall be from Monday
through Friday unless modified by the Village Board of Trustees. The work day
shall be from 7:00 a.m. through 3:30 p.m. unless modified by the Village Board
of Trustees.
      (2)   The lunch break shall be one-half hour. A 15-minute work break
shall be permitted during the morning and during the afternoon as the work
schedule may permit.
   (B)   Supervisor. The Public Works Manager shall be under the direct
supervision of the Chairperson of the Water and Sewer Committee of the Village
Board.
   (C)   Special requirements.
      (1)   Licensure.
         (a)   The Public Works Manager shall possess valid license
classification of Class B for the operation of the Village Water Plant; and a
classification of Class 2 for the operation of the Village Wastewater Treatment
Plant.
         (b)   The acceptance of greater or lesser classifications must be
according to the appropriate bureaus of the I.E.P.A.
      (2)   Hours of work. Because of the needs of the citizens of the village,
the Public Works Manager must be on call at all times to react to water and
sewer system emergencies. Weekend and vacation coverage will be in conjunction
with other full-time employees of the village.
   (D)   Water system work requirements.
      (1)   This work position shall be responsible for the production,
maintenance and construction oversight of the potable water system for the
village and the surrounding area.
      (2)   This shall include the following:
         (a)   The proper operation and maintenance of the water production for
the village including the water wells, water production, facilities, water
storage (water tower), and any other components of the potable water
production;
         (b)   The proper operation and maintenance of the potable water
distribution system within the village and the surrounding area including all
piping, metering billing (meter reading), distribution piping to Garrett, and
any other components for the distribution of potable water within the village
system;
         (c)   The preparation and maintenance of all daily records and
operational logs. The preparation and timely submission of all reports which
may be required or requested for village review or for state or federal
governmental agencies;
         (d)   The preparation of an annual budget in conjunction with the
Water and Sewer Committee for the new fiscal year; and the monitoring of
revenues and expenditures for the current fiscal year; and
         (e)   The proper care and maintenance of all water plant auxiliary
equipment including vehicles, pumps, generators, testing equipment, and the
like.
   (E)   Wastewater plant work requirements; Wastewater Treatment Plant. This
work position shall be responsible for the proper operation and maintenance of
the wastewater treatment plant for the village. This shall include, but not be
limited, to the following:
      (1)   The proper operation and maintenance of the wastewater treatment
plant facility including overall property, the treatment system (piping,
digester, blowers, and the like), lagoon, and any other components of the
wastewater treatment system;
      (2)   The proper operation and maintenance of the wastewater collection
system within the village. This shall include, but not be limited to, the
following: tiling; collection basins; lift station; and any other components
for wastewater collection;
      (3)   The preparation and maintenance of all daily records and
operational logs. The preparation and timely submission of all reports which
may be required or requested for village review or for state or federal
government agencies;
      (4)   The preparation of an annual budget in conjunction with the Water
and Sewer Committee for the new fiscal year and the monitoring of revenues and
expenditures for the current fiscal year; and
      (5)   The proper care and maintenance of all wastewater treatment plant
auxiliary equipment including testing equipment, generator, fencing, and the
like.
   (F)   Street and alley work requirements. This position shall be responsible
for and shall:
      (1)   Have direct supervision of the Superintendent of Streets and Alleys
and full-time or part-time personnel performing work associated with the
Streets and Alleys Department;
      (2)   Inform the Chairperson of the Streets and Alleys Committee of
maintenance materials needed such as asphalt, salt, equipment, and the like, or
special projects which may be required;
      (3)   Report to Streets and Alleys Chairperson of completed work and
progress with ongoing tasks;
      (4)   The preparation of an annual budget in conjunction with the Streets
and Alleys Committee for the new fiscal year, and the monitoring of revenues
and expenditures for the current fiscal year; and
      (5)   Coordinate and prioritize work to be completed by the
Superintendent of Streets and Alleys.
   (G)   Supervision. The Public Works Manager shall be responsible for the
proper and effective supervision of any permanent or temporary employees within
the Water and Sewer and Streets and Alleys Departments, and in doing so will:
      (1)   Authorize paid time off and overtime of direct reports; and
      (2)   Assist direct reports with a timekeeping system to ensure accurate
record for payroll processing.
   (H)   Other duties. The work responsibilities assigned to the Public Works
Manager shall not be limited to only those responsibilities listed in the job
description, but may include added responsibilities which are consistent with
the general responsibilities for the Public Works Manager.
(Ord. 19-O-2, passed 2-18-2019)
§ 31.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §
31.12 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 8.112)
   (C)   Any such owner or occupant who refuses to permit such inspection, per
§
31.13, shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 8.113)
   (D)   Any such owner or occupant who refuses to permit such inspection, per
§
31.14, shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 8.114)
CHAPTER 32:  ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Board of Local Improvements
   
32.01   Creation; members
   
32.02   Secretary
   
32.03   General duties
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
32.15   Creation; members
   
32.16   Term
   
32.17   Duties
Civil Defense Organization
   
32.30   Establishment
   
32.31   Director
   
32.32   Functions
   
32.33   Service as Mobile Support Team
   
32.34   Agreements with other municipalities
   
32.35   Emergency action
   
32.36   Compensation
   
32.37   Reimbursement by the state
   
32.38   Purchases and expenditures
   
32.39   Oath
   
32.40   Office
   
32.41   Appropriation; levy of taxes
   
32.42   Continuity in office
   
32.43   Emergency locations; governmental powers
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
§ 32.01  CREATION; MEMBERS.
   There is hereby established the Board of Local Improvements for the village,
which shall consist of the President/Mayor, Superintendent of Village Services,
the Trustees, and the Village Clerk.
(2016 Code, § 7.101)
§ 32.02  SECRETARY.
   The Village Clerk shall serve as Secretary for the Board of Local
Improvements.
(2016 Code, § 7.102)
§ 32.03  GENERAL DUTIES.
   The Board of Local Improvements shall have the powers and perform the duties
assigned to it by statute or ordinance.
(2016 Code, § 7.103)
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 32.15  CREATION; MEMBERS.
   There is hereby created a Board of Appeals to serve as a board of appeals on
zoning matters as provided by statute. Said Board shall consist of five members
to be appointed by the President/Mayor by and with the advice and consent of
the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 7.201)  (Ord. 20-O-7, passed 11-9-2020)
§ 32.16  TERM.
   The members of the Board of Appeals shall serve for a term of five years;
provided that, the terms shall be staggered as provided by statute.
(2016 Code, § 7.202)
§ 32.17  DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the Board of Zoning Appeals to hear and decide any
appeal or any decision, order or interpretation by the officer whose duty it is
to enforce the zoning ordinance, and it shall have such other powers and duties
as may be delegated to it by statute or ordinance; provided that, it shall have
the power to reverse any decision of such officer on a concurring vote of four
members.
(2016 Code, § 7.203)
CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION
§ 32.30  ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby created the Local Municipal Defense Organization, to
prevent, minimize, repair, and alleviate injury or damage resulting from
disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or natural
causes in accordance with state law.
(2016 Code, § 7.301)
§ 32.31  DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director of the Municipal Civil Defense Organization shall be
appointed by the President/Mayor by and with the advice and consent of the
Village Board and shall serve until removed by the same.
   (B)   The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training, and operation of the Civil Defense Organization,
subject to the direction and control of the President/Mayor as provided by
statute.
   (C)   In the event of the absence, resignation, death, or inability to serve
as the Director, the President/Mayor or any person designated by him or her,
shall be and act as Director until a new appointment is made as provided in
this subchapter.
(2016 Code, § 7.302)
§ 32.32  FUNCTIONS.
   The Municipal Civil Defense Organization shall perform such civil defense
functions within the municipality as shall be prescribed in and by the State
Civil Defense Plan and program prepared by the Governor and such orders, rules
and regulations as may be promulgated by the Governor and, in addition, shall
perform such duties outside the corporate limits as may be required pursuant to
any mutual aid agreement with any other municipality or quasi-municipality
entered into as provided by state law.
(2016 Code, § 7.303)
§ 32.33  SERVICE AS A MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM.
   (A)   All or any member of the Municipal Civil Defense Organization may be
designated as members of a Mobile Support Team created by the State Director of
Civil Defense as provided by law.
   (B)   The “leader” of such Mobile Support Team shall be designated by the
Director of the Municipal Defense Organization.
   (C)   Any member of a Mobile Support Team who is a municipal employee or
officer while serving on call to duty by the Governor, shall receive the
compensation and have the powers, duties, rights, and immunities incident to
such employment or office. Any such member who is not a paid officer or
employee of the municipality, while so serving, shall receive from the state
reasonable compensation as provided by law.
(2016 Code, § 7.304)
§ 32.34  AGREEMENTS WITH OTHER MUNICIPALITIES.
   The Director of the Civil Defense Organization may negotiate mutual aid
agreements with other municipal corporations or political subdivisions of the
state, but no such agreement shall be effective until it has been approved by
the corporate authorities, and by the State Director of Civil Defense.
(2016 Code, § 7.305)
§ 32.35  EMERGENCY ACTION.
   If the Governor declares a civil defense emergency exists in the event of
actual enemy attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state
or a major disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or
natural causes, it shall be the duty of the Municipal Civil Defense
Organization to cooperate fully with the State Civil Defense Agency and with
the Governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law.
(2016 Code, § 7.306)
§ 32.36  COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Civil Defense Organization who are paid employees or officers
of the municipality, if called for training by the State Director of Civil
Defense, shall receive for the time spent in training, the same rate of pay as
is attached to the position held; members who are not such municipal employees
or officers shall receive for such training time such compensation as may be
established by the corporate authorities.
(2016 Code, § 7.307)
§ 32.37  REIMBURSEMENT BY THE STATE.
   The Treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund, any
reimbursement by the state to the municipality for expenses incident to
training members of the Civil Defense Organization as prescribed by the State
Director, compensation for services and expenses of a Mobile Support Team while
serving outside the municipality in response to a call by the State Civil
Defense Agency, and any other reimbursement made by the state incident to civil
defense activities as provided by law.
(2016 Code, § 7.308)
§ 32.38  PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   The corporate authorities may, on recommendation of the Municipal
Director of Civil Defense, authorize any purchases or contracts necessary to
place the municipality in a position to combat effectively any disaster and to
protect the public health and safety, protect property, and provide emergency
assistance to victims in the case of any disaster.
   (B)   In the event of any disaster, the local Director of Civil Defense is
authorized, on behalf of the municipality, to procure such services, supplies,
equipment or materials as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the
emergency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to municipal contracts or obligations, as
authorized by the state’s Civil Defense Act; provided that, if the Village
Board meets at such time, he or she shall act subject to the directions and
restrictions imposed by that body.
(2016 Code, § 7.309)
§ 32.39  OATH.
   Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the Municipal Civil
Defense Organization shall, before entering upon his or her duties, subscribe
to the following oath, which shall be filed with the Director: “I, __, do
solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend and bear true faith
and allegiance to the constitution of the State of Illinois, and the territory,
institutions, and facilities thereof, both public and private, against all
enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely, without any
mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully
discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do further swear (or
affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I nor have I been a member of any
political party or organization that advocates the overthrow of the Government
of the United States or of this state by force or violence; and that during
such time as I am affiliated with the municipal civil defense organization, I
will not advocate nor become a member of any political party or organization
that advocates the overthrow of the Government of the United States or of this
state by force or violence”.
(2016 Code, § 7.310)
§ 32.40  OFFICE.
   The President/Mayor is authorized to designate space in the municipal
building, or elsewhere as may be provided for by the corporate authorities for
the Municipal Civil Defense Organization as its office.
(2016 Code, § 7.311)
§ 32.41  APPROPRIATION; LEVY OF TAXES.
   The corporate authorities may make an appropriation for civil defense
purposes, and may levy a tax not to exceed $0.05 per $100 of the assessed value
of all taxable property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by state
law.
(2016 Code, § 7.312)
§ 32.42  CONTINUITY IN OFFICE.
   (A)   In the event that at the time or as a consequence of any disaster or
occurrence described in §
32.30 of this chapter, the incumbent of any municipal office, position, or
place of employment shall be killed or rendered incapable of performing the
duties of such office or position, such office or position shall be filled,
until such time as a successor can be selected in the manner prescribed by law,
in the following manner: Any such vacancy shall, for the emergency period, be
filled by appointment by the following in order of preference: the President/
Mayor; the remaining members of the Village Board; the Clerk; the Civil Defense
Director; and the Chief of Police.
   (B)   The person appointed in the manner prescribed herein to fill any such
office or position shall exercise all the duties and powers of that position
during the emergency and until such time as a successor can be appointed or
selected in the manner provided by law.
(2016 Code, § 7.313)
§ 32.43  EMERGENCY LOCATIONS; GOVERNMENTAL POWERS.
   (A)   Whenever, due to an emergency resulting from the effects of enemy
attack, or the anticipated affects of a threatened enemy attack, it becomes
imprudent, inexpedient, or impossible to conduct the affairs of local
government at the regular or usual place or places thereof, the corporate
authorities may meet at any place within or outside the village limits on the
call of the presiding officer or any two members of such governing body, and
shall proceed to establish and designate by ordinance, resolution, or other
manner, alternated or substitute sites or places as the emergency temporary
location, or locations, of government where all or any part of the public
business may be transacted and conducted during the emergency situation. Such
sites or places may be within or outside the territorial limits of the village
and may be within or outside this state.
   (B)   During the period when the public business is being conducted at the
emergency temporary location or locations, the governing body and other
officers of the village shall have and possess and shall exercise at such
location or locations all of the executive, legislative, and judicial powers
and functions conferred upon such body and officers by or under the laws of
this state. Such powers and functions may be exercised in the light of the
exigencies of the emergency situation without regard to or compliance with
time-consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law and pertaining
thereto, and all acts of such body and officers shall be valid and binding as
if performed within the territorial limits of the village.
(2016 Code, § 7.314)
CHAPTER 33:  EMERGENCY SERVICES
Section
Police Department
   
33.01   Creation of Department
   
33.02   Office of Chief created
   
33.03   Appointments
   
33.04   Duties of the Chief
   
33.05   Duties
   
33.06   Serving processes
   
33.07   Conduct of members
   
33.08   Witness fees
   
33.09   Rules and regulations
   
33.10   Part-time police
   
33.11   Stolen property; custody of
Fire Department
   
33.25   Establishment
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.01  CREATION OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Police Department, an executive department
of the village.
   (B)   The Police Department shall consist of the Chief of Police and of such
other members as may be provided from time to time by the President/Mayor and
Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 5.001)
§ 33.02  OFFICE OF CHIEF CREATED.
   There is hereby created the office of Chief of Police. He or she shall be ex
officio Village Marshal and Superintendent of Police.
(2016 Code, § 5.002)
§ 33.03  APPOINTMENTS.
   All appointments to and promotions within the Police Department, including
that of the Chief, shall be made by the President/Mayor by and with the advice
and consent of the Village Board as provided by statute.
(2016 Code, § 5.003)
§ 33.04  DUTIES OF THE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall keep such records and make such reports
concerning the activities of his or her Department as may be required by
statute or by corporate authorities.
   (B)   The Chief shall be responsible for the performance of the Police
Department, in all of its functions, and all persons who are members of the
Department shall serve subject to the orders of the Chief of Police.
(2016 Code, § 5.004)
§ 33.05  DUTIES.
   It shall be the duty of the members of the Police Department to see to the
enforcement of all of the ordinances of the village and all statutes applicable
herein, and to preserve order and prevent infractions of the law, and arrest
violators thereof.
(2016 Code, § 5.005)
§ 33.06  SERVING PROCESSES.
   The Chief of Police is hereby authorized to serve writs, summons, and other
processes, but no other police officer shall serve any such writ, summons, or
process, except on the order of the Chief of Police or the President/Mayor.
(2016 Code, § 5.006)
§ 33.07  CONDUCT OF MEMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself or herself in a proper and law abiding manner at all times, and to
avoid the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the Department shall obey
the orders and directions of his or her superior.
(2016 Code, § 5.007)
§ 33.08  WITNESS FEES.
   (A)   Any member of the Police Department shall appear as witness whenever
this is necessary in a prosecution for a violation of an ordinance or of any
state or federal law.
   (B)   No such member shall retain any witness fee for service as witness in
any action or suit to which the village is a party; and fees paid for such
services shall be turned over to the Chief of Police, who shall deposit the
same with the Village Treasurer.
(2016 Code, § 5.008)
§ 33.09  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Chief of Police may make or prescribe such rules and regulations for the
hours of duty, vacations, uniforms, and conduct of the members of the Police
Department as he or she shall deem advisable, and such rules when approved by
the President/Mayor and Board shall be binding on such members.
(2016 Code, § 5.009)
§ 33.10  PART-TIME POLICE.
   (A) The Village President is hereby authorized to appoint part-time police
officers as employees, subject to the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to appointment, all proposed part-time officers shall be
fingerprinted and their fingerprints shall be checked with the Federal Bureau
of Identification for any possible criminal record.
      (2)   No person shall be appointed as a part-time police officer if he or
she has been convicted of a felony or other crime involving moral turpitude.
      (3)   The appointment of any or all part-time police officers may be
terminated by the Village President subject to the advice and consent of the
Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Part-time police officers shall, at all times during the performance
of their duties, be subject to the direction and control of the Chief of Police
of the village.
   (D)   Part-time police officers shall have the following powers and duties
when properly assigned and on duty:
      (1)   Aid or direct traffic in the municipality;
      (2)   Aid in control of natural or human-made disaster;
      (3)   Aid in case of civil disorder;
      (4)   Perform normal and regular police duties when assigned by the Chief
of Police on occasions when it is impractical for members of the full-time
Department to perform normal and regular police duties;
      (5)   To arrest or cause to be arrested, with or without process, all
persons who break the peace, or are found violating any municipal ordinance or
criminal law of the state;
      (6)   To exercise all other powers as conservators of the peace that the
corporate authorities may prescribe; and
      (7)   Serve and execute all warrants for the violations of the municipal
ordinances, or the state criminal law, within the limits of the village.
   (E)   All police officers, other than those officers who shall be employed
on a full-time basis, shall be qualified to enter and successfully complete any
training mandated by the state’s Law Enforcement Training Standards Board; that
the aforesaid hiring standard, particularly with respect to part-time police
officers employed by the village, shall be submitted to the state’s Law
Enforcement Training Standards Board, as required by statute.
   (F)   Part-time officers shall be paid at the current pay schedule hourly
rate, provided such service is performed at the direction of the Chief of
Police.
(Ord. 15-O-2, passed 2-17-2015)
§ 33.11  STOLEN PROPERTY; CUSTODY OF.
   The Chief of Police shall be the custodian of all lost, abandoned, or stolen
property in the village.
(2016 Code, § 5.011)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.25  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Village Fire Department was created and established April 5, 1948,
under the Illinois Statutes of Fire Districts approved July 8, 1927, forming
the organized Fire Department for the village.
   (B)   This Department operates independently of the Village Board under its
own table of organization.
(2016 Code, § 6.001)
CHAPTER 34:  TAXATION AND FINANCE
Section
   
34.01   Appropriations
   
34.02   Tax levy
   
34.03   Indebtedness
   
34.04   Contracts
   
34.05   Bills; payroll
   
34.06   Payment by Treasurer
   
34.07   Audit
§ 34.01  APPROPRIATIONS.
   During the first quarter of each fiscal year, as required by statute, the
corporate authorities shall enact an appropriation ordinance in which shall be
itemized all anticipated expenditures to be met during the coming year, other
than those payable from bond issues.
(2016 Code, § 8.201)
§ 34.02  TAX LEVY.
   (A)   Not sooner than ten days after the publication of the appropriation
ordinance, a tax levy ordinance shall be enacted, as required by law, levying
such taxes as may be needed to meet the anticipated expenses of the coming
year, together with such taxes as may be required to meet outstanding bond
issues, or for purposes payable from special taxes properly authorized.
   (B)   (1)   A certified copy of the tax levy ordinance shall be filed with
the appropriate county clerks not later than the last Tuesday in December.
      (2)   Such ordinances shall show the total appropriated for each item,
and the amount of tax levied therefor.
(2016 Code, § 8.202)
§ 34.03  INDEBTEDNESS.
   No indebtedness shall be incurred, excepting such indebtedness as may be
payable solely from the proceeds of a duly authorized bond issue or from a
designated specified source, unless there is a prior appropriation out of which
such indebtedness could be paid, as provided by statute; provided that, during
the first quarter of any fiscal year, before the enactment of the current
appropriation ordinance, the village may operate under the appropriation
ordinance of the preceding year.
(2016 Code, § 8.203)
§ 34.04  CONTRACTS.
   The President/Mayor, or any other person designated by the corporate
authorities, may sign on behalf of the village, any contract authorized by the
corporate authorities. No contract may be entered into without the authority
vote of the corporate authorities.
(2016 Code, § 8.204)
§ 34.05  BILLS; PAYROLL.
   All bills payable by the village, other than for the payment of salaries
established by the corporate authorities, shall be submitted to the corporate
authorities for approval before payment.
(2016 Code, § 8.205)
§ 34.06  PAYMENT BY TREASURER.
   The Treasurer shall pay out money in payment of all bills, or for salaries,
or for any other purpose other than the retirement of principal or interest on
bonds or tax anticipation warrants only upon warrants signed by the President/
Mayor and the Clerk as provided by statute. Such warrants shall designate the
items to be paid and the funds from which they are to be paid.
(2016 Code, § 8.206)
§ 34.07  AUDIT.
   As soon as practicable at the close of each fiscal year, and no later than
six months thereafter, there shall be an audit of all accounts of the village
made by a competent person authorized to act as an auditor under the laws of
the state, to be designated by the corporate authorities. Copies of such audit
report shall be filed with the Clerk and with the Director of the State
Department of Revenue and in such other places as may be required by law.
(2016 Code, § 8.207)
CHAPTER 35:  GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
   
35.01   Fiscal year
   
35.02   Injury to public property
   
35.03   Freedom of Information Act
 
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year for the village shall begin on May 1 of each year and end on
April 30 the following year.
(2016 Code, § 8.501)
§ 35.02  INJURY TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to injure, deface, or interfere with any
property belonging to the village without proper authority from the corporate
authorities.
(2016 Code, § 8.502)  Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.03  FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT.
   (A)   The Village Clerk is hereby designated as the responsible officer
under the state’s Freedom of Information Act, being 5 ILCS 140 et seq., “FOIA
Officer” to whom all initial requests for access to the records of the village
are to be referred. Such requests are to be made at the office of the Village
Clerk at 110 W. Central Avenue, Atwood, Illinois, between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Thursday and between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 12:00 noon on Friday. In the event that the Village Clerk is not available
during the times described above, the Village Treasurer is designated as the
Deputy FOIA Officer to whom such initial requests are to be made. Except in
instances when records are furnished immediately the FOIA Officer, or his or
her designees, shall receive requests submitted to the village under the
Freedom of Information Act to ensure that the village responds to requests in a
timely fashion, and issue responses under the Act. The FOIA Officer shall
develop a list of documents or categories of records that the village shall
immediately disclose upon request.
   (B)   Upon receiving a request for a public record, the FOIA Officer shall:
      (1)   Note the date the village received the written request;
      (2)   Compute the day on which the date for response will expire and make
a notation of that date on the written request;
      (3)   Maintain an electronic or paper copy of the written request,
including all documents submitted with the request until the request has been
complied with or denied; and
      (4)   Create a file for the retention of the original request, a copy of
the response, a record of written communications with the requester, and a copy
of other communications.
   (C)   The FOIA Officer and Deputy FOIA Officer shall, within six months
after January 1, 2010, successfully complete an electronic training curriculum
to be developed by the Public Access Counselor of the state and thereafter
successfully complete an annual training program. Whenever a new Freedom of
Information Officer is designated by the village, that person shall
successfully complete the electronic training curriculum within 30 days of
assuming the position.
   (D)   Any records which are the subject of a request under the Freedom of
Information Act shall be retrieved from such place as they are stored by the
FOIA Officer or by an employee of the village acting under the direction of the
FOIA Officer. In no event shall records be retrieved by the party requesting
them or by any person who is not employed by the village.
   (E)   If copies of records are requested, the fees for such copies, whether
certified or not, shall be as determined from time to time by the FOIA Officer
pursuant to § 6(b) of the Freedom of Information Act, being 5 ILCS 140 et seq.
The Village Clerk shall maintain a written schedule of current fees in the
Clerk’s office. The fees so charged shall reflect the actual cost of copying
the records and the cost of certifying copies, if certification is requested.
   (F)   In the event that a request to inspect village records is denied by
the FOIA Officer, the denial may be appealed to the Public Access Counselor of
the state.
   (G)   The Village Clerk shall prepare:
      (1)   A village information directory;
      (2)   A block diagram of the functional subdivisions of the village;
      (3)   A village records directory; and
      (4)   A records catalogue, all of which shall be substantially in the
same form as the documents attached hereto and to the ordinance codified herein
as Exhibits “A”, “B”, “C”, and “D”. This information shall also be posted on
the village’s website.
(Ord. 10-O-2, passed 4-26-2010)
§ 35.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
35.02 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 8.502)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWER
      
53.   ELECTRICITY
CHAPTER 50:  GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Receptacles
   
50.03   Removal of garbage
   
50.04   Request for a dumpster or trailer in a parking lot
   
50.05   Burning or throwing garbage on the ground
   
50.06   Preparation
   
50.07   Garbage and trash collection
   
50.08   Removal of litter
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The waste product of combustion of any material.
   GARBAGE. Any, all, and every accumulation of animal or vegetable matter,
liquid or solid, that is received from kitchens and households, and also any,
all, and every decayed or unsound matter, such as vegetables and fruit.   
   JUNK, RUBBISH, or REFUSE. The construction or demolition debris, such as
bricks, concrete, masonry materials, plaster, drywall, plumbing fixtures,
electrical fixtures, roofing shingles and other roof coverings, and asphalt;
the scattered remains of something broken or destroyed; hazardous waste; items
of no practical or functional utility; discarded, used, or unconsumed
substances or waste, such as paper products, cardboard, glass, plastic, or
metal products, discarded or nonfunctional automotive parts and tires,
discarded furniture or furniture not designed for or modified to withstand the
elements and outdoor use, abandoned or nonfunctional appliances; construction
materials that have been exposed to outdoor elements for such a period of time
that such material has substantially deteriorated; or any other item that has
been exposed to outdoor elements for such a period of time that such material
has substantially deteriorated.
   TRASH. Ashes (as herein above), and also to include and mean sweepings, lawn
rakings, papers, cans of any type, bottles, dirt, or other accumulations not
giving off noxious odors.
(2016 Code, § 15.101)
§ 50.02  RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every tenant, lesee, or occupant of every
dwelling, hotel, or restaurant on whose premises kitchen and household garbage
collects to provide, on the premises, garbage containers sufficient to hold all
kitchen and household garbage which may accumulate on the premises between
collections.
   (B)   Such containers shall be of metal, or suitably water-tight, with a
tight fitting cover, equipped with suitable metal handles, and of a size as to
be easily handled by one person.
   (C)   Such containers shall be placed at all times so as to be readily
accessible for removal and emptying, and where they shall not be a public
nuisance.
(2016 Code, § 15.102)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03  REMOVAL OF GARBAGE.
    All garbage shall be removed at least twice each week except during the
months of December, January, February, and March, during which four months all
such garbage shall be removed at least once each week.
(2016 Code, § 15.103)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04  REQUEST FOR A DUMPSTER OR TRAILER IN A PARKING LOT.
   (A)   Any person or persons who wish to place a dumpster or trailer in an
identified parking spot (intended for the parking of vehicles) for the purposes
of disposing of garbage, ashes, trash, junk, rubbish, or refuse, must first
acquire a permit from the village.
   (B)   Said permit will dictate restrictions on the person or persons for the
use, location, and time that the dumpster or trailer may be positioned in a
parking spot.
(2016 Code, § 15.104)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05  BURNING OR THROWING GARBAGE ON THE GROUND.
   It shall be unlawful for any tenant, lessee, or occupant of any dwelling to
throw garbage on the ground or upon any public street or alley of the village,
or to burn garbage or attempt to burn garbage within the village limits without
the use of a metal incinerator designed for and capable of burning wet garbage.
(2016 Code, § 15.105)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06  PREPARATION.
   Surplus liquids of all garbage must be drained off so as to avoid spillage.
Trash and garbage shall not be intermingled or placed in the same container.
(2016 Code, § 15.106)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07  GARBAGE AND TRASH COLLECTION.
   The owner of property, both public and private (business and homes), shall
have garbage pickup, shall have the right to place garbage, trash, and other
litter in authorized receptacles that are to be stored behind all residences
and businesses except on pickup days in order that the garbage and trash
collectors may remove the same from the property at least once per week and
more if needed.
(2016 Code, § 15.108)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08  REMOVAL OF LITTER.
   (A)   If the owner or person in control of any private premises refuses or
neglects to remove litter from said premises within ten days after receiving
written notice from the village, the village may have such litter removed and
collected from such owner or person in control of said premises at the
reasonable cost thereof. This cost shall be a lien upon the real estate
affected, superior to all subsequent liens and encumbrances, except tax liens,
if within 60 days after such cost and expense is incurred by the village, or
person performing the service by authority of the village, in his, her, or its
name, files a notice of lien in the office of the Recorder in the county in
which such real estate is located. The notice shall consist of a sworn
statement setting out:
      (1)   A description of the real estate sufficient for identification
thereof;
      (2)   The amount of money representing the cost and expense incurred or
payable for the service; and
      (3)   The date or dates when such cost and expense was incurred by the
village.
   (B)   However, the lien of the village shall not be valid as to any
purchaser whose rights in and to such real estate have arisen subsequent to
removal of the litter and prior to the filing of such notice, and the lien of
the village shall not be valid as to any mortgagee, judgment creditor, or other
lien or whose rights in and to such real estate arise prior to the filing of
such notice. Upon payment of the cost and expense by the owner or person in
control of such premises after notice of lien has been filed, the lien shall be
released by the village or person in whose name the lien has been filed and the
release may be filed of record as in the case of filing the notice of lien. The
lien may be enforced by proceedings to foreclose as in the case of mortgages or
mechanics’ liens.
(2016 Code, § 15.109)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this
chapter shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense, and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 15.110)
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
50.05 and
50.06 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 15.107)
CHAPTER 51:  WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Turning on
   
51.02   Deposit
   
51.03   Service connection permits and fees
Cross-Connections and Backflow
   
51.15   Policy and purpose
   
51.16   Definitions
   
51.17   Water system
   
51.18   Plumbing to meet code
   
51.19   Approval of private water supply connections
   
51.20   Survey of properties
   
51.21   Inspection of premises
   
51.22   Disconnection
   
51.23   Consumer liable
   
51.24   Testing meters
Rates and Charges
   
51.35   Rates
   
51.36   Bulk sales
   
51.37   Revenue collection
   
51.38   Revenue distribution
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  TURNING ON.
    No water from the village water supply shall be turned on for service into
any premises by any person, but the Superintendent of the Water Department or
some person authorized by him or her to perform this service.
(2016 Code, § 11.101)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02  DEPOSIT.
    A deposit of $75 shall be made with each application, this sum to be
retained by the village to ensure payment of all bills. When service to the
applicant is discontinued permanently, this deposit, less any amount still
owing to the village for water and sewer service, shall be refunded; provided
further that, where any applicant for water service is the owner of the
premises to be served, no such deposit shall be required.
(2016 Code, § 11.103) 
§ 51.03  SERVICE CONNECTION PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   All service connections shall be made by or under the supervision of
the Superintendent of the Water Department. The premises to be served must be
equipped with properly installed meters and/or proper quality materials before
service connections can be made.
   (B)   No connection with a water or a sanitary sewer main shall be made
without a permit being issued and 24-hour notice having been given to the
Superintendent of the Water Department. No permit to connect with a water or
sanitary sewer main shall be issued without approval by the Village Board of
Trustees having first been had or obtained at a regular or special meeting by
said Board.
   (C)   The service connection fee for obtaining a permit to connect to the
water main is $400 per connection. Each water meter is deemed to be a separate
connection.
(2016 Code, § 11.104)  (Ord. 19-O-4, passed 4-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
51.99
CROSS-CONNECTIONS AND BACKFLOW
§ 51.15  POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is:
      (1)   To protect the public water supply system from contamination or
pollution by isolating within the customer’s water system contaminants and
pollutants which could backflow through the service connection into the public
water supply system;
      (2)   To promote the elimination or control of existing cross-
connections, actual or potential, between the public or consumer’s potable
water system and non-potable water systems, plumbing fixtures, and sources or
systems containing substances of unknown or questionable safety; and
      (3)   To provide for the maintenance of a continuing program of cross-
connection control which will prevent the contamination or pollution of the
public and consumer’s potable water systems.
   (B)   Application. This subchapter shall apply to all premises served by the
public portable water supply system of the village.
(2016 Code, § 11.200)
§ 51.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENCY. Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   APPROVED. The backflow prevention devices or methods approved by the
Research Foundation for Cross-Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, Association of State Sanitary Engineers, American Water Works
Association, American National Standards Institute, or certified by the
National Sanitation Foundation.
   AUXILIARY WATER SYSTEM. Any water source or system on or available to the
premises other than the public water supply system and includes the water
supplied by the system. These AUXILIARY WATERSmay include water from another
purveyor’s public water supply system; or water from a source such as wells,
lakes, or streams, or process fluids, or used water. These waters may be
polluted, contaminated, objectionable, or constitute a water source or system
over which the water purveyor does not have control.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures, or substances into
the distribution pipes of a potable water system from any source other than the
intended source of the potable water supply.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. Any device, method, or type of construction
intended to prevent backflow into a potable water system. All devices used for
backflow prevention in the state must meet the standards of the State Plumbing
Code, being Ill. Admin. Code Title 77, part 890, and the State Environmental
Protection Agency.
   CONSUMER or CUSTOMER. The owner, official custodian, or person in control of
any premises supplied by or in any manner connected to a public water system.
   CONSUMER’S WATER SYSTEM. Any water system located on the customer’s
premises. A building plumbing system is considered to be a CUSTOMER’S WATER
SYSTEM.
   CONTAMINATION. An impairment of the quality of the water by entrance of any
substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection or arrangement between two
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other a substance of unknown or questionable safety or quality, whereby there
may be a flow from one system into the other.
   DIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance.
   DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY. An assembly composed of single, independently
acting check valves approved under ASSE Standard 1014. A DOUBLE CHECK VALVE
ASSEMBLY must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the water-tightness of each check valve.
   FIXED PROPER AIR GAP. The unobstructed vertical distance through the free
atmosphere between the water discharge point and flood level rim of the
receptacle.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device, or practice in a water system or its
operation resulting from a real or potential danger to the health and well-
being of consumers. The word “severe,” as used to qualify HEALTH HAZARD, means
a hazard to the health of the user that could be expected to result in death or
significant reduction in the quality of life.
   INDIRECT CROSS-CONNECTION. A cross-connection through which an unknown
substance can be forced, drawn by vacuum, or otherwise introduced into a safe
potable water system.
   INSPECTION. A plumbing inspection to examine carefully and critically all
materials, fixtures, piping, and appurtenances, appliances and installations of
a plumbing system for compliance with requirements of the Illinois Plumbing
Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890.
   NON-POTABLE WATER. Water not safe for drinking, personal, or culinary use as
determined by the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604.
   PLUMBING. The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration, or
extension of a plumbing system by any person. PLUMBING includes all piping,
fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a supply of water for all purposes,
including without limitation lawn sprinkler systems, from the source of a
private water supply on the premises or from the main in the street, alley, or
at the curb to, within, and about any building or buildings where a person or
persons live, work, or assemble. PLUMBING includes all piping, from discharge
of pumping units to, and including, pressure tanks in water supply systems.
PLUMBING includes all piping, fixtures, appurtenances, and appliances for a
building drain and a sanitary drainage and related ventilation system of any
building or buildings where a person or persons live, work, or assemble from
the point of connection of such building drain to the building sewer or private
sewage disposal system five feet beyond the foundation walls.
   POLLUTION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological, or biological) in water that tends to degrade its quality so as
to constitute a hazard or impair the usefulness of the water.
   POTABLE WATER. Water which meets the requirements of 35 Ill. Adm. Code 604
for drinking, culinary, and domestic purposes.
   POTENTIAL CROSS-CONNECTION. A fixture or appurtenance with threaded hose
connection, tapered spout, or other connection which would facilitate extension
of the water supply line beyond its legal termination point.
   PROCESS FLUID(S) means any fluid or solution which may be chemically,
biologically, or otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration
such as would constitute a health, pollutional, or system hazard if introduced
into the public or a consumer’s potable water system. This includes, but is not
limited to:
      (1)   Polluted or contaminated water;
      (2)   Process waters;
      (3)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which
may have deteriorated in sanitary quality;
      (4)   Cooling waters;
      (5)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells,
lakes, streams, or irrigation systems;
      (6)   Chemicals in solution or suspension; or
      (7)   Oils, gases, acids, alkali, and other liquid and gaseous fluids
used in industrial or other processes, or for fire fighting purposes.
   PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY. All mains, pipes, and structures through which water is
obtained and distributed to the public, including wells and well structures,
intakes and cribs, pumping stations, treatment plants, reservoirs, storage
tanks and appurtenances, collectively or severally, actually used or intended
for use for the purpose of furnishing water for drinking or general domestic
use and which serve at least 15 service connections or which regularly serve at
least 25 persons at least 60 days per year. A PUBLIC WATER SUPPLY is either a
“community water supply” or a “non-community water supply”.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE. A device containing a
minimum of two independently acting check valves together with an automatically
operated pressure differential relief valve located between the two check
valves and approved under ASSE Standard 1013. During normal flow and at the
cessation of normal flow, the pressure between these two checks shall be less
than the supply pressure. In case of leakage of either check valve, the
differential relief valve, by discharging to the atmosphere, shall operate to
maintain the pressure between the check valves at less than the supply
pressure. The unit must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at each
end of the device, and each device shall be fitted with properly located test
cocks.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The opening, including all fittings and appurtenances,
at the water main through which water is supplied to the user.
   SURVEY.
      (1)   The collection of information pertaining to a customer’s piping
system regarding the location of all connections to the public water supply
system and must include the location, type, and most recent inspection and
testing date of all cross-connection control devices and methods located within
that customer’s piping system.
      (2)   The SURVEY must be in written form, and should not be an actual
plumbing inspection.
   SYSTEM HAZARD. A condition through which an aesthetically objectionable or
degrading material not dangerous to health may enter the public water system or
a consumer’s potable water system.
   USED WATER. Any water supplied by a public water supply system to a
consumer’s water system after it has passed through the service connection and
is no longer under the control of the water supply official custodian.
   WATER PURVEYOR. The owner or official custodian of a public water system.
(2016 Code, § 11.201)
§ 51.17  WATER SYSTEM.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following shall apply.
   (A)   The water system shall be considered as made up of two parts:
      (1)   The public water supply system; and
      (2)   The consumer’s water system.
   (B)   The public water supply system shall consist of the source facilities
and the distribution systems, and shall include all those facilities of the
potable water system under the control of the Superintendent of the Water
Department up to the point where the consumer’s water system begins.
   (C)   The source shall include all components of the facilities utilized in
the production, treatment, storage, and delivery of water to the public water
supply distribution system.
   (D)   The public water supply distribution system shall include the network
of conduits used to deliver water from the source of the consumer’s water
system.
   (E)   The consumer’s water system shall include all parts of the facilities
beyond the service connection used to convey water from the public water supply
distribution system to points of use.
(2016 Code, § 11.202)
§ 51.18  PLUMBING TO MEET CODE.
   (A)   All plumbing within the village shall be installed in accordance with
the State Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Adm. Code 890. If in accordance with the
state’s Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the Superintendent of the Water
Department an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety
of the public water supply system, the Superintendent of the Water Department
will give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device
immediately.
   (B)   The water customer shall, at his  or her own expense, install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with the state’s
Plumbing Code, Environmental Protection Act, being 415 ILCS 5, and all
applicable state and local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests
made of such approved devices upon installation and as required by the state’s
Plumbing Code, Environmental Protection Act and local regulations.
(2016 Code, § 11.203)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.19  APPROVAL OF PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY CONNECTIONS.
    No person, firm, or corporation shall establish, maintain, or permit to be
maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary, or emergency water
supply other than the regular public water supply of the village to enter the
supply or distribution system of said municipality, unless such private,
auxiliary, or emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of
such supply shall have been approved by the Superintendent of the Water
Department and the state’s Environmental Protection Agency.
(2016 Code, § 11.204)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.20  SURVEY OF PROPERTIES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the Water Department to
cause surveys and investigations to be made of commercial, industrial, and
other properties served by the public water supply to determine whether actual
or potential hazards to the public water supply may exist.
   (B)   Such surveys and investigations shall be made a matter of public
record and shall be repeated at least every two years, or as often as the
Superintendent of the Water Department shall deem necessary.
   (C)   Records of such surveys shall be maintained and available for review
for a period of at least five years.
(2016 Code, § 11.205)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.21  INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   The Superintendent of the Water Department, or his or her designated
representatives, shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any
property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the village for the purpose of verifying the presence or absence of
cross-connections, and that the Superintendent or his or her authorized agent
shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply or distribution system of the village for
the purpose of verifying information submitted by the customer regarding the
required cross-connection control inspection. On demand by owner, lessee, or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the Superintendent of the
Water Department any information which he or she may request regarding the
piping system or systems or water use on such property. The refusal of such
information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of the Superintendent
of the Water Department, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this subchapter.
(2016 Code, § 11.206)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.22  DISCONNECTION.
   (A)   Customer relocation. The village should be notified to disconnect
services when a customer moves. The village will then do a final reading at the
meter and create a final bill for the portion of the month that the customer
occupied the location.
   (B)   Disconnection upon violation. The Superintendent of the Water
Department is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue, after reasonable
notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any property wherein any
connection in violation of the provisions of this subchapter is known to exist,
and to take such other precautionary measures as he or she may deem necessary
to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
distribution mains. Water service to such property shall not be restored until
such conditions have been eliminated or corrected in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter, and until a reconnection fee of $225 is paid to
the village. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected when
the Superintendent of the Water Department is assured that imminent danger of
harmful contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action
shall be followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection.
Immediate disconnection without notice to any party can be effected to prevent
actual or anticipated contamination or pollution of the public water supply;
provided that, in the reasonable opinion of the Superintendent of the Water
Department or the state’s Environmental Protection Agency, such action is
required to prevent actual or potential contamination or pollution of the
public water supply. Neither the village, the Superintendent of the Water
Department, or its agents or assigns shall be liable to any customer for any
injury, damages, or lost revenue which may result from termination of said
customer’s water supply in accordance with the terms of this subchapter,
whether or not said termination was with or without notice.
   (C)   Landlord agreements.
      (1)   If a property owner wants to have water service continued in his or
her name upon the termination of a tenant’s account, the owner can fill out a
landlord agreement form, upon the village’s acceptance of the landlord
agreement form the village will automatically set up service in the owner’s
name, for the addresses listed on the form immediately after the tenant’s
account is terminated.
      (2)   The property owner is then responsible for the bills that occur
between tenants.
(2016 Code, § 11.207)  (Ord. 19-O-4, passed 4-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.23  CONSUMER LIABLE.
   The consumer responsible for the backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross-connection or an improperly installed, maintained, or
repaired device, or a device with has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean-up of the potable water supply system.
(2016 Code, § 11.208)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.24  TESTING METERS.
   All municipal water meters shall be taken out and tested upon the complaint
of the consumer, upon payment of a fee of $10. If upon the test the meter is
not within 3% of the actual amount of water passing through such meter, it
shall be repaired and the $10 fee returned to the consumer.
(2016 Code, § 11.304)  Penalty, see §
51.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.35  RATES.
   (A)   There shall be and there are hereby established rates or charges for
the use of and for the service supplied by the combined waterworks and sewerage
system of the village based upon the amount of water consumed as shown by the
water meters, as follows:
      (1)   Rates within the village:
         (a)   First 2,000 gallons per month is $12.57 minimum;
         (b)   Above 2,000 gallons per month is $4.95 per 1,000 gallons; and
         (c)   The meter fee per month is $5.
      (2)   Rates outside the village:
         (a)   First 2,000 gallons per month is $18.85 minimum;
         (b)   Above 2,000 gallons per month is $7.40 per 1,000 gallons; and
         (c)   The meter fee per month is $5.
   (B)   Water rates for commercial and industrial users, in large quantities,
shall be billed at rates listed in division (A) above. The village reserves the
right to negotiate separate water and sewer rates for large commercial and
industrial users.
   (C)   Bills for charges for water and/or sewer services shall be issued to
users and are due to the village on the fifteenth day of the month. The rates
or charges for the service shall be payable on or before the fifteenth of the
month following the month for which the service was rendered. If the fifteenth
is a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, then the charges for service shall be
payable on the first business day following the Saturday, Sunday, or holiday.
   (D)   If payment of the full amount of the bill is made after the deadline
provided in division (C) above, then a penalty of 20% of the amount of the bill
shall be added thereto.
   (E)   If the rates or charges are not paid within 17 days after the
rendition of the bills for such services, the Village Clerk shall, thereupon,
cause a notice to be mailed to the delinquent customer stating that:
      (1)   Payment for such services is overdue;
      (2)   A penalty has been imposed; and
      (3)   The hours the Village Clerk is available to discuss reasonable
problems with bill.
   (F)   If such rates or charges, together with penalty, are not paid within
such five-day period, the twenty-second day, an additional $50 penalty for non-
payment will be added to the bill. Then, in that event, the Village Clerk shall
notify the Water Department to discontinue service by shutting off the water
and removing the water meter.
   (G)   Service may be reinstated only after all charges, including the
penalty, shall be paid in full. Reinstatement of service shall only be done
during regular working hours, being the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m.
   (H)   The owner of the premises, the occupant thereof, and the user of the
service shall be jointly and severally liable to pay for all services furnished
to the premises by the village. By requesting service, the owner of the
premises, occupant, and user of the services agree to be jointly and severally
liable therefor to the village.
   (I)   In the event the charges for services are not paid within 60 days
after rendition of the bill for such service, such charges shall be deemed and
are hereby declared to be delinquent and thereafter such delinquencies shall
constitute liens upon the real estate for which such service is supplied, and
the Village Clerk is hereby authorized and directed to file sworn statements
showing delinquencies in the office of the Recorders of Deeds of Douglas and
Piatt Counties, and the filing of such statements shall be deemed notice for
the payment of such charges for service.
   (J)   Intermittent users who have water turned off and on will pay a service
charge of $5 for each disconnection.
(2016 Code, § 11.305)  (Ord. 19-O-4, passed 4-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.36  BULK SALES.
   Bulk water sales shall be made at the rate of $9 per 1,000 gallons. A water
ticket shall be made out in duplicate for each sale, on a cash basis, with all
money and original sales tickets to be turned over to the Village Clerk.
(2016 Code, § 11.306)  (Ord. 19-O-4, passed 4-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.37  REVENUE COLLECTION.
   All revenue and moneys derived from the operation of the combined waterworks
and sewerage system shall be held by the Village Clerk, or other qualified
personnel appointed by the President/Mayor and Board of Trustees, and the
Village Clerk, or such authorized personnel shall render bills for service and
for all rates and charges in connection therewith and collect all moneys due
thereon, separate and apart from his or her private funds and said sum, without
any deduction whatever, shall be delivered to the Village Treasurer not more
than ten days after receipt of the same, or at such more frequent intervals as
may from time to time be directed by the President/Mayor and Board of Trustees.
(2016 Code, § 11.307)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.38  REVENUE DISTRIBUTION.
   The Village Treasurer shall receive all revenues from the combined
waterworks and sewerage system and all other funds and moneys incident to the
operation of such system as the same may be delivered to him or her and deposit
the same in a separate fund designated as the Waterworks and Sewerage Fund of
the village, and said Treasurer shall administer such fund in every respect in
the manner provided by the provisions of the state’s Municipal Code, as
amended, and all other pertinent statutes and ordinances.
(2016 Code, § 11.309)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed hall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
51.35 through
51.38 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 11.310)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Permits and fees
   
52.02   Garage drainage
   
52.03   Prohibited substances; injury
   
52.04   Rainwater drains
   
52.05   Cross-connections
Sewer and Health
   
52.15   Use of public sanitary sewers required
   
52.16   Cesspools, septic and sewage tanks and privies
   
52.17   Public nuisance
   
52.18   Connections prohibited
Use of Public and Private Sewer Drains
   
52.30   Definitions
   
52.31   Use of public sewers required
   
52.32   Private sewage disposal
   
52.33   Building sewers and connection
   
52.34   Restrictions on use of public sewers
   
52.35   Protection from damage
   
52.36   Rates
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01  PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to make any connection with any village sewer
without having first obtained a permit therefor. Applications for such permits
shall be made to the Superintendent of Village Services and shall be
accompanied by a statement as to the purpose of such connection, the premises
to be served, and the specification of such pipe to be connected and drain from
building to sewer pipe.
   (B)   The service connection fee for obtaining a permit to connect to the
sewer main is $100 payable on issuance of the permit by the village.
(Ord. 19-O-4, passed 4-1-2019)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02  GARAGE DRAINAGE.
    Floor drains in garages and service stations shall be connected with the
storm sewer system; such drains shall have intercepting mud or grease traps
adequate to prevent the flow of mud or grease into the sewer system.
(2016 Code, § 12.102)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03  PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES; INJURY.
    It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any gasoline, benzene, or
other volatile liquid to flow into any public sewer in the village; or to
permit any material which might injure any part of the sanitary sewer system to
flow into it.
(2016 Code, § 12.103)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04  RAINWATER DRAINS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or permit the construction of any
storm water drain which discharges water onto any sidewalk in the village, and
it shall be unlawful to construct or permit the maintenance of any such drain
which discharges into any public street or alley at a height greater than 18
inches above the ground or pavement.
   (B)   Any rainwater from the roof of any building shall be considered storm
water drainage and shall not be connected with any sanitary sewer.
(2016 Code, § 12.104)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.05  CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any sanitary sewage to flow into any storm
sewer or any storm sewer to flow into any sanitary sewer.
(2016 Code, § 12.105)  Penalty, see §
52.99
SEWER AND HEALTH
§ 52.15  USE OF PUBLIC SANITARY SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is present in a street, alley easement,
or thoroughfare adjacent to the premises occupied by a building, the liquid
wastes from any plumbing system in said building shall be discharged into the
public sanitary sewer unless inaccessible thereto as determined by the
Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department.
   (B)   The discharge from plumbing fixtures only shall be connected to the
public sanitary sewers of the village. For the purposes of this subchapter, the
term “plumbing fixtures” shall be construed in accordance with the state’s
Plumbing Code, and shall specifically include basement floor drains. The
connection of footing tile, area drains, surface water inlets, downspouts, yard
or field drains, or any other drainage facility which receives ground water
seepage of collected surface water, to the public sanitary sewer system is
hereby prohibited.
(2016 Code, § 11.401)  (Ord. 19-O-4, passed 4-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.16  CESSPOOLS, SEPTIC AND SEWAGE TANKS AND PRIVIES.
   (A)   No cesspools, septic or other sewerage tank, or privy shall be
constructed on property to which a public sanitary sewer is accessible.
   (B)   The use of all cesspools, septic or other sewerage tanks, and the
privies already constructed on property to which a public sanitary sewer is or
becomes accessible, shall be discontinued not later than one year after the
passage and publication of this code of ordinances or after the public sanitary
sewer becomes accessible.
(2016 Code, § 11.402)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.17  PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Any cesspool, septic or sewerage tank or privy which shall be
constructed or maintained on any property in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter shall be and is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and
shall, upon seven days’ notice to the owner of said premises, be abated.
   (B)   Should the owner fail or refuse to abate said nuisance within seven
days after receiving written notice thereof from the village, then the village
shall abate said nuisance and the owner of the premises shall be liable to the
said village for the costs and expenses of abating same.
(2016 Code, § 11.403)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.18  CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The discharge from plumbing fixtures only shall be connected to the
public sanitary sewers of the village.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, the term “plumbing fixtures”
shall be construed in accordance with the state’s Plumbing Code, and shall
specifically include basement floor drains.
   (C)   The connection of footing tile, area drains, surface water inlets,
downspouts, yard or field drains, or any other drainage facility which receives
ground water seepage of collected surface water to the public sanitary sewer
system is hereby prohibited.
(2016 Code, § 11.404)  Penalty, see §
52.99
USE OF PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWER DRAINS
§ 52.30  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys into the building sewer, beginning
five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
   INDUSTRIAL WATERS. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   INSPECTOR. The person or persons duly authorized by the village to inspect
and approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the
public sewer system.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water carrying wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with such
ground, surface, and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Municipal Sewage Works of the
Village of Atwood, Illinois, or his or her authorized deputy, agent, or
representative.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
(2016 Code, § 12.201)
§ 52.31  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is present in a street, alley easement,
or thoroughfare adjacent to the premises occupied by a building, the liquid
wastes from any plumbing system in said building shall be discharged into the
public sanitary sewer unless inaccessible thereto as determined by the
Superintendent of the Water and Sewer Department.
   (B)   The discharge from the plumbing fixtures only shall be connected to
the public sanitary sewers of the village. For the purposes of the code of
ordinances, the term “plumbing fixtures” shall be construed in accordance with
the state’s Plumbing Code, and shall specifically include the basement floor
drains. The connection of footing tile, area drains, surface water inlets,
downspouts, yard or field drains, or any other drainage facility which receives
ground water seepage of collected surface water, to the public sanitary sewer
system is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facilities
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes situated within the
village and abutting any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now
located or may in the future be located a public sewer or combined sewer of the
village, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 90
days after date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 100 feet of the property line.
(2016 Code, § 12.202)  (Ord. 19-O-4, passed 4-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.32  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §
52.31(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with all requirements of the State Board of Health.
   (B)   At such times as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a sewage disposal system as provided in §
52.31(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village.
   (D)   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Village
Health Officer.
(2016 Code, § 12.203)  (Ord. 19-O-4, passed 4-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.33  BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTION.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenances thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Village Clerk.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial waste.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit applications
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the Inspector.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person
installing the building sewer for said owner shall indemnify the village from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by said
installation.
   (D)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer. Other exceptions will be allowed
only by special permission granted by the Superintendent.
   (E)   Old building sewers, or portions thereof, may be used in connection
with new buildings only when they are found on examination and test by the said
Inspector to meet all requirements of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   A building sewer shall be:
      (1)   Cast iron soil pipe, ASTM specification A-74 as revised;
      (2)   Vitrified clay sewer pipe, ASTM Specification C-13 or C-200 as
revised; or
      (3)   Other suitable material allowed by the National Plumbing Code,
except bituminized fiber pipe, but including PVC.
   (G)   Joints shall be tight and water-proof.
   (H)   Any part of the building sewer that is located within ten feet of a
water service pipe shall be constructed of cast iron soil pipe with lead
joints.
   (I)   The size and slope of the sewer shall be subject to the approval of
the Superintendent, but shall not be less than four inches in diameter, and
with a slope of one-eighth inch.
   (J)   The building sewer shall be brought to the building at an elevation
below the basement floor, except on approval of the Superintendent, overhead
plumbing may be approved.
   (K)   The building sewer must be:
      (1)   More than three feet from any bearing wall;
      (2)   More than three feet deep; and
      (3)   Uniform in alignment except changes in direction may be allowed if
centered on a suitable cleanout.
   (L)   Excavation work shall be:
      (1)   Open trench work with proper shoring unless otherwise approved by
the Superintendent; and
      (2)   In compliance with ASTM Specification C 12-58-T for pipe laying and
backfill, except no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected.
   (M)   The connections of building sewers into the public sewer shall conform
to the aforesaid requirements or to the standards of Water Pollution Control
Federation Manual of Practice 29, whichever standard is more severe. Any
deviation from the described procedures and materials must be approved by the
Superintendent.
   (N)   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the said
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
said Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (O)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the said village.
(2016 Code, § 12.204)  (Ord. 19-O-4, passed 4-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.34  RESTRICTIONS ON USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof run-off, sub-surface drainage, cooling water,
or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public
sewer any harmful waters or wastes, whether liquid, solid or gas, capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in the sewers, damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the sewage works, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works.
   (C)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having
harmful or objectionable characteristics shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Superintendent, who may prescribe limits on the strength and
character of these water and wastes. Where necessary, in the opinion of the
Superintendent, the owner shall provide, at his or her expense, such
preliminary treatment as may be necessary to treat these wastes prior to
discharge to the public sewer. Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent
information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be
submitted for the approval of the said Superintendent and of the State Board of
Health, and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced until said
approval is obtained in writing. Where preliminary treatment facilities are
provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (D)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install and maintain, at
his or her expense, a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to
facilitate observation sampling and measurement of the wastes. All
measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters and wastes
shall be determined in accordance with Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Sewage, and shall be determined at the control manhole or upon
suitable samples taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special
manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the
nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected.
   (E)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the said Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amount, or any flammable
wastes, sand, and other harmful ingredients except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. Where installed,
they shall be maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously
efficient operation at all times.
   (F)   The sanitary sewer system is made up of collection and treatment
facilities. The collection system is comprised of the private connections,
sewer mains, and lift stations which transport wastewater to the treatment
plants. The village owns and maintains the mains and the lift stations, but the
private connections to the mains are the responsibility of the property owner
of the home.
(2016 Code, § 12.205)  (Ord. 19-O-4, passed 4-22-2019)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.35  PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works. Any person
violating this provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under charge of
disorderly conduct.
(2016 Code, § 12.206)  Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.36  RATES.
   (A)   The established rates or charges for the use of the service provided
by the sewerage system of the village are based upon the amount of water
consumed as shown by the water meters.
      (1)   The rates for the sewers are as follows:
         (a)   First 2,000 gallons per month is $15.37 minimum; and
         (b)   Above 2,000 gallons per month is $2.52 per 1,000 gallons.
      (2)   The combined rates for the combined water and sewer rates within
the village are as follows:
         (a)   First 2,000 gallons per month is $27.94 minimum;
         (b)   Above 2,000 gallons per month is $7.47 per 1,000 gallons; and
         (c)   The meter fee per month is $5.
   (B)   In the event users of the sewer system who are not connected to the
water system and whose use of water is not in amounts readily ascertainable or
where a meter is not warranted, the village is empowered and required to set
such rates for sewerage services as it deems desirable. In addition, in the
event that a sewer user not connected to the water system is disconnected for
non-payment of a bill or for any reason that the village declares, the sewer
will be dug up and disconnected and a charge of $100 per hour will be charged
for reconnection, plus the cost of labor, material, and machine hire for said
reconnection.
   (C)   The village reserves the right to negotiate separate sewer rates for
large commercial and industrial users with amounts of excessive waste. The
amount of excessive waste will be samples taken when overloading has been
observed.
(Ord. 19-O-4, passed 4-22-2019)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §§
52.01 through
52.05 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offence shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 12.106)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §§
52.15 through
52.18 shall upon conviction be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the
second offense, and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense.
Each day that said provisions herein are violated shall be and constitute a
separate offense.
(2016 Code, § 11.405)
   (D)   (1)   Any person found to be violating §§
52.30 through
52.36 except §
52.34 shall be served by the village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided thereof shall be fined $75 for the first violation, $150 for the
second violation, and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third
violation. Each day in which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed
a separate offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
52.30 through
52.36 shall become liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage
occasioned the village by reason of such violation.
(2016 Code, § 12.208)
CHAPTER 53:  ELECTRICITY
Section
   
53.01   Electricity Aggregation Program Plan
§ 53.01  ELECTRICITY AGGREGATION PROGRAM PLAN.
   (A)   The village’s Electricity Aggregation Program Plan of Operation and
Governance, in substantially the form and hereby incorporated by reference, is
hereby authorized and approved.
   (B)   The village’s Electricity Aggregation Program shall be operated and
governed in accordance with said Electricity Aggregation Program Plan of
Operation and Governance, the applicable provisions of the state’s Power Agency
Act, and any applicable rules and regulations that are now or in the future
adopted pursuant to the Act.
(Ord. 17-O-2, passed 2-21-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING RULES
      
73.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Federal and state law adopted
   
70.02   Obedience to police
   
70.03   Street and traffic
   
70.04   Driving from alleys, driveways, or garages
   
70.05   Scene of fire
   
70.06   Signs and signals
   
70.07   Interference with signs and signals
   
70.08   Animals or bicycles
   
70.09   Truck hauling
   
70.10   Exemptions
   
70.11   Arrests
   
70.12   Tickets
   
70.13   Prima-facie proof
§ 70.01  FEDERAL AND STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with this
code of the definitions and general provisions under the State Traffic Law,
being 625 ILCS 5/11, otherwise known as the “Rules of the Road”.
(2016 Code, § 13.102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.02  OBEDIENCE TO POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department, and special police officers assigned to
traffic duty, are hereby authorized to direct all traffic or enforce the law in
accordance with provisions of this traffic code, or in emergencies as public
safety or convenience may require, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order, signal, or direction of a
police officer. Except in case of emergency, it shall be unlawful for any
person not authorized by the President/Mayor to direct or attempt to direct
traffic.
(2016 Code, § 13.103)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03  STREET AND TRAFFIC.
   (A)   (1)   A VEHICLE is a machine, propelled by power other than human
power, designed to:
         (a)   Travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or
slides and transport persons or property; or
         (b)   Pull machinery.
      (2)   The term VEHICLE shall include, without limitation, automobile,
truck, trailer, golf cart, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, and wagon.
   (B)   The owner, driver, operator, or person in charge of any automobile,
truck, golf cart, dray, wagon, or any other vehicle drawn, driven, or propelled
upon the streets, alleys, or public places of the village shall conform and
comply with the following regulations under penalty of the law.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to drive, run, conduct,
or propel any automobile, truck, or any other conveyance of a similar type or
kind used for the purpose of transporting or conveying passengers or freight or
any other purpose, whether such automobile or conveyance or such other
mechanical vehicle is propelled by steam, gasoline, electricity, or any other
mechanical power at a rate of speed in excess of 20 mph in the business
district and at a speed not greater than 30 mph in the residential district
upon any street within the corporate limits of the village or in any alley of
said village, except where otherwise posted. No person or persons shall drive
any said automobile, truck, or other conveyance upon any street within any park
within the corporate limits of the village at a speed greater than ten mph.
   (D)   The driver of any vehicle turning to the right into an intersecting
street shall pass and turn the corner as near the right and curb, or boulevard,
as possible and those turning to the left shall pass to the right beyond the
center of the street intersection before turning.
   (E)   All vehicles of every character shall keep to the right side of the
center of the street and those moving slowly shall keep as closely as possible
to the curb or boulevard on the right.
   (F)   Drivers or operators of motor vehicles of all kinds shall, in
approaching or crossing a street intersection, have their vehicle under control
and exercise extreme care in crossing.
   (G)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle permitting pipe, muffler, or
other device to emit sounds of exhaustion in a loud and annoying manner, and no
motor shall be operated in such manner as to visibly emit any undue amount of
smoke or products of combustion from exhaust pipe or openings. The use of
cutouts and hot-rodding is prohibited.
   (H)   No vehicle shall be operated on the streets with defective equipment,
such as head-lights, brakes, mufflers, and the like. No person shall operate a
motor vehicle on the streets while under the influence of alcoholic liquor or
narcotics of any kind. Drunken driving and the illegal transporting of liquor
in any vehicle is strictly in violation of this village traffic code.
   (I)   No person shall climb, jump, step, stand upon, cling to, or in any way
attach himself or herself to any automobile, wagon, or vehicle of any kind,
either stationary or in motion, upon any parts of the streets or alleys, unless
in doing so he or she shall be acting within the compliance of the law or by
permission of the owner or manager of such automobile, wagon, or other vehicle,
and, when riding on such vehicle, no part of the body of such person shall
extend beyond the limits of the vehicle.
   (J)   No part of the machine of any vehicle or motor bicycle shall be left
running while standing without an attendant, on any street, alley, or public
place in the village.
   (K)   No vehicle shall remain backed up to the curb except if it is actually
loading or unloading and at no time longer than the loading or unloading
requires.
   (L)   No vehicle shall stop on any street except in an emergency or parking
unless within a foot of the curb and shall not be allowed to remain upon or
driven through any street of the village so as to blockade or obstruct the free
passage of the street.
   (M)   No persons shall ride or drive any automobile, truck, golf cart, dray,
wagon, or any other vehicle, or any animal upon or across any sidewalk or
boulevard except at regular specified crossings, or shall immoderately ride or
drive in any avenue, street, or alley or who shall cause any disturbance in any
avenue or street or engage in any sport or exercise liable which may scare
horses, injure passengers, or impede the passage of vehicles.
   (N)   No person shall leave any horse, or horses, animal, or animals hitched
to any cart, wagon, carriage, sled, or other vehicle on any of the streets,
avenues, or alleys, without securing such horses or animals.
   (O)   When upon any street, alley, or public place in the village, during
the period from sunset to one hour before sunrise, every motor bicycle and
every foot-propelled bicycle shall carry one white lighted lamp on the front
and one red reflector or light on the rear, every motor vehicle shall have two
lamps lighted showing white lights on the front and at least one lighted lamp
so situated as to omit a red light visible in the reverse direction.
   (P)   It shall be unlawful for any person driving any automobile, truck,
golf cart, dray, wagon, or any other vehicle drawn, driven, or propelled upon
the streets or alleys of the village to turn around or back-up and turn around
between any intersecting streets, but shall proceed to the next intersection
before turning.
   (Q)   The word “vehicle”, as used in the traffic code, shall be held to
include equestrians, led horses, automobiles, trucks, golf carts, drays,
wagons, and all other vehicles used for transportation of persons or property
on the public streets, however drawn, driven, or propelled, and carts,
carriages, or barrows propelled by hand. The word “driven” includes the rider
and driver of a horse and of wheels and the operator of a motor vehicle.
   (R)   No “U” turns are permitted on any street in the village.
   (S)   No vehicle shall be so loaded that any part of its load spills or
drops on any street or alley in the municipality.
(2016 Code, § 13.104)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04  DRIVING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS, OR GARAGES.
    The driver of a vehicle emerging from an alley, driveway, or garage shall
stop such vehicle immediately prior to driving onto a sidewalk, or across a
sidewalk line projected across such alley, and shall exercise extreme care in
driving upon said sidewalk, or across such lines.
(2016 Code, § 13.105)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05  SCENE OF FIRE.
    The Fire Department officer in command, or any firefighter designated by
him or her, may exercise the powers and authority of a police officer in
directing traffic at the scene of any fire, or where the Fire Department has
responded to an emergency call for so long as Fire Department equipment is on
the scene in the absence of or in assisting the police.
(2016 Code, § 13.106)
§ 70.06  SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the driver of any vehicle to disobey the
instructions of any traffic sign or signal placed in view by authority of the
President/Mayor by and with advice and consent of the Board, or in accordance
with the laws of the state, except on direction of a police officer.
   (B)   All signs and signals established by direction of the governing body
shall conform to the Illinois State Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices
for Streets and Highways.
(2016 Code, § 13.107)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07  INTERFERENCE WITH SIGNS AND SIGNALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deface, injure, move, or interfere
with any official traffic sign or signal.
(2016 Code, § 13.108)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08  ANIMALS OR BICYCLES.
   Every person riding a bicycle or an animal, or driving any animal drawing a
vehicle upon any street, shall be subject to the provisions of this traffic
code applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except those provisions which can
have no application to one riding a bicycle or driving or riding an animal;
provided that, except in business districts, bicycles may be ridden on
sidewalks. No animals are permitted to be ridden on any sidewalk in the
village.
(2016 Code, § 13.109)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09  TRUCK HAULING.
    It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any street in the village
when the gross weight on the axle of the vehicle causes the breaking of
pavement, or creating chuck-holes in the pavement. Such violation is subject to
a reasonable fine set by the Board, or an agreement with the offender to
compensate the village for partial repairs on a cost basis.
(2016 Code, § 13.301)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.10  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the movement or parking
of vehicles shall not apply to the driver of any authorized emergency vehicle
when responding to an emergency call, but such driver when approaching shall
slow down as necessary for safety but may proceed cautiously past a red  stop
sign or signal. At other times, drivers of authorized emergency vehicles shall
stop in obedience to a stop sign or signal.
   (B)   No driver of any authorized emergency vehicle shall assume any special
privileges under the Act except when such vehicle is operated in response to an
emergency call or in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator
of the law.
   (C)   The provisions of this traffic code regulating the movement and
parking of vehicles shall not apply to equipment or vehicles while actively
engaged in installing, repairing, or otherwise improving streets or street
pavements.
(2016 Code, § 13.110)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.11  ARRESTS.
   Any person arrested for a violation of any provision of this traffic code
shall be released upon proper bail being furnished as required by statute.
(2016 Code, § 13.502)
§ 70.12  TICKETS.
   For offenses other than driving while intoxicated or reckless driving,
police officers, after making note of the license number of the vehicle (and
name of the offender where possible), may issue a traffic violation ticket
notifying the offender to appear in court at the time designated for hearing
such cases. Such officer may sign a complaint for the issuance of a warrant if
the offender does not appear at the time and place so specified.
(2016 Code, § 13.503)
§ 70.13  PRIMA-FACIE PROOF.
   The fact that an automobile which is illegally operated or parked is
registered in the name of a person shall be considered prima-facie proof that
such person was in control of the automobile at the time of such violation.
(2016 Code, § 13.504)
CHAPTER 71:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Streets and Signs
   
71.01   Through streets
   
71.02   One-way streets and alleys
   
71.03   Stop streets
   
71.04   Posting signs
Motor Vehicles Used in Certain Offenses
   
71.15   Definitions
   
71.16   Violations; exceptions
   
71.17   Seizure and impoundment
   
71.18   Notice
   
71.19   Hearing
   
71.20   Hearing officer, proceedings
   
71.21   Disposition of impounded vehicle
   
71.22   Posting of bond
   
71.23   Failure to pay penalty
 
   
71.99   Penalty
STREETS AND SIGNS
§ 71.01  THROUGH STREETS.
   The streets and parts of streets of the village designated by ordinance as
through streets are hereby declared to be through streets. The driver of a
vehicle shall stop at the entrance to a through street and shall yield the
right-of-way to other vehicles which have entered the intersection or which are
approaching so close on a through street as to constitute an immediate hazard,
unless directed otherwise by the traffic officer or a traffic control signal.
(2016 Code, § 13.201)
§ 71.02  ONE-WAY STREET AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle on any streets or alleys
designated as one-way streets or alleys by ordinance, in any direction other
than that so designated.
   (B)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful for any person to drive any
vehicle except in a northerly direction, over, across, and along the alley
running in a northerly direction from and between West Central Street and West
Forest Street in the village, said alley being a part of the following
described real estate: Block 1 in Randall’s Third Addition to the Original
Town, now Village of Atwood, Piatt County, Illinois.
   (C)   The Street Superintendent is hereby authorized and directed to post
suitable signs designating said alley as an alley for one-way traffic in
accordance with this traffic code.
(2016 Code, § 13.202)  (Ord. 0-8-75, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  STOP STREETS.
   The driver of a vehicle shall stop in obedience to a stop sign at an
intersection where a stop sign is erected pursuant to ordinance, at one or more
entrances thereto, and shall proceed cautiously, yielding to the vehicles not
so obliged to stop which are within the intersection or approaching so close as
to constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at such intersection is
controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event the directions of the
police officer shall be complied with.
(2016 Code, § 13.203)
§ 71.04  POSTING SIGNS.
   The Street Superintendent shall post or cause to be posted suitable signs
for all through streets, one-way streets, alleys, and stop intersections as
directed by the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 13.204)
MOTOR VEHICLES USED IN CERTAIN OFFENSES
§ 71.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.Every vehicle which is self-propelled, including, but not
limited to, automobiles, trucks, vans, motorcycles, and motor scooters.
   OWNER OF RECORD. Collectively, the record title holder of the motor vehicle.
(2016 Code, § 22.030)
§ 71.16  VIOLATIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The owner of record of any motor vehicle shall be liable to the
village for an administrative penalty in the amount set by the municipality,
plus any applicable towing and storage fees payable to a towing agent, whenever
any such motor vehicle is used in the commission of any of the following
offenses:
      (1)   The knowing possession of more than ten grams of cannabis as
provided in § 4 of the Cannabis Control Act (720 ILCS 550/4) or the knowing
possession of a controlled substance in violation of § 402 of the Illinois
Controlled Substances Act (720 ILCS 570/402);
      (2)   Driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, and/or intoxicating
compounds in violation of § 11-501 of the state’s Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-
501);
      (3)   Driving at a time when the driver’s license, permit, or privilege
to operate a motor vehicle is suspended or revoked in violation of § 6-303 of
the state’s Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/6-303);
      (4)   Fleeing or attempting to elude a police officer in violation of §
11-204 of the state’s Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-204);
      (5)   The commission of an offense involving a weapon in violation of
Art. 24 of the Criminal Code of 1961 (720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.); and
      (6)   Driving at a time when the driver does not have a valid driver’s
license or permit in violation of § 6-101 of the state’s Vehicle Code (625 ILCS
5/6-101).
   (B)   Any motor vehicle used in the commission of any such violation shall
be subject to seizure and impoundment as provided in this subchapter.
   (C)   For purposes of this section, a motor vehicle is not considered to
have been used in a violation that would render such motor vehicle eligible for
seizure and impoundment if:
      (1)   The motor vehicle used in the violation was stolen at the time and
the theft was reported to the appropriate police authorities within 24 hours
after the theft was discovered or reasonably should have been discovered;
      (2)   The motor vehicle was operating as a common carrier and the
violation occurred without the knowledge of the person in control of the motor
vehicle; or
      (3)   The alleged owner of record provides adequate proof that the motor
vehicle had been sold to another person prior to the violation.
(2016 Code, § 22.030)
§ 71.17  SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT.
   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a motor vehicle
is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to §
71.16, such police officer shall provide for the towing of such motor vehicle
to a facility designated by the village. Before or at the time the motor
vehicle is towed, the police officer shall notify the owner of record or the
person in control of the motor vehicle at the time of the alleged violation,
whichever is present if there is such a person, of the fact of the seizure and
impoundment, and of the right of the owner of record to request a vehicle
impoundment hearing under this traffic code.
(2016 Code, § 22.030)
§ 71.18  NOTICE.
   Within 72 hours after a motor vehicle is seized and impounded pursuant to §
71.17, the Police Department shall notify by certified mail the owner of record
and any lien holder of record of the fact of the seizure and impoundment and
the right to request a motor vehicle impoundment hearing under this subchapter.
However, no such notice need be sent to the owner of record if the owner of
record is personally served with the notice at the time the motor vehicle is
seized and impounded and the owner of record acknowledges receipt of such
notice in writing. A copy of such notice shall be forwarded to the Chief of
Police. The notice shall state the penalties that may be imposed if no hearing
is requested, including that a motor vehicle not released by payment of the
administrative penalty and applicable towing and storage fees may be sold or
disposed of by the village in accordance with applicable law.
(2016 Code, § 22.030)
§ 71.19  HEARING.
   (A)   The owner of record seeking a vehicle impoundment hearing shall file a
written request for such a hearing with the Police Department of the village no
later than 15 days after notice was mailed, or otherwise given to the owner of
record under §§ 
71.17 or
71.18. The hearing date shall be no more than ten calendar days after a request
for a vehicle impoundment hearing has been filed. If, after the vehicle
impoundment hearing, the hearing officer determines by a preponderance of the
evidence that the motor vehicle was used in the violation, the hearing officer
shall enter an order finding the owner of record liable to the village for the
amount of the administrative penalty prescribed, plus applicable towing and
storage fees payable to the towing agent.
   (B)   If, after a hearing, the hearing officer does not determine by a
preponderance of the evidence that the motor vehicle was used in such a
violation, the hearing officer shall enter an order finding for the owner of
record and for the return of the motor vehicle and any previously paid
administrative penalty and applicable towing and storage fees; provided that,
if the motor vehicle was seized and impounded pursuant to state or federal drug
asset forfeiture laws, the motor vehicle shall not be returned unless and until
the village receives notice from the appropriate, state, or where applicable,
federal officials that forfeiture proceedings will not be instituted; or
forfeiture proceedings have concluded and there is a settlement, or a court
order, providing that, the motor vehicle shall be returned to the owner of
record.
   (C)   If the owner of record requests a vehicle impoundment hearing but
fails to appear at such hearing or fails to request a vehicle impoundment
hearing in a timely manner, the owner of record shall be deemed to have waived
his or her right to such a hearing and the hearing officer shall enter a
default order in favor of the village for the amount of the administrative
penalty prescribed, plus applicable towing and storage fees payable to the
towing agent. However, if the owner of record pays such administrative penalty
and applicable towing and storage fees and the motor vehicle is returned to the
owner of record, no default order need be entered if the owner of record is
informed of his or her right to a hearing and signs a written waiver, in which
case an order of liability shall be deemed to have been made when the village
receives the written waiver.
(2016 Code, § 22.030)
§ 71.20  HEARING OFFICER; PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   The Village President/Mayor or his or her designee shall serve as the
hearing officer for vehicle impoundment hearings under this traffic code.
   (B)   All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard at any vehicle impoundment hearing. The formal rules of evidence will not
apply at any such hearing.
   (C)   Any sworn or affirmed report, including a report prepared in
compliance with § 11-501.1 of the state’s Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/11-501.1)
that is prepared in the performance of a law enforcement officer’s duties and
sufficiently describes the circumstances leading to the impoundment, shall be
admissible evidence of the owner of record’s liability under §
71.16, and shall support a finding of the owner of record’s liability under §
71.16, unless rebutted by clear and convincing evidence.
(2016 Code, § 22.030)
§ 71.21  DISPOSITION OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   (A)   An administrative penalty imposed pursuant to this traffic code shall
constitute a debt due and owing the village which may be enforced in any manner
provided by law. Except as otherwise provided in this traffic code, a motor
vehicle impounded pursuant to this traffic code shall remain impounded until:
      (1)   The administrative penalty is paid in full to the village and all
applicable towing and storage fees are paid to the towing agent, in which case
the owner of record shall be given possession of the motor vehicle;
      (2)   A cash bond in the amount of $500 is posted with the Village
Comptroller and all applicable towing and storage fees are paid to the towing
agent, at which time the motor vehicle shall be released to the owner of
record; or
      (3)   The motor vehicle is sold or otherwise disposed of to satisfy a
judgment or enforce a lien as provided by law.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, whenever a person
with a lien of record against a motor vehicle impounded under this section has
commenced foreclosure proceedings, possession of the motor vehicle shall be
given to that person if he or she pays the applicable towing and storage fees
and agrees in writing to refund to the village the net proceeds of any
foreclosure sale, less any amounts necessary to pay all lien holders of record,
up to the total amount of administrative penalties imposed under this traffic
code. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, no vehicle that was
seized and impounded pursuant to state or federal drug asset forfeiture laws
shall be returned to the owner of record unless and until the village has
received notice from the appropriate state, or where applicable, federal
officials that forfeiture proceedings will not be instituted; or forfeiture
proceedings have concluded and there is a settlement or a court order providing
that the vehicle shall be returned to the owner of record.
(2016 Code, § 22.030)
§ 71.22  POSTING OF BOND.
   If a cash bond as required by this traffic code is posted with the Village
Comptroller, the impounded motor vehicle shall be released to the owner of
record upon the payment of any applicable towing and storage fees to the towing
agent. If an administrative penalty is imposed for any violation under §
71.16, the cash bond will be forfeited to the village; however, in the event a
violation under §
71.16 is not proven by a preponderance of the evidence, the cash bond will be
returned to the person posting the bond. All bond money to be forfeited to the
village pursuant to this section shall be held by the Village Comptroller until
30 days after an administrative penalty is imposed by the hearing officer under
this traffic code, or, if there is a judicial review, until a final judgment is
rendered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2016 Code, § 22.030)
§ 71.23  FAILURE TO PAY PENALTY.
   If the administrative penalty and applicable towing and storage fees are not
paid within 30 days after an administrative penalty is imposed under this
subchapter against an owner of record who defaults by failing to appear at the
vehicle impoundment hearing, the motor vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and
shall be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of
unclaimed vehicles. In all other cases, if the administrative penalty and
applicable towing and storage fees are not paid within 30 days after the
expiration of time at which administrative review of the hearing officer’s
determination may be sought, or within 30 days after an action seeking
administrative review has been resolved in favor of the village, whichever is
applicable, the motor vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed
of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles;
provided that, if the motor vehicle was seized and impounded pursuant to state
or federal drug asset forfeiture laws and proceedings have been instituted
under state or federal drug asset forfeiture laws, the motor vehicle may not be
disposed of by the village except as consistent with those proceedings.
(2016 Code, § 22.030)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §
71.02 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 13.202)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING RULES
Section
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   No parking places
   
72.03   Snow removal
   
72.04   Street cleaning
   
72.05   Parking at curb
   
72.06   Alleys
   
72.07   Parking of semi-trailer trucks or tractors
   
72.08   Prohibiting parking inoperable or no-license motor vehicles in certain
places
   
72.09   Unauthorized use of parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. All motor vehicles or other vehicles in a state of
disrepair rendering the vehicle incapable of being driven in its condition.
   JUNKED VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is:
      (1)   Inoperative and does not have lawfully affixed to it unexpired
license plates and which is wrecked, dismantled, partially dismantled, or
discarded; or
      (2)   Remains inoperable for a continuous period of more than seven days.
   PROPERTY. Any real property within the village which is not a street or
highway.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every
street, alley, or public way within the village maintained when any part
thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE.
      (1)   A machine, propelled by power other than human power, designed to:
         (a)   Travel along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or
slides and transport persons or property; or
         (b)   Pull machinery.
      (2)   The term VEHICLE shall include, without limitation, automobile,
truck, trailer, golf cart, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, and wagon.
(2016 Code, § 13.601)
§ 72.02  NO PARKING PLACES.
   At any time, it shall be unlawful to permit any vehicle to stand in any of
the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the direction of a police officer or traffic
control officer or otherwise:
   (A)   In any intersection;
   (B)   In a crosswalk;
   (C)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point of the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone;
   (D)   Within 30 feet of a traffic signal, beacon, or sign on the approaching
side;
   (E)   Within a minimum of 20 feet of any intersection or crosswalk, unless
otherwise marked by action of the Village Board;
   (F)   At any place where the standing of a vehicle will reduce the usable
width of the roadway for moving traffic to less than 18 feet;
   (G)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (H)   At any place where the vehicle would block the use of a driveway;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad grade crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire department station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any such station within
75 feet of such entrance when properly sign-posted;
   (K)   On any sidewalk, boulevard, or parkway; or
   (L)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
(2016 Code, § 13.402) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03  SNOW REMOVAL.
   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street in the village
at any time within 12 hours after snowfall of three inches or more has
occurred.
(2016 Code, § 13.403)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04  STREET CLEANING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or
portion thereof in the village at any time when such street is being cleaned.
   (B)   Signs indicating that a street or portion thereof is being cleaned
shall be posted immediately before the cleaning of the street, and shall be
removed after the cleaning of the street is finished.
(2016 Code, § 13.404)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05  PARKING AT CURB.
   No vehicle shall be parked with the left side of such vehicle next to the
curb, except on one-way streets, and it shall be unlawful to stand or park any
vehicle in a street other than parallel with the curb and with the two right
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the regularly established curb line,
except that upon those streets that have been marked for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by such marks.
(2016 Code, § 13.406)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06  ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within any alley in such a manner or under
such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand, or park a vehicle within alleys in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property.
(2016 Code, § 13.408)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07  PARKING OF SEMI-TRAILER TRUCKS OR TRACTORS.
   No person shall park any semi-trailer truck or tractor on any street or
alley within the village except for the purpose of loading or unloading the
same.
(2016 Code, § 13.409)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.08  PROHIBITING PARKING INOPERABLE OR NO-LICENSE MOTOR VEHICLES IN CERTAIN
PLACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit any
motor vehicle which is inoperable or which is not legally licensed to be parked
on any public street or any public alley. This prohibition shall not apply to
franchised dealers in new or used automobiles.
(2016 Code, § 13.410)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.09  UNAUTHORIZED USE OF PARKING SPACES RESERVED FOR PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle which is not properly
displaying registration plates or decals issued to a person with disabilities,
as defined by §
70.01, pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2, or to a veteran
with a disability pursuant to 625 ILCS 5/3-609, as evidence that the vehicle is
operated by or for a person with disabilities or a veteran with a disability,
in any parking place, including any private or public off-street parking
facility, specifically reserved, by the posting of an official sign as
designated under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor vehicles displaying such
registration plates. It shall be prohibited to park any motor vehicle in a
designated access aisle adjacent to any parking place specifically reserved for
persons with disabilities, by the posting of an official sign as designated
under 625 ILCS 5/11-301, for motor vehicles displaying such registration
plates. When using the parking privileges for persons with disabilities, the
parking decal or device must be displayed properly in the vehicle where it is
clearly visible to law enforcement personnel, either hanging from the rearview
mirror or placed on the dashboard of the vehicle in clear view. Disability
license plates and parking decals and devices are not transferable from person
to person. Proper usage of the disability license plate or parking decal or
device requires the authorized holder to be present and enter or exit the
vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being used. It is a violation of
this section to park in a space reserved for a person with disabilities if the
authorized holder of the disability license plate or parking decal or device
does not enter or exit the vehicle at the time the parking privileges are being
used. Any motor vehicle properly displaying a disability license plate or a
parking decal or device containing the international symbol of access issued to
persons with disabilities by any local authority, state, district, territory or
foreign country shall be recognized by state and village authorities as a valid
license plate or device and receive the same parking privileges as residents of
the state.
      (1)   An individual with a vehicle displaying disability license plates
or a parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability
under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2 or to a veteran with a
disability under 625 ILCS 5/3-609 is in violation of this section if:
         (a)   The person using the disability license plate or parking decal
or device is not the authorized holder of the disability license plate or
parking decal or device or is not transporting the authorized holder of the
disability license plate or parking decal or device to or from the parking
location; and
         (b)   The person uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decals or devices under this code.
      (2)   A driver of a vehicle displaying disability license plates or a
parking decal or device issued to a qualified person with a disability under
625 ILCS 5/3-616, 11-1301.1 or 11-1301.2 or to a veteran with a disability
under 625 ILCS 5/3-609 is in violation of this section if:
         (a)   The person to whom the disability license plate or parking decal
or device was issued is deceased; and
         (b)   The driver uses the disability license plate or parking decal or
device to exercise any privileges granted through the disability license plate
or parking decal or device under this code.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a) - (a-2))
   (B)   Any person or local authority owning or operating any public or
private off-street parking facility may, after notifying the Police Department,
remove or cause to be removed to the nearest garage or other place of safety
any vehicle parked within a stall or space reserved for use by a person with
disabilities which does not display person with disabilities registration
plates or a special decal or device as required under this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(b))
   (C)   The village shall impose fines as established in §
72.99 for violations of this section.
   (D)   As used in this section, AUTHORIZED HOLDER means an individual issued
a disability license plate under 625 ILCS 5/3-616, an individual issued a
parking decal or device under 625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2 or an individual issued a
license plate for veterans with disabilities under 625 ILCS 5/11-609.
   (E)   Any police officer may seize the parking decal or device from any
person who commits a violation of this section. Any police officer may seize
the disability license plate upon authorization from the Secretary of State.
Any police officer may request that the Secretary of State revoke the parking
decal or device or the disability license plate of any person who commits a
violation of this section.
(625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(d), (e), (g))  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   All persons, firms, or corporations who shall violate §
72.08 of this traffic code shall upon conviction be fined $75 for the first
offense, $150 for the second offense, and $1,000 plus an appearance in court
for the third offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
      (2)   In addition to the penalty imposed by division (B)(1) above, any
motor vehicle parked in violation of the terms of this traffic code may be
towed or hauled away by the Police Department, by any person authorized by a
police officer, and the owner of such motor vehicle shall be required to pay
the cost and expense of towing, hauling, and storing such motor vehicle before
the same may be redeemed by him or her.
(2016 Code, § 13.412)
   (C)   (1)   Any person accused of a violation of a section prohibiting
parking a vehicle in a designated area, or restricting the length of time a
vehicle may be there parked, or parking in an area prohibited by this traffic
code, will pay the village the sum of $5 for the first and second violation and
$10 for subsequent violations within 24 hours of the time such alleged offense
was committed. Such payment may be made at the Municipal Building and a receipt
shall be issued for all money received, and such money shall be promptly turned
over to the Village Treasurer to be credited to the Police Fund.
      (2)   This division (C) shall not apply to persons parking a vehicle so
as to obstruct the entrance or exit of any place where Police or Fire
Department apparatus or other emergency equipment is kept or housed, or so as
to block an emergency entrance in a hospital. Nor shall division (C) apply to
any person charged with parking a vehicle so as to entirely obstruct traffic in
any street or alley, or parking in such a way as to reduce traffic on an
arterial street to one-way traffic only; nor to any person who refuses to move
a vehicle illegally parked at the request of any member of the Village Board or
Police Department.
(2016 Code, § 13.505)
CHAPTER 73:  RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Riding abreast
   
73.03   Clinging to vehicles
   
73.04   Extra passenger
   
73.05   Emerging from alleys, driveways, and garages
   
73.06   Intoxicating drugs or physical inability
   
73.07   Lights
   
73.08   Mechanical condition
   
73.09   Operating on sidewalks
   
73.10   Parking bicycles
   
73.11   Keep to the right
   
73.12   Speed
   
73.13   Traffic regulations
   
73.14   Trick riding
   
73.15   Turns; starting; stopping
Snowmobiles
   
73.25   Definitions
   
73.26   Application and jurisdiction
   
73.27   Enforcement
   
73.28   Inspection
   
73.29   Resistance to officers
   
73.30   Registration of snowmobiles
   
73.31   Snowmobile equipment
   
73.32   Control provisions
   
73.33   Operation on private property or sidewalks
   
73.34   Unattended vehicles
   
73.35   Restriction of operation
   
73.36   Designated streets
   
73.37   Hours designated
Golf Carts and UTVs
   
73.50   Definitions
   
73.51   Policy statement
   
73.52   Required equipment
   
73.53   Permits
   
73.54   Festival permit
 
   
73.99   Penalty
BICYCLES
§ 73.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BICYCLE. A vehicle with two tandem wheels, neither of which are less than
20 inches in diameter, with solid or pneumatic tires, having a steering bar or
wheel, a saddle seat, and propelled by human power.
      OPERATE. Any form or tense thereof shall mean and refer to the use,
putting into action, or causing to function of a bicycle by a person mounted
thereon.
   (B)   In addition to the above definitions, any applicable definitions of
the traffic regulations shall be deemed to be included herein.
(2016 Code, § 14.101)
§ 73.02  RIDING ABREAST.
   When more than two people in a group are operating bicycles on a roadway,
they shall ride single file.
(2016 Code, § 14.201)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03  CLINGING TO VEHICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle shall cling to or attach himself or herself,
or the bicycle, to any other moving vehicle.
(2016 Code, § 14.202)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04  EXTRA PASSENGER.
   No person operating the vehicle shall carry another person on the handlebars
of said bicycle.
(2016 Code, § 14.203)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05  EMERGING FROM ALLEYS, DRIVEWAYS, AND GARAGES.
   The operator of a bicycle emerging from an alley, driveway, garage, or
private sidewalk, shall stop the bicycle immediately prior to driving onto or
across a public sidewalk or onto or across a public sidewalk line projected
across an alley, and shall exercise extreme care in making such movements.
(2016 Code, § 14.204)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06  INTOXICATING DRUGS OR PHYSICAL INABILITY.
   No person shall operate a bicycle while under the influence of liquor,
drugs, or while physically or mentally unfit to safely operate the same.
(2016 Code, § 14.205)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07  LIGHTS.
   Every bicycle when upon a street shall be operated within the period from
sunset to sunrise equipped with at least one lighted lamp, exhibiting a white
light or a light of a yellow or amber tint, visible from a distance of 500 feet
from the front of the bicycle, and with at least one lighted lamp exhibiting a
red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
(2016 Code, § 14.206)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08  MECHANICAL CONDITION.
   No person shall operate a bicycle which is not in such mechanical condition
so that it can be safely operated.
(2016 Code, § 14.207)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09  OPERATING ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Bicycles may be operated on sidewalks in public parks and in residence
districts, but in single file only.
   (B)   Under all circumstances, the rider shall yield the right-of-way to
pedestrians using the sidewalk, and due to proper care shall be at all times
exercised by the rider for the pedestrians.
   (C)   When approaching a pedestrian on the sidewalk, the speed of a bicycle
shall be reduced to a speed which is no greater than necessary to continue the
operation of the bicycle without the rider dismounting, and shall not be
increased until the pedestrian has been passed.
   (D)   No bicycle shall be operated upon any sidewalk in the business portion
of the village.
(2016 Code, § 14.208)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10  PARKING BICYCLES.
   (A)   Bicycles must be parked off sidewalks and be on kickstands or in
bicycle racks, never laid down.
   (B)   No person other than the owner or operator shall move, or in any
manner interfere with, any bicycle properly parked, nor shall any person
interfere or in any manner hinder any person from properly parking a bicycle,
except that members of the Police Department and Fire Department may move, or,
in proper cases, prevent the parking of the bicycle, when, in the judgment of
the police officer or firefighter, his or her action is necessary in order to
properly safeguard persons or property.
(2016 Code, § 14.209)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11  KEEP TO THE RIGHT.
   All bicycles when operated on roadways shall be kept to the right and shall
be operated as near as practicable to the right-hand edge of the roadway.
(2016 Code, § 14.210)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.12  SPEED.
   No bicycle shall be operated at any time faster than is reasonable and
proper, and every bicycle shall be operated with reasonable regard to the
safety of the rider and of other persons and property.
(2016 Code,§ 14.211)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.13  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Every person operating a bicycle shall strictly observe all traffic signs,
signals, and all other traffic rules and regulations, applicable thereto, and
shall obey the orders and directions of every officer of the village authorized
to direct or regulate traffic.
(2016 Code, § 14.212)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.14  TRICK RIDING.
   No person shall, while operating a bicycle, indulge or engage in any kind of
trick or unsafe riding.
(2016 Code, § 14.213)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.15  TURNS; STARTING; STOPPING.
   The operator of a bicycle on a roadway, when making a right turn, shall
follow the right-hand edge of the roadway, and the operator of a bicycle on a
roadway when making a left turn shall approach the point of turning the traffic
lane nearest the center of the roadway. No operator of a bicycle shall start,
slow down, stop, or attempt to turn without first indicating such movement as
provided by law.
(2016 Code, § 14.214)  Penalty, see §
73.99
SNOWMOBILES
§ 73.25  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS DRUG. Any drug defined as a depressant or stimulant substance in
the state’s Controlled Substance Act, being 720 ILCS 570, and cannabis as
defined in the Cannabis Control Act of the state, being 720 ILCS 550.
   DEALER. A person, partnership, or corporation engaged in the business of
manufacturing, selling, or leasing snowmobiles at wholesale or retail.
   HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of any highway, road,
street, avenue, alley, or public driveway.
   INTOXICATING BEVERAGE. Any beverage enumerated in the Liquor Control Act of
1934 of the state, being 235 ILCS 5.
   LOCAL AUTHORITY. The municipal board or body having authority to adopt local
police regulations under the constitution and laws of the state.
   NARCOTIC DRUG. Any substance defined as a narcotic drug in the state’s
Controlled Substance Act.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, other than as a passenger, use or control the
operations of a snowmobile in any manner, whether or not the snowmobile is
underway.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person other than a lien holder registered as owner of a
snowmobile.
   PEACE OFFICER. Any person authorized under the statutes of the state to make
an arrest for a violation of any statute or ordinance, whether it be a total
arrest power of all statutes or a portion of any statute.
   REGISTER. The act of assigning a registration number to a snowmobile by
state statute and by local ordinance.
   ROADWAY.
      (1)   The portion of a highway, improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
      (2)   In the event a highway includes two or more separate roadways, the
term ROADWAY as used in the Act refers to any such roadway separately, but not
to all such roads collectively.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled device designed for travel on snow, ice, or
natural terrain, steered by skis or runners and supported in part by skis,
belts, or cleats.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.26  APPLICATION AND JURISDICTION.
   No portion of this subchapter shall preclude the state or its officers or
agents from enforcing the state’s Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act under
625 ILCS 40/1-1 through 625 ILCS 40/11-1.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.27  ENFORCEMENT.
   It is the duty of all sheriffs, deputy sheriffs, and other police officers
to arrest any person detected in violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.28  INSPECTION.
   Duly authorized police officers may stop and inspect any snowmobile at any
time for the purpose of determining if the provisions of this traffic code are
being complied with. If the inspecting officer discovers any violation of the
provisions of this traffic code, he or she may issue a summons to the operator
of such snowmobile requiring that the operator appear before the Circuit Court
for the county in which the offense was committed. Every snowmobile subject to
this traffic code if underway and upon being hailed by a designated law
enforcement officer must stop immediately.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 73.29  RESISTANCE TO OFFICERS.
   It is unlawful for any person to resist or obstruct any peace officer in a
discharge of his or her duties under this traffic code.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.30  REGISTRATION OF SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Operation of unnumbered snowmobiles. Except as otherwise provided in
625 ILCS 40, no person shall, after the effective date of this subchapter,
operate any snowmobile within the corporate limits unless such snowmobile has
been registered and numbered in accordance with the provisions of the state’s
Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act.
   (B)   Municipal registration. There is none as of this date, but in the
event the Village Board feels that this should be done, it may be added to this
traffic code when it so desires, with an amendment.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.31  SNOWMOBILE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Headlamp. All snowmobiles in operation shall display at least one
lighted headlamp, white in color, having a minimum candle power of sufficient
intensity to exhibit a white light plainly visible from a distance of at least
500 feet ahead during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
   (B)   Tail-lights. All snowmobiles while in operation shall display at least
one red tail-light having a minimum candle power of sufficient intensity to
exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
   (C)   Brakes. All snowmobiles shall have an operating brake system in good
mechanical condition.
   (D)   Mufflers. No snowmobile shall be sold, or offered for sale, or
operated unless it is equipped with a sound muffling device installed by the
manufacturer and under no circumstances shall this muffler device be modified
or removed by the owner or operator.
   (E)   Flag. All snowmobiles must have a six-foot flag mounted to the back of
the snowmobile.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.32  CONTROL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Speed regulations.
      (1)   General speed restrictions. No snowmobile may be driven upon any
roadway within the corporate limits of this village at a speed which is greater
than is reasonable and proper with regard to traffic conditions and the use of
the highway, or endangers the safety of any person or property. The fact that
the speed of the snowmobile does not exceed the applicable maximum speed limit
does not relieve the driver of the snowmobile from the duty to decrease speed
when approaching and crossing an intersection, when approaching a hill crest,
when traveling upon any narrow or winding roadway, or when special hazards
exist with the respect to pedestrians, or other traffic, or by reason of
weather or highway conditions. Speed must be decreased as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with any person or vehicle on or entering the highway in
compliance with legal requirements and a duty of all persons to use due care.
      (2)   Maximum speed limits. Unless some other speed restriction is
established by the posting of speed limit signs under the authority of the
Village Board, the maximum speed limits for snowmobiles within the corporate
limits are as follows:
         (a)   30 mph in any residential or business district;
         (b)   15 mph in any alley; and
         (c)   20 mph while passing through any school zone, properly posted.
      (3)   Minimum speed regulation. No person shall drive a snowmobile at
such a slow speed as to impede or block the normal and reasonable movement of
traffic, except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation of his or
her snowmobile or in compliance with the direction of a peace officer.
   (B)   Reckless driving. Any person who drives any snowmobile with a willful
or wanton disregard for the safety of person or property is guilty of reckless
driving.
   (C)   Racing. No person shall engage in any race on any roadway within the
corporate limits. RACE means the act of two or more individuals competing or
racing on any street or highway, in a situation in which one of the snowmobiles
is beside or to the rear of a snowmobile operated by a competing driver and the
one driver attempts to prevent the competing driver from passing or overtaking
him or her, either by acceleration or maneuver, or one or more individuals
competing in a race against time on any street or roadway in this municipality.
   (D)   Driving on the right side of roadway. Snowmobiles shall be operated on
all roadways as close to the right-hand side of the roadway as possible.
Snowmobiles proceeding in opposite directions shall pass each other to the
right and upon roadways having width for not more than one line of traffic in
each direction, each driver shall pass the other at least one-half length of
the main traveled portion of the roadway as nearly as possible.
   (E)   Limitations on overtaking on the left. No snowmobiles shall be driven
to the left side of the center of the roadway in overtaking and passing another
vehicle proceeding in the same direction unless such left side is clearly
visible and is free of oncoming traffic for a sufficient distance ahead to
permit such overtaking and passing to be completely made without interfering
with the safe operation of any vehicle approaching from the opposite direction
or any vehicle overtaken.
   (F)   Additional limitations on driving to the left of center of the
roadway. No snowmobile shall be driven on the left of the roadway when
approaching or upon the crest of a grade or curve in the highway where the
driver’s view is obstructed, when approaching within 100 feet of any bridge,
viaduct, or tunnel, and no driver may pass to the left where signs or markings
are in place to define a no passing zone as indicated by pavement striping or
appropriate signing.
   (G)   Following too close. The operator of a snowmobile shall not follow
another vehicle more closely than is reasonable and prudent having due regard
for the speed of such vehicles and the traffic upon and condition of the
highway.
   (H)   Starting a parked snowmobile. No operator shall start a snowmobile
which is stopped, standing, or parked unless and until such movement can be
made with reasonable safety.
   (I)   Signals required. A signal of intention to turn right or left when
required must be given continuously during not less than the last 100 feet
traveled by the snowmobile before turning within a business or residential
district. Any stop or turn signal when required shall be given either by means
of a hand and arm or by electric turn signal device conforming to the
requirements of 625 ILCS 40/6-1.
   (J)   Method of giving hand and arm signals. All signals required by this
traffic code shall be given from the left side of the vehicle in the following
manners:
      (1)   Left turn. Hand and arm extended horizontally;
      (2)   Right turn. Hand and arm extended upward; and
      (3)   Stop or decrease of speed. Hand and arm pivoted downward at 90-
degree angle.
   (K)   Right-of-way. Any snowmobile approaching or entering an intersection
from a different roadway shall yield the right-of-way to a vehicle on the
opposite roadway which is entering from the right at approximately the same
time. The driver of the vehicle or snowmobile on the left must yield the right-
of-way to the vehicle on the right.
   (L)   Right-of-way turning left. The operator of a snowmobile intending to
turn to the left within an intersection or into an alley, private road, or
driveway shall yield the right-of-way to any vehicle approaching from the
opposite direction which is so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, but
said snowmobile operator having so yielded may proceed at such time as a safe
interval occurs.
   (M)   Snowmobiles entering intersections.
      (1)   Stop intersections.
         (a)   Except when directed to proceed by a peace officer or traffic
control signal, every operator of a snowmobile approaching a stop intersection
indicated by a stop sign shall stop at a clearly marked stop line, but if none,
then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway where the operator has a
view of approaching traffic on the intersecting roadway before entering the
intersection.
         (b)   After having stopped, the operator of the snowmobile shall yield
the right-of-way to any vehicle which has entered the intersection from another
roadway or which is approaching so closely on the roadway as to constitute an
immediate hazard during the time when the operator is moving across or within
the intersection, but said operator having so yielded may proceed at such time
as a safe interval occurs.
      (2)   Yield intersections.
         (a)   The operator of a snowmobile approaching a yield sign shall, in
obedience to such signs, slow down to a speed reasonable for the existing
conditions and if required for safety to stop, shall stop at a clearly marked
line, but if none, before entering the crosswalk on the near side of the
intersection, or if none, then at the point nearest the intersecting roadway
where the operator has a view of approaching traffic on the intersecting
roadway.
         (b)   After slowing or stopping, the operator shall yield the right-
of-way to any vehicle in the intersection or approaching on another roadway so
closely as to constitute an immediate hazard during the time such operator is
moving across or within the intersection. If a snowmobile is involved in a
collision at an intersection or interferes with the movement of other vehicles
after driving past the yield right-of-way sign, such collision or interference
shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the driver’s failure to yield right-of-
way.
   (N)   Obedience to traffic control devices.
      (1)   The operator of any snowmobile shall obey the instruction of any
official traffic control device applicable thereto placed in accordance with
the provisions of this traffic code and it shall be unlawful for any snowmobile
operator to leave the roadway and travel across private property to avoid an
official traffic control device.
      (2)   Snowmobile traffic facing a steady red signal at an automatic
traffic control device must stop at a clearly marked stop line, before entering
the crosswalk on the near side of the intersection, or if none, then before
entering the intersection, and shall remain standing until an indication to
proceed is indicated by a green traffic control signal.
   (O)   Accidents. Operators of snowmobiles involved in any accident with
another snowmobile or any other motor vehicle or pedestrian shall make accident
reports in accordance with the provisions of the  State Snowmobile Registration
and Safety Act, Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 95-1/2, Art. VI, § 606-1.
   (P)   Pedestrian right-of-way. The operator of all snowmobiles shall yield
the right-of-way, slowing down, or stopping if need be to so yield to a
pedestrian crossing a roadway within a crosswalk, but in any case every driver
of a snowmobile shall exercise due care to avoid colliding with any pedestrian
and shall exercise proper precaution upon observing any child obviously
confused, incapacitated, or an intoxicated person.
   (Q)   Alcohol.
      (1)   Persons under the influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic
drugs. No person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor may drive or
be in actual physical control of any snowmobile within this municipality, and
further no person who is an habitual user of, or under the influence of any
narcotic drug, or who is under the influence of any other drug to a degree
which renders him or her incapable of safely driving a snowmobile may drive or
be in actual physical control of any snowmobile within this corporate limits.
      (2)   Alcohol prohibited. No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor
while operating a snowmobile within this municipality and any alcoholic liquor
transported in a snowmobile shall be in its original package and with the seal
unbroken.
   (R)   Obstruction of operator’s view of driving mechanism. No person shall
operate a snowmobile when it is loaded with passengers as to obstruct the
operator’s view of his or her operation of the driving mechanism.
   (S)   Obstructing roadways. No operator shall willfully or unnecessarily
hinder, obstruct, delay, or attempt to delay, hinder, or obstruct any other
person lawfully driving or traveling along or upon any roadway within the
corporate limits.
   (T)   Horns and warning devices. No snowmobile shall be equipped with any
siren, whistle, or bell.
   (U)   Driver’s license required. No person shall operate a snowmobile within
the municipality on any roadway unless he or she is in possession of a valid
operator’s license issued by the state or is a resident of another state and
possesses a valid operator’s license from that state.
   (V)   Firearm. No person, except persons permitted by law, shall operate or
ride any snowmobile with any firearm in his or her possession unless it is
unloaded and enclosed in a carrying case, or any bow unless it is in a carrying
case, or rendered inoperable.
   (W)   State highway. Any person may operate a snowmobile on any state
highway within the limits of the municipality, except on State Route 36, at a
90-degree angle yielding to all traffic and crossing only when it is safe to do
so.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.33  OPERATION ON PRIVATE PROPERTY OR SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any
snowmobile on private property, without the consent of the owner, or the lease
thereof.
      (2)   Any person operating a snowmobile upon lands of another shall stop
and identify himself or herself upon the request of the landowner, or his or
her duly authorized representative, and, if requested to do so by the
landowner, shall promptly remove the snowmobile from the premises.
   (B)   No person shall operate a snowmobile on or within any sidewalk in the
village.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.34  UNATTENDED VEHICLES.
   It is unlawful for the owner or operator to leave or allow snowmobiles to be
or remain unattended on public property while the motor is running or with keys
for starting the vehicle left in the ignition.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.35  RESTRICTION OF OPERATION.
   The Board of Trustees, by resolution, prohibits the operation of snowmobiles
within the right-of-way of the public roads, or streets, or other village
property within the village when, in its opinion, the public safety and welfare
so requires.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.36  DESIGNATED STREETS.
   Illinois Street running north and south, Birch Street running east and west,
and Magnolia Street running east and west are to be used for emergency use
only. Other roadways within the village may be used for the operation of
snowmobiles only for the purposes of traveling to or from the dedicated
snowmobile route as defined herein and the residence of the operator of said
snowmobile.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.37  HOURS DESIGNATED.
   The snowmobiles may be operated on the designated street between the hours
of 5:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight. They may not, however, be operated between the
hours of 12:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any day.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
73.99
GOLF CARTS AND UTVS
§ 73.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle specifically designed and intended for the purpose of
transporting one or more persons and his, her, or their golf clubs or
maintenance equipment while engaged in the playing of golf, supervising the
play of golf, or maintaining the condition of the grounds on a public or
private golf course.
   UTV. Any recreational motor vehicle other than an ATV, motorcycle, or
snowmobile, designed for and capable of travel over designated unpaved roads,
traveling on four or more low pressure tires of 20 PSI or less, maximum width
less than 74 inches, maximum weight less than 2,000 pounds, or having a wheel
base of 94 inches or less. UTV does not include golf carts, vehicles
specifically designed to carry a disabled person or implements of husbandry.
   VILLAGE STREETS. Any of the streets within the boundaries of the village.
(Ord. 17-O-6, passed 7-31-2017)
§ 73.51  POLICY STATEMENT.
   (A)   This traffic code is adopted in the interest of public safety. Golf
carts and UTVs are not designed or manufactured to be used on public streets
and roads, and the village in no way advocates or endorses their operation on
streets or roadways. The village, by regulating such operation, is merely
addressing safety issues. This traffic code is not to be relied upon as a
determination that operation on streets is safe or advisable even if done in
accordance with this traffic code. All persons operating golf carts and UTVs
must be observant of and attentive to the safety of themselves and others,
including their passengers, other motorists, bicyclists, and other pedestrians.
All persons who operate or ride golf carts and UTVs on streets inside the
village do so at their own risk and peril. The village has no liability under
any theory of liability for permitting golf carts and UTVs to be operated on
the streets of the village.
   (B)   Golf carts and UTVs may only be operated on streets within the village
in accordance with the following rules and regulations.
      (1)   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV in the village takes
full responsibility for all liability associated with operating a golf cart or
UTV.
      (2)   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV must be at least 21
years of age and possess a valid driver’s license to operate a motor vehicle
issued by the state or any other state.
      (3)   No person shall operate, and no owner shall permit another person
to operate a golf cart or UTV on a village street unless:
         (a)   The golf cart or UTV is covered by a liability insurance policy
as required by § 7-601 of the state’s Vehicle Code (625 ILCS 5/7-601); and
         (b)   The operator of the golf cart or UTV carries with him or her
proof of liability insurance, as required by § 7-602 of the state’s Vehicle
Code (625 ILCS 5/7-602).
      (4)   No person shall operate a golf cart or UTV on a village street in
excess of the posted speed limits.
      (5)   Golf carts or UTVs may not be operated on State Highway 36.
      (6)   Golf carts and UTVs shall have their head-lights and tail-lights
lighted at all times when operated on village streets.
      (7)   Golf carts and UTVs may not be operated when visibility is impaired
by weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions, or at any time when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a
distance of 500 feet.
      (8)   Golf carts and UTVs shall not be operated on the sidewalk.
      (9)   Golf carts and UTV drivers must yield the right-of-way to
overtaking vehicles at all times.
      (10)   Any person who operates a golf cart or UTV on the streets of the
village must adhere to all applicable state laws concerning the possession and
use of alcoholic beverages and all illegal drugs, as well as all other state
traffic laws.
      (11)   The maximum occupancy of golf carts and UTVs traveling on village
streets shall be equal to the amount of safety belts or passenger restraints in
the golf cart or UTV.
      (12)   Each driver and passenger of a golf cart or UTV shall wear a
properly fastened and adjusted seat safety belt. Children must be secured in a
child restraint system as required pursuant to the Child Passenger Protection
Act (625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.).
      (13)   Golf carts and UTVs are only allowed to park in handicapped
parking spaces if the driver or at least one passenger has a valid handicapped
parking sticker.
      (14)   The operator of a golf cart or UTV shall obey all ordinances of
the village and all provisions of the state’s Vehicle Code, as amended from
time to time, if parking a golf cart or UTV in an area with marked parking
spaces, those parking spaces must be used.
      (15)   Village owned golf cart(s) are exempt from this subchapter.
(Ord. 17-O-6, passed 7-31-2017)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.52  REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   A golf cart or UTV operated on a village street shall have the following
equipment in good working condition at all times:
   (A)   Brakes;
   (B)   Steering apparatus;
   (C)   Tires;
   (D)   Rearview mirror;
   (E)   A slow moving emblem as required by 625 ILCS 5/12-709 attached to the
rear;
   (F)   Head-lights that emit white light visible from at least 500 feet to
the front;
   (G)   Tail-lights that emit red light visible from at least 100 feet from
the rear;
   (H)   Brake lights on the rear;
   (I)   Turn signals on the front and rear; and
   (J)   Seat belts for each passenger.
(Ord. 17-O-6, passed 7-31-2017)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.53  PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart or UTV without obtaining
a permit from the village as provided in this section.
   (B)   Permits shall be granted for a period of one year and may be renewed
annually on May 1 of each year.
   (C)   The annual cost of a permit is $75 per golf cart or UTV to cover the
costs of implementing and maintaining this traffic code, and shall be paid to
the Village Clerk by the applicant.
   (D)   After completion of the application and payment of the requisite fee,
the applicant shall present the golf cart or UTV to the village-authorized
Inspector or his or her designee for an inspection to determine whether the
golf cart or UTV may be operated on a village street. If the applicant and golf
cart or UTV are qualified under the terms and conditions of this traffic code,
a license shall be issued to the applicant who must be kept on the vehicle at
all times. The Police Department shall issue a sticker as visible proof of
compliance, which shall be valid for a period of one year from the date of
registration and which must be displayed on the “slow moving” emblem located at
the rear of the golf cart or UTV at all times.
   (E)   Golf cart or UTV owners must complete the permit application form as
shown as Exhibit A of the ordinance codified herein. The completed forms will
be maintained by the Village Police Department.
(Ord. 17-O-6, passed 7-31-2017)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.54  FESTIVAL PERMIT.
   The village may issue a temporary golf cart/UTV permit for use during the
annual Apple Dumpling Festival. The golf carts or UTVs must conform to all of
the requirements set forth in this traffic code. Anyone wishing to obtain a
permit must complete the required forms and provide proof of insurance for the
golf cart or UTV. The temporary permits will be issued by the Village Clerk
after inspection. The charge for the temporary permits will be $5. The permit
will be good from the Thursday before the festival at 12:00 p.m. until the
proceeding Sunday at 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. 17-O-6, passed 7-31-2017)  Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Bicycles. Any person violating any provisions of §§
73.01 through
73.15 shall be fined $10 for each such offense.
(2016 Code, § 14.301)
   (C)   Golf cart/UTVs.
      (1)   The village may prosecute violators for any act constituting a
violation of §§
73.50 through
73.54. Any person who violates any provisions of §§
73.50 through
73.54 shall be guilty of a petty offense and shall be punished by a fine of not
less than $50 and not more than $100 unless otherwise specified elsewhere in
the traffic code, plus costs of prosecution or issued a citation by the state.
      (2)   The license of an operator of a golf cart or UTV issued pursuant to
§§
73.50 through
73.54  may be suspended by the Chief of Police or his or her designee, if:
         (a)   There is any material misrepresentation made by the applicant on
the application;
         (b)   The required liability insurance is no longer in full force and
effect;
         (c)   There is evidence that the license holder can no longer safely
operate the golf cart or UTV; or
         (d)   For any reason that he or she feels is appropriate to ensure the
safety and well-being of the citizens of the village.
      (3)   The Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall issue a notice
of suspension of a license in writing and either hand deliver the notice to the
license holder, or send the notice by mail to the license holder at the address
on the application. The suspension of a license shall be effective immediately
after personal service or on the third day after the postmark of the mail
receipt.
      (4)   Upon investigation by the recommendation of the Village Police
Department, the Village Board may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder
upon a finding that there is evidence that the permitted cannot safely operate
the golf cart or UTV on village streets.
      (5)   Repeat offenders may have the privileges granted by §§
73.50 through
73.54 revoked by the Village Board upon recommendation by the Village Police
Department.
(Ord. 17-O-6, passed 7-31-2017)
CHAPTER 74:  PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking zones
      
II.   No parking at specified times; limited parking
      
III.   Angle parking areas
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   No person or persons shall park a vehicle or conveyance of any
description on the east side of County Line Street (Main Street) from one-half
block south of Elm Avenue south to Route 36.
   (B)   No vehicle parking shall be permitted on the south side of West
Orchard Avenue between Main Street and North Illinois Street.
   (C)   No parking from the north side of West Central from the first alley to
Illinois Street.
(2106 Code, § 13.405)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE II. NO PARKING AT SPECIFIED TIMES; LIMITED PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   Parallel parking on the south side of West Central from the
first alley east to Main Street: two-hour parking between 7:00 a.m. and 5:00
p.m.
      (2)   Parallel parking on the north side of East Central from the first
alley east to Main street: two-hour parking between 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
      (3)   Parking on Main Street (business area) where posted by signs,
running from the railroad track north on either side of the street to Forest,
will be restricted to two-hour parking periods, between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m., Sundays and holidays excluded.
      (4)   No person or persons shall park and leave parked for a period of
time in excess of 15 minutes, any truck or tractor-trailer, which exceeds 20
feet in length on Main Street in the village from Forest Street South to Elm
Street.
(2016 Code, § 13.405)
   (B)   No person shall park any vehicle between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:
00 a.m. of any day except physicians on emergency calls, on Main Street between
Magnolia and Birch Street.
(2016 Code, § 13.407)  Penalty, see §
10.99
SCHEDULE III. ANGLE PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Angle parking provided on the north side of West Central running west
from Main Street to the first alley. Two-hour parking is permitted between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
   (B)   Angle parking on south side of West Central East from Illinois Street
to the first alley. The seven parking spaces from the alley west are to be 15-
minute parking between the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. The other parking
spaces are to be two-hour parking permitted between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
5:00 p.m.
(2016 Code, § 13.405)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
92.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
      
93.   RECREATION AND LEISURE
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Animal Control Warden; enforcement of chapter
   
90.03   Cruelty to animals prohibited
   
90.04   Raising domesticated animals prohibited
   
90.05   Keeping livestock or fowl prohibited
   
90.06   Keeping of dangerous wild animals prohibited
   
90.07   Killing dangerous animals
   
90.08   Diseased animals
   
90.09   Disturbing the peace
   
90.10   Domestic animals running at large; impoundment
   
90.11   Animal nuisance
   
90.12   Unattended animals
   
90.13   Operation of kennels and rabbitries
   
90.14   Keeping bees prohibited
   
90.15   Enclosures
   
90.16   Bite procedure
   
90.17   Liability for expenses
   
90.18   Rabies inoculation recommended
   
90.19   Fees for impoundment
   
90.20   Redemption of animals
   
90.21   Notice of impoundment
Licensing Regulations
   
90.35   Licensing of dogs and cats
   
90.36   Application for license
   
90.37   Rabies inoculation required
   
90.38   License fees
   
90.39   License exception
   
90.40   Tags
   
90.41   Kennel license
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. The organisms commonly included in the science of zoology and
generally distinguished from plants by possession of a nervous system and the
ability to move from place to place, except for human beings.
   ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN. Any person appointed by the President/Mayor and
approved by the Board of Trustees to regulate and control animals pursuant to
this code of ordinances.
   CAT. All members of the species felis domestica.
   CONTAGIOUS DISEASE. A specific infectious disease which is readily
transmitted from host to host by direct contact or by means of an intermediate
host.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. Any animal which in wild state is carnivorous or wild,
which, because of its nature or physical makeup, is capable of inflicting
serious physical harm or death to human beings, including but not limited to
any lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay, mountain lion, lynx,
bobcat, jaguarondi, bear, hyena, wolf, coyote, or any poisonous or life
threatening reptile.
   DOG. All members of the family canidae.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Any animal which has been habituated to live in or about
the habitation of humans.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMALS. Any animal which is otherwise a wild animal but has
been raised in the captivity for breeding purposes or other useful purposes,
including but not limited to any fox, mink, chinchilla, marten, fisher,
muskrat, karakul, or other fur-bearing animals.
   FOWL. Chickens, ducks, pigeons, and geese.
   HAS BEEN BITTEN. Has been seized with the teeth or jaws so that the person
or animal seized has been ripped, gripped, wounded, or pierced, and further,
includes contact of saliva with any break or abrasion of the skin.
   INFECTIOUS DISEASE. The reaction resulting from the introduction into the
body of a specific disease-producing organism or its toxic product.
   KENNEL. Any enclosure where dogs or dogs and cats are maintained for
breeding, boarding, training, or similar purposes and where the operator breeds
and raises dogs or dogs and cats for sale. A facility shall not be considered a
KENNEL unless the owner owns or harbors at least two breeding females, or three
or more dogs or cats over four months of age are kept.
   LEASH. A cord, rope, strap, or chain which shall be securely fastened to the
collar or harness of a dog or other animal and shall be of sufficient strength
to keep such dog or other animal under control.
   LIVESTOCK. Bison, cattle, swine, sheep, goats, or equidae.
   OWNER. Any person who:
      (1)   Has a right of property in an animal;
      (2)   Keeps or harbors an animal;
      (3)   Has an animal in his or her care; or
      (4)   Acts as a custodian of an animal.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
other legal entity.
   POUND. A facility used as a shelter for seized, stray, homeless, abandoned,
unwanted dogs, or other animals.
   RABBITRY. Any enclosure where rabbits are maintained for breeding, boarding,
training, or similar purposes, where the operator breeds and raises rabbits for
sale. A facility shall not be considered a RABBITRY unless the owner owns or
harbors at least two females.
   RABBITS. Breeds of rabbits that are considered domestic will be permitted
within the village limits.
   RUNNING AT LARGE or RUN AT LARGE. To be off the premises of the owner and
not under the control by a leash of the owner, a member of the owner’s family,
or an authorized person.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal which is not normally or usually kept by humans as a
pet or for other useful purposes.
(2016 Code, § 16.101)
§ 90.02  ANIMAL CONTROL WARDEN; ENFORCEMENT OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall be ex officio Animal Control Warden for the
village. Provisions shall be made for the appointment of such deputies as may
be necessary. The deputies, employed by contractual agreement or otherwise,
shall be commissioned as auxiliary police officers for the village and are
authorized to make all necessary arrests in carrying out the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The Animal Control Warden is charged with enforcement of this chapter.
(2016 Code, § 16.102)
§ 90.03  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person or owner may beat, cruelly treat, torment, starve, overwork,
or otherwise abuse any animal.
   (B)   No owner may abandon any animal where it may become a public charge or
may suffer injury, hunger, or exposure.
(2016 Code, § 16.103)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04  RAISING DOMESTICATED ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall raise any domesticated animal within the village.
(2016 Code, § 16.104)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05  KEEPING LIVESTOCK OR FOWL PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep any livestock or fowl within the village.
(2016 Code, § 16.105)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06  KEEPING OF DANGEROUS WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall keep any dangerous wild animal within the village.
   (B)   All dangerous wild animals are hereby declared nuisances and shall be
subject to impoundment or destruction.
(2016 Code, § 16.106)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07  KILLING DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   The Animal Control Warden and village police officers are authorized
to destroy any dangerous animal of any kind when it is necessary for the
protection of any person or property.
   (B)   If any dangerous, fierce, or vicious animal shall be found running at
large and cannot be taken up or tranquilized and impounded, such animal may be
killed by the Animal Control Warden, any police officer, or any other agent of
the village authorized to perform any duty under this chapter.
(2016 Code, § 16.107)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.08  DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   No domestic animals afflicted with a contagious or infectious disease
shall be allowed to be exposed in any public place whereby the health of humans
or other domestic animals may be affected.
   (B)   No diseased domestic animal shall be shipped or removed from the
premises of the owner thereof except under the supervision of the Animal
Control Warden or an appropriate health officer.
   (C)   No diseased domesticated animal, diseased livestock or diseased wild
animal shall be brought into the village.
   (D)   In the event any diseased domesticated animal, diseased livestock, or
diseased wild animal shall enter the village, such animal shall be removed
under the supervision of the Animal Control Warden or an appropriate health
officer.
   (E)   The Animal Control Warden shall secure the disposition of any diseased
animal and the treatment of affected persons so as to prevent the communication
and spread of the contagion or infection.
(2016 Code, § 16.108)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09  DISTURBING THE PEACE.
   No owner of any domestic animal shall permit such animal to disturb the
peace and quiet of the neighborhood by barking or making any other loud or
unusual noise.
(2016 Code, § 16.109)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10  DOMESTIC ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   No owner of any domestic animal shall permit such animal to run at
large or to be on any public right-of-way or property other than that of the
owner without being securely restrained by a leash or other means.
   (B)   Any domestic animal unlawfully running at large may be impounded.
(2016 Code, § 16.110)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11  ANIMAL NUISANCE.
   Any of the following acts or conditions created or caused by any animal
within the corporate limits of the village shall be considered a nuisance:
   (A)   Running at large;
   (B)   Molesting or disturbing persons or vehicles by chasing, barking, or
biting;
   (C)   Attacking other animals;
   (D)   Damaging any property other than property of the owner of the animal;
   (E)   Barking, whining, howling, honking, braying, crying, or making any
other noises excessively;
   (F)   Creating any noxious or offensive odors;
   (G)   Defecating upon any public place or upon premises not owned or
controlled by the owner of the animal, unless promptly removed by such owner;
   (H)   Creating any insect breeding or attraction site due to an accumulation
of excreta; or
   (I)   Failing to have an animal properly licensed or vaccinated for rabies
or other diseases when required by law.
(2016 Code, § 16.111)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12  UNATTENDED ANIMALS.
   No person shall leave any horse or other draft animal unattended on any
public street, highway, or other public property without having such animal
securely fastened.
(2016 Code, § 16.112)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13  OPERATION OF KENNELS AND RABBITRIES.
   No person shall maintain or operate any kennel or rabbitry within the
corporate limits of the village except in designated districts. An annual
license fee of $200 is required for any kennel or rabbitry. Written application
for a license shall be made annually by the owner on a form provided by the
village.
(2016 Code, § 16.113)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14  KEEPING BEES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor any bees within the corporate
limits of the village.
   (B)   Any hive, barrel, log, sleep, or other container or receptacle used to
house bees is hereby declared to be a nuisance and it shall be unlawful to keep
or maintain any such home for bees within the corporate limits of the village.
(2016 Code, § 16.114)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.15  ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on any premises owned,
occupied, or controlled by him or her in the village any animal unless such
animal is kept in an enclosure, no part of which is within 75 feet of any
dwelling house occupied by human beings, excepting any dwelling house occupied
by such person who or that is keeping such animal.
   (B)   All enclosures in which any animals are kept must be kept in a
sanitary manner and be regularly cleaned in order to prevent any accumulation
of manure or offal.
(2016 Code, § 16.115)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.16  BITE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All incidents of bites by a dog or cat suffered by a human shall be
reported to the Animal Control Warden or his or her agent within 24 hours. The
Animal Control Warden shall report all bite incidents to the appropriate county
authorities on forms and in the time sequence required by such agency.
   (B)   Depending upon circumstances in each case, the following procedure
shall apply.
      (1)   Licensed dog or cat.
         (a)   The owner of a properly vaccinated biter dog or cat shall have
the dog or cat examined by a licensed veterinarian who shall submit a report to
the Animal Control Warden within 24 hours of the incident.
         (b)   The biter dog or cat may be impounded upon the licensed premises
by the owner. IMPOUNDMENT shall mean within a structure or secure enclosure or
upon leash only upon the premises of the owner. The period of impoundment shall
be ten days.
         (c)   The owner of a properly vaccinated biter dog or cat shall have
the dog or cat examined by a licensed veterinarian again on the tenth day of
impoundment. A written report by the veterinarian that the biter dog or cat is
not affected by rabies, filed with the Animal Control Warden, shall terminate
the impoundment.
      (2)   Unvaccinated dog or cat.
         (a)   The owner of a biter dog or cat which has not been vaccinated
shall have it examined immediately by a licensed veterinarian who shall submit
a report to the Animal Control Warden within 24 hours of the incident.
         (b)   The owner will then impound the biter dog or cat with a licensed
veterinarian or in a licensed animal hospital for the required ten-day
confinement period.
(2016 Code, § 16.207)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17  LIABILITY FOR EXPENSES.
   (A)   The owner of any dog or cat requiring veterinarian, impounding,
licensing, destruction, or disposition services as a result of any violations
of this chapter shall be responsible for all such expenses.
   (B)   Failure to assume such expenses shall be deemed an act of disclaiming
and the dog or cat involved shall be considered a stray animal.
(2016 Code, § 16.208)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.18  RABIES INOCULATION RECOMMENDED.
   All warm-blooded animals, domestic and wild, are susceptible to rabies. Once
affected by rabies, the disease is fatal to inoculated animals and untreated
humans. The inoculation of dogs and cats as required by this chapter is
recommended for all other domestic animals.
(2016 Code, § 16.209)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.19  FEES FOR IMPOUNDMENT.
   The fees and charges allowed and fixed by the ordinances of the village for
taking up, impounding,  keeping, and disposing of impounded animals shall be
paid hereunder for like services at the time and in the manner fixed by said
ordinance.
(2016 Code, § 16.301)
§ 90.20  REDEMPTION OF ANIMALS.
   The owner or owners of any domestic animal impounded hereunder may redeem
the same by paying all the costs, charges, and penalties assessed, if any, that
have accrued up to the time of making the redemption, and when the same are
paid to the Village Clerk, the Clerk shall issue a receipt to the owner or
owners for such payment and upon presentment of such receipt to the proper
authorities, the animal shall be released from said pound and delivered to the
owner.
(2016 Code, § 16.302)
§ 90.21  NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Immediately after impounding any domestic animal hereunder, it shall
be the duty of the Animal Control Warden to enter upon the records of the
village in a book to be kept by him or her for such purpose, the date of
impounding, a description of the animal impounded, and a record as to whether
or not such animal has been licensed and tagged as required by the ordinances.
   (B)   Public notice of the impounding of such animal shall be given by
posting one copy of the description of such animal and date of impounding at
the pound and one copy of such notice on the bulletin board in the Village
Hall. Any such domestic animal not redeemed by the owner thereof within three
days after the posting of such notice by the Animal Control Warden shall be and
is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. The Animal Control Warden shall
immediately kill or destroy such animal.
(2016 Code, § 16.303)
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 90.35  LICENSING OF DOGS AND CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or harbor any dog or cat within
the corporate limits of the village without having first obtained a license or
appropriate permit therefor by application to the County Clerk of Piatt County
or the County Clerk of Douglas County. Only persons who comply with the
provisions of this chapter shall be entitled to receive and retain such
license.
(2016 Code, § 16.201)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.36  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Written application for a license shall be made annually by the owner on a
form provided by the village. The owner shall be identified by name, address,
and telephone number and the dog or cat by sex, age, breed, color, and call-
name and the rabies inoculation certificate number, date, and administering
veterinarian given.
(2016 Code, § 16.202)
§ 90.37  RABIES INOCULATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of every owner of a dog or cat harbored within the
corporate limits of the village to have such dog or cat inoculated against
rabies. The owner of such dog or cat shall at all times keep in his or her
possession evidence of rabies inoculation consisting of a certificate signed by
the licensed veterinarian administering the vaccine. A copy of the certificate
of rabies inoculation shall be presented with the application for license as
required by §
90.36. No license shall be issued unless such certificate bears a date within
one year prior to the date of a license application if a one-year immunization
vaccine was used, or within three years prior to the date of license
application if a three-year immunization vaccine was administered.
(2016 Code, § 16.203)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.38  LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The license for any dog or cat shall expire on April 30 following the
date of its issuance. The annual license fee is payable within the first two
months of the village’s fiscal year or within one week after the date on which
such dog or cat is acquired, whichever is later. The annual license fee for
each dog or cat is as follows:
      (1)   Sexually altered dog or cat: $2; and
      (2)   Unaltered dog or cat: $3.
   (B)   Written certification by a licensed veterinarian must be presented
upon application for the fees applicable in division (A) above.
(2016 Code, § 16.204)
§ 90.39  LICENSE EXCEPTION.
   A current year license by another governmental jurisdiction which requires
rabies inoculation as a licensing prerequisite will be honored by the village
as a valid license through the expiration date specified in §
90.38.
(2016 Code, § 16.205)
§ 90.40  TAGS.
   The person to whom the license required by §
90.35 is issued shall receive from the Village Clerk a metal tag containing
such lettering or numbering thereon as may be directed by the Village Board. It
shall be unlawful for any person owning or having custody of a dog or cat to
cause the same to be in any public place anywhere within the corporate limits
of the village unless such dog or cat shall be wearing a collar to which a
current tag is securely fastened. Any dog or cat found in any public place not
wearing a collar and tag for the current year shall be deemed a stray animal
and shall be seized.
(2016 Code, § 16.206)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.41  KENNEL LICENSE.
   Each owner shall not have more than three dogs or cats unless he, she, or
they have a kennel license.
(2016 Code, § 16.304)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Animal Control Warden to issue a $30 fine
for the first offense and a $50 for the second offense for all dogs and cats
running at large with or without tags, per §
90.10. Subsequent offenses shall be turned over to the Village Attorney for
legal action. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during
or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 16.110)
   (C)   Any person violating any provision of §§
90.40 and
90.41 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 16.305)
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
   
91.01   Fireworks
   
91.02   Dynamite
   
91.03   Nitroglycerine; T.N.T.
   
91.04   Gunpowder
   
91.05   Rules of the State Fire Marshal
   
91.06   Burning
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01  FIREWORKS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to store any fireworks in the village
except as may be necessary for the performers of a licensed public exhibition
of pyrotechnics, as hereinafter provided for.
      (2)   Any such storage must be under the supervision of and subject to
the approval of the Fire Marshal.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale any fireworks or
pyrotechnics in the village; provided that, public exhibitions of fireworks and
pyrotechnics may be given if a permit therefor be granted by the Village Board.
      (2)   Such exhibitions shall be given subject to the supervision of the
Fire Marshal or of some person designated by him or her.
(2016 Code, § 21.401)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  DYNAMITE.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any dynamite in the village in excess
of five pounds on any one premises or in any one building.
(2016 Code, § 21.402)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  NITROGLYCERINE; T.N.T.
    It shall be unlawful to keep or store nitroglycerine or the explosive
commonly known as T.N.T. in the village in any quantities, excepting for
medical or laboratory purposes, and for such purpose no more than one-quarter
ounce shall be stored in any one building.
(2016 Code, § 21.403)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  GUNPOWDER.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or store any black powder, gunpowder, or
guncotton in excess of five pounds on any one premises in the village.
(2016 Code, § 21.404)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  RULES OF THE STATE FIRE MARSHAL.
   All explosives kept or stored in the village shall be kept and stored in
accordance with the rules enforced by the State Fire Marshal.
(2016 Code, § 21.405)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  BURNING.
   (A)   Village exemption. The village and its employees while performing
village activities shall be exempt from the provision of this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BONFIRE. An unenclosed celebratory or food preparation fire, on private
property only, which contains no garbage or items which would violate Federal
and State EPA regulations, and substantially a wood product fire to prepare for
food preparation or as part of a celebration.
      GARBAGE. Waste resulting from the handling, processing, preparation,
cooking, and consumption of food products.
      HOUSEHOLD WASTE. Any solid waste (except garbage) derived from
households.
      LANDSCAPE WASTE. All accumulation of grass or shrubbery cuttings, leaves,
tree limbs, and other materials accumulated as the result of the care of lawns,
shrubbery, vines, and trees.
      MUNICIPAL WASTE. The commercial, industrial, lunchroom, or office waste
and construction or demolition debris.
      OPEN BURNING. The combustion of any matter in such a way that the
products of the combustion are emitted to the open air without originating in
or passing through equipment for which a permit could be issued under the
state’s Environmental Protection Act, being 415 ILCS 5.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
limited liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company,
trust, estate, political subdivision, state agency, or any other legal entity
or their legal representative, agent, or assigns.
   (C)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   No person shall cause or allow the open burning of garbage,
household waste, and municipal waste within the village.
      (2)   No person shall cause or allow the burning of landscape waste
within the village except hereinafter provided.
   (D)   Restrictions on landscape waste. The open burning of landscape waste
shall be permitted only on the following conditions.
      (1)   Landscape waste shall be burned on the premises on which such waste
is generated.
      (2)   Landscape waste shall be burned only when atmospheric conditions
shall readily dissipate contaminants.
      (3)   Landscape waste may be burned only if such burning does not create
a visibility hazard on roadways, walkways, or railroad tracks.
      (4)   The open burning of landscape waste may only begin during daylight
hours when a person over the age of 18 years is in attendance during the entire
period of the burning, and the flames and smoke created by said burning are
extinguished before 7:00 p.m. or before sundown as determined by the National
Weather Service, whichever shall first occur.
      (5)   No open burning may occur during periods of time when determined by
the Chief of Police that atmospheric conditions or local circumstances make
such fires hazardous.
      (6)   No items may be burned which would be in violation of Federal or
State EPA regulations.
      (7)   No open burning may occur within 250 feet of any elementary,
junior, or high school property line during regular school hours when school is
in session and students are present.
(Ord. 01-O-3, passed 10-15-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
91.01 through
91.05  shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 21.406)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of §
91.06 shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined $75 for the first offense, $150
for the second offense, and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues. In addition to such fine, all court
costs and reasonable attorney’s fees incurred by the village in prosecuting the
case shall be recoverable from anyone convicted of a violation of §
91.06. In addition to such fine and additional costs as stated above, any
person who violates any of the provisions of §
91.06 resulting in the need for emergency services to extinguish the fire or
otherwise respond to the violation shall be responsible for the cost of such
services.
      (2)   This division (C) shall not apply to wood, charcoal, gas operated
grills, and small wood bonfires.
(Ord. 01-O-3, passed 10-15-2001)
CHAPTER 92:  NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SANITATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Watercourses
   
92.02   Pools
   
92.03   Refuse
   
92.04   Premises
   
92.05   Nuisances; abatement
   
92.06   Spitting
   
92.07   Dense smoke
   
92.08   Inoperable motor vehicle
   
92.09   Air
Noise Nuisances
   
92.20   Noise
   
92.21   Sound amplifier; license required
   
92.22   Application
   
92.23   Issuance of licenses
   
92.24   Restrictions
Vegetation and Weed Nuisances
   
92.35   Weeds
   
92.36   Height of vegetation
   
92.37   Barberry bushes
   
92.38   Removal notice; weeds
   
92.39   Abatement
   
92.40   Lien
   
92.41   Foreclosure of lien
Buildings
   
92.55   Building constituting nuisance
   
92.56   Responsibility of building owners
   
92.57   Enforcement
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  WATERCOURSES.
   It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person, firm, or corporation to
obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in the village.
(2016 Code, § 15.201)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  POOLS.
   Any stagnant pool of water in the village is hereby declared to be a
nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit
any such nuisance to remain or exist on any property under his, her, or their
control.
(2016 Code, § 15.202)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to deposit
anywhere in the village any uncovered piles of refuse, garbage, offal, or
carcasses of dead animals.
   (B)   Such refuse must be buried at least two feet below the surface of the
ground, burned in properly constructed incinerators, or otherwise properly
disposed of.
   (C)   Any uncovered piles of refuse is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(2016 Code, § 15.203)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to permit any building, structure, or place, to remain
in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health or safety in any
way. Any such building, structure, or place is hereby declared to be a
nuisance.
(2016 Code, § 15.204)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  NUISANCES; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to permit or
maintain the existence of any nuisance on any property under his, her, or its
control. The Chief of Police and the Health Officer are each hereby authorized
to abate any such nuisance existing in the village, whether such nuisance is
specifically recognized by ordinance or not.
(2016 Code, § 15.205)
   (B)   In all cases where a nuisance shall be found in any building or
premises within the jurisdiction of the village, the President/Mayor shall
cause a written notice to be served upon the owner, occupant, or person in
charge thereof, if he or she can be found, requiring him or her to abate the
same within a reasonable time. Such notice may, but need not, specify the
manner of abatement. If the person so notified shall neglect or refuse to
comply with such notice, or whenever the owner, occupant, or person in charge
is unknown or cannot be found, the President/Mayor shall proceed to cause such
nuisance to be abated without notice, and the expense thereof shall be
collected from the person who may have created, continued, or suffered such
nuisance to exist, in addition to any fine or penalty.
(2016 Code, § 21.506)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06  SPITTING.
   It shall be unlawful to spit or expectorate on any public sidewalk or other
public place, or on the floor or walls of any store, theater, hall, public
vehicle, or other place frequented by the public or to which the public is
invited.
(2016 Code, § 15.206)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07  DENSE SMOKE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to cause or permit the emission of dense smoke
from any fire, chimney, engine, oil burner, or any other agency in the village
so as to cause annoyance or discomfort to the residence thereof.
   (B)   For the purpose of testing and grading the density of smoke, the
Ringelmann Smoke Chart as published and used by the United States Geological
Survey, shall be and is hereby defined as and declared to be “dense” when it is
of a degree of number three of said chart, or greater, for more than six
minutes in any one hour; whether such period of time is consecutive or not.
(2016 Code, § 15.207)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08  INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any inoperable motor vehicle situated on any private premises in the
corporate limits of the village, which constitutes a health or safety hazard,
is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(2016 Code, § 15.209)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09  AIR.
   (A)   It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to carry on any activity upon
premises within the jurisdiction of the village, or within any building or
structure located upon said premises, which shall result in or cause the
discharge into the air of air contaminants in such place and in such manner as
to cause injury, detriment, nuisance, or annoyance to any person or to the
public, or to endanger the comfort, repose, health, or safety of any such
person or the public, or in such manner as to cause injury or damage to
business property.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, AIR CONTAMINANT means and includes
but is not limited to the following: dust, soot, mist, smoke, fumes, fly ash,
vapor, corrosive gas, or other discharge and any other airborne material or
substance that is offensive, nauseous, irritating, or noxious to humans or
other animal life.
(2016 Code, § 21.508)  Penalty, see §
92.99
NOISE NUISANCES
§ 92.20  NOISE.
   (A)   Times prohibited. It is hereby declared to be a nuisance to carry on
any activity upon any premises within jurisdiction of the village, or within
any building or structure located upon said premises, which results in the
production or emission of noise exceeding the maximum permitted decibel levels
set forth below, except between hours of 7:00 a.m and 6:00 p.m. of any day of
the week from Monday through Saturday.
   (B)   Maximum permitted decibel levels. The sound-pressure level resulting
from any activity, whether open or closed, shall not exceed, at any point on or
beyond any lot line, or at a distance of 50 feet from the exterior of any
building, machinery, or structure on the premises producing the noise or in
which the noise is produced, whichever is greater, the maximum permitted db
levels for the designated octave band as set forth in the following table
(sounds from motor vehicles not included):
 
Octave Band cps   db Level
1,200       2,400 47
2,400       4,800 41
Above 4,800       39
 
(2016 Code, § 21.507)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21  SOUND AMPLIFIER; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or operate any loud speaker or amplifier
connected with any radio, phonograph, microphone, or other device by which
sounds are magnified and made heard over any public street or public place
without having first obtained a permit therefor.
(2016 Code, § 21.901)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22  APPLICATION.
   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring a permit for the use or operation
for such a device shall file an application therefor with the Village Clerk
upon a form provided by him or her, setting forth the name and address of the
applicant, the name and address of the owner of such device, the date upon
which it is intended to be used, and such other information as may be
prescribed.
(2016 Code, § 21.902)
§ 92.23  ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   Such permit shall permit the use of any such device subject to the terms and
conditions of this subchapter, only upon the date specified on such permit and
no other.
(2016 Code, § 21.903)
§ 92.24  RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No licensee shall use, operate, or employ any such device within the
village limits on Sunday or after the hour of 8:00 p.m. prevailing time, of any
day, or before the hour of 8:00 a.m. prevailing time of any day; no license
shall use, operate, or employ any such device within a radius of two blocks
from any hospital, or within the radius of two blocks from any church, or other
place of public worship while services are being held there.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to radios in homes or in private pleasure
vehicles, when the same are operated in such manner as not to audible at a
distance of 50 feet from such vehicle, nor to noise devices, bands, or other
musical devices used in any public parade, procession, or concert, which is
operated under a permit in accordance with the ordinances of the village.
(2016 Code, § 21.904)  Penalty, see §
92.99
VEGETATION AND WEED NUISANCES
§ 92.35  WEEDS.
   Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cocklebur, or other
weeds of a like kind, found growing in any lot or tract of land in the village
are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to permit any
such weeds to grow or remain in any such place.
(2016 Code, § 21.601)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.36  HEIGHT OF VEGETATION.
   (A)   Weed and plant height. It shall be unlawful for anyone to permit any
weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or other ornamental
plants to grow to height exceeding 12 inches anywhere in the village; and such
plants or weeds exceeding such height are hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(2016 Code, § 21.602)
   (B)   Boulevard maintenance responsibilities of abutting property owners.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of each owner or person residing on property
adjacent to a boulevard area to:
         (a)   Maintain the grass on the boulevard by keeping its height at a
level below 12 inches;
         (b)   Keep the boulevard free of growing weeds and other obnoxious and
unsightly vegetation;
         (c)   Keep the boulevard free from infestations by vermin and insects;
         (d)   Keep the boulevard free of rubbish and debris; and
         (e)   Remove any obstacle or obstruction to the flow of water on the
boulevard.
      (2)   This maintenance obligation shall confer no rights on the property
owner or tenant, and nothing in this section shall be construed to compromise,
in any manner, the absolute right of the village use of any boulevard as it
deems advisable with or without notice to the adjacent property owner or
tenant. This is excluding any commercial property between Forest Avenue and Elm
Avenue, located along Main Street in the village.
(Ord. 15-O-4, passed 4-27-2015)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.37  BARBERRY BUSHES.
   It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or permit the growth of the
bush of the species of tall, common European Barberry, further known as
Barberis Vulgaris or its horticultural varieties within the village.
(2016 Code, § 21.603)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.38  REMOVAL NOTICE; WEEDS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or the Village Clerk to serve or
cause to be served a notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which
weeds or plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this
subchapter and to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten days.
(2016 Code, § 21.604)
§ 92.39  ABATEMENT.
   If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten days, the
Superintendent of Village Services may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping
an account of the expense of the abatement, and such expense shall be charged
and paid by the owner or occupant.
(2016 Code, § 21.605)
§ 92.40  LIEN.
   (A)   Charges for such weed removal shall be a lien upon the premises.
Whenever a bill for such charges remains unpaid for 60 days after it has been
rendered, the Clerk may file with the County Recorders of Piatt County and
Douglas County a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain a legal
description of the premises, the expenses and costs incurred, the date the
weeds were cut, and a notice that the village claims a lien for this amount.
   (B)   Notice of such lien claim be mailed to the owner of the premises if
address is known; provided, however, that failure of the Clerk to record such
lien claim or to mail such notice, or the failure of the owner to receive such
notice, shall not affect the right to foreclose the lien for such charges as
provided in §
92.41.
(2016 Code, § 21.606)
§ 92.41  FORECLOSURE OF LIEN.
   (A)   Property subject to a lien for unpaid weed cutting charges shall be
sold for nonpayment of the same and the proceeds of such sale shall be applied
to pay the charges after deducting costs, as is the case in the foreclosure of
statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be in equity in the name of the
village.
   (B)   The Village Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to institute
such proceedings, in the name of the village, in any court having jurisdiction
over such matter, against any property for which such bill has remained unpaid
60 days after it has been rendered.
(2016 Code, § 21.607)  Penalty, see §
92.99
BUILDINGS
§ 92.55  BUILDING CONSTITUTING NUISANCE.
   In all cases where a nuisance shall be found in any building or premises
within the jurisdiction of the village, the President/Mayor shall cause a
written notice to be served upon the owner, occupant, or person in charge
thereof, if he or she can be found, requiring him or her to abate the same
within a reasonable time. Such notice may, but need not, specify the manner of
abatement. If the person so notified shall neglect or refuse to comply with
such notice, or whenever the owner, occupant, or person in charge is unknown or
cannot be found, the President/Mayor shall proceed to cause such nuisance to be
abated without notice, and the expense thereof shall be collected from the
person who may have created, continued, or suffered such nuisance to exist, in
addition to any fine or penalty.
(2016 Code, § 21.506)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.56  RESPONSIBILITY OF BUILDING OWNERS.
   The owner, agent, occupant, or person charged with the custody of any public
building, auditorium, hotel, theater, lodge hall, or church, and in the case of
schools, the President of the Board of Education, or the person in charge
thereof and owning the same, shall be held liable for the equipment, 
maintenance, and safety of such apparatus as is required in this subchapter for
the maintenance and safety of all exits, doors, windows, and passageways.
(2016 Code, § 21.701)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.57  ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or his or her assistants to inspect
all apparatus to be installed, and their location, and to make or cause to be
made periodic inspections concerning the operation, accessibility, or regular
and emergency exits in all public places.
(2016 Code, § 21.702)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of this Nuisance Code shall, upon conviction, be fined $75 for the
first offense, $150 for the second offense, and $1,000 plus an appearance in
court for the third offense, and each day on which a violation occurs or
continues shall be considered as a separate offense. Any person, firm, or
corporation maintaining a nuisance as herein defined shall, upon conviction, be
fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense, and $1,000 plus
an appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 21.509)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
92.24 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 21.905)
 
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
92.41 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which such nuisance
continues unabated after ten days from receipt of notice.
(2016 Code, § 21.608)
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to permit any building, structure, or place, to
remain in such a condition as to be dangerous to the public health in any way,
per §§
92.55 through
92.57. Any such structure, building, or place is hereby declared to be a
nuisance; and any owner or occupant of such building, structure, or place,
where such nuisance exists, who shall neglect or refuse to abate such nuisance
after being notified to do so by the Health Officer or any police officer,
shall, on conviction, be fined not exceeding $10, and shall incur a further
fine of $2 on each day during which he or she shall allow such nuisance to
continue.
(2016 Code, § 15.208)
CHAPTER 93:  RECREATION AND LEISURE
Section
Parks
   
93.01   Administration
   
93.02   Rules and regulations
   
93.03   Enforcement of regulations
   
93.04   Supervision
   
93.05   Prohibited conduct
Gatherings
   
93.20   Regulations
   
93.21   Inspections
   
93.22   Exits
   
93.23   Seats
   
93.24   Doors
   
93.25   Notice
 
   
93.99   Penalty
PARKS
§ 93.01  ADMINISTRATION.
   All village-owned or operated parks shall be administered by the Park
Committee of the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 10.601)
§ 93.02  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Park Committee shall make such rules and regulations as are necessary
for the use of the parks by the public.
(2016 Code, § 10.602)
§ 93.03  ENFORCEMENT OF REGULATIONS.
   The Park Committee shall enforce all rules and regulations relating to the
village parks.
(2016 Code, § 10.603)
§ 93.04  SUPERVISION.
   The Park Committee shall have supervision over the maintenance and use of
the village parks and over any employee assigned by the corporate authorities
to maintain such parks.
(2016 Code, § 10.604)
§ 93.05  PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person using or engaging in any activities in
any such village park to refuse to obey such rules and regulations.
(2016 Code, § 10.605)  Penalty, see §
93.99
GATHERINGS
§ 93.20  REGULATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to hold, manage, or conduct any meeting or
entertainment of any kind in the village, in any premises other than a building
constructed in full compliance with the ordinances and laws pertaining thereto
for auditorium, theater, or lodge room purposes, excepting in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
(2016 Code, § 21.801)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21  INSPECTIONS.
   No such gathering or entertainment shall be held or presented in any
premises other than a building as described in §
93.20, unless such premises have been examined by the Fire Marshal or Building
Inspector not more than three days before the date of such gathering and found
to be free from any fire hazard and found to be suitable for the purpose. No
structure enclosed by a roof shall be used for such purpose unless the same is
constructed of nonflammable materials; provided that tents or structures
covered by canvas or similar materials may be so used if such canvas or other
material has been properly treated so as to be rendered fire-resistive.
(2016 Code, § 21.802)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22  EXITS.
   Adequate unobstructed exits shall be provided in all premises used for such
purposes to permit rapid egress of all persons attending, and there shall be at
least two separate exits located at least 30 feet from each other. There shall
be two lineal feet of doorway or exit space for each 100 people accommodated.
(2016 Code, § 21.803)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23  SEATS.
   (A)   Any stands or rows of seats used in such premises shall be so
constructed as to be safe for the use designed, and shall be sufficiently
strong to carry the same weight and stress as is required for the construction
of the auditorium floors of theater buildings, not less than 100 pounds per
square foot.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to admit to and such premises a number of persons
to exceed the actual number of seats maintained for their accommodation.
(2016 Code, § 21.804)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.24  DOORS.
   All doors or gates on exits from premises used for such purposes shall open
outward and no such exit shall be constructed or locked that egress from inside
the premises is blocked.
(2016 Code, § 21.805)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.25  NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of any person or persons conducting, calling for, or
managing any gathering in any premises other than a theater, lodge room, or
auditorium building constructed as provided in §
93.21, to notify the Clerk of the date of such intended performance at least
ten days before the meeting is to take place; upon such notice the Fire Marshal
or the Building Inspector shall inspect the premises to determine whether or
not they comply with the provisions hereof. Any permit issued for any such
gathering shall be subject to the condition that this subchapter be fully
complied with, whether or not such condition is embodied in the permit.
(2016 Code, § 21.806)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
93.05 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense.
(2016 Code, § 10.606)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §
93.25 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 21.807)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
CHAPTER 110:  PROFESSIONAL SERVICES
Section
Taxicabs
   
110.01   License required
   
110.02   Definition
   
110.03   Character of applicant
   
110.04   Fee
Photographers
   
110.15   License required
   
110.16   Fees
Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
   
110.30   License required
   
110.31   Fees
   
110.32   Reports
   
110.33   Time of payment
 
   
110.99   Penalty
TAXICABS
§ 110.01  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to engage in the business of operating a taxicab
in the village without first having secured a license therefor.
   (B)   Applications for such licenses shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk, and shall state thereon the name of the applicant, the intended place of
business, and the number of cabs to be operated.
   (C)   If the applicant is a corporation, the names and addresses of the
President and Secretary thereof shall be given.
(2016 Code, § 17.201)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.02  DEFINITION.
   The term TAXICAB, as used in this subchapter, shall mean and include any
vehicle used to carry passengers for hire, but not operating on a fixed route.
(2016 Code, § 17.202)
§ 110.03  CHARACTER OF APPLICANT.
   No such license shall be issued to or held by any person who is not a person
of good character or who has been convicted of a felony, nor shall such license
be issued to or held by any corporation if any officer thereof would be
ineligible for a license under the foregoing conditions.
(2016 Code, § 17.203)
 
§ 110.04  FEE.
   (A)   (1)   The annual fee, payable in advance, for such license shall be
$10 plus $1 for each taxicab operated.
      (2)   Whenever the number so operated shall be increased during the
license year, the licensee shall notify the Clerk of such change and shall pay
the additional fee.
   (B)   (1)   Such fee shall be in lieu of any other vehicle fee required by
ordinance and the Clerk shall issue suitable tags or stickers for the number of
cabs covered by each license.
      (2)   Such tag or sticker shall be displayed in a prominent place on each
taxicab put into service to replace one withdrawn from service.
   (C)   The licensee shall notify the Clerk of the motor number and state
license number of each cab operated and of the corresponding municipal tag or
sticker number.
(2016 Code, § 17.204)
 
PHOTOGRAPHERS
§ 110.15  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to engage in the
business, occupation, or profession of transient, itinerant portrait, or
commercial photography, or in the enlarging, copying, coloring, or portrait
finishing of photographs, or to solicit or offer for sale any of such goods or
services, directly or indirectly, verbally, by telephone, by mail, through the
use of coupons or tokens of whatever nature, or by means of printed advertising
of any form, by subterfuge or otherwise, in the village without first having
procured a license therefor from the Village Clerk, as hereinafter provided.
(2016 Code, § 17.301)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.16  FEES.
   (A)   The license fee for any person, firm, or corporation so engaged,
whether transient or itinerant, shall be $5 per day.
   (B)   Fees shall be paid by such person, firm, or corporation for each
outside solicitor or salesperson, including solicitors or salespersons so
employed but operating from their own temporary or permanent residence or
telephones and whether paid on a salary or commission basis, contracted with or
employed by such person, firm, or corporation for the purpose of selling,
distributing, or securing orders for portrait or commercial photographs, or for
the enlarging, copying, coloring, or portrait finishing thereof, or for the
selling or distribution of coupons or tokens, or other printed or similar
offers or advertising literature pledged or used in the sale of portrait or
commercial photographs, or the enlarging, copying, coloring, or portrait
finishing thereof.
(2016 Code, § 17.302)
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES
§ 110.30  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any corporation or association not incorporated
under the laws of the state  to engage in effecting fire insurance in the
village without fully complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(2016 Code, § 20.101)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.31  FEES.
   Any such corporation or association shall pay to the Treasurer, for the
maintenance, use, and benefit of the Fire Department, a sum of money equal to
2% of the gross receipts each year received for premiums by any and all agents
of any such corporation or association or received as premiums in any way for
fire insurance policies on any property in the village. Such payments shall be
made for the year ending July 1 of each year.
(2016 Code, § 20.102)
§ 110.32  REPORTS.
   Every person acting as representative for or on behalf of any such company
or association shall, on or before the July 15 of each year, render a full,
true, and just account, verified by his or her oath, of all premiums which have
been received by him or her on behalf of the company or association during the
year ending the preceding July 1 on such fire insurance policies.
(2016 Code, § 20.103)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.33  TIME OF PAYMENT.
   All payments under the provisions of this subchapter shall be made on or
before July 15 following the termination of the year for which such payments
are due.
(2016 Code, § 20.104)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the terms or
provisions of §§
110.30 through
110.33 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 17.303)
CHAPTER 111:  ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Local Liquor Control Commissioner
   
111.03   Entry powers
   
111.04   Possession of open containers; consumption in public spaces
Licensing Regulations
   
111.20   License required
   
111.21   Applications
   
111.22   Issuance of licenses to certain persons prohibited
   
111.23   Term; pro-rating fee
   
111.24   Examination of applicant for local license
   
111.25   License fees
   
111.26   Number and description of licenses
   
111.27   Disposition of fees
   
111.28   Renewal of license
   
111.29   List
   
111.30   Transfer of license
   
111.31   Change of location
   
111.32   Revocation; suspension
Conditions and Standards
   
111.45   Closing hours
   
111.46   Election days
   
111.47   Sanitary conditions
   
111.48   Employees
   
111.49   Location restrictions
   
111.50   Stores selling school supplies, lunches, and the like
   
111.51   Sale by restaurants
   
111.52   Access from licensed premises to dwelling quarters
   
111.53   View from street
   
111.54   Minors
   
111.55   Gifts of liquor by persons of non-age; identification cards; rules and
regulations
   
111.56   Sale to intoxicated persons; habitual drunkards
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. Includes alcohol, spirits, wine, beer, and every liquid or
solid, patented or not, containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and capable
of being consumed as a beverage by a human being.
   CLUB. A corporation organized under the laws of this state, and not for
pecuniary profit, solely for the promotion of some common object other than the
sale or consumption of alcoholic liquor, which conforms to the definition of a
club in 235 ILCS 5/1-3.24.
   HOTEL. Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised,
and held out to the public to be a place where meals are actually and regularly
served and consumed and where sleeping accommodations are offered for pay to
travelers and guests, whether transient, permanent, or residential, in which 25
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms where meals are served to such guests,
such sleeping accommodations and dining rooms being conducted in the same
building or buildings, in connection therewith, and such building, buildings,
structure, or structures being provided with adequate and sanitary dining room,
kitchen equipment, and capacity.
   LICENSEE. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, or club holding a
license under the provisions of this chapter.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any bottle, flask, jug, can, cask, barrel, keg, hogshead,
or other receptacle or container, whatsoever used, corked, capped, sealed, and
labeled by the manufacturer of alcoholic liquor, to contain and to convey any
alcoholic liquor.
   RESTAURANT. Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised, and held
out to the public to be a place where meals are served, and where meals are
actually and regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space
being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and
capacity, and having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees
to prepare, cook, and serve suitable food for its guests.
   RETAIL SALE. The sale for use or consumption and not for resale.
(2016 Code, § 18.001)
§ 111.02  LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER.
   (A)   The President/Mayor is hereby authorized to be the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of the Dram
Shop Act, 235 ILCS 5/6-21(a) and of such ordinances and resolutions relating to
alcoholic liquor as may be needed.
   (B)   The President/Mayor may appoint a person or persons to assist him or
her in the exercise of the powers and performance of the duties provided for as
such Local Liquor Control Commissioner.
(2016 Code, § 18.002)
§ 111.03  ENTRY POWERS.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner hereby is given the power to enter or
to authorize any law-enforcing officer to enter, at any time, upon any premises
licensed hereunder, to determine whether any of the provisions of the Dram Shop
Act, 235 ILCS 5/6-21(a), or any rules or regulations adopted by him or her or
by the State Liquor Commission have been or are being violated, and at such
time to examine the premises of said licensee in connection therewith.
(2016 Code, § 18.013)
§ 111.04  POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINERS; CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC SPACES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession an open
container of alcoholic liquor or to consume any alcoholic liquor on any of the
streets, sidewalks, parking lots, or other municipal or public property within
the corporate limits of the village.
(2016 Code, § 18.029)  Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSING REGULATIONS
§ 111.20  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale, in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a license, or in violation of the terms of such
license.
(2016 Code, § 18.003)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21  APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner.
   (B)   Such applications shall be made in writing, and shall be signed by the
applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof if a club or
corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the following
information and statements:
      (1)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a co-partnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit or a club, the
date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names and
addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority of the stock of such
corporation, in interest, is owned by one person or his or her nominee, the
name and address of such person;
      (2)   The citizenship of the applicant, his or her place of birth, and if
a naturalized citizen, the time and place of his or her naturalization;
      (3)   The character of business of the applicant; and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed;
      (4)   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of the corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued;
      (5)   The amount of goods, wares, and merchandise on hand at the time the
application is made;
      (6)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license;
      (7)   A statement as to whether the applicant has made similar
application for a similar license on premises, other than described in this
application, and the disposition of such application;
      (8)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of the state, or ordinances of the village;
      (9)   Whether a previous license by state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government, has been revoked and the reasons thereof; and
      (10)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of
the state or country in the conduct of his or her place of business.
(2016 Code, § 18.004)
§ 111.22  ISSUANCE OF LICENSES TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   Except as otherwise provided, no license of any kind shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not a resident of the village in which the premises
covered by the license is located, except in case of railroad or boat licenses;
   (B)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he or she resides;
   (C)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States;
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of a felony under any federal or state
law, unless the Commission determines that such person has been sufficiently
rehabilitated to warrant the public trust after considering matters set forth
in such person’s application and the Commission’s investigation. The burden of
proof of sufficient rehabilitation shall be on the applicant;
   (E)   A person who has been convicted on being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame;
   (F)   A person who has been convicted of pandering, or other crimes or
misdemeanors opposed to decency and morality;
   (G)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause;
   (H)   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application;
   (I)   A co-partnership, if any general partnership thereof, or any limited
partnership thereof, owning more than 5% of the aggregate limited partner
interest in such co-partnership would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than residence within the political subdivision,
unless residency is required by local ordinance;
   (J)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for
any reason other than citizenship and residence within the political
subdivision;
   (K) A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is a
foreign corporation which is qualified under the Business Corporation Act of
1983, being 805 ILCS 5, to transact business in Illinois;
   (L)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
possesses the same qualifications required by the licensee;
   (M)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession, or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this code of ordinances or has forfeited his or
her bond to appear in court to answer charges for any such violation;
   (N)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which the
license is sought, or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
   (O)   Any law-enforcing public official, including members of Local Liquor
Control Commissions, any mayor, alderman, or member of the village board, any
president/mayor of the village board of trustees, or any president or member of
a county board; and no such official shall be interested directly in the
manufacturing, sale, or distribution of alcoholic liquor, except that a license
may be granted to such official in relation to premises that are not located
within the territory subject to the jurisdiction of that official if the
issuance of such license is approved by the State Liquor Control Commission and
except that a license may be granted, in a city or village with a population of
50,000 or less, to any alderman, member of a city council, or member of a
village board of trustees in relation to premises that are located within the
territory subject to the jurisdiction of that official if:
      (1)   The sale of alcoholic liquor pursuant to the license is incidental
to the selling of food;
      (2)   The issuance of the license is approved by the State Commission;
      (3)   The issuance of the license is in accordance with all applicable
local ordinances in effect where the premises are located; and
      (4)   The official granted a license does not vote on alcoholic liquor
issues pending before the board or council to which the license holder is
elected.
   (P)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
(2016 Code, § 18.005)
§ 111.23  TERM; PRO-RATING FEE.
   Each such license shall terminate on June 30 next following its issuance.
The fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months
which have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the license.
(2016 Code, § 18.006)
§ 111.24  EXAMINATION OF APPLICANT FOR LOCAL LICENSE.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall have the right to examine, or
cause to be examined, under oath, any application for a local license or for a
renewal thereof, or any licensee upon whom notice or revocation or suspension
has been served as provided by statute, and to examine or cause to be examined
the books and records of any such applicant or licensee, to hear testimony and
take proofs for his or her information in the performance of his or her duties,
and for such purpose to issue subpoenas which shall be effective in any part of
this state. For the purpose of obtaining any of the information desired by
Local Liquor Control Commissioner under this section, he or she may authorize
his or her agent to act on his or her behalf, as provided by statute.
(2016 Code, § 18.007)
§ 111.25  LICENSE FEES.
   Each person, firm, or corporation engaged in retail sale of alcoholic liquor
in the village shall pay an annual license fee of $1,000, the fee to be paid on
a semi-annual basis of $500 to become due on June  30 and December 31 of each
year. Such licenses shall permit the sale of liquor only under the class of
license that is issued to each licensee.
(2016 Code, § 18.008)
§ 111.26  NUMBER AND DESCRIPTION OF LICENSES.
   (A)   There shall be issued in the village one license per 1,000 population
or fraction thereof in Class CA, Class E, and Class B. There shall be three
classes of licenses issued.
   (B)   The descriptions of the classes are:
      (1)   Class CA. Sale of spirits and wine or beer at retail for
consumption on premises and package sales;
      (2)   Class B. Package sales only, no consumption on premises; and
      (3)   Class E. Beer, wine, or spirits for consumption on premises only.
(2016 Code, § 18.009)
§ 111.27  DISPOSITION OF FEES.
   All such fees shall be paid to the Village Clerk at the time the application
is made and shall be forthwith turned over to the Treasurer. In the event the
license applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant; if
the license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the General
Corporate Fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the
Village Board for proper action.
(2016 Code, § 18.010)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28  RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof;
provided that, he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the
premises for which such renewal license is sought are suitable for the
purposes; provided further that, the renewal privilege herein provided for,
shall not be construed as a vested right which shall in any case prevent the
President/Mayor from decreasing the number of licenses to be issued within his
or her jurisdiction.
(2016 Code, § 18.011)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29  LIST.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner shall keep or cause to be kept a
complete record of all such licenses issued by him or her.
(2016 Code, § 18.015)
§ 111.30  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   A license shall be a purely personal privilege, good for and not
to exceed, one year after issuance unless sooner revoked as is in this chapter
provided, and shall not constitute property, nor shall it be subject to being
encumbered or hypothecated. Such licenses shall not descend by the laws of the
state or interstate devolution, it shall cease upon the death of the licensee;
provided that, executors or administrators of the estate of any deceased
licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic liquor, may continue
the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic liquor under order of the
appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of the deceased or insolvent
or bankrupt licensee after the death of such decedent, or such insolvency or
bankruptcy until the expiration of such license, but no longer than six months,
after the death, bankruptcy, or insolvency of such licensee.
      (2)   A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fee paid for
any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under such
license in accordance with the provisions of this division (A).
   (B)   Any licensee may renew his or her license at the expiration thereof,
provided he or she is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for
which such renewal license is sought are suitable for such purposes.
(2016 Code, § 18.016)
§ 111.31  CHANGE OF LOCATION.
   A liquor dealer’s license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only in
the premises described in the application and license. Such location may be
changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the
President/Mayor. No change of location is a proper one for the retail sale of
alcoholic liquor under the statutes of the state and the ordinances of the
village.
(2016 Code, § 18.017)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32  REVOCATION; SUSPENSION.
   The Local Liquor Control Commissioner may suspend for not more than 30 days,
as according to Ill. Rev. Stat. Ch. 43, para. 112, or revoke for cause any
liquor dealer’s license for any violation of any provision pertaining to the
sale or alcoholic liquor, as provided in the manner provided in  Ill. Rev.
Stat. Ch. 43, para. 149.
(2016 Code, § 18.030)  Penalty, see §
111.99
CONDITIONS AND STANDARDS
§ 111.45  CLOSING HOURS.
   (A)   Class AA license. It shall be unlawful to keep open or permit to be
open any place where alcoholic liquor is sold between the hours of 1:00 a.m.
and 7:00 a.m. of any work day; between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on
Saturday; or between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:01 p.m. on Sunday afternoon
and 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Monday.
   (B)   Class B and E license. It shall be unlawful for alcoholic liquor to be
sold between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any work day; between the
hours 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on Saturday; or between the hours 1:00 a.m. and
12:01 p.m. on Sunday afternoon and 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on Monday.
(2016 Code, § 18.012)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.46  ELECTION DAYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person duly licensed to sell alcoholic liquor
at retail on the day of a national, state, county, or municipal election
including primary elections, during the hours the polls are open within the
political area in which the election is being held.
(2016 Code, § 18.014)
§ 111.47  SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   All premises used for the sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the storage of
such liquor for sale, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and
shall be kept in full compliance with the ordinances regulating the condition
of the premises used for the storage or sale of food for human consumption.
(2016 Code, § 18.019)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.48  EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to employ in any
premises used for the sale of alcoholic liquor any person who is afflicted
with, or who is a carrier of, any contagious, infectious, or venereal disease;
and it shall be unlawful for any person afflicted with or who is a carrier of
any such disease to work in or about any such premises, or to engage in work in
or about any such premises, or to engage in any way in the handling,
preparation, or distribution of such liquor.
(2016 Code, § 18.020)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.49  LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   No license shall be issued for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor
within 100 feet of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or indigent
person, or for veterans, their wives or children, or any military or naval
station; provided that, this prohibition shall not apply to clubs, restaurants,
food shops, or other places where the sale of alcoholic liquor is not the
principal business carried on, if such place of business not exempted shall
have been established for such purpose prior to the taking effect of this
chapter; nor to the renewal of a license for the sale of alcoholic liquor on
premises within 100 feet of any church where such church has been established
since the issuance of the original license.
(2016 Code, § 18.021)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.50  STORES SELLING SCHOOL SUPPLIES, LUNCHES, AND THE LIKE.
   No license shall be issued to any person for the sale at retail of any
alcoholic liquor at any store or other place of business where the majority of
customers are minors of school age or where the principal business transacted
consists of school books, school supplies, food, lunches, or drinks for such
minors.
(2016 Code, § 18.022)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.51  SALE BY RESTAURANTS.
   Any restaurant licensed to sell alcoholic liquor shall be permitted to sell
liquor with meals served in the restaurant or with food at a bar which is
separate from the restaurant but located in the same building.
(2016 Code, § 18.023)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.52  ACCESS FROM LICENSED PREMISES TO DWELLING QUARTERS.
   (A)   Except in the case of hotels and clubs, no alcoholic liquor shall be
sold at retail upon any premises which has any access which leads from such
premises to any other portion of the same building, or structure, used for
dwelling or lodging purposes and which is permitted to be used or kept
accessible for any use by the public.
   (B)   This provision shall not prevent any connection between such premises
and such other portion of the building, or structure, which is used only by
this licensee, his or her family, and personal guests.
(2016 Code, § 18.024)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.53  VIEW FROM STREET.
   (A)   In premises in which the sale of alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises is licensed, other than in restaurants, hotels, clubs or any
bowling alley other than one situated on the first or ground floor, no screen,
blind, curtain, partition, article, or thing shall be permitted in the windows
or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside such premises, which
shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such licensed premises from the
street, road, or sidewalk at all times, and no booth, screen, partition, or
other obstruction nor any arrangement of lights or lighting shall be permitted
in or about the interior of such premises which shall prevent a full view of
the entire interior of such premises, and the entire space used by the public
must be so located that there shall be a full view of the same from the street,
road, or sidewalk.
   (B)   All rooms where alcoholic liquor is sold for consumption on the
premises shall be continually lighted during business hours by natural or
artificial white lights so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall
be clearly visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required
by the foregoing provision shall be willfully obscured or obstructed, such
license shall be revoked in the manner herein provided.
   (C)   In order to enforce the provisions of this section, the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner shall have the right to require the filing with him or her
of plans, drawings, and photographs showing the clearance of the view as above
required.
(2016 Code, § 18.025)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.54  MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
purchase or obtain any alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other place in the
village where alcoholic liquor is sold.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to
misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing or obtaining
alcoholic liquor in any tavern or other place in the village where alcoholic
liquor is sold.
   (C)   In every tavern or other place in the village where alcoholic liquor
is sold there shall be displayed at all times in a prominent place a printed
card which shall be supplied by the Clerk and which shall read substantially as
follows:
WARNING TO MINORS
You are subject to a fine up to $1,000 under the ordinances of the village if
you purchase alcoholic liquor or misrepresent your age for the purpose of
purchasing or obtaining alcoholic liquor. It shall be unlawful for any holder
of a retail liquor dealer’s license or his or her agent or employee to suffer
or permit any person under the age of 21 years to remain in any room or
compartment adjoining, adjacent to, or situated in the room or place where such
licensed premises are located; provided that, this paragraph shall not apply to
any person under the age of 21 years who is accompanied by his or her parent or
guardian. In addition to all other fines and penalties, the Local Liquor
Control Commissioner may revoke or suspend the retail liquor dealer’s license
for any violation of this section. It shall be unlawful for any parent or
guardian to permit any person under the age of 21 years of which he or she may
be the parent or guardian to violate any of the provisions of this ordinance.
(2016 Code, § 18.026)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.55  GIFTS OF LIQUOR BY PERSONS OF NON-AGE; IDENTIFICATION CARDS; RULES
AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to whom the sale, gift, or
delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of age to purchase or accept
a gift of alcoholic liquor or to have alcoholic liquor in his or her
possession.
   (B)   If a licensee of his or her agents or employees believes or has reason
to believe that a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of
the non-age of the prospective recipient, he or she shall, before making such
sale or delivery, demand the presentation of some form of positive
identification, containing proof of age, issued by a public officer in the
performance of his or her official duties.
   (C)   (1)   No person shall transfer, alter, or deface such an
identification card, use the identification card of another, carry or use a
false or forged identification card, or obtain an identification card by means
of false information.
      (2)   No person shall purchase, accept delivery, or have possession of
alcoholic liquor in violation of this section.
(2016 Code, § 18.027)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.56  SALE TO INTOXICATED PERSONS; HABITUAL DRUNKARDS.
   It shall be unlawful for the holder of an alcoholic liquor dealer’s license
to sell, deliver, or give any alcoholic liquor to any intoxicated person.
(2016 Code, § 18.028)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense, and
$1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 18.031)
CHAPTER 112:  AMUSEMENTS AND RECREATION
Section
General Amusements
   
112.01   Application
   
112.02   Street shows
   
112.03   Athletic exhibitions
   
112.04   Inspections
   
112.05   Premises
Billiard and Pool Tables
   
112.20   License required
   
112.21   Fees
   
112.22   Minors
Pinball Machines and Jukeboxes
   
112.35   Fees
   
112.36   Application
   
112.37   Regulations
Video Games
   
112.50   Definition
   
112.51   Imposition of fee and license
   
112.52   License required
   
112.53   License application and issuance; limitations
   
112.54   Display of license; transfer
   
112.55   Illegal amusement devices and video gambling terminals prohibited;
inspections
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL AMUSEMENTS
§ 112.01  APPLICATION.
    The provisions of this subchapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall
apply to all public shows, theatricals, circuses, and other amusements in the
village, whether specifically licensed in another portion in this code or not.
(2016 Code, § 19.001)
§ 112.02  STREET SHOWS.
   No permit shall be granted or given for any exhibition, show, or other
amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such place that
the only main accommodation for the public or the audience will be in a public
place, except on order of the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 19.002)
§ 112.03  ATHLETIC EXHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate, or exhibit any race between
persons, animals, vehicles, or any baseball game, boxing, wrestling matches, or
any other athletic contest or exhibition for admission to which a fee is
charged without having first procured a license therefor. The Village Board
shall have the power to waive any such license and fee charges for not-for-
profit charitable organizations. Schools are exempt from the requirements of
this section.
(2016 Code, § 19.003)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04  INSPECTIONS.
    It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to see that every exhibition,
amusement, theatrical, or other public show or amusement is inspected by a
member of the Police Department.
(2016 Code, § 19.004)
§ 112.05  PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful to operate or permit the operation of any amusement
licensed in this subchapter unless the premises in which such amusement is
operated or permitted to be operated conforms with all the provisions or
requirements in this code of ordinances relating to public buildings and public
gatherings.
(2016 Code, § 19.006)  Penalty, see §
112.99
BILLIARD AND POOL TABLES
§ 112.20  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall operate, maintain, or conduct a
billiard or pool table open to the public without having first obtained a
license therefor. All applications for such a license shall state thereon the
intended location of the place of business and the number of tables to be used
therein.
(2016 Code, § 17.101)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.21  FEES.
   The annual fees for any such license shall be $10 for each table.
(2016 Code, § 17.102)
§ 112.22  MINORS.
   Minors under the age of 16 years shall not, under any circumstances,
frequent, loiter, go, or remain in any hall licensed hereunder at any time,
unless it be upon some lawful errand and sent under the direction and with the
consent of and the knowledge of the parent, guardian, or other person having
the lawful custody of such minor; and it shall be unlawful for the proprietor
of any hall so licensed to allow or permit any such minor to frequent, loiter,
or remain within the hall in violation of this subchapter.
(2016 Code, § 17.103)  Penalty, see §
112.99
PINBALL MACHINES AND JUKEBOXES
§ 112.35  FEES.
   Each owner-operator who shall own and operate in the village one or more of
such coin-operated device as enumerated above, shall pay a village license fee
of $20 per year, payable semi-annually in advance. No license shall be issued
for less than one year. In no case shall any portion of said license fee be
repaid to the licensee.
(2016 Code, § 17.402)
§ 112.36  APPLICATION.
   (A)   An applicant desiring to secure such license shall file with the
Village Clerk his or her application in writing, signed by him or her, stating
the name and address of the owner-operator, the number of coin-operated devices
which he or she has in operation in the village, the address in which each such
device is located, and the type of business in which it is operated.
   (B)   Amendments to this application shall be filed whenever new locations
or new machines are added.
   (C)   Upon payment of fees, the Village Clerk shall then issue said license.
   (D)   This license shall be non-assignable and non-transferable except for
replacement of machines in this location.
(2016 Code, § 17.403)
§ 112.37  REGULATIONS.
   No proprietor of a public establishment operating such machine shall permit
any person under the age of 16 years to operate, use, or play any pinball
machine or other machine used for amusement during the hours in which the
city’s public schools are in session. All such machines shall at all times be
kept and placed in plain view of all persons who may be on or frequent any
place of business or other place where such machines are kept or used.
(2016 Code, § 17.405)  Penalty, see §
112.99
VIDEO GAMES
§ 112.50  DEFINITION.
   VIDEO GAMING TERMINALS shall have the same meaning as “video gaming
terminal”, as set forth in the Video Gaming Act, 230 ILCS 40/1 et seq., as
amended.
(2016 Code, § 17.601)  (Ord. 12-O-4, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 112.51  IMPOSITION OF FEE AND LICENSE.
   There is hereby imposed, on the privilege of operating every video gaming
terminal in the village, an annual privilege fee and license for each such
video gaming terminal. For each video gaming terminal or device, a $25 fee is
required to obtain a license.
(2016 Code, § 17.602)  (Ord. 12-O-4, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 112.52  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person who displays any video gaming terminal to be played or operated
by the public at any place owned or leased by any such person shall, before
such person displays such device or terminal, file with the Village Clerk an
application for a license for each such device or terminal. Any person who
displays any video gaming terminal to be played or operated by the public
shall, as a prerequisite to receiving any license from the village, have a
valid license from the state for each such terminal, and the loss or suspension
of any such license by the state shall automatically result in the same status,
or the license issued hereunder without refund of any license fee.
(2016 Code, § 17.603)  (Ord. 12-O-4, passed 8-20-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.53  LICENSE APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE; LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to display in the village any video gaming
terminal shall make application for the appropriate license to the Village
Clerk. Each such application shall be accompanied by the required license fee.
The applicant shall include a copy of the license from the state for each video
gaming terminal on the premises. Upon receipt of the proper application and
upon the payment of the fee and license as herein provided, the Clerk shall
issue the appropriate license for each such terminal which such license shall
be issued for a period of one year from January 1 to December 31. If the
applicant applies for a video gaming license in the middle of the calendar
year, the Village Clerk shall prorate the amount due.
   (B)   No more than five video gaming terminals may be located on any
licensed premises. No more than three licensed premises may display video
gaming terminals to be played or operated by the public.
(2016 Code, § 17.604)  (Ord. 12-O-4, passed 8-20-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.54  DISPLAY OF LICENSE; TRANSFER.
   The license for each video gaming terminal shall be affixed in plain view to
the device for which it is issued. A video gaming terminal license is not
transferable.
(2016 Code, § 17.605)  (Ord. 12-O-4, passed 8-20-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.55  ILLEGAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND VIDEO GAMBLING TERMINALS PROHIBITED;
INSPECTIONS.
   No license shall be issued for any video gaming terminal which violates the
laws of the state or the ordinances of the village. All video gaming terminals
shall be available for inspection by the village  Police Chief, for the purpose
of ascertaining and declaring whether such laws and ordinances are complied
with.
(2016 Code, § 17.606)  (Ord. 12-O-4, passed 8-20-2012)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
112.20 through
112.22 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 17.105)
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating §§
112.35 through
112.37 or any of the provisions thereof, shall be fined $75 for the first
offense, $150 for the second offense, and $1,000 plus an appearance in court
for the third offense; and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each
day during or on which a violation occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 17.406)
CHAPTER 113:  PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Applications and issuance of license
   
113.04   Bonds
   
113.05   Fee
   
113.06   General prohibitions
   
113.07   Soliciting or peddling on streets or other public spaces
   
113.08   Restrictions on hours for peddling and soliciting
   
113.09   Notice regulating peddling or soliciting
   
113.10   Revocation of license
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLE. The selling, bartering, exchanging, or the offering for sale,
barter, or exchange of tangible personal property within the village, but shall
not include the delivery of any item previously ordered or the sale of items
along delivery routes where the purchaser has previously requested the seller
to stop and exhibit his or her items, nor shall PEDDLE be taken to include the
solicitation of orders by sample where the goods are not delivered at the time
the order is taken.
   RESIDENCE. Every separate living unit occupied for residential purposes by
one or more persons, contained within any type of building or structure.
   SOLICITING. Any one or more of the following activities: seeking to obtain
orders for the purchase of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, services of
any kind, character, or description whatever, for any kind of consideration
whatever; or seeking to obtain prospective customers for application or
purchase of insurance of any type, kind, or character; or seeking to obtain
subscriptions to books, magazine periodicals, newspapers, and every other type
or kind of publication; or seeking to obtain gifts or contributions of money,
clothing, or any other valuable thing for the support or benefit of any
charitable or nonprofit association, organization, corporation, or project.
(2016 Code, § 22.026)  (Ord. 14-O-5, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 113.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person, firm, or corporation to peddle or solicit within the village without
having first secured a license therefor. Such license shall be carried by the
holder during peddling or soliciting.
(2016 Code, § 22.026)  (Ord. 14-O-5, passed 6-16-2014)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.03  APPLICATIONS AND ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   An application for a license shall be made upon a form provided by the
village. The applicant shall truthfully state in full the information requested
on the application:
      (1)   The name and address of present place of residence and length of
residence at such address, also the business address if other than the present
address;
      (2)   The address of the place of residence during the past three years
if other than present address;
      (3)   The age of applicant;
      (4)   The physical description of the applicant;
      (5)   The name and address of the person, firm, corporation, or
association whom the applicant is employed by or represents and the length of
time of such employment or representation;
      (6)   The name and address of the employer during the past three years if
other than the present employer;
      (7)   A description sufficient for identification of the items, goods, or
services to be peddled or solicited;
      (8)   The date or approximate date, of the latest previous application
for license under this chapter, if any;
      (9)   Whether a license issued to the applicant under this chapter has
ever been revoked;
      (10)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a violation of a
felony under the laws of this state or any other state or any federal law of
the country;
      (11)   A description of each vehicle, if any, to be used in connection
with the solicitation or peddling, including the vehicle identification number
and registration number of each vehicle;
      (12)   The names of the three most recent communities where the applicant
has peddled or solicited including the addresses and phone numbers of the
officials of said communities who issued permits or licenses to the applicant;
      (13)   The proposed method of operation;
      (14)   The signature of the applicant;
      (15)   The Social Security number of applicant; and
      (16)   The State Retailers’ Occupation Tax number.
   (B)   All statements made by the applicant upon the application or in
connection therewith shall be under oath. The applicant shall produce his or
her driver’s license or some other form of positive identification.
   (C)   The applicant shall submit to fingerprinting if requested by the
Police Department in connection with the application for the license. The
Police Department may also conduct an investigation, with regard to the
application, to verify the information included therein. No license shall be
issued to any person who has been convicted of the commission of a felony under
the laws of this state or any other state or federal law of the country within
five years prior to the date of the application; nor to any person who has been
convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, nor to any
person whose license issued hereunder has previously been revoked, nor to any
person who does not have an State Retailers’ Occupation Tax number.
   (D)   The Police Department shall have up to 72 hours to complete the
investigation, and to submit all necessary information to the Village Clerk. If
the applicant meets all of the qualifications for a license, the Village Clerk
shall issue the license. If the applicant does not meet all of the
qualifications, the license shall be denied and the applicant shall be notified
as to the reasons why the license is being denied and the reasons shall also be
noted on the application itself. The decision of a police officer of the
village to revoke a license may be appealed to the Village Board.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall cause to be kept in his or her office an
accurate record of every application received and acted upon together with all
other information and data pertaining thereto and all licenses issued under the
provisions of this chapter, and the denial of licenses. Applications for
licenses shall be numbered in consecutive order as filed, and every license
issued and any renewal thereof shall be identified with the duplicate number of
the application upon which it was issued.
(2016 Code, § 22.026)  (Ord. 14-O-5, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 113.04  BONDS.
   Before any license shall be issued, the applicant shall file with the
Village Clerk a bond running to the village in the sum of $1,000 executed by
the applicant as principal, and two sureties upon which service of process may
be made in the state. Such bond shall be conditioned that the applicant shall
comply fully with all of the provisions of the ordinances of the village and
the statutes of the state, regulating and concerning the sale of goods, wares,
and merchandise, and will pay all judgments rendered against the applicant for
any violation of the ordinances or statutes, or any of them, together with all
judgments and costs that may be recovered against him or her by any person for
damage growing out of any misrepresentation or deception practiced on any
person transacting such business with such applicant, whether such
misrepresentations or deceptions were made or practiced by the owners or by
their servants, agents, or employees, either at the time of making the sale or
through any advertisement of any character whatsoever, printed or calculated
with reference to the goods, wares, and merchandise sold or any part thereof.
Action on the bond may be brought in the name of the village to the use of the
aggrieved person.
(2016 Code, § 22.026)  (Ord. 14-O-5, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 113.05  FEE.
   The fee for each license shall be $100. The license of registration shall be
good for one year from the date of issuance and shall state the expiration date
thereof.
(2016 Code, § 22.026)  (Ord. 14-O-5, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 113.06  GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for a
hawker, solicitor, peddler, itinerant vendor, or one of similar occupation to
enter any private dwelling without being admitted, or to insist upon the
showing or sale of his or her goods or wares to any person after being
requested not to do so, or to annoy any person by importunities to purchase, or
to obstruct any sidewalk or street by the opening of his or her goods or wares.
(2016 Code, § 22.026)  (Ord. 14-O-5, passed 6-16-2014)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07  SOLICITING OR PEDDLING ON STREETS OR OTHER PUBLIC SPACES.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for a
person to peddle or solicit on any street,  sidewalk, park, parkway, or in any
other public place unless his or her license specifically grants the right to
peddle or solicit in such public places.
(2016 Code, § 22.026)  (Ord. 14-O-5, passed 6-16-2014)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08  RESTRICTIONS ON HOURS FOR PEDDLING AND SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person whether licensed under this chapter or not, to peddler or solicit or to
go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door of a residence
located thereon, or rap or knock upon any door or create any sound in any other
manner calculated to attract the attention of the occupant of such residence,
for the purpose of securing an audience with the occupant thereof and engage in
peddling or soliciting as herein defined, prior to 9:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m.
on Monday through Saturday, or at any time on a Sunday, or on a state or
national holiday.
(2016 Code, § 22.026)  (Ord. 14-O-5, passed 6-16-2014)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09  NOTICE REGULATING PEDDLING OR SOLICITING.
   (A)   In the event that a person or entity desires to bar peddling or
solicitation at a residence, business, or other building, said occupant may
state on a notice placed on a main entrance door the determination that “No
Solicitors or Peddlers Invited”. Said notice shall constitute sufficient notice
to any solicitor or peddler of the determination by the occupant that no
solicitation or peddling is desired or allowed.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor or peddler upon going onto any
premises in the municipality to first examine any notice provided for in this
chapter, if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states “No Solicitors or Peddlers Invited”, or a notice
with a similar intended message, then the solicitor or peddler shall
immediately and peaceably depart from the premises. Any solicitor or peddler
who has gained entrance to any premises, whether invited or not, shall
immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when requested to do so by
the occupant.
   (C)   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance
for any person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any
door, or create any sound in any other manner calculated to attract the
attention of the occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an
audience with the occupant thereof and engage in soliciting or peddling, as
herein defined, in defiance of the notice exhibited at the residence in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
(2016 Code, § 22.026)  (Ord. 14-O-5, passed 6-16-2014)  Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any licensed peddler or solicitor who shall commit any fraud, cheating, or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or herself, or through an employee,
while acting as a peddler or solicitor in the village or who shall barter,
sell, or peddle any goods, merchandise, or wares other than those specified in
his or her application for a license shall be deemed guilty of a violation of
this subchapter, and his or her license may be immediately revoked by the
Village President/Mayor or Chief of Police. Any license issued under the
provisions of this subchapter may be revoked by the Village President/Mayor or
any police officer of the village for any violation of any regulation hereof,
and such revocation shall be in addition to any fine imposed in §
113.99, in the event of a revocation, any fee paid to obtain a license shall be
forfeited and shall not be refunded. The decision of a police officer of the
village to revoke a license may be appealed to the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 22.026)  (Ord. 14-O-5, passed 6-16-2014)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $1,000; and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. The Village Attorney is granted authority to commence a court action
as necessary to enforce any provision of this code of ordinances or to seek any
fine or penalty.
(2016 Code, § 22.026)  (Ord. 14-O-5, passed 6-16-2014)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
      
133.   OFFENSES PERTAINING TO MINORS
CHAPTER 130:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Intoxication
   
130.03   Fighting
   
130.04   Assault
   
130.05   Cheating
   
130.06   Assemblages
   
130.07   Hunting
   
130.08   Combustible refuse
   
130.09   Missiles
   
130.10   Discharge of firearms
   
130.11   Scaffolds
   
130.12   Articles on windows
   
130.13   Whistles
   
130.14   Fuel tanks
§ 130.01  DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be guilty of disorderly conduct
or of any conduct tending toward a breach of the peace.
   (B)   The causing or making of any unnecessary loud noise, shouting, or
yelling shall be considered disorderly conduct.
(2016 Code, § 22.002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02  INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in an intoxicated condition on or
in any street, alley, or other public place in the village.
(2016 Code, § 22.003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03  FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful to use profanity in any street, alley, or other public
place in the village.
(2016 Code, § 22.006)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04  ASSAULT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any assault, battery, or to
fight in any public place in the village.
(2016 Code, § 22.007)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05  CHEATING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to obtain
possession of any goods, property, or thing of value by any false proceedings,
cheating, or by fraud of any kind.
(2016 Code, § 22.008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06  ASSEMBLAGES.
   (A)   Disturbing assemblages. It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb
any lawful assemblage or gathering in the village.
(2016 Code, § 22.009)
   (B)   Unlawful assemblages. It shall be unlawful to collect, gather, or be a
member of any disorderly crowd, or any crowd gathered together for any unlawful
purpose.
(2016 Code, § 22.014) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07  HUNTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in killing any animal or bird
other than as prescribed by law in the village.
(2016 Code, § 22.010)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.08  COMBUSTIBLE REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful to permit or store any combustible refuse in such a way
as to create a fire hazard, or to store or throw any refuse of any kind on any
alley, street, or other public place in the village.
(2016 Code, § 22.011)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.09  MISSILES.
   It shall be unlawful to cast, throw, or propel any missile on any street,
alley, or public place; and it shall be unlawful to throw or deposit any glass,
nails, tacks, or other similar articles on any street, sidewalk, or alley in
the village.
(2016 Code, § 22.012)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.10  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge any firearms or air-guns in the
village; provided that, this division (A) shall not be construed to prohibit
any officer of the law to discharge a firearm in the performance of his or her
duty, nor to any citizen to discharge a firearm in the performance of his or
her duty, nor to any citizen to discharge a firearm when lawfully defending his
or her person or property.
(2016 Code, § 22.016)
   (B)   The discharge of a firearm or air-gun for test purposes will be
permitted within the village limits within the B1 District when performed by a
federally licensed gun dealer with a certified gunsmith/armorer on the premises
at the time of the gun discharge into a steel bullet trap. This division (B) is
valid only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
(Ord. 12-O-1, passed 3-19-2012) 
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.11  SCAFFOLDS.
   Any scaffolds or ladders placed in such a position that they overhang or can
fall onto any public street, alley, or other public place in the village, shall
be firmly and properly constructed, secured, and safeguarded; and it shall be
unlawful to place or leave any tools or articles on any such place in such a
manner that the same can fall onto any such street, sidewalk, alley, or other
public place, from a height greater than four feet. Any person or persons who
wish to utilize or install a scaffold over any public street, sidewalk, alley,
or other public place must first acquire a permit from the village.
(2016 Code, § 22.020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.12  ARTICLES ON WINDOWS.
   It shall be unlawful to place any moveable article on any window ledge, or
other place abutting on a public street, alley, or other place at a height of
about four feet from the ground in such a manner that the same can be or is in
danger of falling onto such street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place.
(2016 Code, § 22.021)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.13  WHISTLES.
   It shall be unlawful to blow or cause to be blown or sounded any whistle of
any engine except as a signal for starting or stopping work or in emergencies
to avoid injury to persons or property.
(2016 Code, § 22.022)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.14  FUEL TANKS.
   It shall be unlawful to install or maintain any fuel, oil, gas, or liquid
gas tanks in the village unless such tank and all equipment connected therewith
is installed and maintained in accordance with the rules of the State Fire
Marshal or of any other state agency having jurisdiction thereof.
(2016 Code, § 22.025)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS AND PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Advertising
   
131.02   Fires
   
131.03   Posting bills
   
131.04   Medical advertisements
§ 131.01  ADVERTISING.
   It shall be unlawful to advertise any unlawful business or article in the
village and it shall be unlawful to injure or deface any lawful advertisement
or notice.
(2016 Code, § 22.013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02  FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to build or light any bonfire so close to any building,
structure, or on any street, sidewalk, or pavement as to endanger it.
(2016 Code, § 22.015)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03  POSTING BILLS.
   It shall be unlawful to post any bills or advertisements on any public
property without the authority of the Village Board; and it shall be unlawful
to post any bill or advertisement on any property without the written consent
of the owner thereof.
(2016 Code, § 22.017)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04  MEDICAL ADVERTISEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation by himself, or
herself, or his, her, or its agents or servants, to distribute, cast, throw,
place, or cause to be distributed, cast, thrown, or placed in, upon, or along
any of the streets, alleys, or other public places of the village, or upon the
porches or yards of private residences therein, or within any dwelling or
building in the village, any samples of merchandise of medicinal preparations
for the purpose or with the intent of advertising or making known in a general
or promiscuous manner any business, occupation, proposition, medical treatment,
medicine, or other article whatsoever.
(2016 Code, § 22.018)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Public indecency
   
132.02   Obscenity
   
132.03   Harmful material
Gambling
   
132.15   Definitions
   
132.16   Gambling
   
132.17   Keeping a gambling place
   
132.18   Seizure of gambling devices and gambling funds
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01  PUBLIC INDECENCY.
   (A)   Any person of the age of 17 years and upwards who performs any of the
following acts in a public place commits a public indecency:
      (1)   An act of sexual penetration or sexual conduct; or
      (2)   A lewd exposure of the body done with intent to arouse or to
satisfy the sexual desire of the person.
   (B)   Breast-feeding of infants is not an act of public indecency.
   (C)   PUBLIC PLACE for purposes of this section means any place where the
conduct may reasonably be expected to be viewed by others.
(720 ILCS 5/11-30(a), (b))
Statutory reference:
   Public indecency by person 18 year of age or older, or within 500 feet of
elementary or secondary school grounds when children are present, Class 4
felony, see 720 ILCS 5/11-30(c)
§ 132.02  OBSCENITY.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person commits obscenity when, with
knowledge of the nature or content thereof, or recklessly failing to exercise
reasonable inspection which would have disclosed the nature or content thereof,
he or she:
      (1)   Sells, delivers, or provides, or offers or agrees to sell, deliver,
or provide any obscene writing, picture, record, or other representation or
embodiment of the obscene; 
      (2)   Presents or directs an obscene play, dance or other performance or
participates directly in that portion thereof which makes it obscene;
      (3)   Publishes, exhibits, or otherwise makes available anything obscene;
      (4)   Performs an obscene act or otherwise presents an obscene exhibition
of his or her body for gain;
      (5)   Creates, buys, procures, or possesses obscene matter or material
with intent to disseminate it in violation of this section, or of the penal
laws or regulations of any other jurisdiction; or
      (6)   Advertises or otherwise promotes the sale of material represented
or held out by him or her to be obscene, whether or not it is obscene.
   (B)   Obscene defined. Any material or performance is OBSCENE if:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that, taken as a whole, it appeals to the prurient
interest;
      (2)   The average person, applying contemporary adult community
standards, would find that it depicts or describes, in a patently offensive
way, ultimate sexual acts or sadomasochistic sexual acts, whether normal or
perverted, actual or simulated, or masturbation, excretory functions, or lewd
exhibition of the genitals; and
      (3)   Taken as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
   (C)   Interpretation of evidence.
      (1)   Obscenity shall be judged with reference to ordinary adults except
that it shall be judged with reference to children or other specially
susceptible audiences if it appears from the character of the material or the
circumstances of its dissemination to be specially designed for or directed to
such an audience.
      (2)   Where circumstances of production, presentation, sale,
dissemination, distribution, or publicity indicate that material is being
commercially exploited for the sake of its prurient appeal, the evidence is
probative with respect to the nature of the matter and can justify the
conclusion that the matter is lacking in serious literary, artistic, political,
or scientific value.
      (3)   In any prosecution for an offense under this section, evidence
shall be admissible to show:
         (a)   The character of the audience for which the material was
designed or to which it was directed;
         (b)   What the predominant appeal of the material would be for
ordinary adults or a special audience, and what effect, if any, it would
probably have on the behavior of those people;
         (c)   The artistic, literary, scientific, educational, or other merits
of the material, or absence thereof;
         (d)   The degree, if any, of public acceptance of the material in this
state;
         (e)   Appeal to prurient interest, or absence thereof, in advertising
or other promotion of the material;
         (f)   Purpose of the author, creator, publisher, or disseminator.
   (D)   Permissive inference. The trier of fact may infer an intent to
disseminate from the creation, purchase, procurement, or possession of a mold,
engraved plate, or other embodiment of obscenity specially adapted for
reproducing multiple copies, or the possession of more than three copies of
obscene material.
   (E)   Affirmative defenses. It shall be an affirmative defense to obscenity
that the dissemination:
      (1)   Was not for gain and was made to personal associates other than
children under 18 years of age; and/or
      (2)   Was to institutions or individuals having scientific or other
special justification for possession of such material.
   (F)   Forfeiture of property. A person who has been convicted previously of
the offense of obscenity and who is convicted of a second or subsequent offense
of obscenity is subject to the property forfeiture provisions set forth in
Article 124B of the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963, being 725 ILCS 5/124B-
5 et seq.
(720 ILCS 5/11-20(a) - (c), (e) - (g))  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03  HARMFUL MATERIAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration. 
      HARMFUL TO MINORS. That quality of any description or representation, in
whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sado-
masochistic abuse when, taken as a whole, it does the following:
         (a)   Predominately appeals to the prurient interest in sex of minors;
         (b)   Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult
community in the state as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for
minors; and
         (c)   Lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value
for minors. 
      KNOWINGLY. Having knowledge of the contents of the subject matter, or
recklessly failing to exercise reasonable inspection which would have disclosed
the contents.
      MATERIAL.
         (a)   Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, film, video game,
computer game, video or similar visual depiction, including any such
representation or image which is stored electronically; or
         (b)   Any book, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or
recorded audio of any sort.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 18.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area or
buttocks with less than a fully opaque covering, or the showing of the female
breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion below the top of
the nipple, or the depiction of covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state.
      SADO-MASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person clad
in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being
fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained on the part of one clothed
for sexual gratification or stimulation.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, or physical
contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks or,
if the person be a female, breast.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals when in
a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   (B)   A person is guilty of distributing harmful material to a minor when he
or she does either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly sells, lends, distributes, exhibits to, depicts to, or
gives away to a minor any of the following, knowing that the minor is under the
age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in ascertaining the person’s
true age:
         (a)   Any material which depicts nudity, sexual conduct or sado-
masochistic abuse, or which contains explicit and detailed verbal descriptions
or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic
abuse, and which taken as a whole is harmful to minors;
         (b)   A motion picture, show, or other presentation which depicts
nudity, sexual conduct or sado-masochistic abuse and is harmful to minors; or
         (c)   An admission ticket or pass to premises where there is exhibited
or to be exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other presentation.
      (2)   Admits a minor to premises where there is exhibited or to be
exhibited such a motion picture, show, or other presentation, knowing that the
minor is a person under the age of 18 or failing to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the person’s true age.
   (C)   In any prosecution arising under this section, it is an affirmative
defense:
      (1)   That the minor as to whom the offense is alleged to have been
committed exhibited to the accused a draft card, driver’s license, birth
certificate, or other official or apparently official document purporting to
establish that the minor was 18 years of age or older, which was relied upon by
the accused;
      (2)   That the defendant was in a parental or guardianship relationship
with the minor or that the minor was accompanied by a parent or legal guardian;
      (3)   That the defendant was a bona fide school, museum, or public
library, or was a person acting in the course of his or her employment as an
employee or official of such organization or retail outlet affiliated with and
serving the educational purpose of the organization;
      (4)   That the act charged was committed in aid of legitimate scientific
or educational purposes; or
      (5)   That an advertisement of harmful material as defined in this
section culminated in the sale or distribution of the harmful material to a
child under circumstances where there was no personal confrontation of the
child by the defendant, his or her employees, or agents, as where the order or
request for the harmful material was transmitted by mail, telephone, internet,
or similar means of communication, and delivery of the harmful material to the
child was by mail, freight, internet, or similar means of transport, which
advertisement contained the following statement, or a substantially similar
statement, and that the defendant required the purchaser to certify that he or
she was not under the age of 18 and that the purchaser falsely stated that he
or she was not under the age of 18: “NOTICE: It is unlawful for any person
under the age of 18 to purchase the matter advertised.  Any person under the
age of 18 that falsely states that he or she is not under the age of 18 for the
purpose of obtaining the material advertised is guilty of a Class B misdemeanor
under the laws of the state.”
   (D)   The predominant appeal to prurient interest of the material shall be
judged with reference to average children of the same general age of the child
to whom the material was sold, lent, distributed, or given, unless it appears
from the nature of the matter or the circumstances of its dissemination or
distribution that it is designed for specially susceptible groups, in which
case the predominant appeal of the material shall be judged with reference to
its intended or probable recipient group.
   (E)   Distribution of harmful material in violation of this section is a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (F)   Any person under the age of 18 who falsely states, either orally or in
writing, that he or she is not under the age of 18, or who presents or offers
to any person any evidence of age and identity that is false or not actually
his or her own with the intent of ordering, obtaining, viewing, or otherwise
procuring or attempting to procure or view any harmful material is guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor.
   (G)   A person over the age of 18 who fails to exercise reasonable care in
ascertaining the true age of a minor, knowingly distributes to, or sends, or
causes to be sent, or exhibits to, or offers to distribute, or exhibits any
harmful material to a person that he or she believes is a minor is guilty of a
Class A misdemeanor.
   (H)   Telecommunications carriers, commercial mobile service providers, and
providers of information services, including but not limited to internet
service providers and hosting service providers, are not liable under this
section, except for willful and wanton misconduct, by virtue of the
transmission, storage, or caching of electronic communications or messages of
others or by virtue of the provision of other related telecommunications,
commercial mobile services, or information services used by others in violation
of this section.
(720 ILCS 5/11-21)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Distribution of harmful material, second or subsequent offense, a Class 4
felony, see 720 ILCS 5/11-21(e)
   Use of a computer web camera, cellular telephone, or any other type of
device to manufacture the harmful material, a Class 4 felony, see 720 ILCS 5/
11-21(g)
GAMBLING
§ 132.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESS. Has the meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.
   COMPUTER.  Hasthe meaning ascribed to it in 720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.
   GAMBLING DEVICE. Any clock, tape machine, slot machine or other machines or
device for the reception of money or other thing of value on chance or skill or
upon the action of which money or other thing of value is staked, hazarded,
bet, won or lost; or any mechanism, furniture, fixture, equipment or other
device designed primarily for use in a gambling place. A GAMBLING DEVICE does
not include:
      (1)   A coin-in-the-slot operated mechanical device played for amusement
which rewards the player with the right to replay such mechanical device, which
device is so constructed or devised as to make such result of the operation
thereof depend in part upon the skill of the player and which returns to the
player thereof no money, property or right to receive money or property;
      (2)   Vending machines by which full and adequate return is made for the
money invested and in which there is no element of chance or hazard;
      (3)   A crane game. For the purposes of this definition, a CRANE GAME is
an amusement device involving skill, if it rewards the player exclusively with
merchandise contained within the amusement device proper and limited to toys,
novelties, and prizes other than currency, each having a wholesale value which
is not more than $25;
      (4)   A redemption machine. For the purposes of this definition, a
REDEMPTION MACHINE is a single-player or multi-player amusement device
involving a game, the object of which is throwing, rolling, bowling, shooting,
placing, or propelling a ball or other object that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights into, upon, or against a hole or
other target that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights, or stopping, by physical, mechanical, or electronic means, a moving
object that is either physical or computer generated on a display or with
lights into, upon, or against a hole or other target that is either physical or
computer generated on a display or with lights, provided that all of the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The outcome of the game is predominantly determined by the skill
of the player;
         (b)   The award of the prize is based solely upon the player’s
achieving the object of the game or otherwise upon the player’s score;
         (c)   Only merchandise prizes are awarded;
         (d)   The wholesale value of prizes awarded in lieu of tickets or
tokens for single play of the device does not exceed $25; and
         (e)   The redemption value of tickets, tokens, and other
representations of value, which may be accumulated by players to redeem prizes
of greater value, for a single play of the device does not exceed $25.
      (5)   Video gaming terminals at a licensed establishment, licensed truck
stop establishment,  licensed large truck stop establishment, licensed
fraternal establishment, or licensed veterans establishment licensed in
accordance with the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40).
   INTERNET. An interactive computer service or system or an information
service, system, or access software provider that provides or enables computer
access by multiple users to a computer server, and includes, but is not limited
to, an information service, system, or access software provider that provides
access to a network system commonly known as the Internet, or any comparable
system or service and also includes, but is not limited to, a World Wide Web
page, newsgroup, message board, mailing list, or chat area on any interactive
computer service or system or other online service.
   LOTTERY. Any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed
by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to
win such prizes, whether such scheme or procedure is called a lottery, raffle,
gift, sale or some other name, excluding savings promotion raffles authorized
under § 5g of the Illinois Banking Act (205 ILCS 5/5g), § 7008 of the Savings
Bank Act (205 ILCS 5/7008), § 42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act (205 ILCS
5/42.7), § 5136B of the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. § 25a), or § 4 of the Home
Owners’ Loan Act (12 U.S.C. § 1463).
   POLICY GAME. Any scheme or procedure whereby a person promises or guarantees
by any instrument, bill, certificate, writing, token or other device that any
particular number, character, ticket or certificate shall in the event of any
contingency in the nature of a lottery entitle the purchaser or holder to
receive money, property or evidence of debt.
(720 ILCS 5/28-2)
§ 132.16  GAMBLING.
   (A)   A person commits gambling when he or she:
      (1)   Knowingly plays a game of chance or skill for money or other thing
of value, unless excepted in division (B) below;
      (2)   Knowingly makes a wager upon the result of any game, contest, or
any political nomination, appointment or election;
      (3)   Knowingly operates, keeps, owns, uses, purchases, exhibits, rents,
sells, bargains for the sale or lease of, manufactures or distributes any
gambling device;
      (4)   Contracts to have or give himself or herself or another the option
to buy or sell, or contracts to buy or sell, at a future time, any grain or
other commodity whatsoever, or any stock or security of any company, where it
is at the time of making such contract intended by both parties thereto that
the contract to buy or sell, or the option, whenever exercised, or the contract
resulting therefrom, shall be settled, not by the receipt or delivery of such
property, but by the payment only of differences in prices thereof; however,
the issuance, purchase, sale, exercise, endorsement or guarantee, by or through
a person registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to § 8 of the Illinois
Securities Law of 1953 (815 ILCS 5/8), or by or through a person exempt from
such registration under § 8, of a put, call, or other option to buy or sell
securities which have been registered with the Secretary of State or which are
exempt from such registration under § 3 of the Illinois Securities Law of 1953
(815 ILCS 5/3) is not gambling within the meaning of this division (A)(4);
      (5)   Knowingly owns or possesses any book, instrument or apparatus by
means of which bets or wagers have been, or are, recorded or registered, or
knowingly possesses any money which he or she has received in the course of a
bet or wager;
      (6)   Knowingly sells pools upon the result of any game or contest of
skill or chance, political nomination, appointment or election;
      (7)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any lottery or sells, offers to sell
or transfers any ticket or share for any lottery;
      (8)   Knowingly sets up or promotes any policy game or sells, offers to
sell or knowingly possesses or transfers any policy ticket, slip, record,
document or other similar device;
      (9)   Knowingly drafts, prints or publishes any lottery ticket or share,
or any policy ticket, slip, record, document or similar device, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois or any other
state or foreign government;
      (10)   Knowingly advertises any lottery or policy game, except for such
activity related to lotteries, bingo games and raffles authorized by and
conducted in accordance with the laws of the State of Illinois or any other
state;
      (11)   Knowingly transmits information as to wagers, betting odds, or
changes in betting odds by telephone, telegraph, radio, semaphore or similar
means; or knowingly installs or maintains equipment for the transmission or
receipt of such information; except that nothing in this division (A)(11)
prohibits transmission or receipt of such information for use in news reporting
of sporting events or contests; or
      (12)   Knowingly establishes, maintains, or operates an Internet site
that permits a person to play a game of chance or skill for money or other
thing of value by means of the Internet or to make a wager upon the result of
any game, contest, political nomination, appointment, or election by means of
the Internet. This division (A)(12) does not apply to activities referenced in
divisions (B)(6)(a), (B)(6)(b), and (B)(15) below.
   (B)   Participants in any of the following activities shall not be convicted
of gambling:
      (1)   Agreements to compensate for loss caused by the happening of chance
including without limitation contracts of indemnity or guaranty and life or
health or accident insurance;
      (2)   Offers of prizes, award or compensation to the actual contestants
in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength or
endurance or to the owners of animals or vehicles entered in such contest;
      (3)   Pari-mutuel betting as authorized by the law of this state;
      (4)   Manufacture of gambling devices, including the acquisition of
essential parts therefor and the assembly thereof, for transportation in
interstate or foreign commerce to any place outside this state when such
transportation is not prohibited by any applicable federal law; or the
manufacture, distribution, or possession of video gaming terminals, as defined
in the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40), by manufacturers, distributors, and
terminal operators licensed to do so under the Video Gaming Act;
      (5)   The game commonly known as “bingo”, when conducted in accordance
with the Bingo License and Tax Act (230 ILCS 25);
      (6)   (a)   Lotteries when conducted by the State of Illinois in
accordance with the Illinois Lottery Law (20 ILCS 1605). This exemption
includes any activity conducted by the Department of Revenue to sell lottery
tickets pursuant to the provisions of the Illinois Lottery Law and its rules;
and
         (b)   The purchase of lottery tickets through the Internet for a
lottery conducted by the State of Illinois under the program established in §
7.12 of the Illinois Lottery Law (20 ILCS 1605/7.12).
      (7)   Possession of an antique slot machine that is neither used nor
intended to be used in the operation or promotion of any unlawful gambling
activity or enterprise. For the purpose of this division (B)(7), an ANTIQUE
SLOT MACHINE is one manufactured 25 years ago or earlier;
      (8)   (a)   Raffles and poker runs when conducted in accordance with the
Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15); and
         (b)   The purchase of raffle chances for a raffle conducted in
accordance with the Raffles and Poker Runs Act (230 ILCS 15).
      (9)   Charitable games when conducted in accordance with the Charitable
Games Act (230 ILCS 30);
      (10)   Pull tabs and jar games when conducted under the Illinois Pull
Tabs and Jar Games Act (230 ILCS 20);
      (11)   Gambling games conducted on riverboats when authorized by the
Riverboat Gambling Act (230 ILCS 10);
      (12)   Video gaming terminal games at a licensed establishment, licensed
truck stop establishment, licensed fraternal establishment, or licensed
veterans establishment when conducted in accordance with the Video Gaming Act
(230 ILCS 40);
      (13)   Games of skill or chance where money or other things of value can
be won but no payment or purchase is required to participate;
      (14)   Savings promotion raffles authorized under § 5g of the Illinois
Banking Act (205 ILCS 5/5g), § 7008 of the Savings Bank Act (205 ILCS 205/
7008), § 42.7 of the Illinois Credit Union Act (205 ILCS 305/42.7), § 5136b of
the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. § 25a), or § 4 of the Home Owners’ Loan Act
(12 U.S.C. § 1463); and
      (15)   Sports wagering when conducted in accordance with the Sports
Wagering Act (230 ILCS 45).
   (C)   Circumstantial evidence. In prosecutions under this section
circumstantial evidence shall have the same validity and weight as in any
criminal prosecution.
(720 ILCS 5/28-1(a), (b), (d))  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Second and subsequent offenses of divisions (B)(3) through (B)(12) of §
132.16, felonies, see 720 ILCS 5/28-1
§ 132.17  KEEPING A GAMBLING PLACE.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, a GAMBLING PLACE  is any real estate,
vehicle, boat, or any other property whatsoever used for the purposes of
gambling other than gambling conducted in the manner authorized by the
Riverboat Gambling Act (230 ILCS 10), the Sports Wagering Act (230 ILCS 45), or
the Video Gaming Act (230 ILCS 40).  No person shall knowingly permit any
premises or property owned or occupied by him or her or under his or her
control to be used as a gambling place.
   (B)   When any premises is determined by the circuit court to be a gambling
place:
      (1)   The premises is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and may be
proceeded against as such; and
      (2)   The premises of any person who knowingly permits thereon a
violation of any section of this chapter shall be held liable for and may be
sold to pay any unsatisfied judgment that may be recovered and any unsatisfied
fine that may be levied under any section of this chapter.
(720 ILCS 5/28-3)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.18  SEIZURE OF GAMBLING DEVICES AND GAMBLING FUNDS.
   (A)   Every device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use or
every device used unlawfully for gambling shall be considered a gambling device
and shall be subject to seizure, confiscation, and destruction by the
Department of State Police or village authorities. As used in this section, a
GAMBLING DEVICE includes any slot machine, and includes any machine or device
constructed for the reception of money or other thing of value and so
constructed as to return, or cause someone to return, on chance to the player
thereof money, property, or a right to receive money or property. With the
exception of any device designed for gambling which is incapable of lawful use,
no gambling device shall be forfeited or destroyed unless an individual with a
property interest in the device knows of the unlawful use of the device.
(720 ILCS 5/28-5(a))
   (B)   Every gambling device shall be seized and forfeited to the county
wherein the seizure occurs.  Any money or other thing of value integrally
related to acts of gambling shall be seized and forfeited to the county wherein
the seizure occurs.
(720 ILCS 5/28-5(b))
CHAPTER 133:  OFFENSES PERTAINING TO MINORS
Section
Curfew
   
133.01   Curfew offenses
   
133.02   Curfew defenses
   
133.03   Enforcement
   
133.04   Definitions
 
   
133.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 133.01  CURFEW OFFENSES.
   (A)   A minor commits a curfew offense when he or she remains in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment during curfew hours.
   (B)   A parent or guardian of a minor or other person in custody or control
of a minor commits a curfew offense when he or she knowingly permits the minor
to remain in any public place or on the premises of any establishment during
curfew hours.
§ 133.02  CURFEW DEFENSES.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
133.01 of this chapter that the minor was:
   (A)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian or other person in
custody or control of the minor;
   (B)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
   (C)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
   (D)   Engaged in an employment activity or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
   (E)   Involved in an emergency;
   (F)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
   (G)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental
agency, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor, or going to or returning home from, without any
detour or stop, an official school, religious, or other recreational activity
supervised by adults and sponsored by a government or governmental agency, a
civic organization, or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the
minor;
   (H)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
   (I)   Married or had been married or is an emancipated minor under the
Emancipation of Minors Act.
§ 133.03  ENFORCEMENT.
   Before taking any enforcement action under this section, a law enforcement
officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in the
public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an arrest under
this section unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has
occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in
§
133.02 of this chapter is present.
§ 133.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURFEW HOURS.
      (1)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Saturday;
      (2)   Between 12:01 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on Sunday; and
      (3)   Between 11:00 p.m. on Sunday to Thursday, inclusive, and 6:00 a.m.
on the following day.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
   ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business operated for a profit
to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of
amusement or entertainment.
   GUARDIAN.
      (1)   A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person of a
minor; or
      (2)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by a
court.
   MINOR. Any person under 17 years of age.
   PARENT. A person who is:
      (1)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
      (2)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian to
have the care and custody of a minor.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
   REMAIN. To:
      (1)   Linger or stay; or
      (2)   Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police officer
or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
   SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
§ 133.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §§
133.01 through
133.04 of this chapter is a petty offense with a fine of not less than $10, nor
more than $500; except that, neither a person who has been made a ward of the
court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 (705 ILCS 405), nor that person’s
legal guardian, shall be subject to any fine. In addition to or instead of the
fine imposed by this division (B), the court may order a parent, legal
guardian, or other person convicted of a violation of §
133.01 of this chapter to perform community service as determined by the court,
except that the legal guardian of a person who has been made a ward of the
court under the Juvenile Court Act of 1987 may not be ordered to perform
community service. The dates and times established for the performance of
community service by the parent, legal guardian, or other person convicted of a
violation of §
133.01 of this chapter shall not conflict with the dates and times that the
person is employed in his or her regular occupation.
(720 ILCS 5/12C-60(a) - (e))
Statutory reference:
   Authority to impose curfew, see 65 ILCS 5/11-1-5
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
      
152.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
153.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.01   Definition
   
150.02   Prohibition
   
150.03   Abatement
   
150.04   Fire limits
Building Code
   
150.15   Purpose of code
   
150.16   Scope of code
   
150.17   Validity of other laws
   
150.18   Permits, inspections, and posting of live loads
   
150.19   Supplementary requirements
   
150.20   Abatement
Public Buildings
   
150.35   Responsibility
   
150.36   Enforcement
   
150.37   Location and number of appliances
   
150.38   Fire drills
   
150.39   Removal of apparatus
   
150.40   Doors
   
150.41   Exit lights
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Comprehensive Plan, see
Ch. 153
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 154
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which
is dangerous to the public health because of its conditions and which may cause
or aid in the spread of disease or injury to the health of the occupants of it
or neighboring structures;
         (b)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which
because of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair, or any other cause
is especially liable to fire constitutes or creates a fire hazard; and
         (c)   Any building, shed, fence, or other human-made structure which
because of its condition or because of lack of doors or windows is available to
and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not lawful
occupants of such structure.
      (2)   Any such DANGEROUS BUILDING in the village is hereby declared to be
a nuisance.
(2016 Code, § 21.201)
§ 150.02  PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the village and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it remains in a dangerous condition.
(2016 Code, § 21.202)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03  ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Building Inspector, the Fire Marshal, or the Health
Officer shall be of the opinion that any building or structure in the village
is a dangerous building, he or she shall file a written statement to this
effect with the Village Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice
to be served upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by
registered mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in a dangerous condition, and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing, altering, or by
demolishing the building, and that the condition must be remedied at once. Such
notice may be in the following terms:
“To_____________ (Owner-occupant of premises) of the premises known and
described as _______.You are hereby notified the (describe building) on the
premises above mentioned has been condemned as a nuisance and a dangerous
building after inspection by______. The causes for this decision are (here
insert the facts as to the dangerous condition). You must remedy this condition
or demolish the building immediately, or the village will proceed to do so.”
   (B)   If the person receiving the notice has not complied therewith or taken
an appeal from the determination of the officer or employee finding that a
dangerous building exists, within ten days from the time when this notice is
served upon such person by personal service or registered mail, the Building
Inspector, may upon orders of the Village Board, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the dangerous building.
(2016 Code, § 21.203)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.04  FIRE LIMITS.
   (A)   Any frame building or structure within the fire limits of the village
as hereinbefore prescribed by ordinance, which as or may be damaged by fire,
decay, or other causes to the extent of 50% of its value, shall be torn down
and removed or rebuilt.
   (B)   Upon written notice by the Building Inspector, the Health Officer, or
the Fire Marshal to the effect that such building has been so damaged, filed
with the Clerk, the said Clerk shall notify the Village Board of the receipt of
such notice.
   (C)   The Village Board shall then appoint three persons to determine
whether or not such building or structure has been damaged to the extent of 50%
of its value.
   (D)   A copy of the notice of the appointment of this board of three persons
to determine the damage shall be served upon the owner of the premises by
personal service or by registered mail at his or her last known address. Such
notice shall be in substantially the following form:
“To ________,
   You are hereby notified that ______ has determined that the building owned
by you at ______, located within the fire limits of the village, has been
damaged by fire, decay, or otherwise to the extent of 50% of its value and that
a board of three persons has been appointed to verify this finding, which board
will hold its first meeting in the Municipal Building on the___ day or _____ at
the hour of_____ o’clock, at which time it will determine whether or not this
finding is correct. If this finding is verified by the board, you must tear
down and remove the said building, or rebuild.
   If this finding is verified by the board of three members and it determines
that the building in question has been damaged to the extent of 50% of its
value, it shall be the duty of the owner to tear down and remove said building
within 20 days after the finding of such board, or to remodel it to comply with
the requirements of new buildings in the fire village limits; and it shall be
unlawful to occupy or permit the occupancy of such building after such finding
until it is so remodeled.”
(2016 Code, § 21.204)  Penalty, see §
150.99
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.15  PURPOSE OF CODE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for safety, health, and public
welfare through structural strength, stability, means of egress, adequate
light, ventilation, and protection to life and property from fire and hazards
incident to the design, construction, alteration, removal, or demolition of
buildings and structures.
(2016 Code, § 21.301)
§ 150.16  SCOPE OF CODE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter apply to the construction,
alteration, equipment, use, occupancy, location, and maintenance of buildings
and structures and to appurtenances such as vaults, areaways, and street
encroachments, hereafter erected and, where expressly stated, existing on land
or over water and to buildings, structures, and equipment for the operation
thereof hereafter moved or demolished in the municipality.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter based on occupancy also apply to
existing buildings, structures, or portions thereof converted from one
occupancy classification to another.
(2016 Code, § 21.302)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17  VALIDITY OF OTHER LAWS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent the enforcement of
other laws which prescribe more restrictive limitations.
(2016 Code, § 21.303)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.18  PERMITS, INSPECTIONS, AND POSTING OF LIVE LOADS.
   (A)   No building or structure shall be built, enlarged, altered, or moved
without a permit from the Building Official, who may require a plan of the
proposed work, together with a statement of the materials to be used.
   (B)   The Building Official shall inspect all buildings or structures during
construction to see that the provisions of the law are complied with and that
construction is prosecuted safely. Whenever in his or her opinion, by reason of
defective or illegal work in violation of a provision of this subchapter, the
continuance of a building operation is contrary to public welfare, he or she
may order all further work to be stopped and may require suspension of work
until the condition in violation has been remedied.
   (C)   In buildings, structures, or portions thereof used for business,
industrial, mercantile, or storage occupancies, the live load for which each
floor or part of a floor is designed and approved shall be conspicuously posted
in part of the story to which it applies.
(2016 Code, § 21.304)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.19  SUPPLEMENTARY REQUIREMENTS.
   All matters not covered by this subchapter shall conform with generally
accepted good practice. The 1955 edition of the National Building Code
recommended by the National Board of Fire Underwriters shall be deemed to be
generally accepted good practice.
(2016 Code, § 21.305)
§ 150.20  ABATEMENT.
   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not preclude the
corporation counsel from instituting an appropriate action or proceeding to
prevent an unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance, or use, or to restrain, correct, or abate a violation,
or to prevent the occupancy of a building, structure, or portion thereof, or of
the premises, or to prevent an illegal act, conduct business, or use in or
about any premises.
(2016 Code, § 21.307)  Penalty, see §
150.99
PUBLIC BUILDINGS
§ 150.35  RESPONSIBILITY.
   The owner, agent, occupant, or person charged with the custody of any public
building, auditorium, hotel, theater, lodge hall, or church, and in the case of
schools the President of the Board of Education, or the person in charge
thereof and owning the same, shall be held liable for the equipment,
maintenance, and safety of such apparatus as is required in this subchapter for
the maintenance and safety of all exits, doors, windows, and passageways.
(2016 Code, § 21.701)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.36  ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief or his or her assistants to inspect
all apparatus to be installed, and their location, and to make or cause to be
made periodic inspections concerning the operation, accessibility, or regular
and emergency exits in all public places.
(2016 Code, § 21.702)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.37  LOCATION AND NUMBER OF APPLIANCES.
   Unless the public building is equipped with an adequate sprinkler system or
connected with a public fire alarm system, the following appliances must be
installed in the locations specified herein (unless other location shall be
more accessible and convenient for protection against fires):
   (A)   Theaters.
      (1)   Stage: Two one-quart chemical hand extinguishers, one on each side
of the stage; one two and one-half gallon chemical hand extinguisher, readily
accessible; and five-gallon hand pump; one fire axe;
      (2)   Foyer: Two one-quart chemical hand extinguishers, one at each end;
and
      (3)   Manager’s office: One two-gallon chemical hand extinguisher or
five-gallon hand pump.
   (B)   Public buildings, auditoriums, lodge halls, and hotels. One five-
gallon hand pump and one fire axe at or near the main entrance on the ground
floor; five-gallon hand pump at or near the foot of all basement stairways; two
pails in boiler room unless oil burner is used, then two and one-half gallon
special chemical hand extinguisher just outside boiler room door; one-quart
chemical hand extinguisher on stage, and one-quart chemical hand extinguisher
in lobby;
   (C)   Churches. One five-gallon pump at or near main entrance on ground
floor; one five-gallon hand pump and fire axe in the boiler room; and
   (D)   Schools. One five-gallon hand pump and a fire axe at or near the main
entrance on the ground floor; the same at the head of main stairway; the same
in the boiler room.
(2016 Code, § 21.703)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.38  FIRE DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the principal or other person in charge of the
pupils in every school in the village to establish and maintain a good and
efficient fire drill which shall be practiced at least once a month during the
time the building is used for school purposes. A written report shall be made
by the principal, or person in charge of such building, of each fire drill held
and of the time elapsed from the first fire signal until the last person was
out.
(2016 Code, § 21.704)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.39  REMOVAL OF APPARATUS.
   It shall be unlawful to remove from its proper place any fire apparatus or
appliance except for inspection or in case of emergency.
(2016 Code, § 21.705)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.40  DOORS.
   All public buildings which may be or are used for church, school, opera
performances, theater, lecture rooms, hotel, public meeting places, or similar
purposes or which may be or are used for the collection of people for worship,
amusement, or instruction, and all buildings used for stores to which the
public is invited, shall be so built so that all doors leading from the main
hall or place of assembly shall open outward and all means of egress for
persons within such buildings shall be by means of doors which shall open
outwards from the main hall and from the building.
(2016 Code, § 21.706)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.41  EXIT LIGHTS.
   In all theaters and public meeting halls, a red lit sign illuminating the
word “EXIT” shall be kept  over each regular and emergency exit while the
theater or hall is occupied by an audience or by patrons.
(2016 Code, § 21.707)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
150.01 through
150.04, or permitting any dangerous building, or any building or structure to
remain in a dangerous condition, or to remain in the fire limits, without
remodeling as above provided for, after it has been damaged to the extent of
50% of its value, shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second
offense, and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a
separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a
violation occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 21.205)
   (C)   A person who shall violate a provision of §§
150.15 through
150.20 or fails to comply therewith or with any of the requirements thereof, or
who shall erect, construct, alter, repair, or has erected, constructed,
altered, or repaired a building or structure or portion thereof, in violation
of a detailed statement or plan submitted and approved thereunder, or of a
permit or certificate issued thereunder, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense or by imprisonment
not exceeding six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment. The owner of a
building or structure of portion thereof, or of the premises where anything in
violation of §§
150.15 through
150.20 shall be placed or shall exist, and an architect, engineer, builder,
contractor, agent, person, or corporation employed in connection therewith and
who may have assisted in the commission of such violation shall each be guilty
of separate offenses and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a
fine of $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense, and $1,000 plus
an appearance in court for the third offense, or by imprisonment not exceeding
six months, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(2016 Code, § 21.306)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
150.35 through
150.41 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 21.708)
CHAPTER 151:  STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Supervision
   
151.002   Construction
   
151.003   Bond
   
151.004   Specifications
   
151.005   Injury to pavements
   
151.006   Repairs
   
151.007   Defects
   
151.008   Obstructions
   
151.009   Barricades
   
151.010   Disturbing barricades
   
151.011   Private use
   
151.012   Encroachments
   
151.013   Drains
   
151.014   Poles and wires
   
151.015   Gas pumps
   
151.016   Openings
   
151.017   Barbed wire fences; electric current fences
   
151.018   Deposits on streets
   
151.019   Deposits on sidewalks
   
151.020   Burning leaves and rubbish
   
151.021   View at corners
   
151.022   Erecting structures for private use
   
151.023   Established grade
Driveways
   
151.035   Permit required
   
151.036   Grade surfaces
   
151.037   Specifications
   
151.038   Repair
Excavations
   
151.050   Permit required
   
151.051   Applications
   
151.052   Issuance
   
151.053   Barricades and lights
   
151.054   Manner of excavating
   
151.055   Sidewalks
   
151.056   Time limits
   
151.057   Restoring surface
   
151.058   Supervision
   
151.059   Exemptions
Overhanging Signs and Awnings
   
151.070   Permits
   
151.071   Constructions
   
151.072   Height above sidewalk
   
151.073   Inspections
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  SUPERVISION.
   All public streets, alleys, sidewalks, and other public ways shall be under
the supervision of the Superintendent of Streets. He or she shall have
supervision over all work thereon, and the cleaning thereof, and shall be
charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions relating to such
public places (except traffic ordinances) and is hereby authorized to enforce
such ordinances.
(2016 Code, § 10.101)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.002  CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or lay any pavement on any public street,
sidewalk, alley, or other public way, or to repair the same without having
first secured a permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to
the Village Clerk, and shall state the location of the intended pavement or
repair, the extent thereof, and the person or firm who is to do the actual
construction work. No such permit shall be issued except on order of the
Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 10.102)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.003  BOND.
   Each applicant shall file a bond or policy, in the amount established by the
Village Board with sureties to be approved by the Village Board, conditioned to
indemnify the village from any loss or damage resulting from the work
undertaken or the manner of doing the same.
(2016 Code, § 10.103)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.004  SPECIFICATIONS.
   All street and sidewalk pavement shall be made in conformity with the
specifications approved from time to time by the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 10.104)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.005  INJURY TO PAVEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any vehicle or animal upon, or
injure any newly laid street or alley pavement while the same is guarded by a
warning sign or barricade, or to knowingly injure any street, sidewalk, or
alley pavement.
(2016 Code, § 10.105)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.006  REPAIRS.
   All public street, alley, and sidewalk pavement shall be in good repair.
Such repair work, whether done by the village or the abutting owner, shall be
under the supervision of the Superintendent of Streets.
(2016 Code, § 10.106)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.007  DEFECTS.
   It shall be the duty of every village officer or employee becoming cognizant
of any defect in any street, alley, or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to
report the same to the Superintendent of Streets as soon as possible.
(2016 Code, § 10.107)
§ 151.008  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or encumber any street, alley, or sidewalk,
or any portion thereof with merchandise or other property for a longer time
than may be reasonably necessary for the purpose of loading or unloading such
merchandise or property or removing it therefrom.
   (B)   No person shall obstruct or encumber any street, alley, or sidewalk,
or any portion thereof, so as to hinder, delay, or render passage along the
same difficult or unsafe, either by piling up boxes, building materials, or in
any other manner whatsoever, except by permission of the Village President/
Mayor or Police Chief.
   (C)   No person shall obstruct or encumber any street, alley, or sidewalk,
or any portion thereof, with materials of any kind or character for the
construction of any building without the written consent or permit of the
Village President/Mayor. No such obstruction shall continue in any case for a
longer time than is necessary in the diligent and prompt construction of the
building.
   (D)   No person shall, except in case of urgent necessity for a short time,
obstruct more than one third of any alley or street, or one-half of any
sidewalk, nor shall such obstruction continue in any case for a longer time
than is necessary in the diligent and prompt execution of the work.
(2016 Code, § 10.108)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.009  BARRICADES.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation laying or repairing any pavement on a
street, sidewalk, or other public place, or making an excavation in the same,
shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury of any person or vehicle
by reason of the work, such barricades shall be protected by suitable lights at
night time.
   (B)   Any defect in any such pavement shall be barricaded to prevent injury,
and any person, firm, or corporation properly maintaining any opening or
excavation in any such place shall guard such opening or excavation while the
same remains open, by proper barricades and lights.
(2016 Code, § 10.109  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.010  DISTURBING BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any barricades or lights
lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement, excavation, or opening in
any public street, alley, or sidewalk.
(2016 Code, § 10.110)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.011  PRIVATE USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use any street
or sidewalk as space for the display of goods or merchandise for sale, or to
write or mark any signs or advertisements on any such pavement.
(2016 Code, § 10.111)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.012  ENCROACHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property.
(2016 Code, § 10.112)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.013  DRAINS.
   It shall be unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or alley.
(2016 Code, § 10.113)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.014  POLES AND WIRES.
   It shall be unlawful to erect any poles or wires or to maintain any poles or
wires over any public place, street, alley, or other public way without first
having secured permission from the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 10.114)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.015  GAS PUMPS.
   It shall be unlawful to maintain or erect any gasoline pump or tank in any
public street, alley, or sidewalk.
(2016 Code, § 10.115)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.016  OPENINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any opening or stairway
in any public street, alley,  sidewalk, or other public place without a permit
from the Village Board.
   (B)   All such lawfully maintained openings shall be guarded by a suitable
strong cover or railing, to the approval of the Superintendent of Streets.
(2016 Code, § 10.116)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.017  BARBED WIRE FENCES; ELECTRIC CURRENT FENCES.
    It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole
or in part of barbed wire or with any similar materials designed to cause
injury to person, or any wire charged with electrical current, anywhere within
the village, except to protect industrial property in which case barbed wire
must be at least six feet above the sidewalk and extend inward of property.
(2016 Code, § 10.117)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.018  DEPOSITS ON STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, grass, yard waste,
any glass, or other articles which may cause injury to any person, animal, or
property.
   (B)   (1)   (a)   Coal or other materials may be deposited in streets
preparatory to delivery for use; provided that, such deposit does not reduce
the usable width of the street or roadway at that point to less than 18  feet;
and
         (b)   Provided that, such material, other than material used in actual
building construction, shall not be permitted to remain in such street for more
than three hours.
      (2)   Any such material shall be guarded by lights if the same remains
upon any street during night time.
(2016 Code, § 10.118)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.019  DEPOSITS ON SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material which
may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste material, any glass, or
other article which might cause injury to persons, animals, or property.
(2016 Code, § 10.119)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.020  BURNING LEAVES AND RUBBISH.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to burn any
leaves, paper, rubbish, or other substances upon any of the public streets and
sidewalks.
(2016 Code, § 10.120)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.021  VIEW AT CORNERS.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, or permit to remain any fence
or other structure, or any bushes or other plants, on a corner lot within 50
feet of the street line, which obstructs the view, at a height of more than
five feet above the level of the adjacent street pavement.
(2016 Code, § 10.122)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.022  ERECTING STRUCTURES FOR PRIVATE USE.
   The erection of any structure in any street or alley within the village for
private uses or purposes, without express permission from the Village Board,
having first been had and obtained, is hereby prohibited. STREET, as used
herein, shall be construed to mean the entire area of any public way dedicated
to public use.
(2016 Code, § 10.123)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.023  ESTABLISHED GRADE.
   (A)   That a base or datum for the level for the village is hereby fixed at
a horizontal plane, passing through the surface of the top of the concrete step
of the Post Office Building, the first step located on the northeast corner of
the building, sitting in the south corner of West Central and the west side of
Main Street. The surface of said step being marked by a copper rod one-fourth
inch in diameter, 18 inches long, set in Bobbit metal in said step. The end of
said copper rod being set level with the top of said concrete step and marked
“B.M.”
   (B)   All grades, hereinafter established, shall have reference to the grade
or datum for the village.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see §
151.999
DRIVEWAYS
§ 151.035  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct a driveway for vehicles or
animals across any sidewalk in the village without having first obtained a
permit therefor. Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village
Clerk. No permit for construction of a driveway for commercial use, or for the
habitual use of other than the owner or occupant of the premises served, shall
be issued except upon the order of the Village Board. All permits shall be
subject to the approval of the Superintendent of Streets.
(2016 Code, § 10.201)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.036  GRADE SURFACES.
   (A)   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step, a
sharp depression, or other obstruction on the sidewalk. The grade shall be as
near as possible the same as that of the adjoining sidewalk.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any driveway where
the same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such materials as to render it
slippery or hazardous to pedestrians, or to have the grade of such portion vary
from the grade of the sidewalk, or be other than level.
(2016 Code, § 10.202)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.037  SPECIFICATIONS.
   All driveways shall be constructed in compliance with specifications adopted
by the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 10.203)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.038  REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the person maintaining the driveway to keep the same
in good repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and free from obstructions and
openings.
(2016 Code, § 10.204)  Penalty, see §
151.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 151.050  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to tunnel under or
make an excavation in any street, alley, or other public place in the village
without having obtained a permit as is herein required, or without complying
with the provisions of this section or in violation of a variance from the
terms of any such permit.
(2016 Code, § 10.301)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.051  APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk and shall
describe the location of the intended excavation or tunnel, the size thereof,
the purpose therefor, and the person, firm, or corporation doing the actual
excavating work, and the name of the person, firm, or corporation for whom or
which the work is being done, and shall contain an agreement that applicant
will comply with all ordinances and laws relating to the work to be done.
(2016 Code, § 10.302)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.052  ISSUANCE.
   No such permit shall be issued except on order of the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 10.303)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.053  BARRICADES AND LIGHTS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation making or maintaining any excavation in any
street or alley shall keep the same adequately guarded by barricades and lights
to protect persons and property from injury.
(2016 Code, § 10.304)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.054  MANNER OF EXCAVATING.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to make any such excavation or tunnel in
any way contrary to or at variance with the terms of the permit therefor.
      (2)   Proper bracing shall be maintained to prevent the collapse of
adjoining ground; and, in excavations, the excavation shall not have anywhere
below the surface any portion which extends beyond the opening at the surface.
   (B)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, or conduits in the
making of such excavations or tunnels; and notice shall be given to the persons
maintaining any such pipes, cables, or conduits or to the village department or
officer charged with the care thereof, which are or may be endangered or
affected by the making of any such excavation or tunnel before such pipes,
cables, or conduits shall be disturbed.
   (C)   No unnecessary damage or injury shall be done to any tree, shrub, or
the roots thereof.
(2016 Code, § 10.305)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.055  SIDEWALKS.
   If any sidewalk is blocked by any such work, a temporary sidewalk shall be
constructed or provided which shall be safe for travel and convenient for
users.
(2016 Code, § 10.306)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.056  TIME LIMITS.
   Each application for a permit shall state the length of time it is estimated
will elapse from the commencement of the work until the restoration of the
surface of the ground or until the refill is made ready for the pavement to be
put on by the village if the village restores such surface pavement. It shall
be unlawful to fail to comply with this time limitation unless permission for
an extension of time is granted by the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 10.307)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.057  RESTORING SURFACE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation making any excavation or tunnel in or
under any public street, alley, or public place in the village shall restore
the surface thereof to its original condition if there is no pavement there.
All refills shall be properly tamped down.
   (B)   Any opening in a concrete or brick paved portion of a street shall be
repaired and the surface re-laid by the applicant, in compliance with the
ordinances and subject to the supervision of the Superintendent of Streets.
   (C)   If the openings are in a street that is surfaced by blacktop or
bituminous material, the permittee shall pack-fill the surface with sand or
gravel and the village shall reinstall the surface of the street surfacing, and
the cost of such resurfacing shall be paid by the permittee.
(2016 Code, § 10.308)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.058  SUPERVISION.
   The Superintendent of Streets shall from time to time inspect all
excavations and tunnels being made in or under any public street, alley, or
other public place in the village to see to the enforcement of the provisions
of this subchapter. Notice shall be given to him or her at least ten hours
before the work of refilling any such excavation or tunnel commences.
(2016 Code, § 10.309)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.059  EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter relative to securing permits shall not
apply to officers or employees of the village engaged in doing work for the
village, nor to persons or corporations doing work for the village under
contract, nor to persons or corporations which are operating under a franchise
or grant from the village if such franchise provides for the making of
excavations and tunnels without securing a permit therefor.
(2016 Code, § 10.310)  Penalty, see §
151.999
OVERHANGING SIGNS AND AWNINGS
§ 151.070  PERMITS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall erect or maintain any sign, signboard,
or rigid canopy over any street, sidewalk, alley, or other public way in the
village without first having obtained a permit. Permits for signs, canopies, or
signboards shall be issued by the Village Clerk, and shall designate the
location of the proposed structure.
(2016 Code, § 10.401)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.071  CONSTRUCTIONS.
   All signs and canopies extending over any public sidewalk, street, alley, or
other public place must be securely fastened and constructed so that there will
be no danger of the same being dislodged by ordinary winds or failing from
other cause.
(2016 Code, § 10.402)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.072  HEIGHT ABOVE SIDEWALK.
   The lowest part of any such canopy, sign, any non-rigid awning, or any
support thereof which extends over any public way, but no such sign shall be
maintained over any public way used by vehicles if any part of it supports or
if the sign is less than 15 feet above the level of such public way.
(2016 Code, § 10.403)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.073  INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Streets to inspect or cause to
be inspected every sign, canopy, or awning which extends over any sidewalk,
street, alley, or other public way. If any such sign or canopy is found to be
insecurely fastened or in otherwise dangerous condition, he or she shall report
this fact to the owner of the sign or to the owner or occupant of the premises
on which it is fastened.  If the sign or canopy is not made secure or restored
to a safe condition within ten days after such notice, it may be torn down on
order of the Village Board.
(2016 Code, § 10.404)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
151.001 through
151.023 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 10.121)
   (C)   Every person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §
151.022 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which such
obstruction to view is permitted to remain after notice from the Police
Department or any official of the village to remove the same.
(2016 Code, § 10.124)
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
151.035 through
151.038 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 10.205)
   (E)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of §§
151.050 through
151.059 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 10.311)
   (F)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision or failing to
comply with any provision of §§
151.070 through
151.072 shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense,
and $1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation or
failure to comply occurs or on which a violation or failure to comply occurs or
continues.
(2016 Code, § 10.405)
CHAPTER 152:  TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
152.01   Planting
   
152.02   Prohibited trees
   
152.03   Removals
   
152.04   Injury
   
152.05   Advertisements or notices
   
152.06   Dangerous trees
   
152.07   Excavations
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01  PLANTING.
    It shall be unlawful to plant any trees or shrubs in any public street,
parkway, or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Superintendent of Village
Services.
(2016 Code, § 10.501)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.02  PROHIBITED TREES.
   It shall be unlawful to plant any Chinese, Elm, Willow, or Poplar tree in
any public street, parkway, or other public place.
(2016 Code, § 10.502)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.03  REMOVALS.
   It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree in any street, parkway,
or other public place without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the Village Clerk.
(2016 Code, § 10.503)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.04  INJURY.
   It shall be unlawful to injure any tree planted in any such public place.
(2016 Code, § 10.504)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.05  ADVERTISEMENT OR NOTICES.
   It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement, or notice to any
tree or shrub in any street, parkway, or other public place.
(2016 Code, § 10.505)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.06  DANGEROUS TREES.
   (A)   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street, or other
public place in the village in such a way as to impede or interfere with
traffic or travel on such public place shall be trimmed by the owner of the
premises on which such trees or shrubs grow so that the obstruction shall
cease.
   (B)   Any limb of the tree which has become likely to fall on or across any
public way or place shall be removed by the owner of the premises on which such
trees or shrubs grows or stands.
(2016 Code, § 10.506)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.07  EXCAVATIONS.
   In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall
be taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever possible.
(2016 Code, § 10.507)  Penalty, see §
152.99
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined $75 for the first offense, $150 for the second offense, and
$1,000 plus an appearance in court for the third offense; and a separate
offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues.
(2016 Code, § 10.508)
CHAPTER 153:  COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
Official Plan
   
153.01   Establishment
   
153.02   Reference
   
153.03   Compliance
House Numbering
   
153.15   House numbering required
   
153.16   Chart
 
   
153.99   Penalty
OFFICIAL PLAN
§ 153.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   The village plan approved by the corporate authorities shall consist of:
   (A)   A map of the village, charts, and diagrams showing proposed additions
to and improvements of the village streets, parks, public buildings, sewage
disposal system, water system, and street lighting system;
   (B)   The specifications for street construction and paving hitherto
established by the corporate authorities;
   (C)   The zoning ordinance; and
   (D)   The subdivision control ordinance.
(2016 Code, § 8.301)
§ 153.02  REFERENCE.
   Any reference to the official plan of the village shall be taken to mean and
include all of the foregoing enactments.
(2016 Code, § 8.302)
§ 153.03  COMPLIANCE.
   No plat of subdivision, plan for the construction or layout of streets, or
work involving laying sewer or water mains shall be approved unless the same
complies fully with the requirements of the village plan.
(2016 Code, § 8.303)  Penalty, see §
153.99
HOUSE NUMBERING
§ 153.15  HOUSE NUMBERING REQUIRED.
   (A)   Main Street shall be the base line for east and west numbers; and
Central Street shall be the base line for north and south numbers.
   (B)   Even numbers shall be on the east and north sides of the streets and
odd numbers shall be on the west and south sides.
(2016 Code, § 8.401)
§ 153.16  CHART.
   The Village Clerk shall keep a chart showing the proper street number of
every lot in the village which chart shall be open for inspection by anyone
interested therein.
(2016 Code, § 8.402)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the owner and occupant of every house in the
village to have placed thereon, in a place visible from the street, figures
showing the number of that house, per §
153.15. Any person, firm, or corporation failing to so number any house owned
or occupied by him, her, or it after receiving notice to do so from the Village
Clerk shall be fined $75 for the first day, $150 for the second day, and $1,000
plus an appearance in court for the third day and every day on for which such
failure continues.
(2016 Code, § 8.403)
CHAPTER 154:  SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
154.01   Approval of plats required
   
154.02   Copy of plat
   
154.03   Improvements
   
154.04   Custody
   
154.05   Taxes
   
154.06   Layout requirements
   
154.07   Subdivision requirements
   
154.08   Monuments
   
154.09   Public grounds
   
154.10   Sales contract
   
154.11   Dedication
§ 154.01  APPROVAL OF PLATS REQUIRED.
   No land shall hereafter be subdivided, and no street or other public space
shall hereafter be accepted by the village, until the plans of such
subdivision, street, or other public space shall have been submitted to and
approved by the Village Board. Such approval must be in writing or stamped on
such plan or plans.
(2016 Code, § 9.101)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.02  COPY OF PLAT.
   Any person hereafter subdividing any piece or parcel of land, block, lot, or
sub-lot, or any part thereof in the municipality shall make a map or plat
thereof, and before recording the same in the Recorder’s Office of the county,
shall submit it with a duplicate thereof, to the Village Board for approval or
rejection. If approved, such approval shall be certified thereon, and signed by
the President/Mayor and attested by the Clerk; and no such map or plat shall be
valid or entitled to record until it shall have been approved as aforesaid.
(2016 Code, § 9.102)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.03  IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   No such plat of subdivision shall be approved unless all street and
sidewalk pavements and water and sewer mains have been installed or provisions
have been made to ensure such installation, in compliance with the ordinances
of the village. No improvements, such as water supply, drainage, sewerage,
sewage disposal, gas service, electric service, lighting, grading, paving, or
surfacing of streets shall hereafter be made within any such subdivision until
the plans for the subdivision and also the plans for such improvements have
been formally approved by the Village Board.
   (B)   Such improvements shall be made by the subdivider. The village shall
extend the village water mains to a point on the boundary of such addition, if
such extension is necessary in order to provide water service to such addition,
and such extension shall be at the expense of the village. If no satisfactory
connection with the existing sewer system is available at the subdivision, then
the connection to the existing village sewer system shall be made by the
subdivider at his or her expense. Such sewers and water mains shall become the
property of the village upon their installation and the approval of said plat
by the Village Board. The village shall not be responsible for the maintenance
of such sewers and water mains until the same have been inspected, approved,
and accepted by the village.
   (C)   Such approval shall not be given in any instance hereabove named
unless all the plans and specifications and all the proposed work conforms to
the requirements of this chapter.
(2016 Code, § 9.103) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.04  CUSTODY.
   The duplicate of such major plat shall be kept on file with the Clerk and no
such map or plat shall be approved until the same shall have been properly
certified by a surveyor and acknowledged by the owner.
(2016 Code, § 9.104)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05  TAXES.
    All taxes and assessments on property platted must be paid before the plat
shall be approved.
(2016 Code, § 9.105)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.06  LAYOUT REQUIREMENTS.
    The minimum requirements for the subdivision of land and the laying out of
streets and other public space shall be as follows.
   (A)   All plans submitted for approval shall be in triplicate, drawn to a
scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch, and shall be clearly and neatly
drawn. Preliminary or tentative plans may be first submitted before the final
plans are prepared.
   (B)   All final plans shall show the proposed street lines, sidewalk lines,
lot lines, building lines, and all property or subdivision boundaries. They
shall show, in accordance with an accurate land survey, the controlling points
and lines around and within the subdivision itself and also by distance,
bearings and angles, the relation of such controlling points and lines to the
other controlling survey points within or near the village. All survey
monuments shall be indicated and there shall be at least one permanent monument
placed at each property corner of the subdivided area, and at least one at each
street intersection. Such monuments shall be placed when the surveys are made
and shall consist of one-inch iron pipe driven at least two feet into the
ground and imbedded in concrete.
   (C)   Sufficient topography shall be shown to indicate the natural drainage
and the probable finished grades of streets. All existing and proposed streets,
alleys, and other public spaces shall be shown, with the width and type of
pavement or surfacing, and all other important features. Sufficient information
shall be drawn to scale on the plans to indicate the relation of the proposed
streets and other public spaces to the present street system of the village,
and also the official plan.
   (D)   The dimensions of all lots, and subdivisions and re-subdivisions of
lots shall be shown. The north point and scale shall be shown, and the name and
addresses of the petitioner and of the engineer or surveyor shall be given on
each plan.
   (E)   Whenever improvements are proposed within any such subdivision or in
any such street or other public space, detailed plans, profiles, and outline
specifications of such improvements shall be likewise submitted in triplicate.
Such plans and specifications shall show or indicate every essential detail of
such improvements.
   (F)   One copy of all such plans, profiles, and specifications shall be
filed with the Clerk, one shall be preserved in the files of the village, and
the third shall be returned to the petitioner, all with the approval or
disapproval of the Board of Trustees clearly indicated.
(2016 Code, § 9.106)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.07  SUBDIVISION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Rules for streets, alleys, and other public places.
      (1)   The minimum width for any street shall be 60 feet except by special
permit for purely local drives.
      (2)   All streets and other public places and easements shall conform in
effect to the official plan, both as to location and as to width or size.
      (3)   When adjoining undeveloped property, a half street may be
dedicated.
      (4)   The minimum width of any alley, wherever provided, shall be 20
feet. Where alleys are not provided, easements may be required along lot lines
or across lots where necessary for extension of water mains, sewers, and
similar purposes.
      (5)   No block shall be longer than 1,200 feet between street lines.
Blocks over 800 feet in length shall have one crosswalk not less than ten feet
in width, situated near the center of the block.
      (6)   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision
for the direct continuation of the principal existing streets in adjoining
subdivisions (or their proper projection where adjoining property is not
subdivided) insofar as they may be necessary for public requirements. In
general, such streets shall be a width at least as great as the existing
streets. The street and alley arrangements must also be such as to provide
opportunity for access and use by adjoining property owners. Wherever a street
is stub-ended so that it will not at that end open into another street, an
adequate turn around either circular or Y-shaped, shall be provided. At
important intersections and at all acute corners, the property corner shall be
rounded or cut off.
      (7)   All curb corners shall have radii of not less than 12 feet and at
important corners not less than 24 feet.
      (8)   Grades of streets shall be the lowest feasible and no grade shall
be in excess of 5% on through traffic streets nor in excess of 10% on any other
street.
      (9)   Whenever streets or alleys are paved or surfaced, such paving or
surfacing shall be of a type and strength suitable for the volume and character
of traffic to be expected.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   No lots shall be subdivided or indicated for sale as business lots
or industrial lots except at points designated for these uses on the zoning
plan or general development plan of the village, and the front street line of
all such business lots shall be places not less than 54 feet from the center of
the street on which they front.
      (2)   No lot in any subdivision or re-subdivision shall be less than 50
feet wide and no such lot shall contain less than 6,000 square feet.
   (C)   Standards. All improvements shall conform to the best engineering
standards. Due consideration shall be given throughout to the appearance of the
subdivision and the various features thereof within its own boundaries and also
in its environment to the village.
(2016 Code, § 9.107)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.08  MONUMENTS.
   All lot corners shall be marked by either a three-fourths-inch diameter
round or three-fourths-inch square iron rod or three-fourths-inch iron pipe at
least 30 inches long set on the lot corner. All block corners, and the
beginning and end of all curves or curved streets or angle points in streets,
shall be marked with a permanent marker set in a concrete post, the concrete
having a minimum length of 36 inches and a minimum cross-section of a four-inch
diameter circle. This marker shall be set sufficiently below the surface of the
ground to make its disturbance unlikely.
(2016 Code, § 9.108)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.09  PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   Each subdivision plat shall designate such areas as may be needed for school
sites, park sites, or other public lands in conformance with the official plan
of the municipality. Lands so designated cannot be used for any other purpose
for one year following the approval of the plat; if such land is not acquired
by purchase or condemnation by the appropriate board or commission within one
year after approval, it may be used in any manner consistent with the
ordinances applicable thereto.
(2016 Code, § 9.109)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.10  SALES CONTRACT.
   A copy of the subdivider’s sales contract showing restrictions shall be
furnished by the Village Board before final approval of the subdivision plan.
Such contract shall relate that the lot or lots contracted for are subject to
the zoning ordinance, building ordinance, and subdivision ordinance.
(2016 Code, § 9.110)
§ 154.11  DEDICATION.
   The subdivider shall furnish to the Village Board an effective dedication of
all streets, other places to be dedicated, and of all easements provided for by
the subdivision plan or plans.
(2016 Code, § 9.111)
CHAPTER 155:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose
   
155.003   Separability
   
155.004   Definitions
Districts
   
155.015   R-1 Single Family Residential
   
155.016   R-2 Multiple Family Residential
   
155.017   R-3 Mobile Home Residential
   
155.018   B-1 Central Business District
   
155.019   B-2 Commercial Business District
   
155.020   I-1 Industrial District
   
155.021   C Conservation District
Specific Regulations for Districts
   
155.035   Official schedule of district regulations adopted
   
155.036   Conversion of dwellings to more units
   
155.037   Private swimming pools
   
155.038   Screening and landscaping
   
155.039   Easements
   
155.040   Public water and sanitary sewer facilities
   
155.041   Height of buildings
   
155.042   Conventional and satellite television antennas
   
155.043   Principal and accessory uses
Administration and Enforcement
   
155.055   Enforcing Officer
   
155.056   Creation of a Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.057   Membership and terms of office
   
155.058   Meeting and rules
   
155.059   Jurisdiction of the Board of Zoning Appeals
   
155.060   Amendments to chapter
   
155.061   Flow charts of administrative processes
Permits and Official Zoning Map Regulations
   
155.075   Zoning use permits
   
155.076   Application for a zoning use permit
   
155.077   Issuance of a zoning use permit
   
155.078   Fees for a zoning use permit
   
155.079   Official zoning map
Annexation
   
155.090   Effect of chapter
   
155.091   Annexation of Districts R-1, R-2, R-3, B-1, B-2, or I
   
155.092   Annexation of C District
   
155.093   Annexation of land covered by Piatt County Zoning Ordinance
   
155.094   Effect on variances and special use permits
Authorized and Special Uses
   
155.105   Intent
   
155.106   Application for a special use permit
   
155.107   Special permit public hearing
   
155.108   Findings of fact
   
155.109   Conditions
   
155.110   Village Board of Trustees
   
155.111   Revocation
   
155.112   New application or reapplication
   
155.113   Special use permit to be personal privilege
Mobile Homes and Mobile Home Parks
   
155.125   General guidelines
   
155.126   Mobile homes on individual lots
   
155.127   Adoption of state law
Variations
   
155.140   Intent
   
155.141   Changes in zoning variance
   
155.142   Power to grant a variance
   
155.143   Application for a variance
   
155.144   Variance hearing
   
155.145   Finding of fact
   
155.146   Adoption of a zoning variance
   
155.147   Rights of applicants and property owners
Non-Conforming Structures and Uses
   
155.160   Continuance of use
   
155.161   Discontinuance of use
   
155.162   Termination and removal of non-conforming uses, buildings, and
structures in residential districts
   
155.163   Repairs and alterations allowed
   
155.164   Damage and destruction
   
155.165   Additions and enlargements
Home Occupations
   
155.180   Home occupations where permitted
   
155.181   When permitted without a special use permit
   
155.182   Intent
   
155.183   Special use permit standards when required for non-complying home
occupations
   
155.184   Exemptions
   
155.185   Nuisance, injunction
Group Homes
   
155.200   Group homes, hospitals and hotels
Parking
   
155.215   Intent
   
155.216   General requirements
   
155.217   Method of computing parking requirements
   
155.218   Maintenance requirements
   
155.219   Parking requirements
Off-Street Loading
   
155.230   Intent
   
155.231   General requirements
   
155.232   Off-street loading berth requirements
Signs
   
155.245   Intent
   
155.246   General requirements
 
   
155.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Zoning Ordinance of the
Village of Atwood, Illinois”.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.002  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To secure adequate light, pure air, and safety from fire and other
dangers;
   (B)   To conserve the value of land, buildings, and structures throughout
the village;
   (C)   To lessen the congestion on the public streets;
   (D)   To lessen and avoid hazards to persons and damage to property
resulting from the accumulation of runoff of storm and flood waters;
   (E)   To promote the public health, safety, comfort, morals, and general
welfare of the residents of the village;
   (F)   To regulate the height and bulk of structures and buildings thereafter
to be erected;
   (G)   To establish, regulate and limit the building or setback lines on or
along any street, traffic-way, drive, or parkway;
   (H)   To regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas, and
regulating and determining the area of open spaces within and surrounding
buildings and structures;
   (I)   To provide for off-street parking and loading and unloading of
vehicles to limit congestion on the public streets;
   (J)   To classify, regulate, and restrict the location of trades,
industries, and the location of buildings, structures, and land designated for
specific land uses;
   (K)   To divide the entire area of the village into districts of such
number, shape, area and such different classes according to the use of land,
buildings, and structures, intensity of the use of lot area, and other
classifications as may be deemed best suited to carry out the intent and
purpose of this chapter;
   (L)   To fix regulations and standards to which buildings, structures, or
uses therein shall conform;
   (M)   To prohibit uses, buildings and structures incompatible with the
character of said districts;
   (N)   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings, structures, or uses in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations imposed under the provisions of this chapter; and
   (O)   To facilitate the preservation of sites, area, and structures of
historical, architectural and aesthetic importance.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.003  SEPARABILITY.
   If for any reason, and clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or other part
of this chapter should be decided by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
invalid, such judgment shall not affect the validity of these regulations as a
whole or any part thereof, other than the part so held to be invalid.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.004  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules. In the interpretation of the ordinance, the rules and
definitions contained in this section shall be observed and applied, and except
when the context clearly indicates otherwise.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, the words
used in the singular shall include the plural number and the plural the
singular.
      (2)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
      (3)   The work “may” is permissive.
      (4)   The masculine gender includes the feminine gender and the neuter.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABUTS. To have a common property line or district line.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. One which:
         (a)   Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal
use;
         (b)   Is subordinate in area, extent or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served;
         (c)   Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of
occupants or the principal building or principal use served; and
         (d)   Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use served with the single exception of such accessory off-street
parking facilities as are permitted to locate elsewhere than on the same zoning
lot with the building or use served.
      ACCESSORY USE. One which is subsidiary to the main use of the premises
and is limited to the following:
         (a)   A children’s playhouse, garden house, and private greenhouse;
         (b)   A garage, carport, shed, or building for domestic storage;
         (c)   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock on the same lot
with any retail service or use, unless  such storage is excluded by the
district regulations;
         (d)   Storage of goods used in or produced by manufacturing
activities, unless such storage is excluded by the district regulations;
         (e)   A house or rooms for non-paying guests within an “accessory
building”; provided, such facilities are used for the occasional housing of
guests by the occupant of the principal building and not for permanent
occupancy;
         (f)   Swimming pool, bathhouse, cabana, for use by the occupant and
his or her guests;
         (g)   Off-street motor car parking areas and loading and unloading
facilities;
         (h)   Signs as permitted and regulated in each district incorporated
and regulated in each district incorporated in this chapter; and
         (i)   Public utility facilities - telephone, electric, gas, water, and
sewer lines, their supports and incidental equipment.
      ADJACENT. To lie near or close to, in the neighborhood or vicinity of
adjoining, touching, or contiguous.
      ALLEY. A public or private right of way primarily designed to serve as a
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is one some other street.
      ALTERATION. A change in size, shape, occupancy, or use of a building or
structure.
      ANTENNA. An aerial structure for television, radio, or ham radio waves.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family dwelling,
including where one or more living units is established above non-residential
uses, intended or designed for use as a residence by a single family. Complete
kitchen and permanently installed bath facilities must always be included for
each APARTMENT.
      AUTHORIZED USE. A use permitted by right in its appropriate zoning
district according to the schedule of authorized and special uses in this
chapter.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights of way, shorelines of waterways
or boundary lines of the village, Douglas County, Piatt County, or Moultrie
County.
      BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a restaurant or hotel where meals
are provided for compensation for four or more persons, but not to exceed 12
persons.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The space remaining on a lot after the minimum open space
yards and setback requirements of this chapter have been compiled with.
      BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for
the sheltering or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or property of any
kind; any structures with interior areas not normally accessible for human use,
such as gas, oil or water tanks, train elevators, coal bunkers, oil cracking
towers, and other similar structures are not considered as BUILDINGS.
      BUILDING AREA. The maximum horizontal projected area of a building and
its accessory buildings, excluding cornices projecting not more than 30 inches,
open steps, and unroofed terraces.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average elevation of the
natural grade of the ground covered by the structure to the highest point of
the structure or to the coping of a flat roof, or to the deck line of a mansard
roof, or to the mean height between eaves and ridges for gable, hip, and
gambrel roofs.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line established by this chapter generally
parallel with and measured from the lot line, defining the limits of a yard in
which no building other than accessory buildings or structures may be located
above ground, except as may be provided in the official schedule of districts
regulations.
      BUSINESS. An occupation, employment, or enterprise which occupies time,
attention, labor, and materials; or wherein merchandise is exhibited and sold
or where services are offered.
      CARPORT. A roofed automobile shelter, with two or more open sides.
      COMPLETE KITCHEN AND BATHROOM FACILITIES. Kitchen facilities shall
consist of a sink and electric or gas connections for cooking and refrigeration
facilities. Bathroom facilities shall consist of a permanently installed water
close, lavatory and either shower or tub fixtures.
      CONVENTIONAL TELEVISION ANTENNA. Any antenna capable of receiving
television signals other than a satellite television antenna.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A street with only one outlet and having an appropriate
terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
      DISTRICT. A section of the village in all parts of which the regulations
of this chapter governing the height, area and use of buildings and premises
are the same.
      DWELLING or DWELLING UNIT. Space within a building, comprising living,
dining, sleeping room or rooms, storage closes, as well as space and equipment
for cooking, bathing, and toilet facilities, all used by only one family and
its household employees, but excluding garages and other enclosed, but
uninhabitable areas.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building consisting of a single dwelling unit
only, detached and separated from other dwelling units.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by two families living independently of each other with separate
and complete kitchen and bathroom facilities, including condominiums.
      DWELLING, MULTIFAMILY. A building having accommodations for and occupied
exclusively by more than two families living independently of each other and
with separate and complete kitchen and bathroom facilities, including
condominiums.
      DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A dwelling designed to be constructed off the
site, transported relatively intact to the site, and when arriving at the site
requires only minor or incidental assembly and connection operations, but in no
case involving substantial reconstruction.
      EASEMENT. A non-profitable interest in land owned by another that
entitled its holder to a specific limited use.
      FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a single dwelling unit; provided
that, unless all members are related by blood, adoption, or marriage, no such
FAMILY shall contain over five persons.
      FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of
a building, excluding basement floor areas and other uninhabitable areas, such
as garages, roofed terraces, and porches. All dimensions shall be measured from
the interior faces of the walls.
      FRONT LOT LINE. The boundary of a lot along a street or right-of-way;
and, for a corner lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be the shorter lot boundary
along a street or right-of-way.
      GROUP HOME. Any building designed as a single-family residence building
and occupied by related or unrelated individuals living together as a group.
The term GROUP HOME shall not include the business of operating a boarding
house, rooming house or other similar enterprise. The term GROUP HOME shall
include a home for adolescents, a home for physically handicapped persons, and
a home for mentally handicapped persons. The term GROUP HOME shall not include
any penal institutions or places for persons convicted of a crime, persons
found to be juvenile delinquents, or juveniles found to be persons in need of
supervision.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building which is designed or used for the
storage of not more than three motor-driven vehicles which are the property of
and for the private use of the occupants of the lot on which the private garage
is located.
      HOME OCCUPATION. A home occupation is an accessory use by the occupant(s)
of a dwelling unit in which goods are produced or traded, or services are
rendered as an economic enterprise. Such shall be clearly incidental or
subordinate to the residential use of a dwelling. All HOME OCCUPATIONS should
obtain a zoning use permit for home occupations and shall comply with the
regulations in §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter. Obtaining this permit will allow the village to verify
that the HOME OCCUPATION is in compliance with the village ordinances, and will
protect the operator from unjust complaints. Those HOME OCCUPATIONS that do not
comply with said regulations are required to apply for a special use permit.
HOME OCCUPATIONS do not include occasional yard, rummage or garage sales for
purposes of this chapter. Those HOME OCCUPATIONS who make their goods or
services available to members of the general public causing a steady and
recurring flow of customers that stop regularly or visit unannounced, shall
also be required to obtain a special use permit.
      KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which two breeding females, or three or
more dogs or cats over four months of age, are kept.
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land with frontage on
or access to a public street and intended for transfer of ownership or building
development.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at an intersection of two streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding 100 degrees, nor less than 80
degrees.
      LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. An interior lot which has a pair of opposite lot
lines extending between two substantially parallel streets. On a DOUBLE
FRONTAGE LOT, both street lines shall be deemed front lot lines.
      LOT OF RECORD. An area of land designated as a lot on a plat of
subdivision as recorded, pursuant to law.
      LOT, OFF-STREET PARKING AREA. Land which is improved and used or a
structure which is designed and used exclusively for the storage of passenger
motor vehicles, either for accessory off-street parking spaces or commercial
off-street parking spaces when permitted herein.
      MOBILE HOME. A structure constructed for movement on the public highways
as its own chassis that has sleeping, cooking, and plumbing facilities, it is
intended for human occupancy year round that is being used for residential
purposes, which is designed to be set on piers with the tie downs and skirted
(as this structure is not designed to be supported on the outside perimeter by
a foundation) and was constructed in accordance with state building codes and
safety standards regulations in effect at time of construction.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site or tract of land under single ownership
developed for human occupancy used for residential purposes primarily to
provide parking and related services to 20 or more mobile homes, for revenue
purposes (not including recreation vehicle).
      MODULAR UNIT or MODULAR HOME.
         (a)   A factory-fabricated, transportable building or dwelling, that
is designed to be used by itself or to be incorporated with other units into a
structure that will be a finished building or used for residential purposes set
on a permanent location supported by the outside perimeter on a permanent
foundation set below the frost line.
         (b)   The modules are of standard dimensions designed to meet the
requirements of single-family living, and transported over existing highways.
      NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A lawful structure which exists upon the
adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms
of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area lot coverage, height, yards,
or other characteristics of the structure, or its location on the lot.
      NON-CONFORMING USE. A use of a building or land which was lawfully
established and maintained, but which does not conform with the use regulations
or required conditions for the district in which it is located, by reason of
adoption of this chapter or amendment of this chapter, or by reason of
annexation of territory to the village.
      PARK MODEL. Recreation vehicle primarily designed as a temporary living
quarters for recreation, camping, or seasonal use, built on a single chassis,
mounted on wheels and having a gross trailer area not exceeding 400 square feet
in the set-up mode. Two different types are offered:
         (a)   Type One. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
less than eight feet and six inches designed for frequent travel on the
highways; and
         (b)   Type Two. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
usually 12 feet in width, being less mobile, designed to be set with tie downs
and skirted, and plumbed into sewer or septic typically located in a resort or
RV park location for an extended term.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land taken of dedicated for use as a public way.
In addition to the roadway, it normally incorporates the curbs, lawn strips,
sidewalks, lighting, and drainage facilities, and may include special features
(required by topography or treatment) such as grade separation, landscaped
areas, or bridges, and viaducts.
      ROADWAY. A surfaced portion or the right-of-way or street available for
vehicular traffic.
      SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNA. An apparatus capable of receiving signals
from geo-stationary orbital satellites.
      SIGN. Any device designated to inform or attract the attention of persons
not on the premises on which the sign is located, as regulated by this chapter.
      SPECIAL USE. A use which has unusual characteristics when compared to the
authorized uses in that district and require more careful consideration with
respect to the objectives of this chapter and with respect to its effect on
surrounding properties.
      STORY. The part of a building between the surfaces of the floor and the
ceiling immediately above, excluding basements, as herein defined.
      STREET, MAJOR. A general term denoting a highway primarily for through
traffic, carrying heavy loads and large volume of traffic, usually on a
continuous route such as Main Street, Magnolia Street, U.S. Route 36, and other
county, state, and federal highways.
      STREET, MINOR. A street primarily designed for providing access to
residential, business, industrial, or other abutting property.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground, including, but without limiting, the generality of the
foregoing, advertising signs billboards, backstops for tennis courts, ball
diamonds, bleachers, fences, and free-standing walls.
      TRAVEL TRAILER or MOTOR HOMES. A vehicular, portable structure built on a
chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel and
recreational purposes, this unit is identified as a recreation vehicle by the
manufacturer.
      USE. The purpose or activity for which the land, or building thereon, is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied or maintained and
shall include any manner of performance of such activity with respect to the
performance standards contained herein.
      VARIANCE.
         (a)   A zoning adjustment which permits minor changes of district
requirements where individual properties, not persons, are both harshly and
uniquely burdened by the strict application of the law.
         (b)   The adjustment to the regulations shall be contrary to the
public interest and not a result of the action of the applicant and not due to
a mere personal hardship of the applicant.
      YARD. A required open space other than a court unoccupied and
unobstructed by any structure or portion of a structure from three feet above
the general ground level of the graded lot upward; provided, accessories,
ornaments, and furniture may be permitted in any YARD, subject to height
limitations and requirements limiting obstruction of visibility.
         (a)   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending between side lot lines across the
front of a lot and from the front line to the front of the principal building.
         (b)   YARD, REAR. A yard extending between side lot lines across the
front of a lot and from the rear line to the rear of the principal building.
         (c)   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the principal building to the
side lot line on both sides of the principal building between the lines
establishing the front and rear yards.
      ZONING PERMIT. A document issued by the Building Commissioner authorizing
the use of lots, structures, uses of land and structures, uses of land and
structures, and the characteristics of the uses.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
DISTRICTS
§ 155.015  R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   The R-1 Single-Family Residential District is intended to provide areas for
single-family detached dwellings as specified in the applicable lot regulations
and is intended for application in mainly non-urban and developing areas where
community facilities can be made readily available.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.016  R-2 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   The R-2 Two-Family Residential District is intended to provide areas for
single- and double- [two] family dwellings, is specified in the applicable lot
regulations and is intended for application within areas where community
facilities are in existence. For multiple- [three or more] family residences,
see Appendix B, attached to the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.017  R-3 MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL.
   The R-3 Mobile Home Residential District is intended to provide areas for
development of mobile home parks where mobile homes can be a viable housing
alternative as specified in the applicable regulations.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.018  B-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The B-1 Central Business District is intended to provide opportunities for
retail stores, offices, office service establishments, amusements, community
facilities, financial institutions in concentrations to allow for the
convenience of citizens and the mutual benefits of the individual
establishments.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.019  B-2 COMMERCIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   The B-2 Commercial Business District is intended to provide adequate areas
for businesses and establishments that are incompatible with the Central
Business District and to provide protection from the objectionable influences
incidental to commercial uses.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.020  I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   The I-1 Industrial District is intended to provide adequate areas for
industrial development and to provide protection from the objectionable
influences incidental to industrial uses.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.021  C CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   The C Conservation District is intended to preserve the open spaces and
undeveloped areas which surround the village. Development is intended to be
less intensive in this district so that the natural resources of these areas
may be protected from urban sprawl and the effects of uncontrolled growth.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS FOR DISTRICTS
§ 155.035  OFFICIAL SCHEDULE OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS ADOPTED.
   The schedule of district regulations is hereby adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.036  CONVERSION OF DWELLINGS TO MORE UNITS.
   A residence may not be converted to accommodate an increased number of
dwelling units unless:
   (A)   The yard dimensions still meet the yard dimensions required by this
chapter for new structures in that district;
   (B)   The lot area per family equals the lot area requirements for new
structures in that district;
   (C)   The floor area per dwelling unit is not reduced to less than that
which is required for new construction in that district; and
   (D)   The conversion is in compliance with all other relevant codes and
ordinances.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.037  PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   (A)   Private swimming pools, exclusive of portable swimming pools with a
diameter of less than 12 feet or with a surface area of less than 100 square
feet, except when such pools are equipped with a water circulating system,
shall be allowed as an accessory use and shall comply with the following
conditions and requirements.
      (1)   The pool shall be intended to be used solely for the enjoyment of
the occupants of the principal use of the property on which it is located.
      (2)   It may not be located closer than ten feet to any property line.
      (3)   The swimming pool or entire property on which it is located shall
be walled or fenced in a manner ensuring that only the owner of the pool has
access to it, preventing uncontrolled entrance by children or adult from the
street or adjacent properties. The wall or fence shall be not less than 48
inches in height and maintained in good condition with a locking gate. Wall
shall be made of a solid material and fence shall be made of wood or vinyl with
a gap no larger than three inches, or a sturdy metal such as chain link with
permanent post and a locking gate. Metal fence shall have a top rail so that it
is sturdy and can not be bent over.
      (4)   The swimming pool shall have a maximum depth of not more than 12
feet. Any pool must conform to current filling policy established by village in
response to Illinois Environmental Protection Agency’s (IEPA) requirements for
filling pools, ponds, or hot tubs.
      (5)   An 18-foot electrical wire clearance must be maintained from the
nearest point of the pool to the power line. All wiring around pools must
conform and be maintained in accordance to meet all present electrical codes,
city and national codes. This requires that all circuits be ground fault
protected.
      (6)   A swimming pool shall not be located in any front yard including
any pool placed on a corner lot shall follow the 20-foot setback in accordance
with permitted structure setbacks.
      (7)   All pool owners must register with the Village Clerk. Registration
is a one-time no fee requirement for all pools under this chapter. Pool owners
will receive a copy of this section and will be required to comply with all
parts of this chapter.
   (B)   Any violation of this section is hereby declared to be a nuisance. In
addition to any other relief provided by this chapter, the Village Attorney may
apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for any injunction to prohibit the
continuation of any violation of this section. Such application for relief may
include seeking a temporary restraining order, temporary injunction or
permanent injunction.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.038  SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Where a site in a business or industrial district adjoins a
residential district, a solid decorative fence or hedge not less than six feet
in height (with solid gates where necessary) shall be constructed or located on
the boundary or lot line adjoining the residential district.
   (B)   The following uses shall be screened by a solid decorative fence or
hedge not less than six feet in height (with solid gates where necessary) and
not located in a required front yard:
      (1)   In a business or industrial district, a use not conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed structure if on a site directly across a street or
alley from a residential district;
      (2)   In the B-2 Business District or industrial districts, a use not
conducted entirely within a completely enclosed structure if on site directly
across a street or alley from the B-1 Business District, and if found to be
unsightly by the Board of Zoning Appeals; and
      (3)   In a Business or Industrial District, a use not conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed structure and found to be unsightly by the Board
of Zoning Appeals.
   (C)   Where a parking or loading area is located within a residential
district, or where a parking or loading area is located directly across a
street or alley from a residential district a solid decorative fence or hedge
not less than four feet in height shall be located on the property line or
boundary.
   (D)   The owner of the lot causing a fence or hedge to be required shall
maintain the fence or hedge in good condition.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.039  EASEMENTS.
   No building or structure shall be constructed, located, or erected on an
easement granted by the owner to a public body or a public or private utility.
This section shall pertain to such easements as drainage, storm sewers and
ditches, sanitary sewers, gas lines, water lines, telephone lines, electric
lines, television cable lines, and communication lines.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.040  PUBLIC WATER AND SANITARY SEWER FACILITIES.
   The use or installation of private water systems or wells and/or private
sanitary facilities or septic systems shall be prohibited within the village.
Any building, use, or structure necessitating water or sanitary facilities
shall be required to connect to the existing public water and/or sanitary
facilities.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.041  HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No building or structure shall be constructed so as to exceed a height
of 35 feet in residential districts and 50 feet in the B-1 Business District
and 75 in all other districts.
   (B)   The height of a structure shall be measured vertically from the
average elevation of the natural grade of the ground covered by the structure
to the highest point of the structure or to the coping of a flat roof, to the
deck line of a mansard roof, or to the mean height between eaves and ridges for
a hip, gable, or gambrel roof.
   (C)   The height limitations shall not apply to spires, belfries, cupolas,
ventilators, chimneys, or other normal structural appurtenances usually
required to be placed above the roof level and not intended for human
occupancy; provided, in no event shall such appurtenant structures exceed one
and one-half times the normal height limitation allowed in such district.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.042  CONVENTIONAL AND SATELLITE TELEVISION ANTENNAS.
   The following regulations shall apply to the antennas.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   This section shall govern the erection or construction of all
conventional television and radio antennas and satellite television antennas.
      (2)   Whenever the height or other restrictions of this section conflict
with other restrictions of the zoning code as applied to a particular antenna,
the restrictions set out in this section shall control as to that particular
antenna.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this law is to further health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the village. Among other things,
reasonable controls contribute to the good appearance of the village, stabilize
and even increase property values, assure the safety of the owner and others
and, in general, contribute to the preservation of a pleasant community in
which to work and live. This chapter is intended to comply fully with the
report and order of the Federal Communications Commission released January 14,
1986 (FCC 86-28) to the extent that report and order validly preempts local
zoning regulations deemed unduly restrictive with respect to satellite
television receiving antennas. The village hereby determines that the bulk and
visual impact of such antennas create aesthetic problems making it appropriate
to have some special limitations as to size and placement thereof. However,
this chapter shall be construed and administered so as not unduly to hamper
reasonable satisfactory reception of satellite television signals.
   (C)   Location.
      (1)   No conventional or satellite television or radio antenna may be
placed in the front yard of any lot in the village.
      (2)   A ground-mounted conventional television or radio antenna may be
placed on a lot only in the side or rear yard.
      (3)   A satellite television antenna may be placed on a lot only in the
rear yard; provided however, that, on a convincing showing that a reasonably
satisfactory television signal cannot be obtained from a rear yard location,
the Board of Zoning Appeals shall permit the antenna to be located in the side
yard and, if such a signal cannot be obtained in either yard, the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall permit the antenna to be located on the roof of any main
or accessory building on the lot.
      (4)   All ground-mounted television and radio receiving antennas and
satellite television antennas shall be located no less than five feet from any
lot line.
      (5)   No ground-mounted receiving antenna or satellite television antenna
may be erected on a public utility easement.
   (D)   Antenna size and number.
      (1)   No ground-mounted satellite television antenna may exceed 12 feet
in height, as measured from the ground to the highest point of the antenna.
      (2)   No roof-mounted satellite television antenna may extend above the
roofline more than three feet, unless it is to be installed on multistory
buildings of four or more stories, in which case the antenna may not exceed ten
feet in height above the level of the roof upon which it is placed.
      (3)   The diameter of satellite television antennas shall not exceed 12
feet.
      (4)   No lot in any R district shall have, at any one time, more than one
satellite television antenna. No lot in any other district shall have more than
three satellite television antennas.
   (E)   Special use permit required. No satellite television antenna or
ground-mounted conventional television or radio antenna may be erected on any
lot without obtaining a special use permit.
   (F)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   The color of any ground-mounted satellite television antenna shall
be dark brown, black, or forest green. Any other satellite television antenna
shall be of a color that blends into its surroundings.
      (2)   All ground-mounted conventional television and radio antennas and
satellite television antennas shall be screened by landscaping from ground-
level view of persons on streets and surrounding lots. Said screening is not
required to be so complete that it interferes with the reception of the
antenna. The screening materials shall be of the evergreen type. The screen
shall be planted as required by the special use permit not later than 30 days
after the placement of the antenna.
      (3)   All roof-mounted satellite television antennas extending more than
three feet above either by a parapet wall or by exterior architectural
material.
      (4)   All television and radio antennas shall be grounded against direct
lighting strike.
      (5)   All television and radio antennas shall be erected in a secure,
wind-resistant manner.
      (6)   All wiring necessary for the use of the antenna between any ground-
mounted antenna and a building or between the building on which the antenna is
located and any other building on the lot shall be buried underground.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.043  PRINCIPAL AND ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   The uses listed in Appendix A of the ordinance codified herein are
principal uses.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, an accessory use, building, or structure
is permitted to accompany the principal use to which it is subordinate where
such principal use is either permitted or authorized by a special use permit.
   (C)   A structure or use may be erected or established as an accessory
structure or use to a permitted principal building, structure, or use; provided
that:
      (1)   It is located on the lot occupied by or intended for the principal
use or building established or existing or on an adjoining lot and complies
with the provisions of Appendix A, or, in the case of parking, on another lot;
      (2)   It is compatible in character and extent with the principal use and
the zoning district where it is located;
      (3)   It conforms with other such regulations as apply;
      (4)   It is not prohibited;
      (5)   It shall not be erected and established prior to the establishment
or construction of the principal use or building, except as authorized by the
Building Inspector; and
      (6)   It is customarily incidental to the principal structure or use.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.055  ENFORCING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall be charged with the duty of ensuring
the enforcement of this chapter (assistance with enforcement from Village
Police Department may be used as needed). The Building Commissioner shall have
the power and shall exercise the function to ensure the enforcement of the
provision of this chapter relating to building either existing or being built.
The Building Commissioner shall make all inspections necessary to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. The Building Commissioner shall
enforce all violations through letters, fines and the like. Upon time legal
action is to be taken, the matter should be taken up with the Board of Trustees
for its recommendation and approval. In order for any action to be taken by the
Building Commissioner in enforcement of this chapter, an enforcement
notification form must be filled out and submitted to the Village Clerk to be
filed and forwarded to the Village Board of Trustees and Village Zoning Board
of Appeals.
   (B)   (1)   The Village Police Department shall be charged with the duty of
ensuring the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   The village police officers shall have the power and shall exercise
the function to ensure the enforcement of all other provisions of this chapter
not relating to buildings either existing or being built (may assist Building
Commissioner if needed). The Village Police Department shall enforce all
violations through letter, fines and the like.
      (3)   Upon time legal action is to be taken, the matter should be taken
up with the Board of Trustees for its recommendation and approval. In order for
any action to be taken by the Village Police Department in enforcement of this
chapter, an enforcement notification form must be filled out and submitted to
the Village Clerk to be filed and forwarded to the Village Board of Trustees
and Village Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.056  CREATION OF A BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals is hereby created.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.057  MEMBERSHIP AND TERMS OF OFFICE.
   A Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five members. Each successor
shall be appointed by the Village Board of Trustees for a period of five years.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.058  MEETING AND RULES.
   (A)   Once each year, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall select one of its
members as Chairperson. It shall also select one member as Vice-Chairperson and
one member as Secretary.
   (B)   The members of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall receive such
compensation for their services as may be fixed from time to time by the Board
of Trustees.
   (C)   All meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson and at such time as the Board of Zoning Appeals may
designate.
   (D)   All meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be open to the
public. Minutes shall be kept of the proceedings showing the vote of each
member on every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating that
fact.
   (E)   No hearing may be conducted unless a quorum of the members of the
Board of Zoning Appeals is present.
   (F)   Every rule, regulation, amendment, or repeal thereof and every order,
requirement, decision, or determination of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be
immediately filed in the office of the Village Clerk and shall be a public
record.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.059  JURISDICTION OF THE BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and
review any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the
administrative officer charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The concurring vote of four members of the Board of Zoning Appeals is
required to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by
the administrative official charged with the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.060  AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER.
   The regulations imposed and the districts created under this chapter may be
amended from time to time by ordinance after the ordinance establishing them
has gone into effect.
   (A)   No such amendment shall be made unless the Board of Zoning Appeals has
conducted a public hearing on the proposed amendment. At the public hearing a
written protest, signed by the following property owners, may be filed:
      (1)   Owners of 20% or more of the land with frontage on the same block
as, or frontage on the alley in the same block across from, or frontage on the
block across from the proposed amendment; and
      (2)   Owners of 20% or more of the frontage proposed to be altered, or by
the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across the valley
therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite of the
frontage proposed to be amended.
   (B)   Notice of the public hearing shall be made not less than 15 days or
more than 30 days prior to the date of the public hearing. Such notice shall
include the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing and shall be placed
at least once in a newspaper of general circulation within the village.
   (C)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall submit to the Board of Trustees an
accurate and complete written report stating the arguments and discussions
presented by all present at the public hearing. This report shall be adopted by
a majority vote of those members of the Board of Zoning Appeals in attendance
at the public hearing.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may adopt the amendment to the ordinance by a
two-thirds’ majority vote of all Trustees.
   (E)   Notice of a change to the zoning book shall be made to the public not
more than 30 days after being adopted by the Village Board of Trustees. Such
notice shall be placed at least once in a newspaper of general circulation
within the village.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.061  FLOW CHARTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESSES.
   (A)   Flow chart for a zoning use permit.
      (1)   Application:
         (a)   Obtain zoning use permit application from Village Clerk;
         (b)   Complete application subject to the provisions of sections §§
155.075 through
155.077 of this chapter; and
         (c)   Submit application to the Village Clerk for forwarding to the
Building Commissioner for review.    
      (2)   Building Commissioner:
         (a)   Review application for compliance with the provisions of this
chapter;
         (b)   Approve or disapprove the application; and
         (c)   Return application to the Village Clerk for completion of
permit.
      (3)   Applicant:
         (a)   Post approved zoning use permit on the premises for which it was
issued; and
         (b)   If the application is disapproved, it may be resubmitted at any
time.
   (B)   Flow chart for a special use permit.
      (1)   Application:
         (a)   Obtain application from Village Clerk;
         (b)   Complete application subject to the provisions of §
155.106 of this chapter; and
         (c)   Submit application to the Building Commissioner for review and
forwarding to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Board of Zoning Appeals:
         (a)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall schedule a public hearing to
review the application;
         (b)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make a “finding of fact” in
accordance with the provisions of §
155.108 of this chapter; and
         (c)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall forward the “finding of fact”
to the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Board of Trustees:
         (a)   The Board of Trustees’ action on the special use permit may take
two forms:
            1.   The special use permit may be approved or disapproved by the
Board of Trustees by a majority vote of all members of the Board of Trustees;
and/or
            2.   If the special use permit is approved or disapproved contrary
to the Board of Appeals’ recommendation, then this must be done by a two-
thirds’ majority vote of the members of the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   If the special use permit is approved, it becomes effective
immediately; and
         (c)   If the special use permit is disapproved, the applicant can
reapply after a period of one year has elapsed.
   (C)   Flow chart for home occupation permit no special use permit required.
      (1)   Application:
         (a)   Obtain home occupation permit application from Village Clerk;
         (b)   Complete application subject to the provisions of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter; and
         (c)   Submit application to village clerk for forwarding to the Zoning
Board of Appeals for review.   
      (2)   Zoning Board of Appeals:
         (a)   Review application for compliance with the provisions of this
chapter;
         (b)   Approve or disapprove the application; and
         (c)   Return application to the Village Clerk for completion of
permit.   
      (3)   Applicant:
         (a)   Post approved home occupation permit on the premises for which
it was issued; and
         (b)   If the application is disapproved, it may be resubmitted at any
time.    
   (D)   Flow chart for home occupation permit when special use permit is
required.
      (1)   Application:
         (a)   Obtain home occupation permit application from Village Clerk;
         (b)   Complete application subject to the provisions of §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter; and
         (c)   Submit application to village clerk for forwarding to the Zoning
Board of Appeals for review.   
      (2)   Zoning Board of Appeals:
         (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall schedule a public hearing to
review the application;
         (b)   The Zoning board of appeals shall make a “finding of fact” in
accordance with provisions of §
155.108 of this chapter; and
         (c)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall forward the “finding of fact”
to the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Board of Trustees:
         (a)   The Board of Trustees action on the home occupation permit may
take two forms:
            1.   The home occupation permit may be approved or disapproved by
the Board of Trustees by a majority vote of all members of the Board of
Trustees; and/or
            2.   If the home occupation permit is approved or disapproved
contrary to the Board of Appeals recommendation, then this must be done by a
two-thirds’ majority vote of the members of the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   If the home occupation permit is approved, it becomes effective
immediately.
      (4)   Applicant:
         (a)   Post approved home occupation permit on the premises for which
it was issued; and
         (b)   If the application is disapproved, it may be resubmitted at any
time.
   (E)   Flow chart for a zoning variance.
      (1)   Application:
         (a)   Obtain application from Village Clerk;
         (b)   Complete application subject to the provisions of §
155.143 of this chapter; and
         (c)   Submit application to the Village Clerk to be forwarded to the
Board of Zoning Appeals.   
      (2)   Board of Zoning Appeals:
         (a)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall schedule a public hearing to
review the application;
         (b)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make a “finding of fact” in
accordance with the provisions of §
155.108 of this chapter;
         (c)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt the “finding of fact” by
a majority vote; and
         (d)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall then forward the adopted
“finding of fact” to the Board of Trustees.
      (3)   Board of Trustees:
         (a)   The Board of Trustees’ action on the variance may take two
forms:
            1.   The variance may be approved or disapproved by the Board of
Trustees following a Board of Appeals’ recommendation. An approval of a
variance must be by four members of the Board of Trustees; and/or
            2.   If the variance is approved or disapproved contrary to the
Board of Appeals’ recommendation, then this must be done by a two-thirds’
majority vote of the members of the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   If the variance is approved, it becomes effective immediately;
and
         (c)   If the variance is disapproved, the applicant can reapply at any
time.     
   (F)   Flow chart for amendments.
      (1)   Board of Zoning Appeals:
         (a)   Submit a proposed amendment to the Board of Zoning Appeals;
         (b)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall schedule a public hearing to
review the proposed amendment;
         (c)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make a recommendation
concerning the proposed amendment;
         (d)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt the written report by a
majority vote; and
         (e)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall then forward the adopted
written report as a recommendation to the Board of Trustees. (The written
report can be negative or positive.)
      (2)   Board of Trustees:
         (a)   The Board of Trustees’ action may take two forms on the proposed
amendment:
            1.   The proposed amendment may be approved or disapproved by the
Board of Trustees, if the Board of Zoning Appeals’ recommendation is followed.
An approval of a proposed amendment must be by four members of the Board of
Trustees; and
            2.   If the proposed amendment is approved or disapproved contrary
to the Board of Zoning Appeals’ recommendation, then this must be done by a
two-thirds’ vote of the members of the Board of Trustees.
         (b)   If the amendment is approved, it becomes effective immediately;
and
         (c)   If the amendment is disapproved, it can be resubmitted at any
time.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
PERMITS AND OFFICIAL ZONING MAP REGULATIONS
§ 155.075  ZONING USE PERMITS.
   A zoning use permit shall be obtained by the owner, lessee, or agent of
either, the architect, engineer, or builder employed in connection with the
proposed work from the Building Commissioner before starting:
   (A)   To establish, occupy, or change the use of a structure, accessory
structure, or land either by itself or in addition to another use;
   (B)   To construct or erect a new structure or accessory structure or part
thereof;
   (C)   To extend or move any structure or accessory structure or part
thereof; and
   (D)   To change one non-conforming use to another use or to a special use.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.076  APPLICATION FOR A ZONING USE PERMIT.
   Applications for zoning use permits shall be filed with the Building
Commissioner and shall be comprised of:
   (A)   The location, including all required information which comprises the
legal description of the property;
   (B)   The name and addresses of the owner, applicant, and the contractor;
   (C)   The estimated cost of the project;
   (D)   The uses to be established or expanded to the project; and
   (E)   A plan, in duplicate, drawn approximately to scale and including:
      (1)   The actual dimensions of the lot to be built upon;
      (2)   The size, shape, and location of the use to be established or the
structure or accessory structure to be constructed;
      (3)   The size, shape, and location of all existing structures, accessory
uses and uses on the lot;
      (4)   The minimum flood elevations and the highest known flood levels;
      (5)   The provisions for ingress and egress; and
      (6)   All other information as may be deemed necessary to provide for the
proper enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.077  ISSUANCE OF A ZONING USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Building Commissioner shall retain the original copy of the zoning
use permit and shall mark the permit as approved or disapproved.
   (B)   Another copy of the zoning use permit shall be returned to the
applicant and shall be posted in a prominent position on the premises for which
it was issued. It will remain posted until the reason for its issuance has been
completed.
   (C)   (1)   The zoning use permit shall expire if work has not commenced
within 90 days from issuance or has not been completed within 365 days from
issuance.
      (2)   In either case, the Building Commissioner shall notify, in writing,
the applicant of the revocation of the zoning use permit.
      (3)   The applicant may request the extension of the zoning use permit by
filing a written statement with the Building Commissioner explaining the
reasons for the requested extension.
   (D)   No zoning use permit shall be issued for the purpose of altering or
constructing a non- conforming use, except to make such use conform to the
provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.078  FEES FOR A ZONING USE PERMIT.
   The following fees are established for the issuance of a zoning use permit.
 
Special use permit application    $100
Zoning variance application       $100
Zoning use-mobile home permit     $0.10 per square foot
Zoning use-construction permit    $0.10 per square foot with minimum of $25
Zoning use-home occupation permit $10
 
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.079  OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The districts that are established as part of this chapter are to be
shown on the Official Zoning Map of the village.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Map of the village shall be identified by the
signature of the President and the Village Board of Trustees and the signature
of the Village Clerk shall be dated.
   (C)   Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the Official Zoning
Map which may exist, the Official Zoning Map of the village located in the
office of the Village Clerk shall be the final authority as to the current
zoning status of lots and water areas within the jurisdiction of the village.
   (D)   In the event that the Official Zoning Map becomes difficult to
interpret or becomes lost or destroyed, the Village Board of Trustees shall
adopt a new Official Zoning Map. This map shall be designated as superceding
the prior Official Zoning Map.
   (E)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on
the Official Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets and alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following recorded lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the corporate
limits of the village shall be construed as following such limits.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following railroad lines
shall be construed to be midway between the main tracks.
      (5)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed as
following such shorelines and in the event of a change in shoreline shall be
construed as moving with the actual shoreline.
      (6)   Any further complications as to the determination of the boundaries
of the districts shall be interpreted by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
ANNEXATION
§ 155.090  EFFECT OF CHAPTER.
   In order to preserve the purpose and objectives of this chapter, any
annexation of land to the village shall be to retain that land in the
appropriate district that it was in previous to annexation.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.091  ANNEXATION OF DISTRICTS R-1, R-2, R-3, B-1, B-2, OR I.
   The annexation of land in the R-1, R-2, R-3, B-1, B-2 or I Districts shall
be to retain such land in the same district that it was in prior to annexation.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.092  ANNEXATION OF C DISTRICT.
   If land which is classified in the C District is annexed to the village, it
shall be automatically reclassified within the R-1 District.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.093  ANNEXATION OF LAND COVERED BY PIATT COUNTY ZONING ORDINANCE.
   When any land which was previously covered by the Piatt County Zoning
Ordinance is annexed to the village, it shall be reclassified into the
appropriate district in the village according to the following conversions
schedule:
   (A)   A-1 (Piatt Co.) shall be R-1 (Village of Atwood);
   (B)   RS (Piatt Co.) shall be R-1 (Village of Atwood);
   (C)   I-1 (Piatt Co.) shall be I (Village of Atwood);
   (D)   B-1 (Piatt Co.) shall be B-2 (Village of Atwood);
   (E)   AC (Piatt Co.) shall be R-1 (Village of Atwood); and
   (F)   RD (Piatt Co.) shall be R-1 (Village of Atwood).
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.094  EFFECT ON VARIANCES AND SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   Annexation of any land into the village shall not affect variances or
special use permits which were granted prior to the annexation. However, if a
special use is placed in a district in which the special use permit is not
allowed, then the special use permit shall become void and the use shall
continue as a non-conforming use under the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
AUTHORIZED AND SPECIAL USES
§ 155.105  INTENT.
   (A)   In order to give the district use regulations of this chapter clarity
and flexibility, the schedule of authorized and special uses is established
below.
Schedule of Authorized and Special Uses C R1 R2 R3 B1 B2 I
Schedule of Authorized and Special Uses                                     C R1 R2 R3 B1 B2 I
BUSINESS USES: AGRICULTURAL AND RESOURCE PRODUCTION
   Farm chemicals and fertilizer sales including incidental storage and             X  X  X
mixing of blended fertilizer
   Farm equipment sales and service                                                 X  X  X
   Feed and grain (sales only)                                                      X  X  X
   Grain storage elevator and bins                                                        X
   Livestock sales facility and stockyards                                                S
   Roadside sales stand (agricultural, gardening, food, or food products)           X  X  X
   Slaughterhouse                                                                   S     S
BUSINESS USES: AUTOMOBILE SALES AND SERVICE
   Automobile, truck, trailer, or boat sales room (indoor)                          X  X  X
   Automobile, trailer or boat sales area (open lot)                                X  X  X
   Automobile repair (indoor)                                                       X  X  X
   Automobile washing facility (“car wash”)                                     X  X  X
   Automobile accessories (new)                                                     X  X
   Automobile salvage yard (junk yard)                                                    X
   Gasoline service station or minor automobile repair                              X  X  X
   Public maintenance and storage garage                                 X          X  X  X
BUSINESS USES: FOOD SALES AND SERVICE
   Bakery, where all goods are sold on the premises at retail                       X  X
   Confectionary store                                                              X  X
   Dairy store                                                                      X  X
   Delicatessen                                                                     X  X
   Drive-in restaurant                                                   S          X  X
   Locker, cold storage for individual use                                          X  X
   Meat and fish market                                                             X
   Restaurant (indoor service only)                                                 X  X
   Retail liquor store                                                              X  X
   Supermarket or grocery store                                                     X  X
   Tavern or nightclub                                                              X  X  X
   Wholesale produce terminal                                                          S  X
BUSINESS USES: MISCELLANEOUS
   Auction house (non-animal)                                                       X  X  X
   Aviation sales, service, or storage                                   S             X  X
   Christmas tree sales lot                                              S          X  X  X
   Kennel or dog pound                                                   X             X  X
   Veterinary hospital or clinic                                         X             X  X
   Storage or warehouse, except for explosive, flammable or toxic                      S  X
substances
   Storage of explosive, flammable or toxic substances, except for bulk                S  S
storage of all such substances
   Wholesale business                                                                  X  X
BUSINESS USES: PERSONAL SERVICES
   Barber shop                                                             S  S  S  X
   Beauty shop                                                             S  S  S  X
   Clothing repair and storage                                                      X
   Diaper service establishment                                                     X
   Dressmaking shop                                                        S  S  S  X
   Dry-cleaning establishment and/or laundry establishment                          X
   Medical or dental clinic                                              S          X  X
   Millinery shop                                                                   X
   Mortuary or funeral home                                              S S  S  S  X  X
   Reducing salon                                                                   X
   Self-service laundry                                                             X
   Shoe repair                                                                      X
   Tailor and pressing establishment                                                X
BUSINESS USES: BUSINESS, PRIVATE, EDUCATIONAL AND FINANCIAL SERVICES
   Bank or other financial services                                      X          X  X
   Business office                                                                  X  X  X
   Insurance or real estate office                                       X          X  X
   Private kindergarten or day care facility                               S  S  S  S
   Professional office                                                     S  S  S  X  X
   Temporary real estate sales or rental office, model home or model       X  X  X  S  S  S
apartment
   Vocational, trade or business school                                  X          X  X  X
BUSINESS USES: RECREATIONAL
   Amusement park                                                        S             S  S
   Bait sales                                                                          X  S
   Billiard room                                                                    X
   Bowling alley                                                                    S  X  S
   Circus, carnival or music festival                                    S          S  S  S
   Country club or golf course                                           S X  X  X        X
   Driving range or miniature golf course                                           S  S  X
   Lodge or private club                                                 S       X  X
   Riding stable                                                         S                S
   Stadium or colosseum                                                  S             S  S
   Theater (indoor)                                                                 X
   Theater (outdoor)                                                                   S  S
BUSINESS USES: RETAIL TRADE
   Antique sales and service                                                        X  X  X
   Apparel shop                                                                     X  X
   Bicycle sales and service                                                        X  X
   Building materials (outdoor)                                                           X
   Building materials sales (all indoor--excluding concrete and asphalt             X  X  X
mixing)
   Convenience store                                                                X  X
   Department store                                                                 X  X  S
   Electrical or gas appliance sales and service                                    X  X
   Florist shop                                                                     X  X
   Furniture, home furnishings, or office equipment sales and service               X  X  X
   Hardware store                                                                   X  X
   Jewelry store                                                                    X  X
   Lawn mower sales and service                                                     X  X
   Monument sales (excluding stone cutting)                                         X  X
   Musical instrument and equipment store                                           X  X
   Newsstand or bookstore                                                           X  X
   Paint, glass or wallpaper shop                                                   X  X
   Pawn shop                                                                        X  X
   Pet store (indoor)                                                               X  X
   Pharmacy or drug store                                                           X  X
   Photographic studio and equipment sales and service                              X  X
   Plumbing, heating, ventilating, air conditioning sales and service               X  X
   Shoe store                                                                       X  X
   Sporting good sales and service                                                  X  X
   Stationary-gift shop--art supplies                                               X  X
   Variety--dry goods store                                                         X  X
COMMERCIAL TRANSPORTATION USES
   Airport                                                               S                S
   Bus station                                                                      X  X  X
   Railroad yards and freight terminals                                                   X
   Railway station                                                                  X  X  X
   Truck terminal                                                                      X  X
INDUSTRIAL USES: CHEMICALS AND ALLIED PRODUCTS
   Corrosive acids, chlorine, caustic acid, and potash manufacturing and                  S
bulk storage of such items
   Cosmetics and toiletries manufacturing                                                 S
   Drug manufacturing                                                                     S
   Fertilizer, manufacturing and bulk storage                                             X
   Insecticide, fungicide, herbicide, and poisons manufacturing and bulk                  S
storage of such items
   Paints, varnishes, lacquers, enamels, inks, glue, dyes, gum, and wood                  S
derivatives manufacturing
   Plastics, synthetic resins, synthetic rubber manufacturing                             S
   Soap detergent, bleaching agents, and cleaning preparations                            S
manufacturing
INDUSTRIAL USES: FABRICATED METAL PRODUCTS
   Electrical and electronic machinery, equipment and supplies                            S
manufacturing
   Machinery (except electrical) manufacturing                                            S
   Other fabricated metals products manufacturing including containers,
tools, hardware, structural metals, piping, machined products, metal,                        S
stamping, wire products, and the coating and engraving of metal products
   Transportation equipment manufacturing including motor vehicles,                       S
aircraft, railroads and allied products
INDUSTRIAL USES: FOOD AND KINDRED PRODUCTS
   Animal and marine fats and oils manufacturing and packaging                            S
   Bakery (wholesale)                                                                     S
   Beverage (alcoholic and non-alcoholic) distilling, manufacturing,                      S
processing and bottling
   Confectionary products manufacturing and packaging                                     S
   Dairy products manufacturing, processing, and packaging                                S
   Grain mill products manufacturing, processing and packaging                            X
   Meat, fish, and poultry preparation and packing                                  X     S
   Other food preparation-manufacturing, processing and packaging                         S
   Packaging of vegetables and seafoods                                                   S
   Vegetable fats and oils manufacturing and packaging                                    S
INDUSTRIAL USES: LUMBER AND WOOD PRODUCTS
   Building paper, paper containers and similar products manufacturing                    S
   Furniture manufacturing and upholstering                                               S
   Paper and pulp manufacturing                                                           S
   Saw mills, planning mills and related activities                                       S
   Wood fabricating shops and related activities                                          S
INDUSTRIAL USES: MISCELLANEOUS MANUFACTURING AND INDUSTRIES
   Jewelry, costume jewelry, novelties, silverware, and plated ware                       S
manufacturing and processing
   Musical instruments and allied products manufacturing                                  S
   Office and artists materials manufacturing (except paints, dyes, and                   S
similar products)
   Signs and advertising display manufacturing                                            S
INDUSTRIAL USES: PETROLEUM AND RUBBER PRODUCTS
   Linoleum and other hard surface floor covering manufacturing                           S
   Paving and roofing materials manufacturing                                             S
   Petroleum and gas bulk storage                                                         X
   Petroleum refining                                                                     S
   Rubber products manufacturing                                                          S
INDUSTRIAL USES: PRIMARY METAL MANUFACTURING
   Foundries                                                                              S
   Smelting and refinery of non-ferrous metals                                            S
   Steel works, blast furnaces and the rolling and finishing of ferrous                   S
metals
INDUSTRIAL USES: PRINTING, PUBLISHING AND RELATED INDUSTRIES
   Bookbinding                                                                      X  X  X
   Printing and publishing plants for newspapers, periodicals, books                X  X  X
stationary and commercial printing
INDUSTRIAL USES: PROFESSIONAL SCIENTIFIC AND CONTROLLING DEVICES
   Engineering laboratory, scientific and research instruments                         S  S
manufacturing
   Mechanical measuring and controlling instruments manufacturing                      S  S
   Optical instruments and lenses manufacturing                                        S  S
   Photographic equipment and supplies manufacturing                                   S  S
   Surgical, medical, dental, and mortuary instruments and supplies                    S  S
manufacturing
   Watches, clocks, and clockware operated devices manufacturing                       S  S
INDUSTRIAL USES: RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND PROTOTYPE MANUFACTURING INDUSTRIES
   Theoretical and applied research, development, and prototype
manufacturing of the following: drugs, chemical, food products, rubber and
petroleum products, light fabricated metal products, electronic and                       S  X
electrical products, physical and aerospace sciences, wood and wood
products, non-electrical machinery, textiles, glass and ceramic products
   Non-profit governmental educational or research agencies                         S  X  X
INDUSTRIAL USES: STONE, GLASS, AND CLAY PRODUCTS
   Abrasives, asbestos and miscellaneous non-metallic products                            S
manufacturing
   Cut stone and stone products manufacturing                                             S
   Glass products manufacturing                                                           S
   Hydraulic cement manufacturing                                                         S
   Pottery and related products manufacturing                                             S
   Structural clay products manufacturing                                                 S
INDUSTRIAL USES: TEXTILES AND APPAREL
   Miscellaneous finished products manufacturing including canvas products,               S
decorated textiles, luggage and similar products
   All textile goods manufacturing, apparel and clothing accessory                        S
manufacturing, and other fabricated textile products manufacturing
PUBLIC AND QUASI-PUBLIC FACILITIES
   Cemetery                                                              S
   Church, temple or other house of worship                              X X  X  X  S  S
   Electrical substation                                                 X S  S  S     X  X
   Elementary, junior high school, or high school                        X X  X  X
   Municipal or government building                                      X S  S  S  X  X  X
   Parking garage or lot                                                            X  X  X
   Police or fire station                                                X S  S  S  X  X  X
   Hospital                                                              S    S  S     X
   Public library, museum or gallery                                     S S  S  S  X  X  X
   Public park or recreational facility                                  X X  X  X  X  X  X
   Public telephone (free standing)                                              X  X  X  X
   Public/commercial sanitary landfill                                   S
   Radio/television tower or station                                     S             S  S
   Sewage disposal plant or lagoon                                       X
   Telephone exchange                                                         S  S  X  X  X
   Water tower                                                           X          X  X  X
RESIDENTIAL USES
   Rooming or boarding house                                                     X
   Dwelling-single family                                                X X  X  X  S
   Dwelling-two family                                                   S X  X  X  S
   Dwelling-multi-family                                                      S  X  S
   Home for the aged or similar group housing                            S       X
   Home occupations                                                      X X  X  X
   Hotel or motel                                                                   X  X
   Mobile home                                                           S    S  S
   Mobile home park                                                      S       S
   Mobile home in mobile home park                                       X       X
   Nursing home                                                          S       X
RESOURCE PRODUCTION AND ASSOCIATED USES
   Agriculture, including customary accessory uses                       S             X  X
   Garden shop                                                                      S  X  X
   Greenhouse                                                                          X  X
   Mineral extraction, quarrying, top-soil removal and allied activities S                S
   Plant nursery                                                         X             X  X
 
   (B)   Those uses which are authorized for their respective districts are
permitted by right because the nature of the use makes it compatible with other
uses within the district and a zoning use permit shall be granted
unconditionally to an authorized use; provided that, it meets the other
regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   Those uses which have unusual characteristics compared to
authorized uses within the district require more careful consideration with
respect to the objectives of this chapter and with respect to their effects on
surrounding properties are classified as special uses.
      (2)   In order to achieve these purposes, the Village Board of Zoning
Appeals, with final decision by the Village Board of Trustees, is empowered to
grant and deny applications for such special uses in such districts as are
prescribed in division (A) above and to impose conditions upon the granting of
special use permits.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.106  APPLICATION FOR A SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   An application for a special use permit may be obtained from the
Village Clerk. The completed form shall be given to the Building Commissioner,
who shall then refer it to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   The application shall contain information as prescribed by the
Building Commissioner including the following information and material:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s);
      (3)   An accurate sketch drawn approximately to scale of the site and the
surrounding area at least 300 feet measured from the boundaries of the
property; and
      (4)   A statement of the specific conditions and circumstances which
exist and are peculiar to the particular parcel of land in that district.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.107  SPECIAL PERMIT PUBLIC HEARING.
   No special use permit shall be granted by the Board of Trustees unless a
public hearing has been conducted by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (A)   There shall be notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing
published at least one, not more than 30 days or less than 15 days prior to the
hearing. This notice shall be published in one or more newspapers published by
the village or of general circulation within the village.
   (B)   In addition to published notice, all owners of property located
adjacent to or within 300 feet, excluding streets and alleys, in every
direction from the property for which the special use is requested, shall be
given notice by first class mail at least ten days prior to the public hearing.
The applicant for the special use permit shall furnish the names and addresses
of those persons entitled to notice and shall pay the cost of preparation and
mailing of such notice.
   (C)   The public hearing shall be held within 60 days of the receipt of the
application for a special use permit by the Building Commissioner.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.108  FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the close of the public hearing on a proposed
special use, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall make written findings of fact
and shall submit them together with its recommendations to the Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   The findings of fact and recommendation of the Board of Zoning Appeals
are to be based on the following:
      (1)   Whether the proposed location of the special use is in accord with
the objectives of this chapter and the purposes of the district in which the
site is located;
      (2)   Whether the proposed location of the special use and the conditions
under which it would be operated or maintained will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety, or welfare, or materially injurious to properties or
improvements in the vicinity; and
      (3)   That the proposed special use will comply with each of the
applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.109  CONDITIONS.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals may recommend to the Board of Trustees who then
may require such conditions or restrictions upon the construction, location and
operation of a special use as deemed necessary to secure the general objectives
of this chapter. Such conditions or restrictions may include provisions for the
protection of adjacent property and the expiration of the special use permit
after a period of time.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.110  VILLAGE BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   A special use permit shall be acted upon by the Board of Trustees
within 30 days upon receipt of the Board of Zoning Appeals decision. The Board
of Trustees may affirm, reverse, or modify a decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals; provided that, if a Board of Zoning Appeals decision recommending
denial of a special use permit is reversed, or a decision recommending granting
of a special use permit is modified, the Board of Trustees on the basis of the
record transmitted by the Building Commissioner and such additional evidence as
may be submitted, shall make findings of fact that establish that the
circumstances prerequisite to the granting of a special use permit prescribed
in §
155.108 of this chapter apply.
   (B)   A special use permit shall be passed by a majority of the Board of
Trustees. A special use permit which fails to receive the approval of the Board
of Zoning Appeals shall not be granted by the Board of Trustees, except by a
two-thirds’ of all the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   If a written protest against a proposed special use permit is filed
with the Village Clerk, the special use permit shall be passed only by a
favorable two-thirds’ vote by the Board of Trustees. The protest may be filed
by the following parties:
      (1)   The owners of 20% or more of the land with frontage on the same
block as, or frontage on the alley in the same block across from, or frontage
on the block across form the proposed special use; and
      (2)   The owners of 20% or more of the frontage proposed to be altered,
or by the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across the
alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite the
frontage proposed to be altered.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.111  REVOCATION.
   A special use permit granted subject to a condition or conditions shall be
revoked by the Board of Trustees if the condition or conditions are not
complied with. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold a public hearing within
30 days in accordance with the applicable procedure prescribed in §§
155.107 and
155.108 of this chapter and if not satisfied that the condition or conditions
are being complied with may recommend revocation of the special use permit or
the taking of such action as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the
condition or conditions. The Building Commissioner shall notify the applicant
and the property owner of any action taken by the Board of Zoning Appeals in
regard to the revocation of a special use permit. This notification shall
include the reasons why the Board of Zoning Appeals has decided the condition
or conditions have not been met.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.112  NEW APPLICATION OR REAPPLICATION.
   No application for a special use permit which has been denied wholly or
partly by the Board of Trustees shall be resubmitted for a period of one year
from the date of the denial, except on the ground of new evidence or proof of
changed conditions found to be valid by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.113  SPECIAL USE PERMIT TO BE PERSONAL PRIVILEGE.
   A special use permit granted pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter
shall be a personal privilege only granted to the person applying therefor. If
the special use permitted is discontinued for a period of time in excess of one
year, then the special use shall cease. In the event that property subject to a
special use shall be voluntarily or involuntarily transferred by the applicant,
then the special use shall be discontinued. No special use permit shall be
subject to sale or transfer.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 155.125  GENERAL GUIDELINES.
   Mobile homes and mobile home parks may be permitted in the C District by a
special use permit for mobile homes and mobile home parks. (See §
155.105 of this chapter.)
   (A)   Special use permits for mobile home parks; additional requirements for
special use permit applications. It shall be unlawful to construct, alter, or
expand any mobile home park, unless a valid special use permit is issued by the
Board of Trustees for the specific construction, alteration, or expansion
proposed. All applications for special use permits for mobile home parks shall,
in addition to the information required by §
155.106 of this chapter, contain the following minimum plans and
specifications:
      (1)   A map indicating the area and dimensions of the tract of land;
      (2)   The number, location, and size of all mobile home sites;
      (3)   The location of all width of all public and private streets,
roadways, and walks;
      (4)   The location of all water, storm sewer, and sanitary sewer lines,
and refusal disposal facilities;
      (5)   All buildings existing or to be constructed within the mobile home
park; and
      (6)   The location of internal lighting and electrical systems.
   (B)   Development standards; general provisions.
      (1)   No mobile home park shall be located such that it is exposed to
objectionable smoke, dust, noise, odors, vibrations, or other adverse
influences.
      (2)   Ingress and egress to a mobile home park shall be provided in such
a manner to facilitate access by emergency vehicles, and shall be designed to
provide efficient and safe traffic circulation in the vicinity.
      (3)   No part of any mobile home park shall be used for non-residential
purposes, except for accessory uses that are required to directly serve mobile
home park residents and for management and maintenance of the mobile home park.
      (4)   No mobile home park shall be located in an area where the
conditions of soil, ground water level, drainage, or topography may cause
hazard to the property, health, or safety of the occupants.
   (C)   Size and density of mobile home parks.
      (1)   No mobile home park shall contain an area of less than five acres,
nor less than 20 mobile home sites; provided, however, that, mobile home parks
in existence on the effective date of this chapter having a total area or
number of mobile home sites less than herein above prescribed may continue to
operate. Existing mobile home parks prescribed may continue to operate.
Existing mobile home parks may be altered to bring such parks into conformity
with this chapter.
      (2)   However, no additions or alterations may be made to any existing
mobile home park unless such additions or alterations in any conformity of this
chapter and unless such additions or alterations contain not more than eight
mobile home sites for each gross acre of land.
   (D)   Required setbacks and screening for mobile home park exterior
boundary.
      (1)   All mobile home stands shall maintain the following setbacks from
mobile home park boundaries facing public streets:
 
County highways                     35 feet
State, U.S., or interstate highways 45 feet
Township roads or city streets      25 feet
 
      (2)   All mobile home parks shall have minimum side and rear yards of 15
feet.
      (3)   All mobile home parks shall be provided with visual screening such
as fences or screen planting along any boundary lines abutting non-mobile home
residential areas, such boundary not being a thoroughfare.
   (E)   Required recreation space. Not less than 8% of the gross area of the
mobile home park shall be devoted to recreational facilities. Such facilities
shall be centrally located on the mobile home park site and shall be readily
accessible to all mobile home occupants. Recreation facilities may include park
space, play lots, swimming pools and community buildings (exclusive of laundry
rooms and administrative offices). Recreation facilities may be decentralized;
provided that, no parcel of outdoor recreation space contains less than 6,000
square feet, nor has a minimum average width of less than 30 feet.
   (F)   Mobile home site requirements.
      (1)   The boundaries of each mobile home site shall be designated in
accordance with the approved plan required by division (A) above.
      (2)   Each mobile home shall maintain the minimum setbacks from the
boundaries of its mobile home site.
         (a)   The minimum distance between a mobile home and its site boundary
adjacent to private streets or roads shall be 15 feet.
         (b)   The minimum distance between the entrance side of a mobile home
park and it site boundary shall be 20 feet.
         (c)   All other setbacks shall be a minimum of ten feet.
      (3)   In no case, however, shall a mobile home site consist of an area
less than 3,200 square feet.
      (4)   A mobile home stand or pad shall be provided on each mobile home
site of sufficient size to accommodate the mobile home to be located thereon.
Mobile home stands shall be concrete slabs or runways, constructed so as not to
shift or settle unevenly under the weight of a mobile home or other forces due
to frost, the use of ground anchors designed to withstand a minimum of 4,800
pounds each. Four ground anchor connections shall be provided for each mobile
home of less than 50 feet in length and six ground anchor connections shall be
provided for each mobile home equal to or exceeding 50 feet in length.
      (5)   Each mobile home site shall be provided with an outdoor living
space to supplement the interior living space of the mobile home. This outdoor
living space must be paved, or constructed of masonry or concrete slabs or
blocks placed sufficiently close together to create a single usable surface,
the area of the outdoor living space shall be a minimum of 160 square feet with
one dimension being a minimum of eight feet.
      (6)   The space between the mobile home stand and the floor of the mobile
home shall be enclosed with non-combustible skirting.
      (7)   A minimum of two off-street parking spaces shall be provided for
each mobile home site. One of these parking spaces may be provided off the site
provided such parking space is not located more than 200 feet from the mobile
home site served.
   (G)   Street requirements.
      (1)   All mobile home parks shall be provided with adequate, safe, and
convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets.
      (2)   Public street dedications within or abutting mobile home parks
shall be made in accordance with the subdivision regulations. No mobile home
shall have direct access on to a dedicated public street.
      (3)   Entrance drives into mobile home parks shall have direct access to
a public street and shall be designed to have free traffic flow on to such
public streets. No parking or mobile home lot access driveway shall be
permitted off an entrance for a distance of 50 feet from a public right-of-way.
      (4)   The internal private street system serving mobile home sites shall
provide convenient circulation by means of minor streets and properly located
collector minor streets. Cul-de-sac private streets shall be limited to a
length of 300 feet.
      (5)   (a)   Minimum pavement widths for private streets shall be as
follows:
 
Private Streets        Minimum Widths
Collector streets      30 feet
Cul-de-sac streets     24 feet
Cul-de-sac turnarounds 80 feet
Minor streets          24 feet
 
         (b)   All dimensions are exclusive of parking areas.
      (6)   With respect to paving materials, curbs and gutters, grading,
intersections, off sets, and radii of curvature, the provisions of the village
ordinance concerning subdivisions shall apply.
      (7)   Parking spaces perpendicular to private streets shall not be
located within the required pavement width. Parallel parking on one side of a
minor street is permitted provided the required 24 feet of pavement remains
unobstructed for travel.
   (H)   Street lighting.
      (1)   Street lighting shall be designed to produce a minimum of one-tenth
foot-candle throughout the street system. Potentially hazardous locations such
as intersections, major pedestrian crossings, and portions of streets abutting
service buildings and recreation areas shall be illuminated with a minimum of
three-tenths foot-candle.
      (2)   All gas or electric service to the street lighting system shall be
located underground.
   (I)   Pedestrian walkways.
      (1)   Common walks are required at locations where heavy pedestrian
traffic is likely to occur such as entrances, service facilities, and
recreation areas. Common walks should be located through interior areas removed
from streets wherever possible.
      (2)   Individual and common walks shall be paved or constructed of
masonry or concrete blocks or slabs placed sufficiently close together to
create a uniform surface for accessibility by the handicapped. Individual walks
shall not be less than two feet in width. Common walks shall not be less than
three and one-half feet in width.
      (3)   No walk shall be used as a drainage way. Sudden changes in
alignment and gradient shall be avoided.
   (J)   Utilities and required services.
      (1)   Water supply and distribution system.
         (a)   Connection shall be made to public water supply and its supply
used exclusively.
         (b)   All applicable minimum requirements of the State Department of
Public Health shall be met.
      (2)   Sewage systems.
         (a)   Connection shall be made to the public sewage collection and
treatment system. All sewage and water-carried waste shall be carried into such
public system.
         (b)   All applicable minimum requirements of the State Department of
Public Health shall be met.
      (3)   Solid waste disposal.
         (a)   All refuse shall be stored in watertight containers located on
each mobile home site or within 150 feet thereof.
         (b)   Refuse shall be collected regularly and transported to a
disposal site in compliance with state law. Incineration of any refuse or
vegetation within a mobile home park is prohibited.
         (c)   Call applicable minimum requirements of the State Department of
Public Health shall be met.
      (4)   Electrical distribution system.
         (a)   Electrical installations in mobile home parks including site
feeder circuits and additional secondary receptacles shall conform to the
National Electrical Code, latest edition.
         (b)   The electrical distribution system in all mobile home parks
shall be underground.
         (c)   The total load for a mobile home park shall be calculated on the
basis of 16,000 watts per mobile home site. The minimum allowable demand
factors which may be used in calculating load on feeders and service are as
follows:
 
Number of Mobile Home Sites Services Demand Factor (Percent)
100 or more                          22
 
      (5)   Telephone service and television systems.
         (a)   All telephone service to mobile homes in mobile home parks shall
be underground.
         (b)   Distribution of master television antenna service to mobile home
sites in mobile home parks shall be underground.
      (6)   Fire protection.
         (a)   Mobile home parks shall be kept free of all litter, rubbish, or
other accumulated flammable materials.
         (b)   Fire hydrants shall be located throughout the mobile home park
and shall be located not more than 500 feet from any mobile home. The hydrants
shall deliver a minimum of 75 gallons of water per minute at a pressure of 20
pounds per square inch at the highest elevation point of the mobile home park.
         (c)   Fire extinguishers shall be provided in accordance with the
State Department of Public Health requirements.
         (d)   Service buildings and other community facilities. All mobile
home parks shall provide the following community facilities:
            1.   A management office;
            2.   Management and maintenance storage facilities; and
            3.   Other facilities as may be required by S.H.A. Ch. 11-1/2, §§
158 et seq.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.126  MOBILE HOMES ON INDIVIDUAL LOTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to mobile homes on individual lots in
the R-3, Mobile Home Dwelling District. Regulations for mobile homes in mobile
home parks are provided in §
155.125 of this chapter and regulations for all other uses in the R-3 District
are provided in §
155.017 of this chapter.
   (A)   Areas. No mobile home shall be situated and maintained on an
individual lot in the R-3, Mobile Home Dwelling District unless the following
yards and lot areas are provided and maintained in connection with such mobile
home. Mobile homes may not be stored on any lot, except in the Mobile Home
District.
      (1)   Front yard (setback). There shall be a front yard (setback) not
less than 25 feet from the boundary of the lot along the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Side yards. Side yards shall be not less than eight feet from any
lot lines abutting vacant lots or lots occupied by other mobile homes, and
shall be not less than ten feet from lot lines abutting lots occupied by any
other use.
      (3)   Rear yard. There shall be a rear yard of not less than 20 feet.
      (4)   Lot area. Every lot in the R-3 District on which a mobile home is
situated and maintained shall have a minimum area of 5,000 square feet.
      (5)   Lot coverage. Not more than 30% of the area of any lot in the R-
3 District shall be occupied by a mobile home and any accessory building or
structure.
   (B)   Number of mobile homes per lot. No lot in the R-3 District shall be
occupied, at any one time, by more than one mobile home.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.127  ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   In addition to the foregoing requirements regarding mobile homes, standards
for mobile homes provided by the statutes of the state which are not in
conflict with the foregoing, are adopted by reference.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
VARIATIONS
§ 155.140  INTENT.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals with final decision by the Village Board
of Trustees shall determine and may vary the regulations of this chapter in
harmony with its general purpose and intent only in specific instances where
the Board of Zoning Appeals makes a finding of fact, based upon the standards
hereinafter prescribed, that there are practical difficulties in carrying out
the strict letter of the regulations of this chapter and that the granting of a
variance will not merely serve as a convenience to the applicant, but is
necessary to alleviate some demonstrable difficulty.
   (B)   A practical difficulty may result from the size, shape, or dimensions
of a site or the location of existing structures thereon; from geographic,
topographic, or other physical conditions on the site or in the immediate
vicinity; or street locations, or traffic conditions in the immediate vicinity.
Cost to the applicant of strict or literal compliance with a regulation shall
not be the sole reason for granting a variation.
   (C)   The power to grant variations does not extend to use regulations
because the flexibility necessary to avoid results inconsistent with the
objectives of this chapter is provided by the special use permit provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.141  CHANGES IN ZONING VARIANCE.
   No change in this chapter of the village or zoning variance shall be granted
within 90 days after the date upon which the zoning ordinance is adopted.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.142  POWER TO GRANT A VARIANCE.
   The Board of Trustees may vary the provisions of this in cases where there
are practical difficulties or particular hardship in the way of carrying out
the strict letter of the regulations relating to the construction, or
alteration of buildings or structures. These variances shall only be granted
after a finding of fact by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.143  APPLICATION FOR A VARIANCE.
   An application for a variance shall be filed with the Board of Zoning
Appeals and shall consist of:
   (A)   Name(s) and address(es) of the applicant(s);
   (B)   Name(s) and address(es) of the owner(s);
   (C)   An accurate sketch drawn approximately to scale of the site and the
surrounding area of at least 300 feet measured from the boundaries of the
property; and
   (D)   A statement of the specific conditions and circumstances which exist
and are peculiar to the particular parcel of land which are not present or are
not applicable to any other parcel of land in that district.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.144  VARIANCE HEARING.
   No variance shall be made by the Board of Trustees unless a public hearing
has been conducted by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (A)   There shall be a notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing
published at least once, not more than 30 days or less than 15 days prior to
the hearing. This notice shall be published in one or more newspapers published
in the village or of general circulation within the village.
   (B)   In addition to published notice, all owners of property located
adjacent to or within 300 feet, excluding streets and alleys, in every
direction from the property for which the variance is requested, shall be given
notice by first class mail at least ten days prior to the public hearing. The
applicant for the variance shall furnish the names and addresses of those
persons entitled to notice.
   (C)   This public hearing shall be held within 60 days of the receipt of the
application for a zoning variance.
   (D)   The variance shall be in effect immediately upon approval of such
application by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.145  FINDING OF FACT.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall conduct a public hearing and submit
a written finding of fact to the Village Board of Trustees.
   (B)   This finding of fact shall consist of and provide accurate and clear
answers to the following conditions:
      (1)   The strict and literal interpretation of this chapter;
      (2)   Demonstrate that the strict or literal interpretation of this
chapter would result in practical difficulty or physical hardship inconsistent
with the purposes and objectives of this chapter;
      (3)   Demonstrate that there are exceptional or extraordinary
circumstances or conditions which exist and are peculiar to that particular
parcel of land which are not present or are not applicable to any other parcel
of land in that district;
      (4)   Demonstrate that the exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions are not or do not result from any action by the applicant or owners;
      (5)   Demonstrate that the granting of the zoning variance will not
constitute a grant of special privilege inconsistent with the limitations on
other properties within the same zoning district;
      (6)   Demonstrate that the reason for the variance is not the economic
cost of developing that parcel of land; and
      (7)   Demonstrate that the granting of the variance will not be
detrimental to the public health, safety, and morals or materially injurious to
properties or improvements in the vicinity.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.146  ADOPTION OF A ZONING VARIANCE.
   The Village Board of Trustees by a concurring vote of four members of the
Board of Trustees may approve a zoning variance by amending the zoning
ordinance.
   (A)   No variance shall be granted based on the economics of developing that
parcel of land.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted by the Board of Trustees which will
violate the objectives or purpose of this chapter.
   (C)   The decision to grant or deny the variance shall be based upon the
written finding of fact submitted by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees may require additional information to be
included in the written finding of fact as it deems necessary to evaluate the
particular case which is being decided.
   (E)   Any variance which is granted by the Board of Trustees that is
contrary to the recommendation of the Board of Zoning Appeals’ written finding
of fact must be adopted by a two-thirds’ vote of the members of the Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.147  RIGHTS OF APPLICANTS AND PROPERTY OWNERS.
   (A)   One continuance may, upon request, be granted for the purpose of
presenting evidence to rebut testimony given by the applicant. The date of the
continued hearing shall be in the discretion of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
   (B)   The written application for a continuance shall be filed with the
Village Clerk signed by the following property owners:
      (1)   The owners of 20% or more of the land with frontage on the same
block as, or frontage on the alley in the same block across from, or frontage
on the block across from the proposed variance; and
      (2)   The owners of 20% or more of the frontage proposed to be altered,
or by the owners of 20% of the frontage immediately adjoining or across from
the alley therefrom, or by the owners of 20% of the frontage directly opposite
the frontage proposed to be altered.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES
§ 155.160  CONTINUANCE OF USE.
   (A)   Any lawfully established use of a building or land, on the effective
date of this chapter, or of amendments hereto, that does not conform to the use
regulations for the district in which it is located, shall be deemed to be a
legal non-conforming use and may be continued, except as otherwise provided
herein.
   (B)   Any legal non-conforming building or structure may be continued in use
provided there is no physical change other than necessary maintenance and
repair, except as provided herein.
   (C)   Any building for which a permit has been lawfully granted prior to the
effective date of this chapter, or of any amendments hereto, may be completed
within accordance with the approved plans. Any such building shall comply with
all regulations under which the original permit was issued. Any such building
shall thereafter be deemed a lawfully established building.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.161  DISCONTINUANCE OF USE.
   (A)   Whenever any part of a building, structure, or land occupied by a non-
conforming use is changed to or replaced by a use conforming to the provisions
of this chapter, such premises shall not thereafter be used or occupied by a
non-conforming use, even though the building may have been originally designed
and constructed for the prior non-conforming use.
   (B)   Whenever a non-conforming use of a building, structure or part thereof
has been discontinued, or whenever there is evident a clear intent on the part
of the owner to abandon a non- conforming use for a period of six consecutive
months, such use shall not, after being discontinued or abandoned, be re-
established, and the use of the premises thereafter shall be in conformity with
the regulations of the district.
   (C)   Where no enclosed building is involved, discontinuance of a non-
conforming use for a period of six months shall constitute abandonment, and
shall not hereafter, may be completed within accordance with the approved
plans. Any such building shall comply with all regulations under which the
original permit was issued. Any such building shall thereafter be deemed a
lawfully established building.
   (D)   A use not legally authorized by the provisions of this chapter in
existence prior to the time this chapter becomes effective shall be deemed a
violation and discontinued unless such use or structures is in conformance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.162  TERMINATION AND REMOVAL OF NON-CONFORMING USES, BUILDINGS, AND
STRUCTURES IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   The period of time during which the following non-conforming uses of
buildings, structures, or land may continue or remain in residential districts
shall be limited to two years from the effective date of this chapter, or of
any amendment hereto which causes the use to be conforming. Every such non-
conforming use shall be completely removed from the premises at the expiration
of the two-year period.
   (A)   Any non-conforming use of a building or structure having an assessed
valuation not in excess of $250 on the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   All non-conforming signs, billboards, and outdoor advertising
structures.
   (C)   Any non-conforming uses of land where no enclosed building is
involved, or where the only buildings employed are accessory or incidental to
such use, or where such use is maintained in connection with a conforming
building.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.163  REPAIRS AND ALTERATIONS ALLOWED.
   (A)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing a non-
conforming use is permitted, including necessary non-structural repairs and
incidental alterations which do not extend or intensify the non-conforming use.
   (B)   No structural alteration shall be made in a building or other
structure containing a non- conforming use, except in the following situations:
      (1)   When the alteration is required by law;
      (2)   When the alteration will actually result in eliminating the non-
conforming use; and
      (3)   When a building in a residential district containing residential
non-conforming uses may be altered in any way to improve livability; provided,
no structural alteration shall be made which would increase the number of
dwelling units or the bulk of the building.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.164  DAMAGE AND DESTRUCTION.
   (A)   In the event that a building or other structure containing a non-
conforming use is damaged or destroyed by fire or act of God, to an extent of:
      (1)   Not more than 50% of its replacement value, the building or
structure may be restored only to its original condition and floor area and the
occupancy of use is such building may be continued which existed at the time of
such partial destruction;
      (2)   More than 50%, but less than 75%, of its replacement value, the
buildings or structures may be restored only to its original condition and
floor area and the occupancy or use of such building may be continued which
existed at the time of such partial destruction only if an approved special use
permit is applied for and secured from the village in accordance with the
provisions of §§
155.105 through
155.113 of this chapter; and
      (3)   More than 75% of its replacement value, the building or structure
may be rebuilt and used thereafter only for a conforming use and in compliance
with the provisions of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   When the provisions of divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) above are
applicable, the restoration or repair of the building or other structures must
be started within a period of six months from the date of damage or destruction
and diligently pursued to completion. Failure to exercise the options herein
provided within the time specified shall be considered a voluntary abandonment
and buildings and structures may be rebuilt and used thereafter only for a
conforming use and in compliance with provisions of the district in which it is
located.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.165  ADDITIONS AND ENLARGEMENTS.
   (A)   A non-conforming building may be enlarged or extended only if the
entire building is thereafter devoted to a conforming use, and is made to
conform to all of the regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   No building partially occupied by a non-conforming use shall be
altered in such a way as to permit the enlargement or expansion of the space
occupied by such non-conforming uses.
   (C)   No non-conforming use may be enlarged or extended in such a way as to
occupy any required usable open space or any land beyond the boundaries of the
zoning lot as it existed on the effective date of this chapter, or to displace
any conforming uses in the same building or on the same parcel.
   (D)   A building or structure which is non-conforming with respect to yards,
floor area ration, or any other element or expanded in any manner which would
increase the degree or extent of its conformity with respect to the bulk
regulations for the district in which it is located.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 155.180  HOME OCCUPATIONS WHERE PERMITTED.
   Home occupations are permitted in any residence lawfully being occupied
(including the accessory buildings that comply with the definition in § 155.004
of this chapter and any other applications of the municipal code), whether as a
single-family home, apartment, duplex, condominium, town house, or any other
kind of residence subject to the restrictions set out in the subchapter.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.181  WHEN PERMITTED WITHOUT A SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   A home occupation is permitted without a special use permit if the place and
circumstances of the occupation carried on meets each of the following
requirements.
   (A)   Not more than a total of eight vehicles per day will stop in
connection with the home business, at the place of business in any one 24-hour
period. This includes parking, stopping to load or unload anything, or stopping
to drop off passengers. Not more than three vehicles pertaining to the business
shall be parked at the premises at any one time.
   (B)   There shall be no outside storage of anything connected with the
business, except one vehicle used in connection with the business. Such vehicle
is to be no larger than a passenger van or pickup truck.
   (C)   The business generates no noise, odors, solid, or liquid waste, or
pollution in excess of that regularly generated by the occupants of a
residential home. There shall be no external alterations to the dwelling or
accessory building to draw attention to the business, except one small [two
square feet maximum] sign allowed in a residential district.
   (D)   The business is conducted in a space no larger than 500 square feet,
is out of view of the other residences, is inside a building or is in a back or
side yard that has privacy fence or hedge, other obstruction to vision of
occupation activities by neighbors or passers-by.
   (E)   The occupation is carried on by the resident of the property and will
invoke employment of only the members of the family residing on the premises.
Persons hired to do yard work or housekeeping are not counted as employees of
the business.
   (F)   The hours of said business are to be reasonable daytime or early
evening hours not generating traffic into the neighborhood during sleeping
hours.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.182  INTENT.
   The intent of this provision permitting home occupations in residential
areas of the village is to allow residents to work from their homes in
occupations that generate no disruptions to a neighborhood. Further, the second
intent is to authorize residents to have an opportunity to birth a small
business and bring it to the point of being able to supply an income to allow
it to move to another district. The home occupations are to be set up as to be
not apparent beyond the boundaries of the site, except for the sign allowed in
residential districts. (See §
155.246 of this chapter.)
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.183  SPECIAL USE PERMIT STANDARDS WHEN REQUIRED FOR NON-COMPLYING HOME
OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate a home occupation that is not in
compliance with the above requirements in §
155.181 of this chapter, without first obtaining a special use permit.
      (2)   Application will be made by completing a zoning use application
with the Building Commissioner.
      (3)   The non-complying issues will be marked as reason for denial.
      (4)   Such application will then be given to the Zoning Board of Appeals
for review.
      (5)   A public hearing as described in §§
155.105 through
155.113 of this chapter will be held after published legal notices and all
residents have been properly notified.
   (B)   A special use permit will be considered if the following standards
exist:
      (1)   The proposed home occupation will not interfere with permitted uses
in the neighborhood or make the premises unsuitable for such permitted uses;
      (2)   The proposed use will not disturb the peace or safety of the
neighborhood;
      (3)   The proposed occupation will not reduce property values in the
area;
      (4)   The proposed occupation will not cause any substantial traffic
problems;
      (5)   The person applying for such permit will agree to comply with
special conditions or restrictions as may be deemed necessary to secure the
general objectives of this chapter; (See §
155.109 of this chapter.)
      (6)   The permit of special use will be issued to the present resident
and will need to be reapplied for if the business is transferred or ended as
described in §
155.113 of this chapter; and
      (7)   All home occupation permits will come up periodically for review.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.184  EXEMPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be interpreted as regulating or prohibiting
any of the following:
   (A)   Holding a meeting in a home for religious purposes;
   (B)   Holding a meeting in a home for political purposes; and
   (C)   Having a meeting for social purposes.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.185  NUISANCE, INJUNCTION.
   (A)   Any violation of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
   (B)   In addition to any other relief provided by this chapter, the Village
Attorney may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for an injunction to
prohibit the continuation of any violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Such application for relief may include seeking a temporary
restraining order, temporary injunction or permanent injunction.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
GROUP HOMES
§ 155.200  GROUP HOMES, HOSPITALS AND HOTELS.
   In any district in which hospitals are permitted, and in any district in
which hotels are permitted, group homes shall be permitted.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
PARKING
§ 155.215  INTENT.
   In order to alleviate or prevent traffic congestion and shortage of curb
spaces, off-street parking facilities shall be provided incidental to new uses
and major alterations and enlargements of new uses. Off-street parking areas
are to be laid out in a manner that will ensure their usefulness, protect the
public safety, and where appropriate insulate surrounding land uses from their
impact.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.216  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Parking space dimensions. A parking space shall have a minimum
rectangular dimension of not less than nine feet by 19 feet for 90-degree
parking and not less than nine feet by 23 feet for parallel parking. Each
parking space shall have adequate provisions for easy ingress and egress.
   (B)   Disabled vehicles. The parking of a disabled vehicle within the
village corporate limits shall be prohibited, except where the disabled vehicle
is parked in an enclosed building and shielded from public view.
   (C)   Location of required parking spaces. The parking spaces required in
this chapter shall be located on the same lot for residential uses and within
300 feet of the lot for all other uses. No parking spaces may be located in any
front yard of a lot in a residential district.
   (D)   Signs. The entrances, exits, and direction of travel of the parking
areas shall be clearly marked. Each parking space in districts other than
residential districts shall be clearly marked.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.217  METHOD OF COMPUTING PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Floor area shall mean the gross floor area of the specific use,
excluding any floor or portion thereof used for parking, as herein defined.
   (B)   Where fractional spaces result, the requirement shall be increased to
the next whole number.
   (C)   In the case of mixed uses, the number of spaces shall be the sum of
the requirements for each use.
   (D)   In the event that a structure is changed or altered which results in a
change in parking requirements, the larger parking requirement shall be the new
requirement.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.218  MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All open off-street parking spaces shall be surfaced with a durable
surface consisting of concrete, bituminous concrete, or compacted gravel.
   (B)   All open off-street parking spaces shall be maintained in a usable
condition, graded and drained to dispose of surface water.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.219  PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
1- and 2- and multiple family dwellings 1 parking space for each dwelling unit
Churches, auditoriums, gymnasiums,      1 parking space for each 5 seats based
stadiums, and other places of public or on the official seating capacity
private assembly with fixed seats
Dance halls, bowling alleys, and        1 parking space for each 200 square
private clubs                           feet of floor area
                                        15 parking spaces, plus 5 additional
Funeral homes                           spaces for each area which could be
                                        used as a parlor
Hotels, rooming houses, clubs, and      1 parking space for each 2 guest
fraternal homes                         sleeping rooms
                                        1 parking space for each 5 employees
Manufacturing establishments            based on the greatest number of
                                        employees on the premises at one time
Restaurants and establishments whose    1 parking space for each 100 square
primary use is to serve food or         feet of floor area
refreshments to patrons
Retail and service establishments       1 parking space for each 300 square
                                        feet of floor area
Tourist court and motels                1 parking space for each lodging unit
                                        1 parking space for each transient
                                        sleeping room offered for tourist
Tourist homes                           accommodation in addition to parking
                                        spaces required for permanent residents
                                        of the building
Wholesale and distributing
establishments, including telephone     1 parking space for each 3 employees
exchanges
 
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
OFF-STREET LOADING
§ 155.230  INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to alleviate or prevent congestion on the
public streets, and to promote the public safety and welfare by establishing
minimum loading requirements for the use of property.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.231  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The size of a loading berth shall be at least ten feet in width and 25
feet in length. Each loading berth shall have a minimum vertical elevation of
at least 15 feet.
   (B)   No motor vehicle repair work or service of any kind shall be permitted
in conjunction with loading facilities provided in order to comply with this
chapter.
   (C)   All loading berths shall be designed with appropriate means of access
to a street or alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic
movement.
   (D)   Space allocated to loading berths in accordance with this chapter
shall not be used to satisfy the off-street parking requirements of the
particular use.
   (E)   All off-street loading shall be subject to the same maintenance
requirements as off-street parking spaces. All off-street loading berths shall
be subject to the same computational procedures as off-street parking spaces.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.232  OFF-STREET LOADING BERTH REQUIREMENTS.
   All uses other than exclusive dwelling uses shall provide off-street loading
facilities on the basis of floor area. One space shall be required for each
20,000 square feet of floor area for each use on that lot.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
SIGNS
§ 155.245  INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to maintain the attractiveness, visual
continuity and orderliness of the village and to protect the public safety and
welfare by reducing the number of signs, reducing the confusion resulting from
a proliferation of signs, and allowing the business community to more
adequately communicate with the public.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.246  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All overhanging signs shall be not less than eight feet from the level
of the ground beneath the lower edge of the sign.
   (B)   Any illuminated sign or lighting device shall employ only light
emitting a light of constant intensity, and no sign shall be illuminated by or
contain flashing, intermittent, rotating, or moving light or lights. In no
event shall an illuminated sign or lighting device be placed or directed so as
to permit the beams and illumination therefrom to be directed or beamed upon a
public street, highway, sidewalk, or adjacent premises so as to cause glare or
reflection that may constitute a traffic hazard or nuisance.
   (C)   No sign erected or maintained in the window of a building shall occupy
more than 20% of the window surface.
   (D)   Temporary signs, including political signs, announcing a campaign,
civic event, or other occurrence not occurring in a continuous manner shall be
permitted subject to the provision of their removal within two weeks of the
last day of the campaign, civic event, or other temporary occurrence.
   (E)   All signs that are posted for the fulfillment of a legal obligation to
the public notice, or are erected at the direction of the Village Board of
Trustees are not subject to the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   All signs shall conform to the setback requirements of the district in
which they are placed.
   (G)   Nameplates or warning signs not to exceed two square feet may be
located on residential property. A home occupation sign [also not to exceed two
square feet] would be allowed [and limited to one] to name the occupation
carried on by the resident of the premises if all the conditions allowing such
occupation as specified in §§
155.180 through
155.185 of this chapter.
   (H)   Signs erected for the purpose of selling, renting, or leasing any lot
or group of lots may be placed on the lot or group of lots for a period of six
months and may be allowed to remain an additional six months upon application
to and approval by the Village Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
§ 155.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, or organization violating any provision
of this chapter, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of at
least $75 and not more than $1,000. Each person, firm, corporation or
organization shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for each day or
portion thereof in which they are in violation of any provision of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any structure or sign erected, moved, altered, or enlarged and any use
of a site contrary to the provisions of this chapter shall be and is hereby
declared to be unlawful and a public nuisance and the Village Attorney shall
immediately institute necessary and proper legal proceedings to cause relief to
the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 07-O-01, passed - -2007)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Illinois Compiled Statutes
References to 2016 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO ILLINOIS COMPILED STATUTES
ILCS Cites Code Section
ILCS Cites                               Code Section
5 ILCS 70/1.01                           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.02                           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.03                           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.04                           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.05                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.07                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.08                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.09                           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.10                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.11                           10.04
5 ILCS 70/1.12                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.15                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.16                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.17                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.20                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.24                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.28                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/1.29                           10.02
5 ILCS 70/2                              10.04
5 ILCS 140 et seq.                       35.03
5 ILCS 140/1 et seq.                     31.15
5 ILCS 175/1-101 et seq.                 10.02
5 ILCS 430/1-1 et seq.                   31.18
5 ILCS 430/5-15                          31.18
5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40           31.18
5 ILCS 430/50-5                          31.18
5 ILCS 430/70-5                          31.18
20 ILCS 1605                             132.16
20 ILCS 1605/7.12                        132.16
65 ILCS 5                                10.02
65 ILCS 5/1-1-2                          10.02
65 ILCS 5/11-1-5                         133.99
205 ILCS 5/5g                            132.15
205 ILCS 5/42.7                          132.15
205 ILCS 5/7008                          132.15
230 ILCS 10                              132.16;
                                         132.17
230 ILCS 15                              132.16
230 ILCS 25                              132.16
230 ILCS 30                              132.16
                                         132.15;
230 ILCS 40                              132.16;
                                         132.17
230 ILCS 45                              132.16
230 ILCS 40/1 et seq.                    112.50
235 ILCS 5                               73.25
235 ILCS 5/1-3.24                        111.01
235 ILCS 5/4.2                           30.09
235 ILCS 5/6-21(a)                       111.02;
                                         111.03
415 ILCS 5                               51.18;
                                         91.06
625 ILCS 5/1-188                         10.02
625 ILCS 5/3-609                         72.09
625 ILCS 5/3-616                         72.09
625 ILCS 5/6-101                         71.16
625 ILCS 5/6-303                         71.16
625 ILCS 5/7-601                         73.51
625 ILCS 5/7-602                         73.51
625 ILCS 5/11                            70.01
625 ILCS 5/11-204                        71.16
625 ILCS 5/11-301                        72.09
625 ILCS 5/11-501                        71.16
625 ILCS 5/11-501.1                      71.20
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.1                     72.09
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.2                     72.09
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(a) - (a-2)          72.09
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(b)                  72.09
625 ILCS 5/11-1301.3(d), (e), (g)        72.09
625 ILCS 5/12-709                        73.52
625 ILCS 25/1 et seq.                    73.50
625 ILCS 40                              73.30
625 ILCS 40/1-1 through 625 ILCS 40/11-1 73.26
625 ILCS 40/6-1                          73.32
705 ILCS 405                             133.99
720 ILCS 5/11-20(a) - (c), (e) - (g)     132.02
720 ILCS 5/11-21                         132.03
720 ILCS 5/11-21(e)                      132.03
720 ILCS 5/11-21(g)                      132.03
720 ILCS 5/11-30(a), (b)                 132.01
720 ILCS 5/11-30(c)                      132.01
720 ILCS 5/12C-60(a) - (e)               133.99
720 ILCS 5/17-50 et seq.                 132.15
720 ILCS 5/24-1 et seq.                  71.16
720 ILCS 5/28-1                          132.16
720 ILCS 5/28-1(a), (b), (d)             132.16
720 ILCS 5/28-2                          132.15
720 ILCS 5/28-3                          132.17
720 ILCS 5/28-5(a)                       132.18
720 ILCS 5/28-5(b)                       132.18
720 ILCS 550                             73.25
720 ILCS 550/4                           71.16
720 ILCS 570                             73.25
720 ILCS 570/402                         71.16
725 ILCS 5/124B-5 et seq.                132.02
805 ILCS 5                               111.22
815 ILCS 5/3                             132.16
815 ILCS 5/8                             132.16
                                         
 
REFERENCES TO 2016 CODE
2016 Code 2022 Code
2016 Code 2022 Code
1.001     30.01
1.002     30.02
1.003     30.03
1.004     30.04
1.005     30.05
1.006     30.06
1.007     30.07
1.008     30.08
1.009     30.09
2.101     30.20
2.102     30.21
2.103     30.22
2.104     30.23
2.105     30.24
2.106     30.25
2.107     30.26
2.108     30.27
2.109     30.28
2.110     30.29
2.111     30.30
2.112     30.31;
          30.99
2.201     30.32
2.202     30.32
2.203     30.32
2.204     30.32
2.205     30.32
2.206     30.32
2.207     30.32
3.001     31.30
3.002     31.30
3.003     31.30
3.004     31.30
3.005     31.30
3.006     31.30
3.007     31.30
3.008     31.30
3.009     31.30
3.010     31.30
4.101     31.30
4.102     31.30
4.103     31.30
4.104     31.30
4.105     31.30
4.106     31.30
4.107     31.30
4.201     31.32
4.202     31.32
4.203     31.32
4.204     31.32
4.205     31.32
4.206     31.32
4.207     31.32
4.301     31.33
4.302     31.33
4.303     31.33
4.304     31.33
4.305     31.33
4.401     31.34
4.402     31.34
4.403     31.34
4.501     31.35
4.502     31.35
4.601     31.36
4.602     31.36
5.001     33.01
5.002     33.02
5.003     33.03
5.004     33.04
5.005     33.05
5.006     33.06
5.007     33.07
5.008     33.08
5.009     33.09
5.011     33.11
6.001     33.25
7.101     32.01
7.102     32.02
7.103     32.03
7.201     32.15
7.202     32.16
7.203     32.17
7.301     32.30
7.302     32.31
7.303     32.32
7.304     32.33
7.305     32.34
7.306     32.35
7.307     32.36
7.308     32.37
7.309     32.38
7.310     32.39
7.311     32.40
7.312     32.41
7.313     32.42
7.314     32.43
8.101     31.01
8.102     31.02
8.103     31.03
8.104     31.04
8.105     31.05
8.106     31.06
8.107     31.07
8.108     31.08
8.109     31.09
8.110     31.10
8.111     31.11
8.112     31.12;
          31.99
8.113     31.13;
          31.99
8.114     31.14;
          31.99
8.201     34.01
8.202     34.02
8.203     34.03
8.204     34.04
8.205     34.05
8.206     34.06
8.207     34.07
8.301     153.01
8.302     153.02
8.303     153.03
8.401     153.03
8.402     153.16
8.403     153.99
8.501     35.01
8.502     35.02;
          35.99
8.503     31.16
8.504     31.17
9.101     154.01
9.102     154.02
9.103     154.03
9.104     154.04
9.105     154.05
9.106     154.06
9.107     154.07
9.108     154.08
9.109     154.09
9.110     154.10
9.111     154.11
10.101    151.001
10.102    151.002
10.103    151.003
10.104    151.004
10.105    151.005
10.106    151.006
10.107    151.007
10.108    151.008
10.110    151.010
10.111    151.011
10.112    151.012
10.113    151.013
10.114    151.014
10.115    151.015
10.116    151.016
10.117    151.017
10.118    151.018
10.119    151.019
10.120    151.020
10.121    151.999
10.122    151.021
10.123    151.022
10.124    151.999
10.201    151.035
10.202    151.036
10.203    151.037
10.204    151.038
10.205    151.999
10.301    151.050
10.302    151.051
10.303    151.052
10.304    151.053
10.305    151.054
10.306    151.055
10.307    151.056
10.308    151.057
10.309    151.058
10.310    151.059
10.311    151.999
10.401    151.070
10.402    151.071
10.403    151.072
10.404    151.073
10.405    151.999
10.501    152.01
10.502    152.02
10.503    152.03
10.504    152.04
10.505    152.05
10.506    152.06
10.507    152.07
10.508    152.99
10.601    93.01
10.602    93.02
10.603    93.03
10.604    93.04
10.605    93.05
10.606    93.99
11.101    51.01
11.103    51.02
11.104    51.03
11.200    51.15
11.201    51.16
11.202    51.17
11.203    51.18
11.204    51.19
11.205    51.20
11.206    51.21
11.207    51.22
11.208    51.23
11.304    51.24
11.305    51.35
11.306    51.36
11.307    51.37
11.309    51.38
11.310    51.99
11.401    52.15
11.402    52.16
11.403    52.17
11.404    52.18
11.405    52.99
12.102    52.02
12.103    52.03
12.104    52.04
12.105    52.05
12.106    52.99
12.201    52.30
12.202    52.31
12.204    52.33
12.205    52.34
12.206    52.35
12.208    52.99
13.102    70.01
13.103    70.02
13.104    70.03
13.105    70.04
13.106    70.05
13.107    70.06
13.108    70.07
13.109    70.08
13.110    70.10
13.201    71.01
13.202    71.02;
          71.99
13.203    71.03
13.204    71.04
13.301    70.09
13.402    72.02
13.403    72.03
13.404    72.04
13.405    Ch. 74, Schd. I
13.406    72.05
13.407    Ch. 74, Schd. I
13.408    72.06
13.409    72.07
13.410    72.08
13.412    72.99
13.502    70.11
13.503    70.12
13.504    70.13
13.505    72.99
13.601    72.01
14.101    73.01
14.201    73.02
14.202    73.03
14.203    73.04
14.204    73.05
14.205    73.06
14.206    73.07
14.207    73.08
14.208    73.09
14.209    73.10
14.210    73.11
14.211    73.12
14.212    73.13
14.213    73.14
14.214    73.15
14.301    73.99
15.101    50.01
15.102    50.02
15.103    50.03
15.104    50.04
15.105    50.05
15.106    50.06
15.107    50.99
15.108    50.07
15.109    50.08
15.110    50.99
15.201    92.01
15.202    92.02
15.203    92.03
15.204    92.04
15.205    92.05
15.206    92.06
15.207    92.07
15.208    92.99
15.209    92.08
16.101    90.01
16.102    90.02
16.103    90.03
16.104    90.04
16.105    90.05
16.106    90.06
16.107    90.07
16.108    90.08
16.109    90.09
16.110    90.10;
          90.99
16.111    90.11
16.112    90.12
16.113    90.13
16.114    90.14
16.115    90.15
16.201    90.35
16.202    90.36
16.203    90.37
16.204    90.38
16.205    90.39
16.206    90.40
16.207    90.16
16.208    90.17
16.209    90.18
16.301    90.19
16.302    90.20
16.303    90.21
16.304    90.41
16.305    90.99
17.101    112.20
17.102    112.21
17.103    112.22
17.105    112.99
17.201    110.01
17.202    110.02
17.203    110.03
17.204    110.04
17.301    110.15
17.302    110.16
17.303    110.99
17.402    112.35
17.403    112.36
17.405    112.37
17.406    112.99
17.601    112.50
17.602    112.51
17.603    112.52
17.604    112.53
17.605    112.54
17.606    112.55
18.001    111.01
18.002    111.02
18.003    111.20
18.004    111.21
18.005    111.22
18.006    111.23
18.007    111.24
18.008    111.25
18.009    111.26
18.010    111.27
18.011    111.28
18.012    111.45
18.013    111.03
18.014    111.46
18.015    111.29
18.016    111.30
18.017    111.31
18.019    111.47
18.020    111.48
18.021    111.49
18.022    111.50
18.023    111.51
18.024    111.52
18.025    111.53
18.026    111.54
18.027    111.55
18.028    111.56
18.029    111.04
18.030    111.32
18.031    111.99
19.001    112.01
19.002    112.02
19.003    112.03
19.004    112.04
19.006    112.05
20.101    110.30
20.102    110.31
20.103    110.32
20.104    110.32
21.201    150.01
21.202    150.02
21.203    150.03
21.204    150.04
21.205    150.99
21.301    150.15
21.302    150.16
21.303    150.17
21.304    150.18
21.305    150.19
21.306    150.99
21.307    150.20
21.401    91.01
21.402    91.02
21.403    91.03
21.404    91.04
21.405    91.05
21.406    91.99
21.506    92.05;
          92.55
21.507    92.20
21.508    92.09
21.509    92.99
21.601    92.35
21.602    92.36
21.603    92.37
21.604    92.38
21.605    92.39
21.606    92.40
21.607    92.41
21.608    92.99
21.701    92.56;
          150.35
21.702    92.57;
          150.36
21.703    150.37
21.704    150.38
21.705    150.39
21.706    150.40
21.707    150.41
21.708    150.99
21.801    93.20
21.802    93.21
21.803    93.22
21.804    93.23
21.805    93.24
21.806    93.25
21.807    93.99
21.901    92.21
21.902    92.22
21.903    92.23
21.904    92.24
21.905    92.99
22.002    130.01
22.003    130.02
22.006    130.03
22.007    130.04
22.008    130.05
22.009    130.06
22.010    130.07
22.011    130.08
22.012    130.09
22.013    131.01
22.014    130.06
22.015    131.02
22.016    130.10
22.017    131.03
22.018    131.04
22.020    130.11
22.021    130.12
22.022    130.13
22.025    130.14
          113.01—
22.026    113.10;
          113.99
22.030    71.15—
          71.23
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         73.25—
                     73.37
-        - -         151.023
0-8-75   - -         71.02
01-O-3   10-15-2001  91.06;
                     91.99
04-O-2   5-17-2004   31.18
                     155.001—
                     155.004;
                     155.015—
                     155.021;
                     155.035—
                     155.043;
                     155.055—
                     155.061;
                     155.075—
                     155.079;
                     155.090—
                     155.094;
                     155.105—
                     155.113;
07-O-01  - -2007     155.125—
                     155.127;
                     155.140—
                     155.147;
                     155.160—
                     155.165;
                     155.180—
                     155.185;
                     155.200;
                     155.215—
                     155.219;
                     155.230—
                     155.232;
                     155.245;
                     155.246;
                     155.999
10-O-2   4-26-2010   35.03
12-O-1   3-19-2012   130.10
12-O-4   8-20-2012   112.50—
                     112.55
                     113.01—
14-O-5   6-16-2014   113.10;
                     113.99
14-O-8   10-20-2014  30.32
15-O-2   2-17-2015   33.10
15-O-4   4-27-2015   92.36
17-O-1   1-17-2017   31.15
17-O-2   2-21-2017   53.01
                     73.50—
17-O-6   7-31-2017   73.54;
                     73.99
17-O-10  12-18-2017  31.19
19-O-01  1-14-2019   31.06
19-O-2   2-18-2019   31.37
                     51.03;
                     51.22;
                     51.35;
                     51.36;
19-O-4   4-22-2019   52.01;
                     52.15;
                     52.31—
                     52.34;
                     52.36
20-O-7   11-9-2020   32.15
                    
 
 
