CITY CODE
of
BARRY, ILLINOIS
1997
Code current through:
Ord. 5-2023, passed March 6, 2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
This code of the City of Barry, as supplemented, contains ordinances up to and
including ordinance 5-2023, passed March 6, 2023. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not amend the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE 1997-03
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE CITY CODE OF BARRY, ILLINOIS
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Barry, Illinois:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Barry, Illinois, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the Official
Code and Law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service,
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions
of the Official City Code is identified by the proper catchline and is inserted
in the proper place in each of the official copies, three (3) copies of which
shall be maintained in the office of the City Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and City
Council.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-5: Custody And Distribution Of Codes
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Barry. This City Code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the BARRY CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the Council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1997 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1997 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1997 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Clerk shall see that the replacement pages are properly
inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the Clerk. Any
person having custody of a copy of the City Code shall make every effort to
maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances passed. Such person
shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement pages when such are
delivered or made available to such person through the office of the City
Clerk. Said Code books, while in actual possession of officials and other
interested persons, shall be and remain the property of the City and shall be
returned to the office of the City Clerk when directed so to do by order of the
City Council. (1997 Code)
1-1-5: CUSTODY AND DISTRIBUTION OF CODES:
All the printed books containing the revised ordinances of the City shall be in
the custody and keeping of the City Clerk. The Clerk shall deliver one copy
thereof to each officer of the City, to be returned at the expiration of the
term of office, and to such other persons as the City Council may direct. The
Mayor or City Clerk shall have authority to extend to, or to reciprocate
courtesies of, other cities, by presenting to them a copy of the revised
ordinances bound, at the expense of the City, to such officer as may seem
advisable. (1944 Code § 486)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
   A.   Repealer; Exceptions: All general ordinances of the City passed prior
to the adoption of this City Code are hereby repealed, except such as are
included in this City Code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from
repeal (subject to the saving clauses contained in the following sections), and
excluding the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the City; and all special ordinances. (1944 Code § 480)
   B.   Nonreviver Of Repealing Ordinance: When any ordinance repealing a
former ordinance, clause or provision shall be itself repealed, such repeal
shall not be construed to revive such former ordinance, clause or provision,
unless it shall be therein so expressly provided. (1944 Code § 479)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by
virtue of the preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered
as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
(1944 Code § 481)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.   Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as
to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done,
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or
claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any
such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.   Scope Of Section: This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by
express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any
new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.   Actions Currently Pending: Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the City herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the City under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this City Code. (1997 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.   Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the plural
number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or persons,
any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included, although
distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter, party or
person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the singular number
only, or a particular gender, several matters, parties or persons and the
opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included; provided,
that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section of this
City Code which contains any express provision excluding such construction or
where the subject matter or context may be repugnant thereto.
   B.   The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1944 Code § 475; 1997
Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The City of Barry, County of Pike, State of Illinois.
CODE: The City Code of the City of Barry.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the City Council of the City of Barry.
COUNTY: The County of Pike, State of Illinois.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Barry", and shall be taken to mean the employee of the City performing the
duties indicated.
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
FISCAL YEAR: The fiscal year of the City of Barry shall commence on May 1 of
each year and end on April 30 of the following year.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to all persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the City, or any activity which by its perpetuation can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the community.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Barry", and shall be taken to mean the officer of the City having the title
mentioned.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Includes every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The State of Illinois.
STREET: Includes alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale. The definition of these terms is distinguished from a retail
dealer who sells in smaller quantities direct to the consumer.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1944 Code §§ 53, 475, 476, 482; 1997 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section or subsection hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be
so deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
   A.   Penalties Enumerated: Unless specifically provided elsewhere, any
person found to have been in violation of any of the terms and provisions of
this Code shall be fined in an amount not to exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). No imprisonment for failure to pay such fine, penalty or cost shall
exceed six (6) months for each offense. Each day that a violation continues
shall be deemed to be a separate offense. A penalty for each offense may
include a requirement that the offending party perform some reasonable public
service work such as, but not limited to, picking up litter in public parks or
upon public highways or performing maintenance of public facilities. A
violation hereof may be established by a preponderance of the evidence.
   B.   Incarceration For Misdemeanor: If, by the terms of an ordinance, an act
that would be consistent with the criminal laws of the State, is declared to be
a misdemeanor, the penalty therefor shall be for a period of incarceration in a
penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed six (6) months. The
matter shall be prosecuted under the rules of criminal procedure of the State,
and the City shall be required to establish guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
(1997 Code)
   C.   Minimum Fine: Whenever in this Code or any ordinance hereafter passed,
a minimum but not a maximum fine or penalty is imposed, the court may, in its
discretion, adjudge the offender to pay a sum of money exceeding the minimum
fine or penalty so fixed, not exceeding the sum of seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00). (1944 Code § 478; 1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. S.H.A. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1 and 5/1-2-1.1.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.   Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be
applicable to every section of this City Code the same as though it were a part
of each and every separate section. (1997 Code)
   B.   One Judgment Only: In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of this City Code,
the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery
or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced. (1944 Code § 477;
1997 Code)
   C.   Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this City Code
and there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach,
the provisions of this Chapter shall apply. (1997 Code)
   D.   Amending Provisions; Application Of Penalty: In case of amendment of
any section of this City Code containing the provisions for which a penalty is
provided in another section, the penalty so provided in such other section
shall be held to relate to the section so amended or the amending section,
whether reenacted in the amendatory ordinance or not, unless such penalty is
specifically repealed therein. (1944 Code § 483)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this City Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1944 Code § 482)
CHAPTER 5
CORPORATE AND OFFICIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
1-5-1: Seal Established
1-5-2: Wards
1-5-1: SEAL ESTABLISHED:
The corporate seal provided and used by the city shall be an impression which
is a shield in the center thereof with the words, "City of Barry, Ill.,
Organized Nov. 18, 1872", shall be, and the same is hereby, established and
declared to have been and now to be the seal of the city. (1944 Code § 52)
1-5-2: WARDS:
The city of Barry shall be redistricted into three (3) wards as follows:
   A.   Ward A is hereby designated as all of the territory south and west of a
line extending from the west corporate city limits, east on Tremont Street to
the intersection of Tremont Street and Lawrence Street, southerly on Lawrence
Street to the intersection of Lawrence Street and Mortimer Street thence
easterly to the intersection of Mortimer Street and Bainbridge Street, thence
southerly along Bainbridge Street to the southern corporate limits.
   B.   Ward B is hereby designated as all of the territory north of a line
extending from the west corporate limits, east on Tremont Street to the
intersection of Tremont Street and Lawrence Street, southerly along Lawrence
Street to the intersection of Lawrence Street and Mortimer Street thence
easterly along Mortimer Street to the east corporate city limits.
   C.   Ward C is hereby designated as all of the territory south and east of a
line extending from the south corporate city limits, north along Bainbridge
Street to the intersection of Bainbridge Street and Mortimer Street thence
easterly along Mortimer Street to the east corporate city limits. (Ord. 2013-8,
11-12-2013)
CHAPTER 6
MAYOR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Election And Term Of Office
1-6-2: Oath And Bond
1-6-3: Duties
1-6-4: Mayor Pro Tem
1-6-1: ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE:
The mayor shall be elected for a term of four (4) years as is provided by
statute. Such person shall be a qualified elector of the city, and shall have
resided in the city at least one year next preceding the election. (1944 Code §
1; amd. 1997 Code)
1-6-2: OATH AND BOND:
The mayor shall, before entering upon the duties of the office, take the oath
of office prescribed by law and shall execute bond to the city in the penal sum
of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) with such sureties as shall be approved by
the city council. (Ord. 2001-06-01, 6-4-2001)
1-6-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally: The mayor shall:
      1.   Sign Documents: Sign all commissions, licenses and permits granted
by the authority of the city council, except as otherwise provided, and such
other acts and deeds as by law or ordinance may require the mayor's official
signature.
      2.   License And Permit Revocation: Revoke, with the consent of the
council, all licenses and permits at will.
      3.   Execute Laws And Ordinances: See that the laws and ordinances are
executed.
      4.   Chief Executive Officer: Be the chief executive officer of the city
and perform all duties that may be required by statute or ordinance.
      5.   Supervision: Have supervision over all the executive officers of the
city.
      6.   Inspection Of Records: Have the power and authority to inspect all
books and records kept by any city officer or employee at any reasonable time.
(1944 Code § 4)
   B.   Appointments:
      1.   Officers: The mayor shall appoint, by and with the advice and
consent of the city council, all officers whose appointment is not by the laws
of the state or this city code otherwise provided for; and whenever a vacancy
shall happen in any office, which by law the mayor is empowered to fill, he/she
shall, within thirty (30) days after the happening of such vacancy, communicate
to said city council the name of his/her appointee to such office, and pending
the concurrence of the city council in such appointment, the mayor may
designate some officer of the city to discharge the duties of such office.
(1944 Code § 5)
      2.   Standing Committees: The mayor shall, upon the annual organization
of the city council, appoint the following standing committees, each committee
to consist of three (3) members:
         Finance
         Parks and zoning
         Police
         Public relations
         Streets, alleys and sidewalks
         Waterworks and sewer
(1944 Code § 6; amd. 1997 Code)
   C.   Other Duties: In addition to the above and foregoing duties, and to the
duties imposed upon such officer by law, the mayor shall perform all such other
duties pertaining to such office as are, or may be, required by the ordinances
of the city. (1944 Code § 7)
1-6-4: MAYOR PRO TEM:
In the absence of the mayor, the mayor pro tem will fulfill all duties of the
mayor. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Election And Term Of Office
1-7-2: Meetings
1-7-3: Quorum
1-7-4: Reconsidering Vote
1-7-5: Reports Of Committees
1-7-6: Order Of Business
1-7-7: Ordinances, Resolutions And Motions
1-7-1: ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE:
There shall be six (6) Aldermen, who shall be elected for a four (4) year term
as provided by statute. They shall be qualified electors of the City and shall
have resided in the City at least one year next preceding the election. (1944
Code § 8; 1997 Code)
1-7-2: MEETINGS:
   A.   Regular Meetings: The regular monthly meeting time of the City Council
shall be on the first Monday of each month at seven thirty o'clock (7:30) P.M.
at the City Hall, except when said first Monday shall be a public holiday, in
which case the Council shall meet at the same hour on the following Monday.
(1944 Code § 9; amd. Ord. 77-2, 5-3-1977; 1997 Code)
   B.   Adjourned Meetings: Adjourned meetings may be held for the purpose of
completing the unfinished business of the regular meetings at such time or
times as may be determined by the Council. (1944 Code § 9)
   C.   Special Meetings: Special meetings of the City Council may be called by
the Mayor or any three (3) Aldermen by the notification of each member of the
Council, stating the time and place, and the object and purpose of such
meeting, but no business shall be transacted at any special meeting except that
stated in the call or notice, unless by the unanimous consent of all the
Aldermen present. (1944 Code § 10)
   D.   Open Meetings: Council meetings shall be open to the public. (1997
Code)
1-7-3: QUORUM:
A majority of all the Aldermen elected to the City Council shall constitute a
quorum for the transaction of business, but a smaller number may adjourn from
time to time, and may compel the attendance of absentees under such penalties
as may be prescribed by ordinance. (1944 Code § 11)
1-7-4: RECONSIDERING VOTE:
No vote of the City Council shall be reconsidered or rescinded at any special
meeting thereof, unless at such special meeting there shall be present as many
Aldermen as were present when the vote was taken. (1944 Code § 12)
1-7-5: REPORTS OF COMMITTEES:
Every committee of the City Council, in reporting upon any subject referred to
them, shall attach to their report all papers or documents in the possession of
the committee relative to the matter so referred, and any report of a committee
may be deferred for final action thereon to the next regular meeting of the
City Council by a majority of the votes of the Aldermen present. (1944 Code §
13)
1-7-6: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The rules of meetings of the City Council shall be as follows:
   A.   Call To Order: The Mayor, when present, shall call the City Council to
order at the hour of the meeting as provided by ordinance, or the called notice
of such meeting.
   B.   Roll Call: The presiding officer, upon calling a meeting to order,
shall cause the roll of Aldermen and City officers to be called and the Clerk
shall note the presence or absence of any.
   C.   Reading Minutes: The minutes of the last regular and intervening
meetings shall be read, corrected and approved. (1944 Code § 14)
1-7-7: ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND MOTIONS:
   A.   Vote Required; Recording: The passage of all ordinances for whatever
purpose, and of any resolution or motion: 1) to create any liability against
the City, or 2) for the expenditure or appropriation of its money, shall
require the concurrence of a majority of all members elected to City Council,
including the Mayor. However, the passage of an ordinance, resolution, or
motion to sell any City property shall require the concurrence of two-thirds
(2/3) of all Aldermen elected. The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the
question of the passage of the designated ordinances, resolutions, or motions
and recorded in the journal of the City Council. Likewise, the yeas and nays
shall be taken upon the question of the passage of any other resolution or
motion at the request of any Alderman and shall be recorded in the journal.
(1944 Code § 15)
   B.   Ordinances:
      1.   Manner Of Passing: The yeas and nays shall be taken on the passage
of all ordinances and shall be entered on the records of the City Council. The
ordaining clause: "Be it Ordained by the City Council of the City of Barry",
shall be used in the adoption of all ordinances. Ordinances shall be adopted by
a majority yea and nay vote of all Aldermen elected to office. If the Council
desires to have further time in the adoption of an ordinance, said ordinance
may be placed on the calendar for final action at a meeting not later than the
second meeting following the introduction of the ordinance. A motion
substantially as follows may be adopted: "That Ordinance No.     be placed on
the calendar for action at the meeting of the Council to be held (date)". (1944
Code § 55; 1997 Code)
      2.   Recording, Filing And Publication: All ordinances passed by the City
Council shall be recorded by the City Clerk in a proper book or books with
indexes, the originals to be filed in the Clerk's office, and due proof of the
publication of all ordinances requiring publication by the certificate of the
printer or publisher, shall be procured by the Clerk and attached thereto, or
written and attested upon the face of the record of such ordinances. (1944 Code
§ 56)
CHAPTER 8
CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-8-1: Social Security Benefits
1-8-2: Compensation
1-8-1: SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS:
   A.   City Policy: It is hereby declared to be the policy and purpose of the
City to extend to the eligible employees thereof, effective as of January 1,
1956, the benefits of the Federal Old Age and Survivors Insurance System as
authorized by the Federal Social Security Act and amendments thereto. In
pursuance of said policy, and for that purpose the City Clerk shall take such
action as may be required by applicable State and Federal laws or regulations.
   B.   Agreement With State: The City Clerk is hereby authorized and directed
to execute an agreement with the State Employees' Retirement System of the
State of Illinois (Social Security Unit) to secure coverage of eligible
employees as provided in section 1 thereof.
   C.   Authorized Withholdings: Withholdings from salaries or wages of
employees for the purpose provided in subsection A hereof are hereby authorized
to be made in the amounts and at such times as may be required by applicable
State and Federal laws or regulations, and shall be paid over to the State
agency in such amounts and at such times as are designated by State laws or
regulations.
   D.   Employer Contributions: Employer contributions and administrative
expense shall be paid to the State agency in accordance with applicable State
laws and regulations from amounts appropriated for such purposes.
   E.   Maintain Records: The City Clerk shall maintain such records and submit
such reports as may be required by applicable State and Federal laws or
regulations. (Ord. 56-1, 1-1-1956)
1-8-2: COMPENSATION:
Officers and employees of the City shall receive such compensation as shall be
set from time to time by the City Council. (1997 Code)
ARTICLE A. CITY CLERK
SECTION:
1-8A-1: Election And Term Of Office
1-8A-2: Oath And Bond
1-8A-3: City Comptroller (Rep. by Ord. 2005-4, 3-7-2005)
1-8A-4: Duties
1-8A-1: ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE:
The city clerk shall be elected for a term of four (4) years and until his/her
successor is elected and qualified as is provided by statute. (1944 Code § 17)
1-8A-2: OATH AND BOND:
The city clerk, before he/she enters upon the duties of such office, shall take
the oath prescribed by law for city officers. The clerk shall also execute a
bond to the city in such amount as the council shall determine, with such
sureties as may be approved by the city council, conditioned for the faithful
performance of the duties of the office, and the payment of all monies that may
be received by such clerk, according to the laws and ordinances of the city.
Said bond shall be filed with the city treasurer. (1944 Code § 20)
1-8A-3: CITY COMPTROLLER:
(Rep. by Ord. 2005-4, 3-7-2005)
1-8A-4: DUTIES:
   A.   Keep Corporate Seal; Maintain Records: The clerk shall keep the
corporate seal, to be provided under the direction of the city council (section
1-5-1 of this title), and all papers belonging to the city. The clerk shall
attend all meetings of the city council and keep a full record of its
proceedings in the journal. Copies of all papers duly filed in such office, and
transcripts from the journals and other records and files of such office,
certified by the clerk under the corporate seal, shall be evidence in all
courts in like manner as if the originals were produced. (1944 Code § 18)
   B.   Record Ordinances: The clerk shall record in a book kept for that
purpose all ordinances passed by the city council, and at the foot of the
record of each ordinance so recorded shall make a memorandum of the date of the
passage, and of the publication or posting of such ordinances. Such record and
memorandum, or a certified copy thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of the
passage and legal publication or posting of such ordinances for all purposes
whatsoever. (1944 Code § 19)
   C.   Attend Meetings; Maintain Record Of Proceedings: The city clerk shall
attend all meetings of the city council, and shall keep in a suitable book, to
be styled the "Record Of Proceedings", a full and faithful record of its
proceedings. The clerk shall issue, and cause to be served upon the aldermen,
notices of all special meetings of the city council, and shall also issue
notices to all members of the different committees of that body, and to all
persons whose attendance may be required before any such committee, when so
directed by the chairman thereof. (1944 Code § 21)
   D.   Deliver Papers To Proper Committees: Said clerk shall, without delay,
upon the adjournment of each meeting of the city council, deliver to the
several committees of that body, and to the officers of the corporation, all
petitions, communications, reports, resolutions, claims and other papers
referred to those committees or officers by the council. The clerk shall also,
without delay, deliver to the mayor all ordinances or resolutions in his/her
charge which may require to be approved or otherwise acted upon by the mayor.
(1944 Code § 22)
   E.   Prepare Official Documents: Said clerk shall prepare all commissions,
licenses, permits and other official documents required to be issued by him/
her, under the laws and ordinances of the city, and shall attest the same with
the corporate seal; and said clerk shall in like manner attest all deeds for
the sale of real estate owned and conveyed by the city. (1944 Code § 23)
   F.   Perform Other Duties: In addition to the foregoing duties, the city
clerk shall perform all such other and further duties pertaining to the office,
as are or may be imposed upon him/her by law or ordinance. (1944 Code § 26;
amd. Ord. 2005-4, 3-7-2005)
ARTICLE B. CITY TREASURER
SECTION:
1-8B-1: Election And Term Of Office
1-8B-2: Oath And Bond
1-8B-3: Duties
1-8B-1: ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE:
The City Treasurer shall be elected for a term of four (4) years and until a
successor is elected and qualified. (1944 Code § 30)
1-8B-2: OATH AND BOND:
The City Treasurer, before entering upon the duties of the office, shall take
the oath prescribed by law for such officer. The Treasurer shall execute a bond
to the City in an amount of money that is not less than three (3) times the
latest Federal census population or any subsequent census figure used for motor
fuel tax purposes with at least two (2) good and sufficient sureties, to be
approved by the City Council, conditioned for the faithful performance of the
office, and the payment of all monies received by him/her, according to law and
the ordinances of the City. (1944 Code § 39; 1997 Code)
1-8B-3: DUTIES:
   A.   Receive Monies; Books Subject To Investigation: The Treasurer shall
receive all monies belonging to the corporation, and shall keep the books and
accounts in such a manner as may be prescribed by ordinance, and such books and
accounts shall always be subject to the investigation of any member of the City
Council. (1944 Code § 31)
   B.   Separate Accounts: The Treasurer shall keep a separate account of each
fund or appropriation, and the debts or credits belonging thereto. (1944 Code §
32)
   C.   Funds Kept Separate: The Treasurer may be required to keep all monies
in his/her hands, belonging to the corporation, in such place or places of
deposit as may be designated by ordinance; provided, however, no such ordinance
shall be passed by which the custody of such money shall be taken from the
Treasurer and deposited elsewhere than in some regularly organized bank, or
without a bond taken from such bank, in such penal sum and with such security
as the City Council shall direct or approve, sufficient to save the corporation
from any loss; but such penal sum shall not be less than the estimated receipts
of the current year from taxes and special assessments levied or to be levied
by the corporation. The Treasurer shall keep all monies belonging to the
corporation in his/her hands separate and distinct from his/her own monies, and
is hereby expressly prohibited from using, either directly or indirectly, the
corporation money or warrants in such Treasurer's keeping and custody for his/
her own use and benefit, or that of any person or persons whomsoever. Any
violation of this provision shall subject such Treasurer to immediate removal
from office by the City Council, who is hereby authorized to declare the office
vacant; and in such case a successor shall be appointed, who shall hold the
office for the remainder of the term unexpired of such officer so removed.
(1944 Code § 34)
   D.   Annual Report; Publication: The Treasurer shall report to the City
Council, as often as required, a full and detailed account of all receipts and
expenditures of the corporation, as shown by the books, up to the time of said
report. The Treasurer shall annually make out and file with the Clerk a full
and detailed account of all such receipts and expenditures, and of all the
transactions as such Treasurer, during the preceding fiscal year. The Treasurer
shall show in such account the state of the Treasury at the close of the fiscal
year, which account the Clerk shall immediately cause to be published in a
newspaper printed in the City, if there is one; otherwise said Clerk shall post
the account in a public place in the office. (1944 Code § 35; 1997 Code)
ARTICLE C. CITY ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8C-1: Appointment
1-8C-2: Bond
1-8C-3: Compensation
1-8C-4: Duties
1-8C-5: Dismissal Of Prosecution
1-8C-6: Appeal Case From Inferior Court
1-8C-7: Certified Copies Of Documents Provided Upon Request
1-8C-1: APPOINTMENT:
The City Attorney shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council. (1944 Code § 40)
1-8C-2: BOND:
The City Attorney shall, before entering upon the duties of such office,
execute and deliver to the City a good and sufficient bond to be approved by
the City Council, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of
such office as prescribed by the laws of Illinois and the ordinances of the
City. (1944 Code § 41; 1997 Code)
1-8C-3: COMPENSATION:
The City Attorney shall receive per hour compensation for services, plus a
monthly retainer; the amount to be set from time to time by the Council. (1944
Code § 51; 1997 Code)
1-8C-4: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally:
      1.    Legal Advisor: The City Attorney shall be the legal advisor of the
City. The Attorney shall draw such ordinances as may be required by the City
Council, or any committee thereof, and shall draw all leases, deeds, contracts
or other legal documents or papers, when so required by the head of the
department to which said documents properly pertain. The Attorney shall, when
required, advise the City Council or any City officer on all matters of law in
which the interests of the City are involved; and may, when he/she considers
the question or matters propounded to be of sufficient importance, require them
to be submitted in writing, and in such cases his/her answer shall also be in
writing.
      2.   Prosecute Or Defend Cases: The City Attorney shall prosecute or
defend, as the case may be, on behalf of the City, all cases in which the
interests of the City are involved. The Attorney shall take charge of the
prosecution of all actions for the violation of the City ordinances, and shall
conduct all proceedings thereon in the courts in which they are originally
brought. Such prosecutions shall be instituted by the Attorney, when instructed
by the Mayor, City Council, Chief of Police or the chief officer of any
department of the City government, or upon the complaint of any person, when,
in his/her judgment, the public interests shall require that the same be
prosecuted. (1944 Code § 42)
   B.   Issuance Of Executions: The Attorney shall cause executions to be
issued on all judgments recovered in favor of the City and see to their prompt
collection. When, in his/her opinion, the Attorney deems it in the interest of
the City to do so, he/she shall examine all fee bills of court officers against
the City, and certify to the correctness of the same, and the liability of the
City therefor. (1944 Code § 45)
   C.   Collection Of Fines And Payment To City: The Attorney shall direct such
proceedings as may be necessary to collect, as far as possible, all fines,
penalties or judgments in favor of the City, and shall promptly pay into the
City Treasury all monies collected by such Attorney. In all appealed cases
where judgment shall be rendered in favor of the City, in the court to which
the appeal has been taken, or where such appeal may be dismissed for want of
prosecution or other cause, the Attorney shall collect, as far as may be, all
such judgments in favor of the City. When necessary to enforce any of the legal
rights of the City, such Attorney shall institute suit upon the appeal bond
given in any particular case. (1944 Code § 46)
   D.   Keep Docket: It shall be the duty of said Attorney to keep, in a
suitable book, properly indexed, to be provided by the City for that purpose, a
record of all written opinions given by him/her to the City or its officials.
The Attorney shall also keep a register of all actions in courts of record
prosecuted or defended by him/her, in which the City was a party, and of the
various proceedings in connection therewith. Upon the expiration of such term
of office, the Attorney shall deliver to the successor in office the said book
and register, together with all contracts, bonds or other papers in his/her
possession belonging to the City or appertaining to said office. (1944 Code §
48)
   E.   Annual Report: The Attorney shall annually, on or before May 1 of each
year, and more often if requested, furnish the City Council a detailed
statement of all suits instituted and pending in the courts of record wherein
the City is plaintiff or defendant. In said report he shall state the names of
the parties to the suits, the date of their commencement, the nature thereof,
and the several steps taken to bring the same to final issue. The Attorney
shall also give a list of all cases disposed of during such term of office and
subsequent to the last report, with such explanatory remarks as he/she may
think proper to add thereto, to the end that the Council may be kept fully
advised as to the legal affairs of the City. (1944 Code § 49)
   F.   Recommend Necessary Ordinances: The Attorney shall from time to time
recommend to the City Council the passage of such ordinances as may be
necessary, in such Attorney's judgment, to prevent crime, and to maintain the
police regulations of the City. (1944 Code § 50)
1-8C-5: DISMISSAL OF PROSECUTION:
The City Attorney shall not be required to prosecute any action arising from
the violation of any of the ordinances of the City, when, upon the
investigation of the same, such Attorney shall be satisfied that the complaint
was instituted maliciously, and without probable cause, and he/she shall have
power to dismiss any suit or proceeding upon such terms as may deem equitable,
when he/she considers that the public interest will be subserved thereby. (1944
Code § 43)
1-8C-6: APPEAL CASE FROM INFERIOR COURT:
The City Attorney may take an appeal from the judgment of any inferior court,
or local prosecuting official, to the County or Circuit Court of Pike County
where judgment below has been rendered against the City, when, in his/her
opinion, the public interest may require such appeal. (1944 Code § 44; 1997
Code)
1-8C-7: CERTIFIED COPIES OF DOCUMENTS PROVIDED UPON REQUEST:
Whenever the City Attorney shall require it, any City officer shall furnish
him/her a certified copy of any papers, contracts or other documents he/she may
require in prosecuting or defending any suit, or, which he/she may require for
any other purpose connected with the proper transaction of the duties of such
office. (1944 Code § 47)
ARTICLE D. PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR
SECTION:
1-8D-1: Appointment
1-8D-2: Duties
1-8D-1: APPOINTMENT:
Upon the annual organization of the City Council there shall be appointed by
the Mayor, with approval of the City Council, a Public Works Director. (1944
Code § 70)
1-8D-2: DUTIES:
   A.   Generally:
      1.   It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director to put and keep in
repair all streets and alleys within the corporate limits of the City; and to
erect and keep in repair such bridges, sidewalks and crossings as may be
directed, from time to time, by the City Council, or the proper committees of
the same, so to do.
      2.   The Public Works Director shall cause all ordinances in relation to
streets, alleys and sidewalks to be enforced, and shall prosecute all persons
for violation thereof.
      3.   The Public Works Director shall carry into effect all such orders,
general or special, as he/she may receive from the City Council, the Mayor, or
Committee on Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks. (1944 Code § 82)
   B.   Employ Labor: The Public Works Director may, by authority of the
Committee on Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks, employ such help as may be
necessary for cleaning and repairing the streets and alleys, payment for such
work not to exceed the customary rate paid by others for similar labor and
service, and shall oversee and direct such laborers and keep a correct account
of their time. (1944 Code § 83)
   C.   List And Custody Of Implements: It shall be the duty of the Public
Works Director to keep a correct list of all implements, materials and other
property of the City in his/her charge or possession; and upon the expiration
of such term of office, or his/her resignation or removal therefrom, the Public
Works Director shall deliver said property to the successor in office, taking a
receipt therefor, which shall immediately be filed with the City Clerk who
shall credit such Public Works Director with the same, and charge the successor
therewith. (1944 Code § 84)
ARTICLE E. CITY COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-8E-1: Appointment
1-8E-2: Duties
1-8E-1: APPOINTMENT:
City collector shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of
the city council. (Ord. 2005-4, 3-7-2005)
1-8E-2: DUTIES:
The duties of the city collector shall be as follows:
   A.   The city collector shall collect and/or receive all permit fees,
vehicle license fees, municipal water charges and all other license fees or
other fees owed and/or due the city.
   B.   Such other duties as assigned by the city council.
   C.   The city collector shall maintain office hours at city hall between
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon, Monday through
Friday, except on water collection days, at which times office hours shall be
between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and four o'clock (4:00) P.M., excluding all
holidays. (Ord. 2005-4, 3-7-2005)
ARTICLE F. CITY ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-8F-1: Appointment
1-8F-2: Duties
1-8F-1: APPOINTMENT:
Upon the annual organization of the City Council there shall be appointed by
the Mayor, with approval of the City Council, a City Administrator. (Ord. 2014-
10, 12-1-2014)
1-8F-2: DUTIES:
   A.   It shall be the duty of the City Administrator to serve as the
Administrative Manager of the City of Barry. The functions of this position
shall include but shall not be limited to: budgeting for the City, enforcement
of this Code, building inspection, community and economic development including
investigating, preparing and reviewing applications and grants, and human
resource management.
   B.   The City Administrator shall report directly to the Mayor and City
Council and shall be required to attend all regular and specially called
meetings of the City Council unless specifically excused in advance. The City
Administrator shall be expected to report to the Mayor and City Council all
ongoing affairs concerning the City as well as to report the activities of the
City Administrator since the last meeting of the City Council.
   C.   The City Administrator shall carry into effect all such orders, general
or special as he/she may receive from the City Council, the Mayor, or
authorized committees of the City Council.
   D.   It shall be the duty of the City Administrator to keep a correct list
of all implements, material and other property of the City in his or her charge
or possession. The City Administrator shall coordinate with the Public Works
Director concerning the list of all such implements, materials and other
property. Upon the expiration of the term of Office of the City Administrator,
or upon the resignation or removal from office, the City Administrator shall
deliver all such property to his/her successor in office, taking a receipt
therefor, which shall immediately be filed with the Circuit Clerk who shall
credit such City Administrator with the same, and charge the successor
therewith. (Ord. 2014-10, 12-1-2014)
CHAPTER 9
COMMITTEES
SECTION:
1-9-1: Finance Committee
1-9-2: Police Committee
1-9-3: Committee On Streets, Alleys And Sidewalks
1-9-4: Committee On Waterworks And Sewer
1-9-5: Parks And Zoning Committee
1-9-6: Public Relations Committee
1-9-1: FINANCE COMMITTEE:
   A.   Supervision Of Books And Papers: The Finance Committee of the City
Council may prescribe the manner in which the books and accounts of all
officers of the corporation shall be kept, in order to establish uniformity
therein. Said Committee shall from to time, examine the books and accounts of
all City officers, and see that they are regularly and neatly kept and
preserved, and that the books and papers belonging to the offices of the Clerk
and Treasurer are secure from loss or injury by fire or otherwise; and they
shall report to the City Council any neglect or failure on the part of such
officer to keep such books and accounts properly, or to preserve any papers
pertaining to such office. (1944 Code § 57)
   B.   Adjustment Of Accounts; Appeal: In the adjustment of the accounts of
the Treasurer with the Clerk, there shall be an appeal to said Finance
Committee, whose decision in all matters of controversy arising between said
officers shall be final unless the City Council shall otherwise direct. (1944
Code § 58)
   C.   Annual Meeting; Examining Reports: The Finance Committee shall meet
annually, upon the close of each fiscal year, and examine and compare the
reports and statements made by the Clerk and Treasurer or other City officers,
and shall report thereon to the City Council. (1944 Code § 59)
   D.   Supervision Of Duties Of Clerk And Treasurer: The Finance Committee
shall inform themselves from time to time of the condition of the finances of
the City, and shall have general supervision and control over the application
and expenditure of the same. Said Committee shall advise with the Clerk and
Treasurer and aid them in furnishing the necessary information pertaining to
said finances, and in the preparation of their reports, and shall from time to
time inspect the books and accounts of said officers, and require the same to
be kept in a suitable and proper manner, and shall do and perform such other
duties in relation to the collection and disbursements of money, as shall
enable them at all times to limit and control the finances of the City, and the
expenditures thereof, and such as are not inconsistent in or conflict with the
duties of other officers as prescribed by ordinance. (1944 Code § 60)
1-9-2: POLICE COMMITTEE:
The Police Committee shall oversee the needs of the Police Department. Said
Committee shall report back and make recommendations to the City Council. (1997
Code)
1-9-3: COMMITTEE ON STREETS, ALLEYS AND SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Duties: The Committee on Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks shall have
supervision over the repair and maintenance of all streets, alleys and
sidewalks, and shall have charge and control of other public grounds in the
City not otherwise provided for by ordinance. (1944 Code § 64; 1997 Code)
   B.   Electric Lights: Said Committee shall have supervision of the street
lighting, and shall enforce a strict compliance with the terms and conditions
of any contract that may be let for the lighting of the streets of the City,
and shall do and perform such other duties in relation to the proper lighting
of the streets as may be necessary. (1944 Code § 65)
1-9-4: COMMITTEE ON WATERWORKS AND SEWER:
The Committee on Waterworks and Sewer shall have supervision over the
operation, maintenance and management of the Municipal waterworks and of the
sewage disposal system, including all grounds, buildings, machinery, mains and
other equipment. They shall review and make recommendations to the City Council
on the "schedule of charges" for all water and sewer services. (1944 Code § 66;
1997 Code)
1-9-5: PARKS AND ZONING COMMITTEE:
The Parks and Zoning Committee shall:
   A.   Help review requests for zoning and permit requests.
   B.   Make recommendations to the City Council.
   C.   Oversee the condition and maintenance of the City parks. (1997 Code)
1-9-6: PUBLIC RELATIONS COMMITTEE:
The Public Relations Committee shall promote the good will and sponsor
activities within the City. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 10
CITY FINANCES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Annual Income; Tax Assessment
1-10-1: ANNUAL INCOME; TAX ASSESSMENT:
For all purposes of raising an annual revenue, all lands, lots, and personal
property within the boundaries of the City shall be subject to taxation
according to the value thereof; and there shall be annually assessed upon the
same the amount as shall be provided in the annual appropriation ordinance as
required by law, and be collected as State and County taxes are collected.
(1944 Code § 54)
CHAPTER 11
STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
1-11-1: Adoption
1-11-1: ADOPTION:
   A.   The regulations of sections 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et
seq., (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section) are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the city to
the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5.
   B.   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the city, is hereby
prohibited.
   C.   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the city under the act, is hereby prohibited.
   D.   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
any officer or employee of the city, is hereby prohibited.
   E.   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   F.   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as those
penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   G.   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of city officers and
employees.
To the extent that any such existing ordinances or policies are less
restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of this section shall
prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
70-5(a).
   H.   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the city.
   I.   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the city if the act is found unconstitutional by
the Illinois supreme court.
   J.   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act unconstitutional
but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act, or does not
address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as adopted by
this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that part of this
section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional shall be deemed
repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of the city. (Ord.
2004-04, 5-3-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 through 10-40.
CHAPTER 12
INVESTMENT POLICY
SECTION:
1-12-1: Policy
1-12-2: Scope
1-12-3: Prudence
1-12-4: Objective
1-12-5: Delegation Of Authority
1-12-6: Ethics And Conflicts Of Interest
1-12-7: Authorized Financial Dealers And Institutions
1-12-8: Authorized And Suitable Investments
1-12-9: Collateralization
1-12-10: Safekeeping And Custody
1-12-11: Diversification
1-12-12: Maximum Maturities
1-12-13: Internal Control
1-12-14: Performance Standards
1-12-15: Reporting
1-12-16: Market To Market
1-12-17: Investment Policy Adoption
1-12-1: POLICY:
It is the policy of the city of Barry to invest public funds in a manner which
will provide the highest investment return with the maximum security while
meeting the daily cash flow demands of the entity and conforming to all state
and local statutes governing the investment of public funds. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-
6-1999)
1-12-2: SCOPE:
This policy includes all funds governed by the city council. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-
6-1999)
1-12-3: PRUDENCE:
Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under circumstances then
prevailing, which persons of prudence, discretion and intelligence exercise in
the management of their own affairs, not for speculation, but for investment,
considering the probable safety of their capital, as well as the probable
income to be derived. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-4: OBJECTIVE:
The primary objectives, in order of priority, shall be:
   A.   Legality: Conformance with federal, state and other legal requirements.
   B.   Safety: Preservation of capital and protection of investment principal.
   C.   Liquidity: Maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet operation
requirements.
   D.   Yield: Attainment of market rates of return. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-5: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY:
Management and administrative responsibility for the investment program is
hereby delegated to the treasurer who, under the delegation of the city
council, shall establish written procedures for the operation of the investment
program. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-6: ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST:
Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution and
management of the investment program, or that could impair their ability to
make impartial decisions. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-7: AUTHORIZED FINANCIAL DEALERS AND INSTITUTIONS:
The treasurer will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to
provide investment services. In addition, a list will also be maintained of
approved security brokers/dealers selected by credit worthiness. (Ord. 1999-07,
12-6-1999)
1-12-8: AUTHORIZED AND SUITABLE INVESTMENTS:
Investments may be made in any type of security allowed for in Illinois
statutes regarding the investment of public funds. Investments shall be made
that reflect the cash flow needs of the fund type being invested. (Ord. 1999-
07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-9: COLLATERALIZATION:
Funds on deposit (checking accounts, certificates of deposit, etc.) in excess
of FDIC limits must be secured by some form of collateral, witnessed by a
written agreement and held at an independent third party institution in the
name of the municipality. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-10: SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY:
All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements,
entered into by the city of Barry, shall be conducted on a deliver-versus-
payment (DVP) basis. Securities will be held by an independent third party
custodian designated by the treasurer and evidenced by safekeeping receipt and
a written custodial agreement. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-11: DIVERSIFICATION:
The entity shall diversify its investment to the best of its ability based on
the type of funds invested and the cash flow needs of those funds.
Diversification can be by type of investment, number of institutions invested
in, and length of maturity. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-12: MAXIMUM MATURITIES:
To the extent possible, the city of Barry shall attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a
specific cash flow, the city will not directly invest in securities maturing
more than five (5) years from the date of purchase.
Reserve funds may be invested in securities exceeding five (5) years if the
maturity of such investments are made to coincide as nearly as practicable with
the expected use of the funds. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-13: INTERNAL CONTROL:
The treasurer is responsible for establishing and maintaining an internal
control structure designed to ensure that the assets of the entity are
protected from loss, theft or misuse. The internal control structure shall be
designed to provide reasonable assurance that these objectives are met. The
internal controls shall address the following points:
   A.   Control of collusion.
   B.   Separation of transaction authority from accounting.
   C.   Custodial safekeeping.
   D.   Written confirmation of telephone transactions for investments and wire
transfers. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-14: PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
This investment portfolio will be managed in accordance with the parameters
specified within this policy. The portfolio should obtain a comparable rate of
return during a market/economic environment of stable interest rates. Portfolio
performance should be compared to bench marks with similar maturity, liquidity
and credit quality as the portfolio. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-15: REPORTING:
The treasurer shall prepare an investment report at least monthly. The report
should be provided to the city council and available on request. The report
should be in format suitable for review by the general public. An annual report
should also be provided to the council. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-16: MARKET TO MARKET:
A statement of the market value of the portfolio shall be issued to the city
council quarterly. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
1-12-17: INVESTMENT POLICY ADOPTION:
The investment policy shall be adopted by the city council. The policy shall be
reviewed on an annual basis by the treasurer and any modifications made thereto
must be approved by the city council. (Ord. 1999-07, 12-6-1999)
CHAPTER 13
INTERESTED PARTIES REGISTRIES
SECTION:
1-13-1: Registry Created
1-13-1: REGISTRY CREATED:
   A.   There is hereby created an "interested parties" registry in accordance
with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the tax increment allocation redevelopment act for
each redevelopment project area created under the act and not terminated by the
city, whether now existing or created after the date of the adoption hereof.
   B.   In accordance with section 11-74.4-4.2 of the act, the city hereby
adopts the registration rules attached to the ordinance codified herein as
exhibit A as registration rules for each such "interested parties" registry.
The city, with the consent of the city attorney as to form and legality, shall
have the authority to amend such registration rules from time to time as may be
necessary or desirable to comply with and carry out the purposes intended by
the act. (Ord. 2008-1, 2-4-2008)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF LIBRARY DIRECTORS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Creation; Appointment
2-1-2: Term Of Office; Removal
2-1-3: Vacancies; Compensation
2-1-4: Meeting And Organization; Duties
2-1-5: Report To City Council
2-1-6: Appropriation By City Council
2-1-1: CREATION; APPOINTMENT:
The affairs of the library, as established in Section
7-7-1 of this Code, shall be managed and controlled by a Board of nine (9)
Directors, who shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City
Council, and who shall be chosen from the citizens at large with reference to
their fitness for such office. No more than one member of the City Council
shall, at any time, be a member of said Board. (1944 Code § 298; 1997 Code)
2-1-2: TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL:
   A.   Terms: The term of office shall be for three (3) years from July 1
following their appointment; and annually thereafter the Mayor shall, before
July 1 each year, appoint three (3) Directors to the place of the retiring
Directors, who shall hold office for three (3) years, and until their
successors are appointed.
   B.   Removal From Office: The Mayor may, with the consent of the City
Council, remove any Director, in the manner provided in 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3.1-35-10, for misconduct or neglect of duty; and no Director shall
be appointed to succeed himself/herself. (1944 Code § 299; 1997 Code)
2-1-3: VACANCIES; COMPENSATION:
   A.   Filling Vacancies: Vacancies in the Board of Directors, occasioned by
removals, resignations or otherwise, shall be reported to the City Council and
filled in like manner as original appointments.
   B.   Compensation: No Director shall receive compensation as such, but shall
be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of
their duties from library funds. (1944 Code § 300; 1997 Code)
2-1-4: MEETING AND ORGANIZATION; DUTIES:
   A.   Election Of Officers: Such Directors shall, immediately after
appointment, meet and organize by the election of a president, secretary, and
treasurer from their number.
   B.   Powers And Duties:
      1.   Adopt Bylaws, Rules And Regulations: The Directors shall make and
adopt such bylaws, rules and regulations, for their own guidance and for the
government of the library and reading room, as may be expedient and not
inconsistent with this Chapter.
      2.   Control Of Expenditures; Care Of Building And Grounds: They shall
have the exclusive control of the expenditure of all monies collected to the
credit of the Library Fund, and of the construction or leasing of any library
building or addition thereto, and for the supervision, care and custody of the
grounds, room or buildings constructed, leased or set apart for that purpose.
      3.   Purchase Or Lease Grounds And Buildings: Said Board shall have the
power to purchase or lease grounds, to occupy, lease or erect an appropriate
building or buildings, for the use of said library, or to purchase or lease the
library buildings or other property of any existing library association for
such time and upon such condition as may appear equitable and shall be agreed
upon with the directors of such existing library association.
      4.   Appoint Librarian And Assistants: The Directors shall also have the
power to appoint a suitable librarian and necessary assistants and fix their
compensation, and shall also have power to remove such appointees.
      5.   General Powers And Duties; Establish Rules And Regulations: The
Directors shall, in general, carry out the spirit and intent of this Chapter
and Section
7-7-1 of this Code in establishing and maintaining a public library and reading
room. Said Board may make all reasonable rules and regulations in order to
render the use of said library and reading room of the greatest benefit to the
greatest number; and the Board may exclude from the use of said library and
reading room any and all persons who shall wilfully violate such rules. The
Board may extend the privileges and use of such library to persons residing out
of the City in the State, and upon such terms and conditions as said Board may
from time to time by its regulations prescribe. (1944 Code § 301)
2-1-5: REPORT TO CITY COUNCIL:
The Board of Directors shall make, on or before the second Monday of May, an
annual report to the City Council, stating the condition of their trust on May
1 of that year, and various sums of money received from the Library Fund and
from other sources, and how such monies have been expended and for what
purpose; and the number of periodicals on hand, the number added by purchase,
gift or otherwise during the year, the number lost or missing; the number of
visitors attending; the number of books out, and the general character and kind
of such books, with such other statistics, information and suggestions as they
may deem of general interest. All such portions of said report as relate to the
receipt and expenditure of money as well as the number of books on hand, books
lost or missing, and books purchased, shall be verified by affidavit. (1944
Code § 302)
2-1-6: APPROPRIATION BY CITY COUNCIL:
There shall be provided by the City Council in each and every year a sum to be
applied to the uses and purposes, and especially to the maintenance and
extension of the library and reading room, in such manner as the Board of
Directors shall determine. The amount of such appropriation shall be deposited
in the City Treasury to the credit of the Library Fund, and shall be kept apart
from other monies of the City, and drawn upon by the proper officers of the
City upon the properly authenticated vouchers of the Library Board. (1944 Code
§ 303; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 2
TREE COUNCIL
SECTION:
2-2-1: Title
2-2-2: Purpose And Intent
2-2-3: Definitions
2-2-4: Tree Council; Establishment, Composition, Appointment, Term, Duties
2-2-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be now and may be cited as the BARRY TREE ORDINANCE of
Barry, Illinois. (Ord. 1998-11, 9-1-1998)
2-2-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.   Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the planting,
maintenance, restoration, and survival of trees, shrubs, and other plants
within Barry, Illinois.
   B.   Intent: It is the intent of the city council of Barry that the terms of
this of this chapter shall be constructed so as to promote:
      1.   The planting, maintenance, restoration and survival of desirable
trees, shrubs and other plants within the city. (Ord. 1998-11, 9-1-1998)
2-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
As used within this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings set
forth in this section:
ARBORICULTURAL SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS OF PRACTICE FOR BARRY (Hereinafter,
"Arboricultural Specifications Manual"): A manual prepared by the tree council
pursuant to this chapter containing regulations and standards for the planting,
maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants upon city-owned
property.
CITY-OWNED PROPERTY: Property within the city limits of Barry, Illinois, and:
   A.   Owned by the city in fee simple absolute; or
   B.   Implied or expressly dedicated to the public for present or future
purposes of vehicular or pedestrian traffic or for public easements.
TREES; SHRUBS AND OTHER PLANTS: All vegetation, woody or otherwise, except lawn
grass and flowers less than twenty four inches (24") in height. (Ord. 1998-11,
9-1-1998)
2-2-4: TREE COUNCIL; ESTABLISHMENT, COMPOSITION, APPOINTMENT, TERM, DUTIES:
   A.   Establishment: The Barry tree council (hereinafter "Tree Council") is
hereby established. Its functions and duties are limited to those set forth in
this chapter.
   B.   Composition: The tree council shall be composed of five (5) council
members. Council members shall be appointed by the mayor with the approval of
the council. These five (5) council members shall serve without pay and shall
reside within the city of Barry, Illinois.
   C.   Appointment Of Members: One of the five (5) council members initially
appointed to the tree council, shall serve for a term of one year; two (2) of
the five (5) council members initially appointed shall serve for a term of two
(2) years; the final two (2) shall serve three (3) years. Terms shall start on
a common date. Determination of the length of terms shall start on a common
date. Determination of the length of terms of the five (5) council members
initially appointed shall be by lot. The mayor shall designate the chairperson
of the tree council.
   D.   Expiration Or Vacation Of Terms: Within thirty (30) days following the
expiration of the term of any appointed council member, a successor shall be
appointed by the mayor with the approval of the council and the successor shall
serve for a term of three (3) years. Should any council member resign or be
removed from the tree council, a successor shall be appointed by the mayor and
shall serve for the unexpired period of the vacated term. A member of the tree
council may be removed by the mayor with the approval of a majority of the
council.
   E.   Duties: The tree council shall perform the following duties:
      1.   Within a reasonable time after the appointment of the tree council,
upon call of the chairperson of the tree council, the tree council shall meet
and adopt rules of procedure for regular and special meetings to fulfill the
duties, imposed upon it by this chapter.
      2.   The tree council shall advise and consult the city council on any
matter pertaining to the Barry tree ordinance and its enforcement. The topics
under which this advice and consultation may be given may include, but are not
limited to, any of the following:
         a.   Policy concerning planting, maintenance and removal of trees,
shrubs and other plants within the city.
         b.   Recommendations with regard to the development of an urban
forestry plan.
         c.   Amendments to the Barry tree ordinance, and alterations or
revisions to the arboricultural specifications manual, and alterations or
revisions of the urban forestry plan.
         d.   Budgeting of funds to the Arbor Day division, and/or expenditures
of funds by the arbor division.
         e.   Establishment of educational and informational programs. (Ord.
1998-11, 9-1-1998)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications For Licenses And Permits
3-1-2: Forms Kept By Clerk
3-1-3: Signatures Required
3-1-4: Investigations
3-1-5: Fees
3-1-6: Termination Of Licenses
3-1-7: Nuisances
3-1-8: Posting Licenses
3-1-9: Revocation Of License Or Permit; Hearing
3-1-10: Appeal Procedure
3-1-11: Penalty
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSES AND PERMITS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk, in the absence of provision to the contrary. Each
application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or license
desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee to be
paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as may be
needed for the proper guidance of the City officials in the issuing of the
permit or license applied for. (1944 Code § 130)
3-1-2: FORMS KEPT BY CLERK:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the City Clerk. (1944 Code § 131)
3-1-3: SIGNATURES REQUIRED:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signature of the Mayor and the
City Clerk, in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (1944 Code § 132)
3-1-4: INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where the ordinances
of the City necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of
such permit or license, the Clerk shall refer such application to the proper
officer for making such investigation within seven (7) days of the time of such
receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10)
days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. (1944 Code § 133; 1997
Code)
3-1-5: FEES:
In the absence of provision to the contrary, all fees and charges for licenses
or permits shall be paid in advance at the time application therefor is made to
the Clerk. (1944 Code § 134)
3-1-6: TERMINATION OF LICENSES:
All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the fiscal year 1  of
the City in which they are issued, where no provision to the contrary is made.
(1944 Code § 135)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  1-3-2 of this Code for definition of "fiscal year".
3-1-7: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (1944 Code § 136)
3-1-8: POSTING LICENSES:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the City
to keep his license posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such
business at all times. (1944 Code § 138)
3-1-9: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT; HEARING:
Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be revoked by the Mayor and City
Council during the life of such license or permit for any violation by the
licensee or permittee of provision relating to the license or permit, the
subject of the license or permit, or to the premises occupied. Such revocation
may be in addition to any fine imposed. The Mayor and the Council shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any business license or permit for a period not
to exceed fifteen (15) days. (1997 Code)
   A.   Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the City officials have so acted,
the Mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
   B.   Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee at his last known address at least five (5) days prior to
the date for the hearing.
   C.   Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision and
recommendation.
   D.   Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the City, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the Mayor
and City Council after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B and C of
this Section for any of the following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.   Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or State law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied.
      3.   Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.   Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the City.
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference with
a duly authorized City officer or employee while in the performance of such
duties in making such inspections, as provided in the City Code. (1997 Code)
3-1-10: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.   Written Request Required: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the
City to issue a license or permit, or by the revocation of a license or permit,
shall have the right to appeal the City's decision to the City Council. Such
appeal shall be requested by submitting a written request to the Mayor within
five (5) days of the action of the City which is appealed.
   B.   Council Decision: The City Council shall consider the appeal at its
next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant shall be entitled
to present his appeal orally or in writing. The Council shall act on the appeal
within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the action of the
City or shall direct the issuance of a license or permit which the City had
denied or the reissuance of a license or permit which the City has revoked.
(1997 Code)
3-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1944
Code § 139; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 2
MUNICIPAL TAXES
SECTION:
3-2-1: Retailers' Occupation Tax
3-2-2: Service Occupation Tax
3-2-3: Use Tax
3-2-4: Automobile Renting Use Tax
3-2-5: Foreign Fire Insurance Companies
3-2-6: Hotel/Motel Tax
3-2-1: RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
business of selling tangible personal property at retail in the city at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the
course of such business while this section is in effect, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 of the Illinois municipal
code, as amended.
   B.   Monthly Report: Every such person engaged in such business in the city
shall file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the
state department of revenue required by section 3 of "an act in relation to a
tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property
to purchasers for use or consumption" approved June 28, 1933, as amended.
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the receipts from sales of tangible personal property during the preceding
month. (Ord. 69-5, 9-2-1969, eff. 10-1-1969)
   D.   Farm Machinery And Equipment Exclusion:
      1.   Nonapplicability: Exclusion a-1 contained in section 2 of the
"retailers' occupation tax act", approved June 28, 1933, as amended, shall not
apply to persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property
at retail within the city. (Ord. 80-5, 10-6-1980)
      2.   Sales Price Limitation: No retail occupation tax shall be imposed by
the city on "farm machinery and equipment", as defined in 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 120/2-5. (Ord., 10-6-1987; amd. 1997 Code)
3-2-2: SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the
city in the business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%)
of the gross receipts received from such business, in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-5 of the Illinois municipal
code.
   B.   Monthly Report: Every serviceman required to account for municipal
service occupation tax for the benefit of the city shall file, on or before the
last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of revenue
required by section 9 of the "service occupation tax act". (Ord. 67-2, 7-14-
1967, eff. 8-1-1967; amd. 1997 Code)
   C.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 67-
2, 7-14-1967, eff. 8-1-1967)
   D.   Farm Machinery And Equipment Exclusion: The farm machinery and
equipment exclusion contained in section 3 of the "service occupation tax act",
approved July 10, 1961, as amended, shall not apply to all persons engaged in
the business of making sale of service within the city. (Ord. 80-5, 10-6-1980)
3-2-3: USE TAX:
   A.   Definitions: All questions of definitions and interpretations,
including, but not limited to, "tangible personal property", "purchased outside
the state of Illinois", "retail", "retailer", "titled or registered", "selling
price", and "agency of the government of the state of Illinois", shall be
construed in accordance with definitions contained in 35 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 105/2.
   B.   Tax Imposed: Pursuant to the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-6, a tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using, in the
city, any item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside the
state at retail from a retailer, and which is titled or registered with an
agency of the government of the state.
   C.   Rate: The rate of such use tax shall be a rate of one percent (1%) of
the selling price of such tangible personal property.
   D.   Collections: The city of Barry authorized the state department of
revenue to collect the tax for the benefit of the city before issuing any
title, registration, or certificate of registration for any tangible personal
property. (Ord. 77-4, 6-6-1977)
   E.   Farm Machinery And Equipment Not Exclusion: The farm machinery and
equipment exclusion contained in section 3 of the "use tax act", approved July
14, 1955, as amended, shall not apply to the privilege of using in the city any
item of tangible personal property which is purchased outside Illinois at
retail from a retailer and which is titled or registered with an agency of this
state's government. (Ord. 80-5, 10-6-1980)
3-2-4: AUTOMOBILE RENTING USE TAX:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A tax is hereby imposed upon the privilege of using in the
city an automobile which is rented from a renter outside Illinois and which is
titled or registered with an agency of the state government in the city at the
rate of one percent (1%) of the rental price of such automobile while this
section is in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/8-11-8 of the Illinois municipal code.
   B.   Monthly Report: Every such person engaged in such business in the city
shall file, on or before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the
state department of revenue required by sections 2 and 3 of "an act in relation
to a tax upon persons engaged in the business of selling tangible personal
property to purchasers for use or consumption", approved June 29, 1933, as
amended.
   C.   Collection Of Tax: The tax provided for in this section shall be
collected from the persons whose Illinois address for titling or registration
purposes is given as being in the city.
   D.   Payment Of Tax: At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid
to the state department of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account
of the renting of automobiles during the preceding month. (Ord. 82-6, 1-4-1982)
3-2-5: FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE COMPANIES:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any corporation or
association not incorporated under the laws of the state to engage in effecting
fire insurance in the city or to transact any business of fire insurance in the
city without fully complying with the provisions of this section. (1944 Code §
151)
   B.   Report Required: Every person acting as representative for or on behalf
of any such company or association shall, on or before July 15 of each year,
render to the city treasurer a full, true and just account, verified by such
person's oath, of all premiums which shall have been received by such person on
behalf of such company during the year ending the preceding July 1 on such fire
insurance policies. (1944 Code § 153)
   C.   Time Of Payment: All payments under the provisions of this section
shall be made on or before July 15 following the termination of the year for
which such payments are due. (1944 Code § 154)
3-2-6: HOTEL/MOTEL TAX:
   A.   Definitions:
DEPARTMENT: The department of revenue.
HOTEL: Any building or buildings in which the public may, for a consideration,
obtain living quarters, sleeping or housekeeping accommodations. The term
includes inns, motels, tourist homes, or courts, lodging houses, rooming houses
and apartment houses.
OCCUPANCY: The use or possession, or the right to use or possession, of any
room or rooms in a hotel for any purpose, or the right to the use or possession
of the furnishings or to the services and accommodations accompanying the use
and possession of the room or rooms.
OPERATOR: Any person operating a hotel.
PERMANENT RESIDENT: Any person who occupies or has the right to occupy any room
or rooms, regardless of whether or not it is the same room or rooms, in a hotel
for at least thirty (30) consecutive days.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint adventure, public or private corporation, limited liability
company, or a receiver, executor, trustee, guardian or other representative
appointed by order of any court.
RENT OR RENTAL: The consideration received for occupancy, valued in money,
whether received in money or otherwise, including all receipts, cash, credits
and property or services of any kind or nature.
ROOM OR ROOMS: Any living quarters, sleeping room or housekeeping
accommodations.
   B.   Tax:
      1.   There is hereby levied and imposed a tax of five percent (5%) of the
rent charged for the privilege and use of renting a hotel room within the city
of Barry for each twenty four (24) hour period or any portion thereof for which
a daily room charge is made; provided, however, that the tax shall not be
levied and imposed upon any person who rents a hotel/motel room for more than
thirty (30) consecutive days or a person who works and lives in the same hotel.
      2.   The ultimate incidence of any liability for payment of said tax is
borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying the hotel room, said
person hereinafter referred to as "renter".
      3.   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes and charges. It shall be the duty of the owner of every hotel to secure
said tax from the renter of the hotel and to pay over to the city collector
said tax under procedures as prescribed by the city collector and on forms to
be supplied by the city collector, stating:
         a.   The name of the operator;
         b.   His residence address and the address of the principal place of
business from which he engages in the business of renting rooms in a hotel in
the city;
         c.   Gross amount of rental receipts received by him during the
preceding calendar month from renting rooms during such preceding calendar
month and upon the basis of which the tax is imposed;
         d.   The amount of the tax due;
         e.   The amount of the penalty due, if any;
         f.   Such other reasonable information as may from time to time be
required by the city collector.
      4.   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this section
shall secure said tax from the renter at the time he collects the rental
payment for the hotel room. Upon the invoice receipt or other receipt or other
statement or memorandum of the rent given to the renter at the time of payment,
the amount due under the tax provided in this section shall be stated
separately on said documents.
      5.   The person subject to tax shall also transmit to the city collector
with the return required by this section, the amount of the tax and penalties,
if any, due as shown by such return no later than five (5) business days after
close of the calendar month.
Such person shall also file with the city collector, not later than five (5)
business days after such documents are transmitted to the state, copies of all
hotel operator's occupation tax returns as are required by the provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-3-14.
      6.   Every person required by this section to file a return and pay a tax
hereunder shall pay a penalty for late filing of the return or for late payment
of the tax, and such penalty shall be equal to five percent (5%) for each
month, or part of month, in which the return shall be filed late, and five
percent (5%) for each month, or part of month, in which the tax is paid late.
      7.   This tax shall not in any manner constitute any indebtedness by the
city subject to any limitation imposed by statute or otherwise.
      8.   Nothing herein adopted shall be construed to affect any suit now
pending in any court or any rights accrued or liability incurred or any cause
or causes of action accrued or existing under any prior resolution or
ordinance, nor shall any right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or
affected by this section.
      9.   There is hereby created a "Barry tourism promotion fund" into which
the city collector shall by the tenth day of each month, place the proceeds
resulting from the previous month's collection of the hotel tax. The monies in
this fund shall be utilized solely and exclusively for the purpose of promotion
of tourism and to attract overnight visitors in the city of Barry and Pike
County. (Ord. 2005-9, 11-1-2005)
ARTICLE A. SIMPLIFIED MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS TAX
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Definitions
3-2A-2: Tax Imposed; Administration
3-2A-3: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
3-2A-4: Returns To Department
3-2A-5: Resellers
3-2A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article the following terms shall have the following meanings:
AMOUNT PAID: The amount charged to the taxpayer's service address in such
municipality regardless of where such amount is billed or paid.
DEPARTMENT: The Illinois department of revenue.
GROSS CHARGE: The amount paid for the act or privilege of originating or
receiving telecommunications in such municipality and for all services and
equipment provided in connection therewith by a retailer, valued in money
whether paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services and
property of every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction
on account of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials
used, labor or service costs or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is
extended, the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross
charges" for private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel
point within this state, charges for the channel mileage between each channel
point within this state, and charges for that portion of the interstate
interoffice channel provided within Illinois. However, "gross charge" shall not
include:
   A.   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
pursuant to: 1) the tax imposed by this article, 2) the tax imposed by the
telecommunications excise tax act, 3) the tax imposed by section 4251 of the
internal revenue code, 4) 911 surcharges, or 5) charges added to customers'
bills pursuant to the provisions of section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public
utilities act, as amended, or any similar charges added to customers' bills by
retailers who are not subject to rate regulation by the Illinois commerce
commission for the purpose of recovering any of the tax liabilities or other
amounts specified in those provisions of the public utilities act;
   B.   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside of such
municipality;
   C.   Charges for leased time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information for subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or
information intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes,
but is not limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing
equipment, tabulating equipment or accounting equipment and also includes the
usage of computers under a time sharing agreement;
   D.   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is leased
or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   E.   Charges to business enterprises certified as exempt under section 9-
222.1 of the public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during
the period of time specified by the department of commerce and community
affairs;
   F.   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries when the tax imposed under
this act has already been paid to a retailer and only to the extent that the
charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or between
wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the corporations
and not the generation of profit for the corporation rendering such service;
   G.   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   H.   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunication
devices; or
   I.   Amounts paid by telecommunications retailers under the
telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee act.
INTERSTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that either originate or
terminate outside this state.
INTRASTATE TELECOMMUNICATIONS: All telecommunications that originate and
terminate within this state.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
joint stock company, joint venture, corporation, limited liability company, or
a receiver, trustee, guardian, or other representative appointed by order of
any court, the federal and state governments, including state universities
created by statute, or any city, town, county, or other political subdivision
of this state.
PURCHASE AT RETAIL: The acquisition, consumption or use of telecommunications
through a sale at retail.
RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in the business of making
sales at retail as defined in this section. The department may, in its
discretion, upon application, authorize the collection of the tax hereby
imposed by any retailer not maintaining a place of business within this state,
who, to the satisfaction of the department, furnishes adequate security to
ensure collection and payment of the tax. Such retailer shall be issued,
without charge, a permit to collect such tax. When so authorized, it shall be
the duty of such retailer to collect the tax upon all of the gross charges for
telecommunications in this state in the same manner and subject to the same
requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business within this state.
The permit may be revoked by the department at its discretion.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within this state,
directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities, transmission
facilities, sales office, warehouse or other place of business, or any agent or
other representative operating within this state under the authority of the
retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place of business or
agent or other representative is located here permanently or temporarily, or
whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business in this state.
SALE AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying or furnishing of telecommunications
and all services and equipment provided in connection therewith for a
consideration, to persons other than the federal and state governments, and
state universities created by statute and other than between a parent
corporation and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned
subsidiaries for their use or consumption and not for resale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received by a taxpayer. In the event this may not be a defined
location, as in the case of mobile phones, paging systems, and maritime
systems, service address means the customer's place of primary use as defined
in the mobile telecommunications sourcing conformity act. For air to ground
systems and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of a taxpayer's
primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by telephone number,
authorization code, or location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TAXPAYER: A person who individually or through his or her agents, employees, or
permittees engages in the act or privilege of originating or receiving
telecommunications in a municipality and who incurs a tax liability as
authorized by this article.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: In addition to the meaning ordinarily and popularly
ascribed to it, includes, without limitation, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
private line services, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter,
computer exchange services, cellular mobile telecommunications service,
specialized mobile radio, stationary two-way radio, paging service, or any
other form of mobile and portable one-way or two-way communications, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. As used in this article, "private line" means
a dedicated nontraffic sensitive service for a single customer, that entitles
the customer to exclusive or priority use of a communications channel or group
of channels, from one or more specified locations to one or more other
specified locations. The definition of "telecommunications" shall not include
value added services in which computer processing applications are used to act
on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes other
than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchases of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by such provider to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the taxable end to end communications.
Carrier access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of
intercompany facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent
provision of, used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end
telecommunications service shall be nontaxable as sales for resale. Prepaid
telephone calling arrangements shall not be considered "telecommunications"
subject to the tax imposed under this act. For purposes of this article,
"prepaid telephone calling arrangements" means that term as defined in section
2-27 of the retailers' occupations tax act. (Ord. 2002-8, 9-9-2002, eff. 1-1-
2003)
3-2A-2: TAX IMPOSED; ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Tax Imposed: A simplified municipal telecommunications tax is hereby
imposed upon the act or privilege of originating in the municipality or
receiving in the municipality intrastate or interstate telecommunications by a
person under the provisions of the simplified municipal telecommunications tax
act 1 , at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross charges for such
telecommunications purchased at retail from a retailer.
   B.   Illinois Department Of Revenue To Administer: The tax hereby imposed
shall be collected and enforced by the department of revenue of the state of
Illinois. The Illinois department of revenue shall have full power to
administer and enforce the provisions of this article. (Ord. 2014-1, 2-3-2014)
   C.   Compliance With Constitution And Statutes: The tax imposed by this
article is not imposed on such act or privilege to the extent such act or
privilege may not, under the constitution and statutes of the United States, be
made the subject of taxation by the municipality. (Ord. 2002-8, 9-9-2002, eff.
1-1-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. 35 ILCS 636/5-1 et seq.
3-2A-3: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS:
   A.   The tax authorized by this article shall be collected from the taxpayer
by a retailer maintaining a place of business in this state and shall be
remitted by such retailer to the department. Any tax required to be collected
pursuant to or as authorized by this article and any such tax collected by such
retailer and required to be remitted to the department shall constitute a debt
owed by the retailer to the state. Retailers shall collect the tax from the
taxpayer by adding the tax to the gross charge for the act or privilege of
originating or receiving telecommunications when sold for use, in the manner
prescribed by the department. The tax authorized by this article shall
constitute a debt of the taxpayer to the retailer until paid, and, if unpaid,
is recoverable at law in the same manner as the original charge for such sale
at retail. If the retailer fails to collect the tax from the taxpayer, then the
taxpayer shall be required to pay the tax directly to the department in the
manner provided by the department.
   B.   Whenever possible, the tax authorized by this article shall, when
collected, be stated as a distinct item separate and apart from the gross
charge for telecommunications. (Ord. 2002-8, 9-9-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
3-2A-4: RETURNS TO DEPARTMENT:
Commencing on February 1, 2003, the tax imposed under this article on
telecommunication retailers shall be returned with appropriate forms and
information as required by the department pursuant to the Illinois simplified
municipal telecommunications tax act (public act 92-526, section 5-50) and any
accompanying rules and regulations created by the department to implement this
act. (Ord. 2002-8, 9-9-2002, eff. 1-1-2003)
3-2A-5: RESELLERS:
   A.   If a person who originates or receives telecommunications claims to be
a reseller of such telecommunications, such person shall apply to the
department for a resale number. Such applicant shall state facts which will
show the department why such applicant is not liable for the tax authorized by
this article on any of such purchases and shall furnish such additional
information as the department may reasonably require.
   B.   Upon approval of the application, the department shall assign a resale
number to the applicant and shall certify such number to the applicant. The
department may cancel any number which is obtained through misrepresentation,
or which is used to send or receive such telecommunication tax free when such
actions in fact are not for resale, or which no longer applies because of the
person having discontinued the making of resales.
   C.   Except as provided in this section, the act or privilege of originating
or receiving telecommunications in this state shall not be made tax free on the
grounds of being a sale for resale unless the person has an active resale
number from the department and furnishes that number to the retailer in
connection with certifying to the retailer that any sale to such person is
nontaxable because of being a sale for resale. (Ord. 2002-8, 9-9-2002, eff. 1-
1-2003)
CHAPTER 3
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: License Required
3-3-3: Application For License
3-3-4: Restrictions On License Issuance
3-3-5: License Classification, Fees And Number
3-3-6: Term; Prorating Fee
3-3-7: Disposition Of Fees
3-3-8: List And Record Of Licenses Issued
3-3-9: Transfer Of License
3-3-10: Renewal Of License
3-3-11: Location
3-3-12: Closing Hours
3-3-13: Underage Persons Restricted
3-3-14: Peddling
3-3-15: Premises Requirements
3-3-16: Reserved
3-3-17: Revocation Of License
3-3-18: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms as used in this
chapter shall be construed according to the definitions given below:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirits, wine, beer, ale, or other liquid containing more
than one-half of one percent (0.5%) of alcohol by volume, which is fit for
beverage purposes.
BANQUET HALL: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out
to the public as a place where private parties are held and/or catered meals
are served.
BAR: An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic beverages for
consumption by guests on the premises and that derives no more than twenty five
percent (25%) of its gross revenue from the sale of food consumed on the
premises.
   "Bar" includes, but is not limited to, taverns, nightclubs, cocktail
lounges, adult entertainment facilities and cabarets.
BEER GARDEN: Any portion of a bar which is not an enclosed area.
BREW PUB: Means a microbrewery, as defined herein, that conducts the retail
sale of beer brewed on the premises, and other alcoholic beverages not brewed
or manufactured on the premises, in conjunction with the operation of a
restaurant on the premises.
CATERING SERVICE: Means any person, business or organization whose business is
to bring beverages including beer, wine and alcoholic liquor to a location
specified by the customer of that business. Further, a catering service shall
be responsible for the service of all beverage items including beer, wine and
alcoholic liquor at the location specified by the customer.
CLUB: A corporation organized under the laws of this State, not for pecuniary
profit, solely for the promotion of some common object, other than the sale or
consumption of alcoholic liquors, kept, used and maintained by its members
through the payment of annual dues, and owning, hiring or leasing a building or
space in a building, of such extent and character as may be suitable and
adequate for the reasonable and comfortable use and accommodation of its
members and their guests and provided with suitable and adequate kitchen and
dining room space and equipment and maintaining a sufficient number of servants
and employees for cooking, preparing and serving food and meals for its members
and their guests. Such club shall file with the Mayor at the time of its
application for a license under this chapter, two (2) copies of a list of names
and residences of its members, and similarly file within ten (10) days of the
election of any additional member of his/her name and address. The club's
affairs and management shall be conducted by a board of directors, executive
committee or similar body chosen by the members at their annual meeting, and no
member or any officer, agent, or employee of the club shall be paid, or
directly or indirectly receive, in the form of salary or other compensation,
any profits from the distribution or sale of alcoholic liquor to the club or
the members of the club or its guests introduced by members beyond the amount
of such salary as may be fixed and voted at any annual meeting by the members
or by its board of directors or other governing body out of the general revenue
of the club.
ENCLOSED AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is enclosed or
partially enclosed with: a) solid walls or windows, exclusive of doorways, or
b) solid walls with partitions and no windows, exclusive of doorways, that
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including, without limitation, lobbies
and corridors.
GROWLER: Means a glass jug no larger than a U.S. half gallon (1890 mL) used to
transport draft beer brewed at microbreweries and brew pubs, as a means to sell
take out beer.
HOTEL: Every building or other structure kept, used, maintained, advertised and
held out to the public to be a place where food is actually served and consumed
and sleeping accommodations are offered for adequate pay to travelers and
guests, whether transient, permanent, or residential, in which twenty five (25)
or more rooms are used for the sleeping accommodations of such guests and
having one or more public dining rooms being conducted in the same building or
buildings in connection therewith and such building or buildings, structure or
structures being provided with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room
equipment and capacity.
MICROBREWERY: Means a brewery that produces less than fifteen thousand (15,000)
barrels of beer or ale per license year from malt and hops by infusion, bailing
and fermentation.
PREMISES: A tract of land located within the City limits of the City of Barry,
Pike County, Illinois upon which buildings or other permanent structures are
located.
RESTAURANT: Any public place kept, used, maintained, advertised and held out to
the public as a place where meals are served, and where meals are actually and
regularly served, without sleeping accommodations, such space being provided
with adequate and sanitary kitchen and dining room equipment and capacity and
having employed therein a sufficient number and kind of employees to prepare,
cook and serve suitable food for its guests.
RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption, and not for resale. (1944 Code §
378; amd. Ord. 2009-3, 4-6-2009; Ord. 2009-07, 6-1-2009; Ord. 2015-05, 8-10-
2015; Ord. 2016-02, 5-2-2016; Ord. 2019-02, 4-1-2019)
3-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the City any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license, or in
violation of the terms of such license. (1944 Code § 379)
3-3-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the Mayor in writing, signed by
the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a
club or corporation, verified by oath or affidavit, and shall contain the
following information and statements:
   A.   The name, age and address of the applicant, in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof; and in the case of a corporation for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names
and addresses of the officers and directors; and if a majority in interest of
the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his/her nominees, the
name and address of such person.
   B.   The citizenship of the applicant, place of birth and if a naturalized
citizen, the time and place of naturalization.
   C.   The character of the business of the applicant; and in case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
   D.   The length of time that said applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
   E.   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
   F.   The location and description of the premises or place of business which
is to be operated under such license.
   G.   A statement whether the applicant has made similar application for a
similar other license on premises other than described in this application, and
the disposition of such application.
   H.   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony and
is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this State, or the ordinances of the City.
   I.   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the Federal government has been revoked, and the reason therefor.
   J.   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
State or of the United States, or any ordinance of the City in the conduct of
his/her place of business. (1944 Code § 380)
   K.   At the time each application for a liquor license is filed, the
applicant shall provide proof of insurance for the maximum extent of liability
under 235 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-21 of the State Liquor Control Act,
now in force or as hereafter amended for the duration of the license to be
issued, and such policy shall contain a provision that the City be notified by
the insurance carrier in the event of cancellation or lapse of coverage. (Ord.
2002-11, 9-9-2002)
3-3-4: RESTRICTIONS ON LICENSE ISSUANCE:
No such license shall be issued to:
   A.   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which such person resides.
   B.   A person who has been convicted of a felony under the laws of the
State. (1944 Code § 381; amd. 1997 Code)
   C.   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   D.   A person who at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   E.   A copartnership, unless all of the members of such copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
   F.   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%) of the stock of
such corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license hereunder for any
reason other than citizenship and residence within the political subdivision.
   G.   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any Federal or State
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor.
   H.   A person who does not own the premises for which a license is sought,
or does not have a lease thereon for the full period for which the license is
to be issued.
   I.   Any person, association, or corporation not eligible for a State retail
dealer's license. (1944 Code § 381; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 2019-02, 4-1-2019)
3-3-5: LICENSE CLASSIFICATION, FEES AND NUMBER:
   A.   Classifications:
      1.   Class A: Class A licenses shall authorize the sale at retail of all
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
No person shall carry or possess, transport or have any alcoholic liquor on any
portion of the real estate outside the premises which sells the alcoholic
liquor, except in the original package and with the seal unbroken.
      2.   Class B Licenses:
         a.   Class B: There shall be licenses known as Class B licenses. The
holder of a Class B license:
            (1)   May sell at retail beer or wine by the glass for consumption
on the interior premises of property owned or controlled by the holder of the
license.
            (2)   May not sell at retail beer or wine by the glass between the
hours set forth in section
3-3-12 of this chapter.
            (3)   Shall be subject to all other applicable rules and
regulations to which Classes A, C, D, H and R license holders are subject.
            (4)   Shall maintain liquor liability insurance and a certified
alcohol retailer permit as required by law.
         b.   Class B1: Class B1 (microbrewery) licenses authorize the
operation of a microbrewery producing less than fifteen thousand (15,000)
barrels of beer or ale per license year in compliance with State and Federal
licensing authorizing the production, storage, and distribution of an alcoholic
beverage. A Class B1 (microbrewery) license shall also authorize the retail
sale, at a bar or table, of the beer or ale brewed on the premises. As part of
a microbrewery tour, the consumption of up to four (4) samples, which do not
exceed four (4) fluid ounces per sample, of the beer and ale produced on the
premises, may be provided without charge. A Class B1 license also allows the
sale of beer or ale dispensed into growlers for consumption off premises,
provided the growlers are properly sealed for transport in compliance with
State law.
         c.   Class B2: Class B2 (brew pub) licenses authorize the operation of
a microbrewery producing less than fifteen thousand (15,000) barrels of beer or
ale per license along with the retail sale of the beer or ale produced on the
premises and the retail sale at a full service bar of alcohol produced off
site. As part of a brew pub tour, the consumption of up to four (4) samples,
which do not exceed four (4) fluid ounces per sample, of the beer and ale
produced on the premises, may be provided without charge. A Class B2 license
also allows the sale of beer or ale dispensed into growlers for consumption off
premises, provided the growlers are properly sealed for transport in compliance
with State law.
      3.   Class C: There shall be licenses known as Class C licenses. The
holder of a Class C license:
         a.   May sell alcoholic beverages and all forms of intoxicating
liquors by the package or in their original unopened containers.
         b.   May not sell liquors or beverages of any kind by the drink.
         c.   Shall be subject to all other applicable rules and regulations to
which other classes of liquor license holders are subject.
      4.   Class D: There shall be licenses known as Class D licenses, also
known as "Combination Licenses".
         a.   For purposes of this subsection, the definition of "Combination"
is as follows:
When the holder of a Class C license has the desire to obtain a license for on
premise consumption, a Class D license may be obtained.
         b.   The holder of a Class D license:
            (1)   May sell at retail beer or wine by the glass for consumption
on the interior premises inside the designated gaming area of property owned or
controlled by the holder of the license.
            (2)   May not sell at retail beer or wine by the glass between the
hours set forth in section
3-3-12 of this chapter.
            (3)   Shall be subject to all other applicable rules and
regulations to which Classes A, C, H and R license holders are subject.
            (4)   Shall maintain liquor liability insurance and a certified
alcohol retailer permit as required by law.
      5.   Class H: There shall be licenses known as Class H for hotels/motels
only.
         a.   For purposes of this subsection the definition of "hotels/motels"
is as follows:
An establishment licensed for the purpose of providing lodging to paying
customers and guests on an overnight basis.
         b.   The holder of a Class H license:
            (1)   May sell at retail all alcoholic liquor for consumption on
the premises.
            (2)   May not sell alcoholic beverages between the hours set forth
in subsections
3-3-12A1 and A2 of this chapter.
            (3)   The sale at retail of alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises by paying customers and guests only shall be permitted on Sunday
between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight.
            (4)   Shall be subject to all other applicable rules and
regulations to which other classes of liquor license holders are subject.
      6.   Classes W-1 And W-2: There shall be licenses known as Classes W-
1 and W-2 for wineries.
All holders of Classes W-1 and W-2 licenses must have and maintain a basic
permit under the Federal Alcohol Administration Act for the Department of the
Treasury Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms.
         a.   For purposes of this subsection the definitions of "wine" and
"winery" are as follows:
 
        Any alcoholic beverage obtained by the fermentation of the natural
WINE:   contents of fruits or vegetables, containing sugar, including beverages
        when fortified by the addition of alcohol.
WINERY: An area on which fruits are grown for the production of wine and on
        which a facility is located in which wine is manufactured.
 
         b.   The holder of a Class W-1 license:
            (1)   May make the packaged sale of wine.
            (2)   May sell wine by the package or the glass as well as beer by
the glass, can or bottle between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight, except on Sunday. On Sunday, may sell wine
beverages and beer as specified above, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:
00) noon and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
            (3)   Shall be subject to all other applicable rules and
regulations that other classes of liquor license holders are subject to.
         c.   The holder of a Class W-2 license:
            (1)   May sell packaged wine between the hours of six o'clock (6:
00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight daily except Sunday. On Sunday may
sell packaged wine between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon and nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M.
            (2)   Shall be subject to all other applicable rules and
regulations that other classes of liquor license holders are subject to.
      7.   Class BG: Beer gardens. Unless otherwise allowed under the terms of
a special permit, an establishment operating under a Class A liquor license may
serve alcoholic liquor in a beer garden only under the following conditions:
         a.   Use of the beer garden shall not unnecessarily disturb the lawful
use and quiet enjoyment of nearby properties.
      b.   The beer garden shall be partially enclosed by a sightproof solid
permanent fence or wall, six feet (6') in height around its perimeter, and have
an emergency exit. Chainlink fence is not considered a sightproof solid fence.
         c.   All fences or walls required by this section shall be located,
constructed and maintained in conformance with the zoning, building and other
ordinances of the City of Barry.
         d.   Ingress and egress to and from the beer garden shall be through
the enclosed area of the bar only. Emergency exits shall be provided as
required by the applicable codes and as approved by the Fire Chief.
         e.   No music may be played from or broadcast to the beer garden.
         f.   No alcoholic liquor shall be removed from beer garden, except to
enclosed areas of the bar.
         g.   Upon two (2) well founded complaints, during a single business
day, of excessive noise or disturbance, the beer garden shall be closed until
the commencement of the next business day.
      8.   Class R: There shall be licenses known as R for restaurants only.
The holder of a Class R license:
         a.   May sell at retail all alcoholic liquor for consumption in the
restaurant interior premises.
         b.   May not sell alcoholic beverages between the hours set forth in
section
3-3-12 of this chapter.
         c.   Shall be subject to all other applicable rules and regulations to
which other classes of liquor license holders are subject.
      9.   Class BH: Banquet halls. There shall be licenses known as Class BH
for banquet halls only. The holder of a Class BH license:
         a.   May sell at retail all alcoholic liquor for consumption within
the interior premises.
         b.   May not sell alcoholic beverages between the hours set forth in
section
3-3-12 of this chapter.
         c.   Shall be subject to all other applicable rules and regulations to
which other classes of license holders are subject.
      10.   Class SE: Special events. There shall be licenses known as Class SE
which may supplement privileges afforded to Class A plus Class W-1 license
holders.
         a.   For purposes of this subsection, the definition of a "special
event" is as follows:
A special event shall be deemed a community, civic or charitable celebration
open to the public of a duration less than seventy two (72) hours.
         b.   In order to obtain a SE license, a license holder of any class of
license set forth in this subsection must submit a written application to the
City Administrator or Mayor. That written application shall at a minimum
include:
            (1)   A description of the applicant's proposal for the sale of
alcohol at the special event.
            (2)   A description of the location where the applicant intends to
sell alcohol.
            (3)   A description of the area to be enclosed for purposes of
alcohol sales together with the applicant's proposals for physical boundaries
and fencing, methods of ingress and egress, the proposed lighting and the
proposed security measures.
            (4)   A copy of the applicant's dramshop and general liability
insurance.
            (5)   The hours during which the applicant proposes the sale of
alcohol.
            (6)   Upon request of either the City Administrator or Mayor, the
applicant may be required to submit additional information as circumstances may
dictate.
         c.   The holder of a Class SE license shall not disturb the lawful use
and quiet enjoyment of nearby properties. Upon the receipt of two (2) well
founded complaints of excessive noise or disturbance, the City Administrator or
Mayor shall revoke the SE license for the remainder of the period prescribed by
that license. Further, upon such revocation of the SE license as a result of
two (2) or more well founded complaints, the former holder of that SE license
shall be assessed with a fine of five hundred dollars ($500.00).
         d.   A Class SE license shall not be issued for any period of time in
excess of seventy two (72) hours.
      11.   Class S: There shall be licenses known as Classes S-1 and S-2.
         a.   Special Event License: A special event license shall permit the
sale and offer for sale at retail of alcoholic beverages limited to wine and
beer for use and consumption, but not for resale in any form and only at the
location authorized by the license. Such license shall be for limited specified
dates designated on the special event license and shall be limited to times
specified on that license.
         b.   Categories: There shall be two (2) categories of special event
licenses as follows:
            (1)   Class S-1: "Special event not for profit".
               (A)   For purposes hereof, "special event not for profit" means
an event conducted by an educational, fraternal, political, civic or religious
or nonprofit organization.
               (B)   An applicant for a special event not for profit retailer
license must furnish with the application:
                  (i)   A resale number issued under section 2c of the Illinois
Retailers' Occupation Tax Act or evidence that the applicant is registered
under section 2a of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act;
                  (ii)   A current, valid exemption identification number
issued under section 1g of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, and a
certification to the Mayor that the purchase of alcoholic liquors will be a tax
exempt purchase; or
                  (iii)   A statement that the applicant is not registered
under section 2a of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, does not hold a resale
number under section 2c of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act and does not hold
an exemption number under section 1g of the Retailers' Occupation Tax Act, in
which event the Mayor shall set forth on the special event retailer's license
to that effect.
            (2)   Class S-2: "Special event (for profit)". For purposes hereof,
a "special event (for profit)" license means a license issued for a special
event for any person, firm, business or entity other than a not for profit
entity, as defined above. A Class S-2 license applicant shall be required to
provide proof that it will be in compliance with all Federal, State and local
statutes, rules and regulations.
         c.   Conditions: In addition to such other requirements as may be
herein specified, Class S-1 and S-2 licenses shall be subject to the following
conditions:
            (1)   The application for the special event license shall identify
the purpose of the special event, the location where the alcoholic liquor is to
be distributed for use or consumption, the duration for which the license is
sought and other information as is required by the City Council.
            (2)   A special event license may also be issued to allow sales and
consumption of alcoholic beverages out of doors on the public right-of-way.
This may be allowed only with specific approval of the City Council under the
guidelines specifically approved by the City Council in advance of the date of
the license.
            (3)   The holder of an S-1 or S-2 license shall be required to
maintain fencing around any out of doors area where the beer and/or wine is
sold and shall limit the use and consumption of those beverages to the fenced
area. The nature of any such fencing shall be approved in advance by the City
Administrator at the time of the issuance of the license. Further, holders of
Class S-1 and S-2 licenses shall maintain a buffer zone of at least five feet
(5') between the described fence area and the public.
            (4)   The holder of an S-1 or S-2 license shall also be required as
part of its application to provide written verification that police and/or law
enforcement security will be available on the site at all times during which
beer and/or wine are served or consumed pursuant to the license. Further, the
application shall describe and the license holder shall be required to have a
staff person at all points of ingress and egress so as to assure that underaged
persons do not have access to the site and to assure compliance with all
applicable laws, regulations and ordinances.
            (5)   The fee for such license shall be as set forth in subsection
B of this section. A special event license may be issued for not more than
three (3) consecutive days and not more than three (3) licenses annually.
            (6)   Each application must be accompanied by proof of proper
alcohol liability insurance naming the City as covered.
            (7)   No special event licensee shall be issued any other license
for thirty (30) days after the expiration of the event.
            (8)   The City Mayor and Liquor Commission shall have authority to
grant or deny the application.
         d.   Penalty:
            (1)   Any person, partnership or corporation which violates any
provision of this subsection A11 for which no other specific penalty is
provided shall be subject to the penalty set forth.
            (2)   Any person, partnership, corporation, unincorporated
association or other entity which violates the provisions of this subsection
A11 shall be subject to a fine of not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. Each day such
violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
            (3)   Each occurrence of a violation shall constitute a separate
violation of this subsection A11 and upon conviction, shall subject the license
holder or the person so violating the provision of this subsection A11 to a
fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750.00).
      12.   Class CT: Caterers. There shall be licenses known as CT for
catering services only. The holder of a CT license:
         a.   May sell at retail all alcoholic liquor for consumption on the
premises of property owned or controlled by the customer of the catering
service.
         b.   May not sell alcoholic beverages between the hours set forth in
section
3-3-12 of this chapter.
         c.   Shall be subject to all other applicable rules and regulations to
which other classes of license holders are subject.
         d.   Shall maintain liquor liability insurance and a certified alcohol
retailer permit as required by law.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   The fees for liquor licenses shall be as follows:
Class A   $400.00
Class B   400.00
Class B1  400.00
Class B2  400.00
Class BG  200.00
Class BH  400.00
Class C   400.00
Class CT  100.00
Class D   400.00
Class H   400.00
Class R   400.00
Class S-1 50.00 per day
Class S-2 50.00 per day
Class SE  25.00
Class W-1 400.00
Class W-2 400.00
 
      2.   If the holder of or applicant for any two (2) licenses wishes to
obtain a third license, the fee for the third license shall be two hundred
dollars ($200.00).
   C.   Number Of Licenses: There shall be issued in the City no more than the
following number of licenses to be in effect at any time:
Class A   5
Class B   2
Class B1  1
Class B2  1
Class BH  2
Class C   6
Class CT  3
Class D   1
Class H   1
Class R   2
Class SE  2 per special event; no applicant shall be issued any more than 1 SE
          license per calendar year
Class W-1 1
Class W-2 1
 
(1944 Code §§ 382 and 391; amd. Ord. 74-5, 9-3-1974; Ord. 85-5, 4-15-1985, eff.
5-1-1985; Ord. 94-9, 4-4-1994; 1997 Code; Ord. 3-3-5, 9-5-2000; Ord. 2002-2, 4-
1-2002; Ord. 2002-11, 9-9-2002; Ord. 2005-08, 7-11-2005; Ord. 2009-3, 4-6-2009;
Ord. 2009-07, 6-1-2009; Ord. 2009-8, 7-6-2009; Ord. 2012-07, 8-6-2012; Ord.
2014-6, 9-2-2014; Ord. 2015-05, 8-10-2015; Ord. 2016-02, 5-2-2016; Ord. 2019-
02, 4-1-2019; Ord. 2002-2, 4-1-2002; Ord. 5-2023, 3-6-2023)
3-3-6: TERM; PRORATING FEE:
Each such license shall terminate on April 30 next following its issuance. The
fee to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which
have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the license. (1944 Code §
383)
3-3-7: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All such fees shall be paid to the Mayor at the time application is made, and
shall be forthwith turned over to the Treasurer. In the event the license
applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant; if the
license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the General Corporate
Fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the City Council,
by proper action. (1944 Code § 384)
3-3-8: LIST AND RECORD OF LICENSES ISSUED:
The Mayor shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all such licenses
issued by him/her, and shall furnish the City Clerk, Treasurer, and Chief of
Police each with a copy thereof. Upon the issuance of any new license, or the
revocation of any old license, the Mayor shall give written notice of such
action to each of these officers within forty eight (48) hours of such action.
(1944 Code § 385)
3-3-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall not
constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of such
decedent, or such insolvency or bankruptcy, until the expiration of such
license but not longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or
insolvency of such licensee. A refund shall be made of that portion of the
license fees paid for any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from
operating under such license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(1944 Code § 386)
3-3-10: RENEWAL OF LICENSE:
Any licensee may renew such license at the expiration thereof, provided such
licensee is then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which such
renewal license is sought is suitable for such purpose; and provided further,
that the renewal privilege herein provided for shall not be construed as a
vested right which shall in any case prevent the Mayor from decreasing the
number of licenses to be issued within his/her jurisdiction. (1944 Code § 387)
3-3-11: LOCATION:
   A.   Change Of Location; Permit: A retail liquor dealer's license shall
permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only in the premises described in the
application and license. Such location may be changed only upon the written
permit to make such change issued by the Mayor. No change of location shall be
permitted unless the proposed new location is a proper one for the retail sale
of alcoholic liquor under the laws of this State and the ordinances of the
City. (1944 Code § 388)
   B.   Location Near Church, School Or Hospital: No license shall be issued
for the sale at retail of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet (100')
of any church, school, hospital, home for the aged or indigent persons or for
veterans, their wives or children or any military or naval station; provided,
that this prohibition shall not apply to hotels offering restaurant service,
regularly organized clubs, or to restaurants, food shops or other places where
sale of alcoholic liquors is not the principal business carried on, if such
place of business so exempted shall have been established for such purposes
prior to the effective date of this chapter. No person shall hereafter engage
in business as a retailer of any alcoholic liquor within one hundred feet
(100') of any undertaking establishment or mortuary. (1944 Code § 395; amd.
Ord. 2019-02, 4-1-2019)
3-3-12: CLOSING HOURS:
   A.   Times Sales Prohibited: Except as heretofore provided for Classes D, H,
W-1 and W-2 licenses, it shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail
any alcoholic liquor in the City, or allow alcoholic liquor to be consumed on
the premises of any licensee at the following times:
      1.   Weekdays: Between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Monday through Friday.
      2.   Saturdays: Between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. Saturday morning. (Ord. 2003-03, 3-3-2003; amd. Ord. 2005-
08, 7-11-2005)
      3.   Sundays; Class A, R and BH license holders: Between the hours of
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon. (Ord. 2009-07,
6-1-2009)
      4.   Sundays; Class C license holders: Between the hours of one o'clock
(1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon.
      5.   For holders of Class A licenses (including holders of multiple
licenses): All persons other than owners, employees and vendors shall be off
the premises during the aforesaid times. (Ord. 2003-03, 3-3-2003; amd. Ord.
2005-08, 7-11-2005)
   B.   New Year's Eve: Alcoholic liquor may be sold until one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. of the day following New Year's Eve; provided, however, if New Year's Eve
falls on a Sunday, the premises may be open at six o'clock (6:00) P.M. Sunday,
with liquor sales allowed until one o'clock (1:00) A.M. of the following day.
All persons shall be off the premises of the licensee by two o'clock (2:00)
A.M. (1997 Code)
3-3-13: UNDERAGE PERSONS RESTRICTED:
   A.   Frequenting By Underage Persons: No holder of a Class A license shall
permit any person under the age of twenty one (21) to enter the premises at any
time. (Ord. 2004-9, 7-12-2004)
   B.   Allowing Underage Person To Remain On Premises: No person or agent,
employee or servant of any proprietorship, firm, corporation or other like
entity, whose primary business is sale of alcoholic or intoxicating beverage by
the drink, shall allow any person under the age of twenty one (21) years to
frequent, go in or remain in any part of any tavern, bar or other like
establishment.
   C.   Posting Requirements: Owners and/or operators of all taverns, bars and
like establishments whose primary business is serving liquor by the drink shall
post this section in a conspicuous place in their places of business.
   D.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation. (Ord. 88-5; amd. 1997 Code)
3-3-14: PEDDLING:
It shall be unlawful to peddle alcoholic liquor in the City. (1944 Code § 389)
3-3-15: PREMISES REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Sanitary Conditions: All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic
liquor or for the storage of such liquor for such sale, shall be kept in full
compliance with the ordinances regulating the condition of premises used for
the storage or sale of food for human consumption. (1944 Code § 392)
   B.   View From Street: In premises upon which the sale of alcoholic liquor
for consumption upon the premises is licensed (other than as a restaurant,
hotel or club), no screen, blind, curtain, partition, article or thing shall be
permitted in the windows or upon the doors of such licensed premises nor inside
such premises, which shall prevent a clear view into the interior of such
licensed premises from the street, road or sidewalk at all times, and no booth,
screen, partition, or other obstruction nor arrangement of lights or lighting
shall be permitted in or about the interior of such premises which shall
prevent a full view of such premises from the street, road or sidewalk. All
rooms where liquor is sold for consumption upon the premises shall be
continuously lighted during business hours by natural light or artificial white
light so that all parts of the interior of the premises shall be clearly
visible. In case the view into any such licensed premises required by the
foregoing provisions shall be wilfully obscured by the licensee or by him/her
wilfully suffered to be obscured or in any manner obstructed, then such license
shall be subject to revocation in the manner provided in section
3-3-17 of this chapter. In order to enforce the provisions of this section, the
Mayor shall have the right to require the filing with him/her of plans,
drawings and photographs showing the clearance of the view as above required.
(1944 Code § 397)
   C.   Sale To Intoxicated Persons: It shall be unlawful for any holder of a
retail liquor dealer's license to sell, deliver or give any liquor to an
intoxicated person.
   D.   Reporting To Police: All licensees, their agents or employees shall
immediately report to the City police any altercations known as "fistfights"
which shall include any physical abuse of another, that occurs on the tavern
premises and shall further immediately report to the City police if any tavern
patron, other than a police official, is known to be in possession of a gun,
knife, or other deadly weapon. (Ord.
3-3-15, 3-1-1999)
3-3-16: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2019-02, 4-1-2019)
3-3-17: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The Mayor may revoke any retail liquor dealer's license for any violation of
any provision of this chapter, or for any violation of any State law pertaining
to the sale of alcoholic liquor. Appeals are allowed pursuant to 235 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/7-5 and 5/7-9. (1944 Code § 398; amd. 1997 Code)
3-3-18: PENALTY:
The Mayor may enforce section
3-3-17 of this chapter, or levy a fine and assess cost on the licensee, or both
for violating any provision of this chapter. The fine imposed shall not exceed
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for the first violation within a twelve (12)
month period, one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second
violation within a twelve (12) month period, and two thousand five hundred
dollars ($2,500.00) for a third or subsequent violation within a twelve (12)
month period. Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation. Not more than fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00) in
fines under this section may be imposed against any licensee during the period
of his license. (Ord. 2002-09, 9-9-2002)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
SECTION:
3-4-1: Application Of Provisions
3-4-2: Licenses Required
3-4-3: Applications And Fees
3-4-4: Street Shows
3-4-5: Coin-Operated Musical Instruments
3-4-6: Athletic Exhibitions
3-4-7: Order; Crowding
3-4-8: Inspections
3-4-9: Exit Signs And Lights
3-4-10: Prohibited Acts
3-4-11: Penalty
3-4-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
The provisions of this Chapter, except as to licensing and fees, shall apply to
all public shows, theatricals, circuses and other amusements in the City,
whether specifically licensed in another article of this Chapter or not. (1944
Code § 183)
3-4-2: LICENSES REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate any amusement which is open to the
public and for admission to which a fee is charged without having first secured
a license therefor; provided, that the provisions of this Section shall not be
held to apply to those amusements which are specifically licensed by any other
article or chapter of this Code, or by any other ordinance of the City. (1944
Code § 184)
3-4-3: APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
Applications for such licenses shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall
comply with the general provisions of the ordinances relating to such
applications (Chapter 1 of this Title). For such licenses, the following fee
shall be paid.
   Menageries   $15.00 per day
   Carnivals   50.00 per day
   Exhibitions of inanimate objects   5.00 per day
   Other amusements   5.00 per day
   Merry-go-rounds   5.00 per day or $20.00 per week
(1944 Code § 185)
3-4-4: STREET SHOWS:
No permit shall be issued for any carnival, circus, exhibition show or other
amusement to be given on any public street or sidewalk or in such a place that
the only main accommodation for the public or the audience will be in a public
place, except on order of the City Council. (1944 Code § 186)
3-4-5: COIN-OPERATED MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS:
   A.   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful to maintain for the use of
patrons of any store, tavern or place of amusement, or for the use of the
public, any phonograph, piano or other device for creating, transcribing or
producing music which is operated by the deposit or insertion of a coin or slug
without having first obtained a permit therefor.
   B.   Fee: The annual fee for such permit shall be five dollars ($5.00).
(1944 Code § 187)
3-4-6: ATHLETE EXHIBITIONS:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful to conduct, operate or exhibit
any race between persons, animals or vehicles, or any baseball games, boxing or
wrestling matches or any other athletic contest or exhibition for admission to
which a fee is charged without having procured a license therefor.
   B.   Gross Receipts; Fee: The proprietor of such exhibition shall submit to
the City Clerk a statement verified under oath of the gross receipt of each
such game, contest or race, within one week after such exhibition. At the same
time such proprietor or person exhibiting or operating such exhibition shall
pay to the Clerk a sum equal to three percent (3%) of the gross receipts.
   C.   Police To Preserve Order: Sufficient members of the Police Department
shall be admitted, free of charge, to all such exhibitions for the purpose of
preserving and maintaining order; and the City Clerk may post a person or any
number of persons at the box office of each such performance; and may examine
all the books pertaining to such performance showing or tending to show the
gross receipts. (1944 Code § 188)
3-4-7: ORDER; CROWDING:
   A.   Audience Creating Disturbance: The audience of any amusement, show or
theatrical must be orderly and quiet at all times, and it shall be unlawful for
any person attending such amusement, show or theatrical to create a disturbance
in the audience.
   B.   Dangerous Conditions: It shall be unlawful to permit or gather such a
crowd to witness any amusement or show as to create a dangerous condition
because of fire or other risks. (1944 Code § 190)
3-4-8: INSPECTIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to see that every exhibition,
amusement, theatrical or other public show or amusement is inspected by a
member of the Police Department, and to ensure conformity with the provisions
concerning such amusements. (1944 Code § 191)
3-4-9: EXIT SIGNS AND LIGHTS:
It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant in charge of any building or hall
used as an assembly hall with accommodations for one hundred (100) persons or
more in which theatricals, shows, amusements, lectures or other entertainment
is offered, operated or presented, to provide and place a sign, on which the
word "Exit" shall appear in letters at least six inches (6") high, over every
door or other opening from such hall to every means of egress therefrom. A
light shall be provided with a red globe and placed at or over such sign, which
light shall be kept burning during the entire period that the hall is open to
the public and until the audience has left the hall. (1944 Code § 195)
3-4-10: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   A.   Indecent Shows: Present, exhibit, conduct or take part in any indecent
show, theatrical, play, motion picture, exhibition or other form of public
amusement or show. (1944 Code § 192)
   B.   Exhibition Of Criminals: Exhibit any criminal or the body of any
criminal or any person who shall have become notorious because of the
commission of a crime, in any theatrical, exhibit, carnival or other public
place. (1944 Code § 193)
   C.   Riots: Present any public amusement or show of any kind which tends to
or is calculated to cause or promote any riot or disturbance. (1944 Code § 194)
3-4-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense will be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1944
Code § 196; 1997 Code)
ARTICLE A. BILLIARD AND POOL HALLS
SECTION:
3-4A-1: License Required; Application
3-4A-2: Fee
3-4A-3: Closing Hours
3-4A-4: Penalty
3-4A-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
No person shall operate, maintain or conduct a billiard, pool, bagatelle or
pigeon hole table open to the public without having first obtained a license
therefor as herein provided. Application for such a license shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk and shall state thereon the intended location of the
place of business and the number of tables to be used therein. (1944 Code §
197)
3-4A-2: FEE:
The annual license fee for any such license shall be six dollars ($6.00) for
each table. (1944 Code § 198)
3-4A-3: CLOSING HOURS:
   A.   Monday Through Saturday: It shall be unlawful to keep any such
establishment open for business between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., except for Saturday when the closing hour
shall be one o'clock (1:00) A.M. Sunday morning.
   B.   Sunday: On Sunday such establishment shall not be open for business
except between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) P.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight. (1944 Code § 200)
3-4A-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (1944 Code § 201; amd. Ord. 77-8, 12-12-
1977; 1997 Code)
ARTICLE B. BOWLING ALLEYS
SECTION:
3-4B-1: License Required; Application
3-4B-2: Fee
3-4B-3: Penalty
3-4B-1: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   License Required: No person shall operate or maintain a bowling alley
open to the public without having first obtained a license therefor as is
herein provided.
   B.   Application For License: Application for such license shall be made in
writing to the City Clerk and shall state thereon the intended location of the
place of business and the number of alleys to be used. (1944 Code § 202)
3-4B-2: FEE:
The annual fee for such licenses shall be six dollars ($6.00) for each alley.
(1944 Code § 203)
3-4B-3: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1944
Code § 205; 1997 Code)
ARTICLE C. CIRCUSES
SECTION:
3-4C-1: License Required
3-4C-2: Application For License; Fees
3-4C-3: Compliance Required
3-4C-4: Inspection
3-4C-5: Cheating
3-4C-6: Penalty
3-4C-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall conduct or operate a circus in the City without having obtained
a license as is provided in this Article. (1944 Code § 206)
3-4C-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEES:
   A.   Application: The application for such license shall be made to the City
Clerk and shall specify the place in or on which the circus is to be conducted.
   B.   Fees:
      1.   Circus: The fee for circus licenses shall be twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each day during which the circuses are conducted or open to the
public, and no license shall be issued without the payment of the fee. (1944
Code § 207)
      2.   Sideshows And Concessions: The license fee for each sideshow and
concession operated in connection with circuses shall be five dollars ($5.00)
per day. (1944 Code § 208)
3-4C-3: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be the duty of every person licensed under this Article to obey all
provisions relating to circuses or the premises occupied. (1944 Code § 209)
3-4C-4: INSPECTION:
It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to see that inspections shall be
made of all circus performances and of the premises used. (1944 Code § 210)
3-4C-5: CHEATING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cheat, short change or otherwise defraud
any person attending or about to attend a circus performance within the City.
(1944 Code § 211)
3-4C-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Article shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. Each day during or on which a violation
occurs or continues shall be considered a separate offense. (1944 Code § 212;
1997 Code)
ARTICLE D. SKATING RINKS
SECTION:
3-4D-1: License Required
3-4D-2: Application For License; Investigation
3-4D-3: Fee
3-4D-4: Exit Requirements
3-4D-5: Conduct
3-4D-6: Penalty
3-4D-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to operate or conduct a public skating rink in the City
without having first obtained a license therefor as is herein provided. (1944
Code § 213)
3-4D-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION:
   A.   Application: Application for such licenses shall be made in conformance
with the provisions of the ordinances relating to licenses (Chapter 1 of this
Title), and shall specify the location of the proposed skating rink and the
person or organization sponsoring the skating rink operation. (1944 Code § 214;
1997 Code)
   B.   Good Moral Character Of Applicant: No license shall be issued to a
person who is not a person of good moral character, nor to a corporation or
organization which is not represented in the City by a person of good moral
character.
   C.   Investigation: It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police to make or
cause to be made an investigation into the character of each applicant and
report the results of such investigation to the City Council. (1944 Code § 214)
3-4D-3: FEE:
The annual fee for public skating rinks shall be forty dollars ($40.00) for
each rink; the daily fee five dollars ($5.00) and the weekly fee fifteen
dollars ($15.00). (1944 Code § 215)
3-4D-4: EXIT REQUIREMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to conduct a public skating rink in any hall or building
which is not equipped with sufficient and adequate exits; and no hall or
building which is not provided with at least two (2) exits of four feet (4') or
more in width shall be used for such purpose. (1944 Code § 216)
3-4D-5: CONDUCT:
It shall be unlawful to indulge in or permit any improper conduct at any public
skating rink, and it shall be unlawful to permit music at any public skating
rink after the hour of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. (1944 Code § 217)
3-4D-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this Article shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1944 Code § 218; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 5
PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
ARTICLE A. PEDDLERS
SECTION:
3-5A-1: Definition
3-5A-2: License Required
3-5A-3: Application For License
3-5A-4: Fees
3-5A-5: Peddling Without Consent; Nuisance
3-5A-6: Signs Prohibiting Peddlers
3-5A-7: Fraud
3-5A-8: Penalty
3-5A-1: DEFINITION:
   A.   Peddler Or Hawker Defined: Every person who shall sell or offer for
sale at wholesale, retail or as a commission merchant, or barter or exchange
any goods, wares, merchandise or fruit or vegetables traveling from place to
place along or upon the streets or alleys of the City, or at the doors of
houses, apartments or stores, or who shall offer for sale or sell and deliver
immediately from wagon, push-cart, other vehicle or stand, shall, for the
purposes of this Article, be deemed a peddler or hawker.
   B.   Exceptions: This shall not be interpreted as meaning deliveries of
merchandise from an established place of business in the City, nor shall it
prohibit the distribution by (house to house) sales of farm produce or fruits
or vegetables by a farmer of this vicinity who produced or raised such produce
or fruit or vegetables. (1944 Code § 140)
3-5A-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of hawker or
peddler of any merchandise, article or thing without having first obtained a
license therefor. (1944 Code § 141)
3-5A-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall state
thereon the number of vehicles, if any, intended to be operated; the kind of
article or merchandise to be peddled; and the permanent address of the peddler.
(1944 Code § 142)
3-5A-4: FEES:
The fee for such licenses shall be as follows:
For peddlers using a cart, wagon, automobile or other vehicle - $50.00 for each
such vehicle for an annual license, and $5.00 for each such vehicle for a daily
license.
For peddlers not using any such vehicle - $50.00 for an annual license, and
$5.00 for a daily license. (1944 Code § 143)
3-5A-5: PEDDLING WITHOUT CONSENT; NUISANCE:
It is hereby declared a menace to the public safety and welfare and a nuisance
for any peddler or itinerant merchant to enter upon private premises in
disregard of the express wish of the owner or occupant or enter into a private
residence without the express consent of the owner or occupant for the purpose
of selling, peddling or soliciting orders for the sale of goods, wares or
merchandise. (1997 Code)
3-5A-6: SIGNS PROHIBITING PEDDLERS:
It shall be unlawful for any peddler or itinerant merchant to enter upon any
premises or to in any way disturb or attempt to gain the attention of the owner
or occupant of any premises if a sign having dimensions of not less than three
inches by five inches (3" x 5") which states "No Peddlers Invited" or other
words of similar substance has been posted at a conspicuous location near any
front entrance to the premises. (1997 Code)
3-5A-7: FRAUD:
Any licensed peddler or hawker who shall be guilty of any fraud, cheating or
misrepresentation, whether through himself or through an employee, while acting
as a peddler in the City or who shall barter, sell or peddle any goods, wares
or merchandise other than those specified in the application for a license
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
3-5A-8 of this Article for each such offense and the Mayor may revoke the
license for such offense. Due process is allowed pursuant to Sections
3-1-9 and
3-1-10 of this Title. (1944 Code § 144; 1997 Code)
3-5A-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Article shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1944
Code § 145; 1997 Code)
ARTICLE B. ITINERANT VENDORS
SECTION:
3-5B-1: Definitions
3-5B-2: License Required; Application
3-5B-3: Fee; License Term
3-5B-4: Prima Facie Evidence
3-5B-5: Violation; Misdemeanor
3-5B-1: DEFINITIONS:
ITINERANT VENDOR: Any person who transports tangible personal property for
retail sale within the City who does not maintain in the City an established
office, distribution house, sales house, warehouse, service center or residence
from which such business is conducted. However, this Article does not apply to
any person who delivers tangible personal property within the City who is
fulfilling an order for such property which was solicited or placed by mail or
other means. This Article does not apply to any person holding a valid license,
issued by the City, to engage in retail sales.
PERSON: Any individual, corporation, partnership, trust, firm, association or
other entity.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: Any person who is engaged temporarily in the retail sale of
goods, wares or merchandise in the City and who, for the purpose of conducting
such business, occupies any building, room, vehicle, structure of any kind, or
vacant lot. However, this Article does not apply to any person selling goods,
wares or merchandise which are raised, produced or manufactured by him/her, to
any person selling vegetables, fruit or perishable farm products at an
established City market, to any person operating a store or refreshment stand
at a resort, to any person operating a stand or booth on or adjacent to
property owned by such person or upon which he/she resides. This Article does
not apply to any person holding a valid license, issued by the City, to engage
in retail sales. (1997 Code)
3-5B-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION:
   A.   License Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to do business in
the City as a transient merchant or itinerant vendor without first obtaining a
license therefor from the Police Department. The license issuance and
conditions for conducting such business within the City shall be pursuant to
225 Illinois Compiled Statutes 465/1 et seq.
   B.   Application: The license application shall include the following:
      1.   Applicant's name.
      2.   Permanent business address (which must include a street address),
residence address of the principal (and, if the applicant is a corporation, the
residence addresses of its officers).
      3.   The location at which the applicant intends to do business.
      4.   The nature of the business the applicant intends to conduct. (1997
Code)
3-5B-3: FEE; LICENSE TERM:
The fee for a transient merchant or itinerant vendor license shall be the sum
of one hundred dollars ($100.00), which shall cover the period of six (6)
months. (1944 Code § 148; 1997 Code)
3-5B-4: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE:
It shall be prima facie evidence that a person is a transient merchant or
itinerant vendor under this Article if the person does not transact business
from a fixed location or if the person does not own, or lease for a term of at
least six (6) months, the property from which business is conducted. (1997
Code)
3-5B-5: VIOLATION; MISDEMEANOR:
Every itinerant vendor who sells or exposes for sale at public or private sale,
any goods, wares or merchandise without City license therefor, or files any
application which contains any false statements, or fails to comply with any of
the requirements of the preceding sections, and every person, whether principal
or agent, who by circular, handbill, newspaper, or in any other manner,
advertises any such sale before proper licenses are issued to the vendor, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor. (1944 Code § 149)
CHAPTER 6
AUCTION SALES
SECTION:
3-6-1: License Required
3-6-2: Fee
3-6-3: Conditions And Restrictions
3-6-4: Exceptions
3-6-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall sell any goods, wares or merchandise at public auction or
outcry within the limits of the City without a license therefor under penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each day or part of a day such sales may be conducted.
(1944 Code § 219; 1997 Code)
3-6-2: FEE:
The license fee shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per week. (1997 Code)
3-6-3: CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS:
All persons accepting license under this Chapter shall be subject at all times
to the conditions and restrictions required by the City Council and the
authorized agents acting under the Council. (1944 Code § 219)
3-6-4: EXCEPTIONS:
This Chapter shall not apply to execution or judicial sales or to the sale of
property owned by residents of the City, not purchased to be sold again. (1944
Code § 219)
CHAPTER 7
RAFFLES
SECTION:
3-7-1: Raffle Defined
3-7-2: License Required; Fee
3-7-3: Value; Price
3-7-4: Days Sold
3-7-5: Approval Or Denial Of License
3-7-6: Sales Only Within City Limits
3-7-7: Issuance Of License
3-7-8: Proceeds; Waiver Of Bond
3-7-9: Records, Receipts And Reporting
3-7-10: Penalty
3-7-1: RAFFLE DEFINED:
A "raffle", under this chapter, is a form of lottery conducted by a nonprofit
organization in which the player pays or agrees to pay something of value for a
chance, represented and differentiated by a number or by a combination of
numbers or by some other medium, one or more of which chances is to be
designated the winning chance. The winning chance is to be determined through a
drawing, or by some other method based on an element of chance, performed by
the person(s) conducting the lottery, except that the winning chance shall not
be determined by the outcome of a publicly exhibited sporting contest. (Ord.
1998-08, 7-6-1998)
3-7-2: LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE:
No raffle shall be conducted within the City of Barry without having first
applied for and received a raffle license issued by the City of Barry Raffle
Commissioner. There shall be no application fee for raffle license.
Raffle licenses shall be valid for one year only, and may be suspended or
revoked for any violation of the State of Illinois Raffles Act. (Ord. 1998-08,
7-6-1998)
3-7-3: VALUE; PRICE:
The aggregate retail value of all prizes awarded by a licensee in a single
raffle shall not exceed five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00). (Ord.
2019-01, 3-4-2019)
The maximum price which may be charged for each raffle chance issued or sold
shall not exceed twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00). (Ord. 1998-08, 7-6-1998)
3-7-4: DAYS SOLD:
The maximum number of days during which raffle chances may be issued or sold is
three hundred sixty five (365) days. (Ord. 1998-08, 7-6-1998)
3-7-5: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The Raffle Licensing Commissioner shall approve or deny each application within
thirty (30) days from the date of application. (Ord. 1998-08, 7-6-1998)
3-7-6: SALES ONLY WITHIN CITY LIMITS:
The Raffle Commissioner, the City Clerk, shall authorize the sale of raffle
chances only within the Barry City limits. (Ord. 1998-08, 7-6-1998)
3-7-7: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Licenses shall be issued only to bona fide, nonprofit religious, charitable,
labor, business, fraternal, educational or veterans' organizations, as defined
by the State of Illinois Raffles Act, which have been in existence continuously
for a period of five (5) years immediately before making application for a
license and which have had during that entire five (5) year period a bona fide
membership engaged in carrying out their objects, or to a nonprofit fundraising
organization that the licensing authority determines is organized for the sole
purpose of providing financial assistance to an identified individual or group
of individuals suffering extreme financial hardship as the result of an
illness, disability, accident or disaster. (Ord. 1998-08, 7-6-1998)
3-7-8: PROCEEDS; WAIVER OF BOND:
The entire net proceeds of any raffle must be exclusively devoted to the lawful
purposes of the organization permitted to conduct the raffle.
No person may receive any remuneration or profit for participating in the
management or operation of the raffle.
All conduct of raffles shall be under the supervision of a single raffles
manager designated by the licensed organization. Fidelity bond is hereby
waived. (Ord. 1998-08, 7-6-1998)
3-7-9: RECORDS, RECEIPTS AND REPORTING:
Each licensed organization shall keep records, for no less than three (3)
years, of its gross receipts, expenses and net proceeds for each single raffle.
All deductions from gross receipts for each single raffle shall be documented
with receipts or other records indicating the amount, a description of the
purchased item or service or other reason for the deduction, and the recipient.
The distribution of net proceeds shall be itemized as to payee, purpose, amount
and date of payment.
Each licensed organization shall report promptly after the conclusion of each
raffle to its membership, and to the licensing commissioner, its gross
receipts, expenses and net proceeds from raffles, and the distribution of
itemized net proceeds. (Ord. 1998-08, 7-6-1998)
3-7-10: PENALTY:
Any person or organization violating any provision of this chapter shall be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each offense. (Ord. 1998-08, 7-6-1998)
CHAPTER 8
CABLE AND VIDEO CUSTOMER PROTECTION LAW
SECTION:
3-8-1: Customer Service And Privacy Protection Law
3-8-2: Enforcement
3-8-3: Penalties
3-8-4: Customer Credits
3-8-1: CUSTOMER SERVICE AND PRIVACY PROTECTION LAW:
   A.   Adoption: The regulations of 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501
are hereby adopted by reference and made applicable to the cable or video
providers offering services within the city's boundaries.
   B.   Amendments: Any amendment to the cable and video customer protection
law that becomes effective after the effective date of this chapter shall be
incorporated into this chapter by reference and shall be applicable to cable or
video providers offering services within the municipality's boundaries.
However, any amendment that makes its provisions optional for adoption by
municipalities shall not be incorporated into this chapter by reference without
formal action by the corporate authorities of the city. (Ord. 2008-4, 5-5-2008)
3-8-2: ENFORCEMENT:
The city does hereby pursuant to law declare its intent to enforce all of the
customer service and privacy protection standards of the cable and video
customer protection law with respect to complaints received from residents
within the city. (Ord. 2008-4, 5-5-2008)
3-8-3: PENALTIES:
The city, pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/70-501(r)(1), does
hereby provide for a schedule of penalties for any material breach of the cable
and video customer protection law by cable or video providers in addition to
the penalties provided in the law. The monetary penalties shall apply on a
competitively neutral basis and shall not exceed seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each day of the material breach, and shall not exceed twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) for each occurrence of a material breach per
customer.
   A.   "Material breach" means any substantial failure of a cable or video
provider to comply with service quality and other standards specified in any
provision of the law.
   B.   The city shall give the cable or video provider written notice of any
alleged material breaches of the law and allow such provider at least thirty
(30) days from the receipt of the notice to remedy the specified material
breach.
   C.   A material breach, for the purposes of assessing penalties, shall be
deemed to occur for each day that a material breach has not been remedied by
the cable or video service provider after the notice in subsection B of this
section. (Ord. 2008-4, 5-5-2008)
3-8-4: CUSTOMER CREDITS:
The city hereby adopts the schedule of customer credits for violations. Those
credits shall be as provided for in the provisions of 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/70-501(s) and applied on the statement issued to the customer for
the next billing cycle following the violation or following the discovery of
the violation. The cable or video provider is responsible for providing the
credits and the customer is under no obligation to request the credits. (Ord.
2008-4, 5-5-2008)
CHAPTER 9
CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE
SECTION:
3-9-1: Definitions
3-9-2: Cable/Video Service Provider Fee Imposed
3-9-3: Applicable Principles
3-9-4: No Impact On Other Taxes Due From Holder
3-9-5: Audits Of Cable/Video Service Provider
3-9-6: Late Fees/Payments
3-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC section 522(6).
COMMISSION: The Illinois commerce commission.
GROSS REVENUES: All consideration of any kind or nature, including, without
limitation, cash, credits, property, and in-kind contributions received by the
holder for the operation of a cable or video system to provide cable service or
video service within the holder's cable service or video service area within
the city.
   A.   Gross revenues shall include the following:
      1.   Recurring charges for cable or video service.
      2.   Event based charges for cable service or video service, including,
but not limited to, pay per view and video on demand charges.
      3.   Rental of set top boxes and other cable service or video service
equipment.
      4.   Service charges related to the provision of cable service or video
service, including, but not limited to, activation, installation, and repair
charges.
      5.   Administrative charges related to the provision of cable service or
video service, including, but not limited to, service order and service
termination charges.
      6.   Late payment fees or charges, insufficient funds check charges, and
other charges assessed to recover the costs of collecting delinquent payments.
      7.   A pro rata portion of all revenue derived by the holder or its
affiliates pursuant to compensation arrangements for advertising or for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services derived from the operation
of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service within the
city. The allocation shall be based on the number of subscribers in the city
divided by the total number of subscribers in relation to the relevant regional
or national compensation arrangement.
      8.   Compensation received by the holder that is derived from the
operation of the holder's network to provide cable service or video service
with respect to commissions that are received by the holder as compensation for
promotion or exhibition of any products or services on the holder's network,
such as a "home shopping" or similar channel, subject to subsection A9 of this
definition.
      9.   In the case of a cable service or video service that is bundled or
integrated functionally with other services, capabilities, or applications, the
portion of the holder's revenue attributable to the other services,
capabilities, or applications shall be included in the gross revenue unless the
holder can reasonably identify the division or exclusion of the revenue from
its books and records that are kept in the regular course of business.
      10.   The service provider fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-801(b).
   B.   Gross revenues do not include any of the following:
1. Revenues not actually received, even if billed, such as bad debt, subject to
220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(c)(1)(vi).
2. Refunds, discounts, or other price adjustments that reduce the amount of
gross revenues received by the holder of the state issued authorization to the
extent the refund, rebate, credit, or discount is attributable to cable service
or video service.
3. Regardless of whether the services are bundled, packaged, or functionally
integrated with cable service or video service, any revenues received from
services not classified as cable service or video service, including, without
limitation, revenue received from telecommunication services, information
services, or the provision of directory or internet advertising, including
yellow pages, white pages, banner advertisement, and electronic publishing or
any other revenues attributed by the holder to noncable service or nonvideo
service in accordance with the holder's books and records and records kept in
the regular course of business and any applicable laws, rules, regulations,
standards, or orders.
4. The sale of cable services or video services for resale in which the
purchaser is required to collect the service provider fee from the purchaser's
subscribers to the extent the purchaser certifies in writing that it will
resell the service within the city and pay the fee permitted by 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b) with respect to the service.
5. Any tax or fee of general applicability imposed upon the subscribers or the
transaction by a city, state, federal, or any other governmental entity and
collected by the holder of the state issued authorization and required to be
remitted to the taxing entity, including sales and use taxes.
6. Security deposits collected from subscribers.
7. Amounts paid by subscribers to "home shopping" or similar vendors for
merchandise sold through any home shopping channel offered as part of the cable
service or video service.
   C.   Revenue of an affiliate of a holder shall be included in the
calculation of gross revenues to the extent the treatment of the revenue as
revenue of the affiliate rather than the holder has the effect of evading the
payment of the fee permitted by 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-801(b)
which would otherwise be paid by the cable service or video service.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the commission pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE: The provision of "cable service" or "video service" to subscribers and
the interaction of subscribers with the person or entity that has received
authorization to offer or provide cable or video service from the commission
pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
SERVICE PROVIDER FEE: The amount paid under this chapter and 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/21-801 by the holder to a city for the service areas within
its territorial jurisdiction.
VIDEO SERVICE: Video programming and subscriber interaction, if any, that is
required for the selection or use of such video programming services, and which
is provided through wireline facilities located at least in part in the public
right of way without regard to delivery technology, including internet protocol
technology. This definition does not include any video programming provided by
a commercial mobile service provider defined in 47 USC section 332(d) or any
video programming provided solely as part of, and via, service that enables
users to access content, information, electronic mail, or other services
offered over the public internet. (Ord. 2008-5, 5-5-2008)
3-9-2: CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER FEE IMPOSED:
   A.   Fee Imposed: A fee is hereby imposed on any holder providing cable
service or video service in the city.
   B.   Amount Of Fee: The amount of the fee imposed hereby shall be three
percent (3%) of the holder's gross revenues.
   C.   Notice To The City: The holder shall notify the city at least ten (10)
days prior to the date on which the holder begins to offer cable service or
video service in the city.
   D.   Holder's Liability: The holder shall be liable for and pay the service
provider fee to the city. The holder's liability for the fee shall commence on
the first day of the calendar month following thirty (30) days after receipt of
the ordinance adopting this chapter by the holder. The ordinance adopting this
chapter shall be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to the address listed on the
holder's application notice sent pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-401(b)(6) to the city.
   E.   Payment Date: The payment of the service provider fee shall be due on a
quarterly basis, forty five (45) days after the close of the calendar quarter.
If mailed, the fee is considered paid on the date it is postmarked. Each
payment shall include a statement explaining the basis for the calculation of
the fee.
   F.   Exemption: The fee hereby imposed does not apply to existing cable
service or video service providers that have an existing franchise agreement
with the city in which a fee is paid.
   G.   Credit For Other Payments: An incumbent cable operator that elects to
terminate an existing agreement pursuant to 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
21-301(c) with credit for prepaid franchise fees under that agreement may
deduct the amount of such credit from the fees that operator owes under
subsection B of this section. (Ord. 2008-5, 5-5-2008)
3-9-3: APPLICABLE PRINCIPLES:
All determinations and calculations under this chapter shall be made pursuant
to generally accepted accounting principles. (Ord. 2008-5, 5-5-2008)
3-9-4: NO IMPACT ON OTHER TAXES DUE FROM HOLDER:
Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to exempt a holder from
any tax that is or may later be imposed by the city, including any tax that is
or may later be required to be paid by or through the holder with respect to
cable service or video service. A state issued authorization shall not affect
any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the city's simplified
municipal telecommunications tax or any other tax as it applies to any
telephone service provided by the holder. A state issued authorization shall
not affect any requirement of the holder with respect to payment of the local
unit of government's 911 or E911 fees, taxes or charges. (Ord. 2008-5, 5-5-
2008)
3-9-5: AUDITS OF CABLE/VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER:
   A.   Audit Requirement: The city will notify the holder of the requirements
it imposes on other cable service or video service providers to submit to an
audit of its books and records. The holder shall comply with the same
requirements the city imposes on other cable service or video service providers
in its jurisdiction to audit the holder's books and records and to recompute
any amounts determined to be payable under the requirements of the city. If all
local franchises between the city and cable operator terminate, the audit
requirements shall be those adopted by the city pursuant to the local
government taxpayers' bill of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et
seq. No acceptance of amounts remitted should be construed as an accord that
the amounts are correct.
   B.   Additional Payments: Any additional amount due after an audit shall be
paid within thirty (30) days after the municipality's submission of an invoice
for the sum. (Ord. 2008-5, 5-5-2008)
3-9-6: LATE FEES/PAYMENTS:
All fees due and payments which are past due shall be governed by ordinances
adopted by this municipality pursuant to the local government taxpayers' bill
of rights act, 50 Illinois Compiled Statutes 45/1 et seq. (Ord. 2008-5, 5-5-
2008)
TITLE 4
PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Use Restricted
4-1-2: Exhibition Permit; Supervision
4-1-3: Sale Prohibited
4-1-1: USE RESTRICTED:
It shall be unlawful to discharge or set off any fireworks, or give or exhibit
any pyrotechnic displays in the City, excepting that public displays which are
licensed may be given at any time permitted by the exhibition permit. (1944
Code § 258)
4-1-2: EXHIBITION PERMIT; SUPERVISION:
   A.   Permit: No public exhibition of fireworks or pyrotechnics shall be
given unless a permit therefor is first secured from the City Clerk.
   B.   Supervision: All such public displays shall be under the supervision of
a competent person, and shall be superintended by the Chief of Police or some
member of the Police Department assigned to this duty by said Chief of Police.
(1944 Code § 258)
4-1-3: SALE PROHIBITED:
No person shall sell or offer for sale, or keep for the purpose of so doing,
any fireworks in the City. (1944 Code § 258)
CHAPTER 2
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
4-2-1: Garbage And Refuse
4-2-2: Tree Branches, Leaves And Grass
4-2-3: Burning Other Materials Prohibited
4-2-4: Penalty
4-2-1: GARBAGE AND REFUSE:
   A.   Burning Of Garbage Prohibited: Burning of garbage shall be prohibited
at all times, "garbage" being defined as any food refuse. (Ord. 90-5, 11-5-
1990)
   B.   Trash And Rubbish Burning: The burning of trash, rubbish or other
combustible material for the sole purpose of destroying and disposing of the
same is not permitted at any time. In addition, burn barrels or open air
incinerators are prohibited and will be confiscated. (Ord. 2008-8, 6-2-2008)
4-2-2: TREE BRANCHES, LEAVES AND GRASS:
   A.   Burning Prohibited On City Owned Property: Burning and disposal of tree
leaves and branches shall be prohibited on any property owned by the city,
including any right of way owned by the city, excluding areas where the city
has authorized burning and disposal. (Ord. 93-2, 6-7-1993)
   B.   Hours For Burning Restricted:
      1.   No burning of twigs, branches, leaves, and grass shall be allowed
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. within
the city on any day. All fires shall be fully extinguished on or before six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. on any day. Any fires burning between six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. are declared to be a nuisance.
      2.   The burning of twigs, branches, leaves, and grass between six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., except on city rights of way,
shall be allowed within the city unless burning of the same shall present a
health hazard to the citizens of the city. (Ord. 93-2A, 6-7-1993)
4-2-3: BURNING OTHER MATERIALS PROHIBITED:
The burning of any other matter, except twigs, branches, leaves, and grass as
provided in subsection
 4-2-2B2 of this chapter is prohibited at all times. (Ord. 93-2A, 6-7-1993)
4-2-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
93-2A, 6-7-1993; amd. 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Nuisances Declared Unlawful
4-3-2: Nuisances Generally Described
4-3-3: Investigation; Right Of Entry
4-3-4: Weed And Trash Accumulations
4-3-5: Garbage And Refuse
4-3-6: Cesspools And Privies
4-3-7: Offensive Stables And Pens
4-3-8: Dead Animals
4-3-9: Nuisance Buildings, Businesses And Premises
4-3-10: Watercourses; Stagnant Pools
4-3-11: Acts Endangering Public Health
4-3-12: Abatement Procedures
4-3-13: Costs Assessed; Lien
4-3-14: Violation; Penalty
4-3-1: NUISANCES DECLARED UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter for any person to wilfully
or negligently create, erect, maintain or permit a nuisance to exist anywhere
within the city. (1997 Code)
4-3-2: NUISANCES GENERALLY DESCRIBED:
   A.   Any thing, act, omission, occupation or condition which shall exist or
continue for such a length of time as to:
      1.   Substantially annoy, injure or endanger the health, safety, peace or
welfare of the public; or
      2.   In any way render the public insecure in life or property; or
      3.   Greatly offend the public morals or decency; or
      4.   Unlawfully and substantially interfere with, obstruct or render
dangerous for passage any street, sidewalk, alley, navigable body or other
public way or place;
is hereby declared a nuisance.
   B.   Nuisances enumerated in this chapter shall not be deemed exclusive, but
are in addition to and shall be construed in conjunction with any other
nuisances enumerated in statutes or other provisions of this code or ordinances
of the city.
   C.   Any nuisance declared by statute, this chapter or other provisions of
this code or ordinances of the city shall be enforceable under the provisions
of this chapter as if enumerated specifically herein. (1997 Code)
4-3-3: INVESTIGATION; RIGHT OF ENTRY:
   A.   Investigation: For the purpose of discovering nuisances, it shall be
the duty of the public works director or police officer to investigate, confirm
and report any nuisances coming to their attention.
   B.   Right Of Entry: In order to investigate, confirm and report nuisances,
said public works director or police officer shall, upon proper identification,
be permitted at any reasonable hour and in a reasonable manner, to visit and
enter into or upon any premises or property within the city to make an
examination thereof, if they shall have reasonable grounds to believe that a
nuisance exists. (1997 Code)
4-3-4: WEED AND TRASH ACCUMULATIONS:
   A.   Accumulation Prohibited:
      1.   It shall be deemed a public nuisance for any person to permit weeds,
brush, trash, noxious material, offal, night earth, or night earth trash,
appliances, scrap metal and scrap wood, or rubbish to accumulate on one's
premises. If the accumulation of these materials is required, they must be
stored in a building with four (4) sides and a roof.
      2.   It shall be deemed a public nuisance for any person to allow their
lawn to grow to a length taller than eight inches (8") in height, unless the
property is used for an agricultural purpose. (Ord. 2008-8, 6-2-2008)
   B.   Abatement:
      1.   Notice And Time Limit: Anyone permitting a public nuisance on their
premises who fails to abate the same within seven (7) days after receiving due
notice to abate said nuisance from the city clerk shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      2.   Compliance With Statute: The City hereby adopts the same method of
abating a public nuisance as is set forth in 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
47-5 et seq. (Ord. 228A, 12-3-1979; 1997 Code)
4-3-5: GARBAGE AND REFUSE 1 :
   A.   Substances Falling On Streets: No garbage, swill, offal, manure or
other offensive substance shall, by any person, be allowed to run or fall from
out of any building, vehicle or other thing, into or upon any street or public
place. (1944 Code § 220)
   B.   Depositing Garbage: It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or
deposit, or cause to be thrown or deposited, at any place in the City, any
vegetable, meat, slops, animal matter, suds, garbage, filth, stable drippings,
or offal of any kind, which will produce an offensive smell, or whereby the
health of any portion of the community may be affected or endangered. (1944
Code § 221; 1997 Code)
   C.   Slops Thrown On Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person in the
City to throw or deposit, or cause to be thrown or deposited, any slops, suds,
swill, or other liquid substance, on or about the lot or premises occupied by
him, in such manner that the same may run, or be washed through, or upon any
adjoining lot, premises, street or alley. (1944 Code § 223; 1997 Code)
   D.   Vehicles Hauling Garbage:
      1.   Vehicles Using Streets; Storage: No cart or other vehicle for
carrying offal, swill, garbage or rubbish or the contents of any privy vault or
cesspool or having upon, or in it, any manure or other nauseous or offensive
substance, shall remain or stand in or upon any public place or street, longer
than is necessary for loading, unloading and passing along any street; nor
shall a needless number gather before any building, or near any place of
business, or any premises where any person may be; nor shall any such cart or
vehicle occupy any unreasonable length of time in loading, unloading or passing
along any street, or through any inhabited place or ground; nor shall any such
cart or vehicle, or the driver thereof, or anything thereto appertaining, be
(or by any person having a right to control the same be allowed to be) in a
condition needlessly filthy or offensive. When not in use, all such carts and
vehicles, and all implements used in connection therewith, shall be stored and
kept in some place where no needless offense shall be given to any of the
people of the City. (1944 Code § 226)
      2.   Construction Requirements: All carts and vehicles, in the preceding
subsection mentioned, and all boxes, tubs and receptacles thereon, in which any
substance referred to in said subsection may be or is carried, shall be strong
and tight, so that no part of such contents or load shall fall, leak or spill
therefrom; and shall be adequately and tightly covered, so as to prevent the
same from being offensive. (1944 Code § 227)
   E.   Noxious Refuse Deposits: No part of the contents of, or the substance
from any sink, privy or cesspool, nor any manure, ashes, garbage, offal,
rubbish, dirt nor any refuse or waste, or thing which by its decomposition
could, or would become offensive to human beings, or detrimental to health, or
create, or tend to create, a nuisance, shall be by any person thrown, deposited
or placed upon any public street or place, nor upon any vacant lot of land, or
vacant place, upon the surface of any lot of land within the City, whether the
lot be enclosed or otherwise, without the written permission of the Public
Works Director, nor shall any of said substances be allowed by any person to
run or drop from the premises occupied by such person, into or upon any street
or public place, nor upon any vacant lot of land, or vacant place upon the
surface of any lot of land in the City. (1944 Code § 228; 1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Chapter 4 of this Title.
4-3-6: CESSPOOLS AND PRIVIES:
   A.   Cleaning; Disposition Of Contents: It shall be unlawful for any person
to empty any privy vault, sink, cesspool, or other receptacle of filth, located
in the City, except with such machine, apparatus or process as shall be
approved by the Public Works Director; nor shall any person be permitted to
empty or deposit the contents of any privy vault, sink or cesspool in any place
other than that selected by the Public Works Director, which shall at all times
have exclusive power to designate the place where the contents of any such
privy vault, sink, or cesspool shall be emptied and deposited. Any person
violating any of the provisions of this subsection shall be deemed guilty of
perpetrating a nuisance. (1944 Code § 222; 1997 Code)
   B.   Abandonment; Cleaning Before Filling: It shall be unlawful for any
owner or agent of any tenement used as a dwelling house, or for business or
manufacturing purposes, in the City, to cover with earth or fill up any
abandoned privy vault, sink or cesspool, connected with, or on said premises,
unless the same shall have been thoroughly cleaned and disinfected by an
odorless apparatus or machine; or unless the same shall be covered by two feet
(2') of earth. (1944 Code § 225; 1997 Code)
   C.   Failure To Comply With Order Of Public Works Director; Proceedings:
Whenever the owner or agent of any tenement used as a dwelling house, or for
business or manufacturing purposes, in the City, shall neglect the
notifications of the Public Works Director or Chief of Police, with regard to
abatement of nuisances rising from privy vaults, sinks or cesspools, said
Public Works Director may order the same cleaned and disinfected within ten
(10) days, and the expense shall be collected by an action of debt, in the name
of the City, from the owner thereof. (1944 Code § 237; 1997 Code)
4-3-7: OFFENSIVE STABLES AND PENS:
   A.   Offensive Odors: It shall be unlawful for any person in the City to
keep any hog pen, chicken coop, sink, cow house, or other thing or place, in
such condition that the smell arising therefrom shall be offensive to any
person or neighborhood. (1944 Code § 224; 1997 Code)
   B.   Offensive Pig Pens And Stables: Any pig pen, stable or place in which
are kept or confined any swine or other animal which may be offensive or cause
any annoyance to any person residing nearby, or to persons passing along any
street or alley near the same, is hereby declared a nuisance. The owner or
keeper of such swine or other animal, or the owner or occupant of the premises
who shall fail, neglect or refuse to abate such nuisance, after notice to do so
by the Public Works Director or any police officer, shall, upon conviction, be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each day thereafter he/she shall fail to remedy or abate
such nuisance. (1944 Code § 238; 1997 Code)
4-3-8: DEAD ANIMALS:
   A.   Deposits Of Carcasses Prohibited: No person shall place or deposit or
cause to be placed or deposited at any place in the City, any dead horse, cow,
dog or the carcass or the remains of any animal whatsoever. Every person
violating the provisions of this subsection shall be deemed guilty of
perpetrating a nuisance and, on conviction, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each and every offense, and all expenses of removing and
burying the same shall be taxed and collected as costs against such person.
(1944 Code § 229; 1997 Code)
   B.   Animal Owner To Remove; Notice: When any dead animal shall be found in
the City, it shall be the duty of the person owning such animal at the time of
its death, or of the person who deposited or caused the same to be deposited,
to remove such animal in such manner as to conceal the same from public view
forthwith beyond the limits of the City, and bury the same. If the owner of
such animal, or the person who deposited it, on being notified by the Chief of
Police, or a police officer or other person, shall, after a reasonable time,
refuse or neglect to remove and bury the same, as herein required, such owner
or person shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each and every offense, and shall also pay the expense
of removing and burying the same, which shall be taxed and collected as costs
against such person. (1944 Code § 230; 1997 Code)
   C.   Lot Owner To Remove; Collect Costs: When any dead animal shall be found
on any lot, or part of a lot, in the City, it shall be the duty of the person
owning or occupying said lot or part of a lot to cause the same to be removed
forthwith. Such owner or occupant of such lot or part of a lot, or any other
person removing said animal, may collect the expense of such removal from the
person owning or depositing such dead animal. (1944 Code § 231; 1997 Code)
   D.   Removal By Police: When any dead animal shall be found in the City and
shall not be removed within a reasonable time, it shall be the duty of the
Chief of Police, or any police officer, on complaint thereof being made by any
person, to cause the same to be removed and buried at the expense of the City.
(1944 Code § 232)
   E.   Exposing Animal To View; Mutilation: It shall be unlawful for any
person to haul, drag, or otherwise remove any dead animal along or upon any
street, avenue, alley, or other public place within the City, unless such dead
animal is wholly covered so as to completely conceal the same from view. It
shall further be unlawful for any person to skin or otherwise mutilate any dead
animal within the City, except at such place as may be from time to time
designated for that purpose. (1944 Code § 233)
   F.   Nuisance Animals Prohibited: No person shall bring into the City, or
keep therein, for sale or otherwise, either for food or any other purpose
whatsoever, any animal, dead or alive, matter, substance, or thing, which shall
be, or which shall occasion a nuisance in the City, or which may or shall be
dangerous or detrimental to health. (1944 Code § 234)
4-3-9: NUISANCE BUILDINGS, BUSINESSES AND PREMISES:
   A.   Nuisance Buildings: No building, vehicle, structure, receptacle or
thing used, or to be used, for any purpose whatsoever, shall be made, used,
kept or maintained, or operated in the City, if the use, keeping, maintaining
or operating of such building, vehicle, structure, receptacle or thing shall be
the occasion of any nuisance, or dangerous or detrimental to health. (1944 Code
§ 235)
   B.   Nuisance Businesses: No substance, matter, or thing of any kind
whatsoever, which shall be dangerous or detrimental to health, shall be
permitted to exist in connection with any permitted business, or used therein,
or to exist in connection therewith, or to be used in any work or labor carried
on, or prosecuted in the City. No nuisance shall be permitted to exist in
connection with any business, or in connection with any such work or labor.
(1944 Code § 236)
   C.   Premises Dangerous To Public Health: It shall be unlawful to permit any
building, structure or place to remain in such a condition as to be dangerous
to the public health in any way. Any such structure, building or place is
hereby declared to be a nuisance. (1944 Code § 176)
4-3-10: WATERCOURSES; STAGNANT POOLS:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It shall be unlawful and a nuisance for any person to
obstruct or pollute any watercourse or source of water supply in the City.
   B.   Nuisance Declared: Any stagnant pool of water in the City is hereby
declared to be a nuisance. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any
such nuisance to remain or exist on any property under such person's control.
(1944 Code § 172)
4-3-11: ACTS ENDANGERING PUBLIC HEALTH:
It shall be unlawful to commit or do any act which endangers the public health
or results in annoyance or discomfort to the public. (1944 Code § 177)
4-3-12: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
   A.   Nuisance Determined: Whenever any nuisance shall be reported to or
investigated and determined by the Public Works Director or police officer,
notice shall be given to the owner or person in control of the property or
premises involved and to the appropriate City officials whose functions include
the abatement of such nuisances.
   B.   Notice To Abate:
      1.   Whenever the Public Works Director or any police officer determines
that a nuisance exists on any private property or premises, the proper City
official shall cause a written notice to be served upon the owner or person in
control of the property or premises who is causing, permitting or maintaining
such nuisance, which notice shall give the person served ten (10) days from the
date of service of the notice to abate the nuisance. Such notice shall be by
means of personal service of a copy of the complaint or by certified or
registered mail of a copy of the complaint. Personal service shall be by the
Public Works Director or by any police officer or any person authorized by law
to make personal service.
      2.   Such notice shall fairly apprise such person of the nature of the
nuisance, his/her duty to abate or remove the nuisance within the time provided
therein, the penalty for failure to abate the same, and shall state that if
said nuisance is abated by the City, liability for necessary expenses to be
incurred shall accrue as provided for in Section
4-3-13 of this Chapter.
   C.   Time Limits: It is hereby declared the duty of any person determined to
have created, caused, erected, maintained or permitted a nuisance to exist
within the City to discontinue and abate such nuisance within ten (10) days, or
such other time period as may be specified in the notice, from the time such
person received written notice thereof.
   D.   Abatement By City: Whenever any nuisance is not abated by the owner,
lessee or person in control of the premises or property affected within the
time provided by notice, the Public Works Director shall cause the abatement or
removal of such nuisance.
   E.   Summary Abatement By City: Whenever any nuisance: 1) constitutes or is
deemed to be an imminent or immediate danger to the public health or safety, or
2) exists on public property, the Public Works Director shall cause such
nuisance to be summarily and immediately abated and removed, regardless of any
ten (10) day or other time period specified by notice to the person responsible
therefor; provided, however, that in situation 1 of this subsection E, such
officer shall have first applied for and obtained the written permission of the
Mayor for such summary abatement. (1997 Code)
4-3-13: COSTS ASSESSED; LIEN:
   A.   Recovery Of Costs: Any costs or expenses of abatement reasonably
incurred by the City pursuant to the provisions of subsection
4-3-12D of this Chapter shall be deemed a debt to the City by the owner, lessee
or person in control of premises upon which such nuisance existed; provided,
that where specifically provided in this Code or by statute, such costs and
expenses shall become a lien upon the real estate affected, superior to all
other liens and encumbrances, except tax liens.
   B.   Enforcement: It shall be the duty of the City Attorney to enforce by
civil action any and all such debts or liens as provided in subsection A of
this Section. (1997 Code)
4-3-14: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
   A.   General Penalty: Whenever in this Chapter any act is prohibited or is
made or declared to be unlawful or a nuisance, or whenever the doing of any act
is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, when no
specific penalty is provided therefor, any person violating such provision
shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.   Failure To Abate:
      1.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this Chapter for any person
to neglect, refuse or otherwise fail to remove or abate any nuisance after
expiration of the ten (10) day or other specified time period provided by
notice thereof, and each twenty four (24) hours or fraction thereof during
which such nuisance continues or exists shall be deemed a separate offense.
      2.   Any person who shall cause, permit or allow a nuisance to continue
or exist as provided for in subsection B1 above shall, upon conviction thereof,
be subject to the penalty provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GARBAGE AND REFUSE 1
SECTION:
4-4-1: Garbage And Rubbish Deposits In Streets
4-4-2: Littering
4-4-3: Disposal Of Refuse
4-4-4: Receptacle Requirements
4-4-5: Penalty
 
Notes
  1. See also Section
1 4-3-2 of this Title and subsection
  8-2-3A of this Code.
4-4-1: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH DEPOSITS IN STREETS:
   A.   Deposits In Streets; Wind-Blown Refuse: No garbage or refuse of any
kind shall be deposited in any street, alley or public way, excepting as is
provided in this Chapter; and no such refuse shall be so placed that it can be
blown about or scattered by the wind. (1944 Code § 173)
   B.   Rubbish Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person in the City to
place, throw or deposit, or cause to be placed, thrown or deposited, and permit
to remain in or upon any street, lane, avenue, alley, sidewalk, gutter or
public grounds any timber, lumber, lath, shingles, fence posts, wood, coal,
ashes, lime, brick, earth, crockery, tin clippings, oyster shells, rubbish,
boxes, barrels, crates, filth wagons, carts, drays, automobiles, implements or
any other article, thing or commodity. (1944 Code § 273)
4-4-2: LITTERING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or deposit or cause to be dumped or
deposited any item or substance that would create either litter or a health
hazard in any street, alley or gutter in the City, aforesaid to apply also to
cans, bottles, etc., thrown or deposited on or in lawns or yards so as to
create litter. (Ord. 71-27)
4-4-3: DISPOSAL OF REFUSE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit anywhere in the City any
uncovered piles of refuse, garbage, offal or carcasses of dead animals. Such
refuse must be buried at least two feet (2') below the surface of the ground or
burned in properly constructed incinerators or otherwise properly disposed of.
Any uncovered pile of refuse is hereby declared to be a nuisance. (1944 Code §
174)
4-4-4: RECEPTACLE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Receptacle Requirements:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the occupant or owner of any premises
within the city to permit garbage or refuse to be placed or remain thereon,
except in containers meeting the requirements of this section.
      2.   Trash receptacles shall be watertight, galvanized, metallic,
plastic, rubber, or other synthetic material can, of a type approved by the
health officer, which shall have a capacity of not more than fifty-five (55)
gallons, and shall be equipped with a practically airtight lid of material
similar to the can, and shall have a handle thereon suitable for lifting the
same. Said lid shall be kept on said can, at all times, when any garbage is
contained therein.
      3.   Permanent dumpsters for garbage and refuse for single-family and
multifamily structures shall be located to the rear of the front building line
of the structure, and shall be screened from visibility from the street.
         a.   All smaller garbage containers shall be located to the rear of
the front building line of the structure, screened from visibility from the
street.
         b.   On any corner lot, the dumpster or smaller garbage container
shall be kept at least a distance of half the width of the lot from the sheet
running along the side thereof.
         c.   Temporary dumpsters, for construction/cleaning out/demolition
purposes, may be located in the street, provided that said temporary dumpsters
may not remain in place for more than sixty (60) days within a one hundred
eighty (180) day period. Said dumpsters shall be equipped with lights,
reflective tape or reflectors, or have barricades (lit or reflective) placed on
either end of the dumpster,
         d.   Temporary dumpsters located on private property must be removed
upon the expiration of the building permit for the construction/demolition
project,
      4.   All defective garbage cans shall immediately be repaired or replaced
to meet the requirements of subsection (a) of this section.
   B.   Maintenance of trash service:
      1.   It shall be unlawful for the occupant or owner of any premises
within the city to fail to maintain regular trash service at said premises, or
otherwise provide for removal and disposition of trash and garbage from said
premises on a regular basis, in accordance with this chapter.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw, place or deposit, or
for the occupant of any premises in the city to permit or cause to be thrown,
placed or deposited, any garbage or refuse on any public or private property
within the city except in an authorized municipal dump or in a container
located on premises occupied by him which meet the requirements of Section 4-4-
4. (1944 Code §§ 166 - 168; 1997 Code; Ord. 1-2023, 2-6-2023)
4-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each and every day during or on which a violation occurs or is
permitted to continue. (1944 Code § 182; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 5
INOPERABLE VEHICLES
SECTION:
4-5-1: Definitions
4-5-2: Exceptions
4-5-3: Nuisance Declared
4-5-4: Abatement By Owner; Notice
4-5-5: Failure Of Owner To Abate; Vehicle Removal
4-5-6: Penalty
4-5-7: Automotive Service And Repair Businesses
4-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this chapter:
DERELICT VEHICLE: Any vehicle in a state of disrepair rendering the vehicle
incapable of being driven under its own power, regardless of title or
registration and which has not been used for seven (7) consecutive days or
more. This shall include any vehicle having lost its character as a substantial
property and is contrary to the public policy expressed in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/4-301 of the Illinois vehicle code.
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE: Any motor vehicle from which, for a period of seven
(7) days or more, the engine, wheels, or other parts have been altered,
damaged, or otherwise so treated that the vehicle is incapable of being driven
under its own power in order to perform ordinary service or repair operations.
MOTOR VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to
travel along the ground or water by use of wheels, treads, tracks, runners or
slides for the transportation of persons or property or for the purpose of
pulling machinery. This definition shall include, without limitation,
automobiles, trucks, tractors, trailers, recreational vehicles (RVs),
inoperable lawn mowers, motorcycles, wagons, or any part or accessory of such.
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind. (Ord. 93-8; amd. Ord. 2008-8, 6-2-2008)
4-5-2: EXCEPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to vehicles or parts thereof which are kept within
an enclosed building (a building with 4 sides and a roof) when not in use.
(Ord. 2008-8, 6-2-2008)
4-5-3: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any derelict, inoperable motor vehicle, or part thereof, situated on public
property or private property within the city and in view of the general public
is a public nuisance. (Ord. 93-8)
4-5-4: ABATEMENT BY OWNER; NOTICE:
Any person who is the owner of, or in control of, an inoperable, derelict motor
vehicle or part thereof or who is the owner or in control of any property upon
which such vehicle or part thereof is situated shall abate the nuisance within
seven (7) days after written notice by the city clerk to do so. (Ord. 93-8)
4-5-5: FAILURE OF OWNER TO ABATE; VEHICLE REMOVAL:
   A.   Ordinance Violation if Failure to Remove: In the event that the owner
or person in control of any derelict or inoperable vehicle or part thereof or
who is the owner of, or is in control of, any property upon which a derelict,
inoperable motor vehicle or part thereof is situated shall fail to abate the
nuisance within seven (7) days after written notice by the city clerk to do so,
then, in that event, the city may proceed with an ordinance violation complaint
to cause every such derelict inoperable motor vehicle or part thereof, to be
moved and conveyed by, or caused to be removed and conveyed by, or under the
direction of, a member of the police department to a convenient pound or
storage space available for that purpose.
   B.   Reclamation of Vehicle; Payment of Fees: Before the owner or person
entitled to possession of any impounded vehicle or part thereof shall be
permitted to remove same, such owner or person shall furnish evidence of his/
her identity, ownership of the vehicle or part thereof, and right to possession
thereto and upon delivery shall sign a receipt for the vehicle or part thereof.
He/she shall pay a fee of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) to cover the
cost of removing said vehicle or part thereof from the public way or private
property, as the case may be, and in addition thereto, the cost of storage
shall be twenty dollars ($20.00) per day for the first five (5) days and
thirty-five dollars ($35.00) per day after the fifth day. The foregoing fees
shall be in addition to any fee levied or assessed against the owner or
operator of said vehicle by reason of the violation of any ordinance or
statute, and any arrest which may have resulted from such violation.
   C.   Disposition of Unclaimed Vehicles: Whenever a derelict or inoperable
vehicle or part thereof shall have been impounded, such vehicle or part thereof
shall be stored for a period of not less than thirty (30) days. If such vehicle
or part thereof is not claimed or removed at the end of thirty (30) days, such
will be disposed of in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/4-100
et seq., of the Illinois vehicle code. (Ord. 93-8; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 2-2023,
3-6-2023)
4-5-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a petty offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder. The foregoing penalties shall be in addition to any fee levied or
assessed against the owner or operator of said vehicle by reason of the
violation of any ordinance or statute. (Ord. 93-8; amd. 1997 Code)
4-5-7: AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE AND REPAIR BUSINESSES:
Any and all businesses engaged in the service or repair of automobiles,
tractors, boats, trucks, lawn equipment or other similar mechanical devices
shall be required to have a solid fence of no less than eight feet (8') in
height around the perimeter of the property where such items are kept or
stored. The fence shall be constructed of a material so as to conceal such
items from the view of the public.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to any business in active
operation at the time of the adoption of this section. This provision shall,
however, apply to any expansion of existing businesses. (Ord. 2008-8, 6-2-2008)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Chief Of Police
5-1-2: Conduct Of Members
5-1-3: Emergency Police
5-1-1: CHIEF OF POLICE:
   A.   Appointment: Upon the annual organization of the City Council, there
shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, a Chief
of Police, who shall act as Superintendent of Police. (1944 Code § 70; 1997
Code)
   B.   Term Of Office: The Chief of Police shall hold the office to which he/
she may appointed for the term of one month from the date of appointment and
from month to month thereafter for the term of one year, unless notified by the
Mayor or City Council at the end of any month, as hereinafter provided, or
unless removed from the office for cause, as hereinafter provided. (1944 Code §
71)
   C.   Removal; Causes: The term of office for the Chief of Police may be
terminated at the end of any month by the Mayor, or in the Mayor's absence, by
two-thirds (2/3) majority of the City Council, upon giving to the incumbent of
said office a notice thereof in writing, and the Chief of Police may be removed
at any time by the Mayor, or in the Mayor's absence, by two-thirds (2/3) vote
of the City Council, for any misfeasance in office, violations of City
ordinances, neglect of duty, or conduct unbecoming an officer. (1944 Code § 72;
1997 Code)
   D.   Oath: The Chief of Police shall, before entering upon the duties of
such office, take the oath prescribed by law for such officers. (1944 Code §
73; 1997 Code)
   E.   Salary: The salary of the Chief of Police so appointed shall be such as
may be designated by the City Council from time to time. (1944 Code § 74; 1997
Code)
   F.   Duties:
      1.   Records And Reports: The Chief of Police shall keep such records and
make such reports concerning the activities of the Department as may be
required by statute or by the City Council.
      2.   Responsible For Department And Members: The Chief of Police shall be
responsible for the performance by the Police Department of its functions, and
all persons who are members of the Police Department shall serve subject to the
orders of the Chief of Police. (1944 Code § 75)
      3.   Serving Process: The Chief of Police shall serve or cause to be
served all warrants or other legal process required to be served by him, by law
or ordinance of the City. (1944 Code § 76)
5-1-2: CONDUCT OF MEMBERS:
It shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department to conduct
himself/herself in a proper and law abiding manner, at all times, and to avoid
the use of unnecessary force. Each member of the Department shall obey the
orders and directions of his/her superior. (1944 Code § 77)
5-1-3: EMERGENCY POLICE:
The Mayor, or in the Mayor's absence, a majority of the City Council, shall
have power to appoint as many emergency police officers from time to time as
the Mayor or Council deem necessary or expedient to enforce the ordinances of
the City, and to protect the property of the citizens; provided, such
appointment shall not be made for more than ten (10) days at any one time, when
the City is required to pay such appointees; and, provided further, that such
emergency appointees shall not receive a greater compensation than fifty
dollars ($50.00) per day for such service. (1944 Code § 78; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Illinois Criminal Code Adopted By Reference
5-2-2: Liquor Consumption In Public Places
5-2-3: Skateboarding
5-2-4: Fighting
5-2-1: ILLINOIS CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Statute Adopted: Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly
impractical or inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as
provided, all of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions,
provisions and sections of the Illinois Criminal Code 1 , as amended, are
hereby adopted by the City. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this chapter, and each such violation shall subject the violator
thereof to penalty provisions under this chapter if proceeded hereunder.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 720 ILCS 5/1-1 et seq.
5-2-2: LIQUOR CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Prohibited Act: It is unlawful for any person to consume alcoholic
beverages, spirits, or any other intoxicating substance on any public street or
sidewalk. Alcohol cannot be consumed in Lafayette Park during the Barry Apple
Festival. Further, alcohol may be consumed in City parks for events where the
park is rented by private citizens for private events such as family reunions,
softball tournaments or other similar private gatherings. Additionally, the
City Council of the City of Barry may allow the consumption of alcohol for
specific events at the Barry Community Center.
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as permitting the sale of alcohol
without a special event permit. Further, nothing in this subsection shall be
deemed to permit the consumption or sale of alcohol at the Barry Swimming Pool.
Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as permitting public intoxication
or drunkenness. (Ord. 2019-02, 4-1-2019)
   B.   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall
be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 74-4, 8-6-1974; amd. 1997 Code)
5-2-3: SKATEBOARDING:
   A.   Unlawful: It is unlawful for anyone to operate a skateboard on streets
or sidewalks within the area bounded by Williams Street, Rodgers Street, Pratt
Street and Lawrence Street except as specified herein. For purposes of this
section, a "skateboard" is defined as a device for riding upon by an individual
or individuals consisting of a surface upon which the individual or individuals
stand mounted on wheels or bearings. Bicycles are specifically excluded from
this definition.
   B.   Permitted: Skateboarding shall be permitted in Barry Pool Park subject
to rules and regulations adopted and posted in the park.
   C.   Penalty: Any person violating this section will be subject to a fine of
one hundred dollars ($100.00) and forfeiture of their skateboard or
skateboards. Subsequent offenses will be penalized with a fine of no less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
together with forfeiture of the skateboard or skateboards. (Ord. 2008-3, 3-3-
2008)
5-2-4: FIGHTING:
   A.   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault or battery or
to fight in any public or private place in the City or on City owned property
except in the course of athletic contests held in a gymnasium, or on a stage,
or in a rink designed for such purpose.
   B.   Each such violation of the foregoing shall constitute a separate
offense. Upon conviction of any of the enumerated offenses, any person so
convicted shall be subject to a fine of not less than seventy five dollars
($75.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2010-1, 2-1-2010)
CHAPTER 3
CITY AND TRUANCY CURFEW
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: Curfew Restrictions
5-3-3: Truancy Restrictions
5-3-4: Penalty
5-3-5: Civil Liability
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter unless the context requires otherwise the following
words or phrases shall mean:
CITY CURFEW HOURS: The period of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. on any Sunday,
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday until six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on the
following day; and one minute past twelve o'clock (12:01) A.M. until six
o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any Saturday or Sunday.
COURT: The eighth judicial circuit, Pike County, Illinois.
CUSTODIAN: a) Person who under court order is the custodian of the person of a
minor or b) a public or private agency with which the court has placed a minor
or c) a person acting in the role of a parent by reason of a private agreement,
arrangement, custom or habit.
EMERGENCY: An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting state
that calls for immediate action. This term includes, but is not limited to,
fire, natural disaster, automobile accident, medical emergency or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
GUARDIAN: a) A parent; or b) a person who under court order is the guardian of
the person of a minor; or c) a public or private agency with which the court
has placed a minor.
MINOR: Any person under seventeen (17) years of age.
PARENT: A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent, or stepparent of
another person.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways,
public ways, sidewalks, and the common area of schools, hospitals, apartment
houses, office buildings, transport facilities and shops.
RESPONSIBLE ADULT: A person at least eighteen (18) years of age, authorized by
a parent, guardian or custodian to have the care and custody of a minor.
SERIOUS BODILY INJURY: Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of death
or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ.
TRUANCY CURFEW HOURS: The period of the day when the school the minor would
normally attend is in session, on days when the school the minor would normally
attend is in session.
TRUANCY REVIEW BOARD: An agency or entity established by any school district or
any federal, state or local governmental entity or any counseling or social
agency or any combination thereof recognized by the city and/or the court as an
agency which provides service to improve education performance and attendance.
TRUANT OFFICER: Any officer, appointee, employee or other agent of any school
district or any federal, state, or local governmental entity or any agency
thereof performing the duties of a truant officer under the Illinois compulsory
attendance statute 1 . (Ord. 2004-2, 1-5-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 105 ILCS 5/26-1 et seq.
5-3-2: CURFEW RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any minor to be present in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the city of Barry during city curfew
hours.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person or guardian or custodian of a minor to
knowingly permit, or by insufficient control to allow, the minor to be present
in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city of
Barry during the city curfew hours.
   C.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection A or B of this section
or section
5-3-4 of this chapter that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent, guardian, custodian or
responsible adult;
      2.   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent, guardian,
custodian or responsible adult, without any detour or stop;
      3.   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel with the consent or
authorization of a parent, guardian or custodian;
      4.   Engaged in, going to or returning home from an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults, sponsored by the
city of Barry, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      5.   Involved in an emergency;
      6.   Engaged in, going to or returning from an employment activity
without a detour or stop;
      7.   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence;
      8.   Exercising first amendment rights protected by the United States
constitution; or
      9.   Emancipated pursuant to law. (Ord. 2004-2, 1-5-2004)
5-3-3: TRUANCY RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   It is unlawful for any minor who is subject to compulsory education or
to compulsory continuation of education pursuant to statute or court order to
be present in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within
the city of Barry during truancy curfew hours.
   B.   It is unlawful for any parent, custodian or guardian of a minor to
knowingly permit, or by insufficient control to allow, the minor to be present
in any public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city of
Barry during truancy curfew hours.
   C.   It is a defense to prosecution under subsection A or B of this section
or section
5-3-4 of this chapter that the minor was:
      1.   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, custodian or responsible adult if
engaged in an activity which would constitute an excused absence from the
school the minor would normally attend;
      2.   Involved in an emergency;
      3.   Going to or returning from a medical appointment without a detour or
stop;
      4.   Engaged in, going to or returning from an employment activity
pursuant to a cooperative school vocation program without any detour or stop;
      5.   In possession of valid proof that the minor is a student who has
permission to leave the school campus;
      6.   A bona fide participant in an alternative education or homeschooling
program;
      7.   Engaged in or subject to an authorized or excused absence from the
school which the minor attends, including, but not limited to, lunch periods.
(Ord. 2004-2, 1-5-2004)
5-3-4: PENALTY:
   A.   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than
two hundred dollars ($200.00), and a separate offense shall be deemed to have
been committed upon each day on which such violation occurs or continues.
   B.   In lieu of or in addition to a fine, a minor may be ordered to attend
counseling or to perform ten (10) hours of community service during times other
than the minor's hours of school attendance and/or the minor's parents,
guardian, custodian or other adult person having legal care or custody of the
minor may be ordered to attend a parenting class or series of parenting classes
or other counseling approved by the court or recommended by the truancy review
board or to attend any program directly related to improving school attendance
and/or performance.
   C.   In addition to any penalty imposed pursuant to subsection A or B of
this section, the minor's parents, guardian, custodian or other adult person
having legal care or custody of the minor may be ordered to pay all amounts
imposed as civil liability under section
5-3-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 2004-2, 1-5-2004)
5-3-5: CIVIL LIABILITY:
If a minor is detained for a period in excess of one hour which requires the
supervision of the minor by personnel of the Barry police department, the
parents, guardian, custodian or other adult person having the legal care or
custody of the minor shall be jointly and severally liable for the costs
therefor. The parents, guardian, custodian or other adult person having the
legal care or custody of a minor who has committed any offense of this chapter
shall be assessed and billed for the costs; the costs shall be recoverable in
any action enforcing any provision of this chapter or in a separate civil
action. In addition, the failure to pay the costs shall constitute a violation
of this chapter and subject the violator to the penalties described within
section
5-3-4 of this chapter. In the event any action is filed, the liable party shall
be responsible for all court costs and any reasonable attorney fees incurred by
the city in collecting. (Ord. 2004-2, 1-5-2004)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Keeping Restricted
5-4-3: Dangerous Animals
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Includes, but is not limited to, any animal of the species of
horse, ass, mule, cattle, sheep, goat, swine, or geese.
KEEPER: One or more persons or corporations, whether principal, agent, servant,
employer, employee, tenant, boarder, bailor, or bailee, who keeps by
possession, control, acknowledgment or otherwise, one or more domestic animals.
KEEPS: A keeper keeps a domestic animal within the meaning of this Chapter
whenever one or more domestic animals is in any way kept, housed, lodged,
pastured, boarded, or maintained in a combination of any of the foregoing, for
a period of more than twenty four (24) hours, within the City of Barry,
Illinois. (Ord. 71-30, 11-2-1971)
5-4-2: KEEPING RESTRICTED:
   A.   Location: No domestic animal shall be kept by any keeper unless it is
kept at least one hundred feet (100') from the nearest inhabited structure of
any person other than the keeper. Inhabited structure shall not include any
structure not actually used for human living quarters.
   B.   Nuisance Conditions: Notwithstanding subsection A above, no domestic
animal may be kept anywhere within the limits of the City if its presence,
noise, waste, feed, method of keeping, odor, or maintenance becomes obnoxious
and a nuisance to the public. (Ord. 71-30, 11-2-1971)
5-4-3: DANGEROUS ANIMALS:
   A.   Definitions: As used in this Section, unless the context otherwise
requires:
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: A lion, tiger, leopard, ocelot, jaguar, cheetah, margay,
mountain lion, lynx, bobcat, jaguarundi, bear, hyena, wolf or coyote, or any
poisonous or life-threatening reptile.
OWNER: Any person who: 1) has a right of property in a dangerous animal, 2)
keeps or harbors a dangerous animal, 3) has a dangerous animal in his/her care,
or 4) acts as custodian of a dangerous animal.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or other
legal entity, any public or private institution, the State of Illinois, or any
municipal corporation or political subdivision of the State.
   B.   Dangerous Animals Prohibited; Exceptions: No person shall have a right
of property in, keep, harbor, care for, act as custodian of or maintain in such
person's possession any dangerous animal except at a properly maintained
zoological park, federally licensed exhibit, circus, scientific or educational
institution, research laboratory, veterinary hospital or animal refuge in an
escape-proof enclosure. (1997 Code)
CHAPTER 5
DOGS
SECTION:
5-5-1: County Enforcement
5-5-2: Reserved
5-5-3: Cruelty Prohibited
5-5-4: Vaccination
5-5-5: Nuisance
5-5-6: Running At Large
5-5-7: Female Dogs In Heat
5-5-8: Vicious And Dangerous Dogs
5-5-9: Dog Or Other Animal Bites
5-5-10: Impoundment
5-5-11: Enforcement
5-5-12: Penalties
5-5-1: COUNTY ENFORCEMENT:
Pursuant to an agreement with Pike County, Illinois, all licensing and
impoundment provisions for the City shall be enforced by Pike County. (1997
Code)
5-5-2: RESERVED:
(Ord. 2019-03, 4-1-2019)
5-5-3: CRUELTY PROHIBITED:
No person shall beat, cruelly treat, torment, starve, overwork or otherwise
abuse any dog in the City in any way. Any person who inhumanely beats,
underfeeds, overloads, abandons or otherwise abuses any animal shall be guilty
of a violation of this chapter and shall be subject to the penalty provisions
of section
5-5-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-06-02, 6-5-2000)
5-5-4: VACCINATION:
No dog over the age of four (4) months shall be permitted to be or remain in
the City without having been inoculated against rabies. It shall be the duty of
the owner or persons having custody of any dog within the corporate limits of
the City to have said dog vaccinated at least once each year, unless a three
(3) year vaccination is administered to the dog. (Ord. 2000-06-02, 6-5-2000)
5-5-5: NUISANCE:
Any dog found in the City not bearing a current County rabies dog tag or any
vicious or dangerous dog, or dog sick or liable to communicate rabies or other
contagious or infectious disease is hereby declared to be a nuisance and shall
be impounded. (Ord. 2000-06-02, 6-5-2000)
5-5-6: RUNNING AT LARGE:
   A.   Any person owning or having custody of a dog in the city shall keep
said dog either:
      1.   Restrained on a leash; or
      2.   In his place of abode; or
      3.   In a suitable doghouse; or
      4.   On that property owned or occupied by that said owner.
   B.   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a dog or person having custody of
a dog, to permit or allow said dog to run at large. Any owner of a dog or
person having custody of a dog that permits or allows said dog to run at large
shall be guilty of violating this chapter and shall be subject to the penalty
provisions of section
5-5-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-06-02, 6-5-2000)
5-5-7: FEMALE DOGS IN HEAT:
No female dogs in rut or in heat shall be permitted to run at large at any
time. All female dogs in heat shall be confined in an enclosed area of such
design and structure necessary to prevent any male dog from entering such
enclosure. (Ord. 2000-06-02, 6-5-2000)
5-5-8: VICIOUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS:
   A.   For purposes of this section:
DANGEROUS DOG: Any individual dog which when either unmuzzled, unleashed, or
unattended by its owner, or a member of its owner's family, in a vicious or
terrorizing manner, approaches any person in an apparent attitude of attack
upon streets, sidewalks, or any public grounds or places.
ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children, and
suitable to confine a vicious dog in conjunction with other measures which may
be taken by the owner or keeper, such as tethering of a vicious dog within the
enclosure. Such enclosure shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed
with secure sides, top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the animal
from escaping from the enclosure.
FOUND TO BE A VICIOUS DOG: 1. That the administrator, animal control warden, or
a law enforcement officer has conducted an investigation and made a finding in
writing that the dog is a vicious dog as defined in this chapter and based on
that finding, the administrator or animal control warden has declared in
writing that the dog is a vicious dog; or
      2.   That the circuit court or the administrative review officer has
found the dog to be a "vicious dog" as defined in this chapter and has entered
an order based on that finding.
VICIOUS DOG: 1. Any individual dog that when unprovoked inflicts bites or
attacks a human being or other animal either on public or private property; or
      2.   Any individual dog with a known propensity, tendency or disposition
to attack without provocation, to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the
safety of human beings or domestic animals; or
      3.   Any individual dog that has a trait or characteristics and a
generally known reputation for viciousness, dangerousness or unprovoked attacks
upon human beings or other animals, unless handled in a particular manner or
with special equipment; or
      4.   Any individual dog which attacks a human being or domestic animal
without provocation; or
      5.   Any individual dog which has been found to be a "dangerous dog" upon
three (3) separate occasions.
No dog shall be deemed "vicious" if it bites, attacks, or menaces a trespasser
on the property of its owner or harms or menaces anyone who has tormented or
abused it or is a professionally trained dog for law enforcement or guard
duties. Vicious dogs shall not be classified in a manner that is specific as to
breed.
   B.   All dogs found to be "vicious dogs" shall be subject to enclosure.
   C.   It shall be the duty of the owner or any person having custody of any
dangerous or vicious dog to keep the same safely and securely muzzled.
   D.   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dog which
has been found to be a vicious dog unless such dog is at all times kept in an
enclosure. The only times that a vicious dog may be allowed out of the
enclosure are:
      1.   If it is necessary for the owner or keeper to obtain veterinary care
for the dog; or
      2.   To comply with the order of a court of competent jurisdiction,
including an administrative review court, provided that the dog is securely
muzzled and restrained with a chain having a tensile strength of three hundred
(300) pounds and not exceeding three feet (3') in length, and shall be under
the direct control and supervision of the owner or keeper of the dog. Any dog
which has been found to be a vicious dog and which is not confined to an
enclosure, shall be impounded by the administrator, animal control warden, or
law enforcement authority having jurisdiction in such area and, after seven (7)
working days, shall be turned over to a licensed veterinarian for humane
destruction. If the owner of the dog has not appealed the impoundment order to
the circuit court of Pike County, Illinois, within seven (7) working days, the
dog may be humanely dispatched. A dog found to be a vicious dog shall not be
released until the administrator or the animal control warden approves the
"enclosure" as defined in this section.
   E.   No owner or keeper of a vicious dog shall sell or give away the dog.
   F.   Guide dogs for the blind or hearing impaired, support dogs for the
physically handicapped, and sentry, guard, or police- owned dogs are exempt
from this section provided, an attack or injury to a person occurs while the
dog is performing duties as expected.
To qualify for exemption under this subsection, each such dog shall be
currently inoculated against rabies in accordance with the Illinois small
animals control act. It shall be the duty of the owner of such exempted dog to
notify the animal control warden of changes of address. In the case of a sentry
or guard dog, the owner shall keep the animal control warden advised of the
location where such dog will be stationed. The animal control warden shall
provide police and fire departments with a categorized list of such exempted
dogs, and shall promptly notify such departments of any address changes
reported to him. (Ord. 2000-06-02, 6-5-2000)
5-5-9: DOG OR OTHER ANIMAL BITES:
   A.   When the administrator or animal control warden receives information
that any person has been bitten by a dog or other animal, the administrator,
animal control warden, or an authorized representative, shall have such dog or
cat confined under the observation of a licensed veterinarian for a period of
ten (10) days. Such veterinarian shall report the clinical condition of the dog
or other animal immediately, with confirmation in writing, to the administrator
within twenty four (24) hours after the dog is presented for examination,
giving the owner's name, address, the date of confinement, the breed,
description, age, and sex of such dog or cat, on appropriate forms. When
evidence is presented that such dog or other animal was inoculated against
rabies within the time prescribed by law, it may be confined in the house of
its owner, or in a manner which will prohibit it from biting any person for a
period of ten (10) days as long as the administrator, or other licensed
veterinarian adjudges such confinement satisfactory. At the end of the
confinement period, the administrator or another licensed veterinarian shall
examine such dog or other animal.
   B.   It is unlawful for any person having knowledge that any person has been
bitten by a dog or other animal to refuse to notify the administrator or animal
control warden immediately. It is unlawful for the owner of such dog or cat to
euthanize, sell, give away or otherwise dispose of any such dog known to have
bitten another person until the administrator releases it. If such instructions
cannot be delivered in person, they shall be mailed to the owner of such dog or
other animal by regular mail, postage prepaid. The affidavit or testimony of
the administrator, or his authorized representative, delivering or mailing such
instructions is prima facie evidence that the owner of such dog or other animal
was notified of his responsibilities. Any expense incurred in the handling of
any dog or other animal under this section shall be borne by the owner. (Ord.
2000-06-02, 6-5-2000)
5-5-10: IMPOUNDMENT:
   A.   Animal Warden: The animal warden shall have the duty of impounding all
dogs running at large in violation of the provisions of sections
5-5-3 through
5-5-11 of this chapter.
   B.   Redemption Of Impounded Animals: The owner of any dog impounded
pursuant to this chapter may redeem the dog by paying all the costs, charges
and penalties assessed, if any, that have accrued up to the time of making the
redemption and when the charges are paid to the animal warden. The fee for
taking up a dog will be fixed by the animal warden from time to time and as
approved by the county board.
   C.   Disposition Of Unredeemed Dogs: Any impounded dog not redeemed by the
owner thereof within five (5) days, the animal warden shall have the authority
to choose a disposition of the dog, i.e., put up for adoption or destroy. (Ord.
2000-06-02, 6-5-2000)
5-5-11: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.   Animal Warden: The animal warden shall be a special police officer and
is authorized to make all necessary arrests in carrying out the provisions of
this chapter. Upon issuance of a citation, the animal warden shall forward a
copy of the citation, to the city attorney for prosecution of the citation.
   B.   Duty Of The City Police And/Or County Sheriff: City police and/or the
county sheriff are authorized to make all necessary arrests in carrying out the
provisions of this chapter.
   C.   Duty Of City Attorney: It shall be the duty of the city attorney to
prosecute violations of this chapter. (Ord. 2000-06-02, 6-5-2000)
5-5-12: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any terms of sections
5-5-3 through
5-5-11 of this chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 2000-06-02, 6-5-2000)
CHAPTER 6
FAIR HOUSING
SECTION:
5-6-1: Declaration Of Policy
5-6-2: Definitions
5-6-3: Prohibited Acts
5-6-4: Penalty
5-6-1: DECLARATION OF POLICY:
   A.   In furthering the policy of the State as expressed in its constitution
and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare, peace and health
of all the inhabitants of the City may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the City to assure equal opportunity to all residents, regardless of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical
disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   B.   It is the policy of the City that no owner, lessee, sublessee,
assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease, (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the City, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person
or persons in the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of
any housing accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of
facilities and/or services in connection therewith.
   C.   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community's total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities. (Ord. 1997-05,
11-3-1997)
5-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless a different meaning clearly appears from the context, the following
terms shall have the meaning as described in this Section and as used in this
Chapter:
DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS: Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weathertight condition in conformance with applicable local,
State, and national codes.
DISCRIMINATE: The terms "discriminate" or "discrimination" mean any difference
expressed in any way toward a person or persons in the terms of the sale,
exchange, lease, rental or financing for housing accommodation and/or real
property in regard to such sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability
of such person.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: Any persons, institution or business entity of any kind
which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a secured
interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
HOUSING ACCOMMODATION: Includes any building, structure, or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
OWNER: Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
REAL ESTATE BROKER: Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
REAL PROPERTY: Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the City of Barry, Illinois.
(Ord. 1997-05, 11-3-1997)
5-6-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sublease, real
estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real estate
broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial institution
dealing with housing or real property in the City:
   A.   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the price,
terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale, rental,
lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the City
or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith.
   B.   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated, any
notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any form
of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real property,
or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective purchase,
rental or lease of such real estate, which express directly or indirectly any
discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex,
creed or disability of any person.
   C.   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for the
purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance of
any housing accommodation and/or real property.
   D.   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of any
housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   E.   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner of any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood.
   F.   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or the
anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/or
real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale or
listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located.
   G.   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner's housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability.
   H.   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant. (Ord. 1997-05, 11-3-1997)
5-6-4: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00). Each day a violation
continues shall constitute a separate violation. This Section shall in no way
abrogate or impair the right of the City to specifically enforce, by any legal
means, any of the provisions of this Chapter. (Ord. 1997-05, 11-3-1997)
CHAPTER 7
NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (NIMS)
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definition
5-7-2: Established
5-7-3: National Approach To Domestic Incident Management
5-7-4: Consistent Approach
5-7-5: Interoperability; Compatibility
5-7-6: Adoption Required
5-7-7: Adoption
5-7-1: DEFINITION:
"NIMS" is a system mandated by homeland security presidential directive (HSPD)
5 that provides a consistent nationwide approach for federal, state, local and
tribal governments; the private sector and nongovernmental organizations to
work effectively and efficiently together to prepare for, respond to, and
recover from domestic incidents, regardless of cause, size or complexity. To
provide for interoperability and compatibility among federal, state, local and
tribal capabilities, the NIMS includes a core set of concepts, principles, and
terminology. HSPD-5 identifies these as the ICS; multiagency coordination
systems, training, identification and management of resources (including
systems for classifying types of resources); qualification and certification;
and the collection, tracking, and reporting of incident information and
incident resources. (Ord. 2005-2, 3-7-2005)
5-7-2: ESTABLISHED:
Homeland security presidential directive (HSPD) 5 establishes the national
incident management system (NIMS). (Ord. 2005-2, 3-7-2005)
5-7-3: NATIONAL APPROACH TO DOMESTIC INCIDENT MANAGEMENT:
NIMS establishes a single, comprehensive approach to domestic incident
management to ensure that all levels of government across the nation have the
capability to work efficiently and effectively together using a national
approach to domestic incident management. (Ord. 2005-2, 3-7-2005)
5-7-4: CONSISTENT APPROACH:
NIMS provides a consistent nationwide approach for federal, state and local
governments to work together to prepare for, respond to, and recover from
domestic incidents regardless of size or complexity. (Ord. 2005-2, 3-7-2005)
5-7-5: INTEROPERABILITY; COMPATIBILITY:
NIMS provides for interoperability and compatibility among federal, state and
local capabilities and includes a core set of concepts, principles, terminology
and technologies covering the incident command system, unified command,
training, management of resources and reporting. (Ord. 2005-2, 3-7-2005)
5-7-6: ADOPTION REQUIRED:
Beginning October l, 2004, all federal departments and agencies made adoption
of the NIMS a requirement for providing federal preparedness assistance through
grants, contracts or other activities to local governments. (Ord. 2005-2, 3-7-
2005)
5-7-7: ADOPTION:
The city of Barry hereby adopts the national incident management system (NIMS)
as its system of preparing for and responding to disaster incidents. (Ord.
2005-2, 3-7-2005)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted By Reference
6-1-2: Speed Limits
6-1-3: Front Street Controlled
6-1-4: U-Turns
6-1-5: Bicycle Equipment
6-1-6: Neighborhood Fuel Powered And Electric Vehicles
6-1-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.   Statute Adopted: Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly
impractical or inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as
provided, all of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions,
provisions and sections of the Illinois vehicle code 1 , as amended, are hereby
adopted by the city. Any and all violations thereof shall be considered
violations of this title, and each such violation shall subject the violator
thereof to penalty provisions under this title if proceeded hereunder.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
6-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
   A.   Generally: Speed limits within the city limits shall be twenty five
(25) miles per hour unless otherwise posted. (1997 Code)
   B.   Near School: No person shall drive a motor vehicle at a speed in excess
of twenty (20) miles per hour while passing a school zone or while traveling
upon any public thoroughfare on or across which children pass going to and from
school during school days when schoolchildren are present. Any person violating
this subsection shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each separate offense. (Ord. 71-19, 6-1-1971, eff. 6-8-
1971; amd. 1997 Code)
6-1-3: FRONT STREET CONTROLLED:
   A.   Speed Limits: The speed limit on Front Street from Decatur Street west
to Hull Street shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour and intersecting streets
McDonough, Lawrence and Perry shall be fifteen (15) miles per hour from Tremont
Street to Front Street and each street shall be properly signed indicating the
fifteen (15) mile per hour speed limit.
   B.   Stop Signs: Stop signs shall be erected as follows:
At the intersection of McDonough and Front Streets, four-way stop signs,
indicating four-way stops.
Intersecting streets Lawrence, Perry and Hull, a stop sign at each intersection
entering onto Front Street.
At the intersection of Front and Decatur controlling the traffic entering onto
Decatur Street.
   C.   No Parking Here To Corner: There shall be erected "No Parking Here To
Corner" signs on each right hand corner at the intersections of Front and
McDonough, Perry and Front, and also at Lawrence and Front Streets. These signs
shall be erected thirty feet (30') from each intersection.
   D.   Pedestrian Crosswalk: There shall be a pedestrian crosswalk properly
marked and painted across Front Street at the intersection of Perry Street and
McDonough Street and there shall be a fifteen (15) mile per hour bump on Front
Street just west of the Lawrence Street intersection.
   E.   Bus Loading Zone: There shall be a bus loading zone on the north side
of Front Street from the east entrance to the school west to McDonough Street
properly painted and signed "Bus Parking Only During School Hours".
   F.   Penalty: Anyone found guilty of violating any provision of this section
who has been cited or arrested under the appropriate city ordinance or statutes
of the state shall be fined according to the section with which he or she has
been charged. (Ord. 70-4, 11-3-1970)
6-1-4: U-TURNS:
It shall be unlawful for the operator of any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or
tractor, except the operator of any police vehicle, ambulance, fire equipment,
maintenance or utility equipment to make a U-turn upon any street or highway or
at any intersection upon a street or highway within the city limits, unless
directed to do so by a police or fire official. Any person violating this
section shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each separate offense. (Ord. 71-26, 6-1-1971, eff. 6-8-
1971; amd. 1997 Code)
6-1-5: BICYCLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.   Visibility Requirement: Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least five hundred feet (500') to the front and with a reflector
on the rear of a type which shall be visible from all distances from fifty feet
(50') to three hundred feet (300') to the rear when directly in front of lawful
upper beams of headlights on a motor vehicle.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this section shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each separate offense. (Ord. 71-23, 6-1-1971, eff. 6-8-
1971; amd. 1997 Code)
6-1-6: NEIGHBORHOOD FUEL POWERED AND ELECTRIC VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a neighborhood fuel powered and
electric vehicle on any street or roadway within the city, except as expressly
authorized in this section:
   A.   "Neighborhood fuel powered and electric vehicle (NV)" means a self-
propelled, fuel and/or electronically powered four (4) wheeled vehicle that is
capable of attaining in one mile, a speed of at least twenty (20) miles per
hour, but not more than twenty five (25) miles per hour, which meets the
minimum equipment standards as are hereinafter provided, and which conforms to
the federal regulations under title 49 CFR part 571.500.
   B.   An NV, after first being registered with the city as hereinafter
provided, may be operated only on streets within the city where the posted
speed is thirty five (35) miles per hour or less; however, an NV may cross a
street at an intersection where the street has a posted speed limit of more
than thirty five (35) miles per hour. Notwithstanding, an NV may only cross a
highway under the jurisdiction of the state of Illinois if such intersection is
controlled by a traffic light or four-way stop sign and such highway, at the
point of crossing, has a speed limitation of thirty five (35) miles per hour or
less.
   C.   An NV shall meet the following minimum equipment standards: brakes, a
steering apparatus, tires, a rearview mirror, front and rear red reflector
warning devices, a slow moving emblem on the rear of the NV (as required of
other vehicles in section 12-709 of the Illinois vehicle code), a headlight
that emits a white light visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') to
the front of the NV, a taillamp that emits a red light visible from at least
one hundred feet (100') from the rear of the NV, brake lights and turn signals.
   D.   An NV shall be insured pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/7-
601 et seq., which mandates that vehicles operated on public roads be covered
by a liability insurance policy.
   E.   Further, an NV shall have a windshield of AS-1 or AS-5 composition,
that conforms to the American National Standards Institute's "safety code for
safety glazing materials for glazing motor vehicles operating on land
highways", Z-26.1-1977, January 28, 1977, as supplemented by Z-26.1a, July 3,
1980. Additionally, an NV shall have a VIN that conforms to the requirements of
part 565, vehicle identification number, of chapter V, title 49 of the CFR. An
NV must also be equipped with a type 1 or type 2 seat belt assembly conforming
to section 571.209 of the federal motor vehicle safety standard 209, seat belt
assemblies, installed at each designated seating position.
   F.   When in operation on a street or roadway, an NV shall have its
headlight and taillamps lighted as required in section 12-201 of the Illinois
vehicle code.
   G.   Any person who drives or is in actual physical control of a
neighborhood vehicle on a street or roadway while under the influence of any
intoxicating substance is subject to sections 11-500 through 11-502 of the
Illinois vehicle code.
   H.   Any person who intends to operate an NV within the city shall register
the NV with and obtain from the city clerk of the city of Barry or her designee
an annual NV permit, which shall be valid for twelve (12) months from date of
issuance. The annual permit fee for the NV shall be seventy five dollars
($75.00). The permit shall be visibly displayed on the rear of the vehicle.
Prior to issuance of such NV permit, the chief of police or his designee shall
determine whether the NV meets the minimum equipment standards as set forth
hereinabove.
   I.   Any and all operators of an NV must comply with all requirements of the
Illinois vehicle code.
   J.   Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit the operation of
an NV by persons other than fully licensed operators or upon any street or
public way or surface other than as expressly permitted herein. (Ord. 2009-5,
5-4-2009)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: City Square And Approaches
6-2-2: F.A. Route 408
6-2-3: Parking Within Alleys
6-2-4: Parking Citations And Fines
6-2-1: CITY SQUARE AND APPROACHES:
   A.   Definitions:
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: Vehicles of the Police or Fire Departments, ambulances; any
vehicle conveying a State, County or City official or employee in response to
an emergency call.
VEHICLE: Every motor-driven device in, upon or by which any person or property
may be transported or drawn upon a public highway.
   B.   Hours; Area Of Restriction; Permit: No person owning, controlling or
operating any vehicle shall cause or permit it to stand or remain parked within
the period of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. to five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of any day
within the district bounded by: south side of Main Street between Rodgers and
Bainbridge; east side of Bainbridge between Main and Mason; except as allowed
by permit issued by the City Clerk for residents and guests of adjacent
properties, local businesses and special events.
   C.   Exceptions: This Section shall not apply to ambulances or emergency
vehicles or to public utility vehicles while the operator is engaged in the
necessary performance of emergency duties.
   D.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with the
provisions of this Section shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (Ord. 92-2, 5-4-1992; 1997 Code)
6-2-2: F.A. ROUTE 408:
After the completion of the improvement known as F.A. Route 408, State section
75-4HB, parking will be prohibited within the limits of the improvements, which
lie within the corporate limits of the City. (Ord. 88-1, 2-20-1988)
6-2-3: PARKING WITHIN ALLEYS:
No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the width of the
roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person shall stop,
stand or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to block the
driveway entrance to any abutting property. Any person violating this Section
shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each separate offense. (Ord. 71-3, 6-1-1971; 1997 Code)
6-2-4: PARKING CITATIONS AND FINES:
   A.   Fines Assessed: The fine paid for a citation up to the first forty
eight (48) hours from the time of issuance shall be five dollars ($5.00). The
fine for all citations after forty eight (48) hours up to ninety six (96) hours
from the time of issuance shall be ten dollars ($10.00). The fine for all
tickets paid after ninety six (96) hours of issuance shall be twenty five
dollars ($25.00).
   B.   Towing Charges: Any vehicle towed away by the order of the City shall
not be released from impoundment until all towing charges have been paid by the
person claiming the vehicle. (Ord. 1976-1)
CHAPTER 3
TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Through Streets
6-3-2: Stop Streets
6-3-3: Yield Streets
6-3-4: Additional Provisions
6-3-5: Posting Signs
6-3-6: Penalty
6-3-1: THROUGH STREETS:
Every driver of a vehicle traversing any street intersecting with any through
street shall stop such vehicle before entering upon the through street unless a
"go" signal is given at such intersection by a traffic officer or a traffic
signal. The following streets and parts of streets are hereby declared to be
through streets:
   Bainbridge Street from Mortimer Street to Mason Street.
   Mortimer Street, that part from the east City limits to Chauncey Street and
Chauncey Street from Mortimer Street to the north City limits. (1944 Code §
354)
6-3-2: STOP STREETS:
   A.   Obedience To Stop Signs: The driver of a vehicle shall stop in
obedience to a stop sign at an intersection where a stop sign is erected at one
or more entrances thereto, and shall proceed cautiously yielding to the
vehicles not so obliged to stop which are within the intersection or
approaching so close as to constitute an immediate hazard, unless traffic at
such intersection is controlled by a police officer on duty, in which event the
directions of the police officer shall be complied with. Any person violating
this subsection shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each separate offense. (Ord. 71-8, 6-1-1971, eff. 6-8-
1971; 1997 Code)
   B.   Stop Streets Designated: It shall be illegal for the operator of any
motor vehicle to fail to bring said motor vehicle to a full and complete stop
and after stopping to proceed onto any street where a "Stop" sign is placed
until it is safe to proceed. Stop signs shall be placed at locations deemed
necessary by the City Council. (Ord. 66-1, 1-18-1966; 1997 Code)
6-3-3: YIELD STREETS:
It shall be illegal for the operator of any motor vehicle to drive said motor
vehicle to enter any street marked with a "Yield" sign until and unless said
street is free of any interfering traffic. "Yield" signs shall be placed at
locations deemed necessary by the City Council. (Ord. 66-1, 1-18-1966; 1997
Code)
6-3-4: ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS:
This Chapter is in addition to any and all other ordinances designating stop
streets, stop signs, yield signs and right- of-way regulations. (Ord. 66-1, 1-
18-1966)
6-3-5: POSTING SIGNS:
The Chief of Police or any other person designated by the Mayor and Council
shall post or cause to be posted suitable signs for all through streets, one-
way streets or alleys and stop intersections. (Ord. 1971-9, 6-1-1971, eff. 6-8-
1971)
6-3-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any section of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation. (Ord. 66-1, 1-18-1966; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ABANDONED, WRECKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Abandonment Or Leaving Of Vehicles
6-4-3: Disposition Of Wrecked Or Discarded Vehicles
6-4-4: Impounding
6-4-5: Penalty
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions shall apply in the interpretation and enforcement of
this Chapter:
PERSON: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
PROPERTY: Any real property within the City which is not a street or highway.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
VEHICLE: A machine propelled by power other than human power designed to travel
along the ground by use of wheels, treads, runners, or slides and transport
persons or property or pull machinery and shall include, without limitation,
automobile truck, trailer, motorcycle, tractor, buggy, and wagon. (Ord., 12-3-
1979)
6-4-2: ABANDONMENT OR LEAVING OF VEHICLES:
   A.   Abandonment Prohibited: No person shall abandon any vehicle within the
City and no person shall leave any vehicle at any place within the City for
such time and under such circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to
appear to have been abandoned.
   B.   Leaving On Street: No person shall leave any partially dismantled,
nonoperating, wrecked, or junked vehicle on any street or highway within the
City. (Ord., 12-3-1979)
6-4-3: DISPOSITION OF WRECKED OR DISCARDED VEHICLES:
No person in charge or control of any property within the City whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise shall allow any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked, or discarded vehicle to remain on
such property longer than seven (7) days; and no person shall leave any such
vehicle on any property within the City for longer time than seven (7) days;
except that this Chapter shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an
enclosed building; a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operated
in a lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise; or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the City. (Ord., 12-3-1979)
6-4-4: IMPOUNDING:
The Chief of Police or any member of the Department designated by him/her is
hereby authorized to remove or have removed any vehicle left at any place
within the City which reasonably appears to be in violation of this Chapter or
lost, stolen, or unclaimed. Such vehicle shall be impounded until lawfully
claimed or disposed of in accordance with Illinois State law. (Ord., 12-3-1979)
6-4-5: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such
hereunder. (Ord., 12-3-1979; 1997 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Supervision
7-1-3: Construction And Repairs
7-1-4: Excavations
7-1-5: Barricades And Lights
7-1-6: Report Defects
7-1-7: Parking And Other Use Of Public Streets, Alleys And Public Rights Of Way
7-1-8: Encroachments
7-1-9: Private Use
7-1-10: Deposits On Streets Or Sidewalks
7-1-11: Injury To Pavement
7-1-12: Poles And Wires
7-1-13: Games
7-1-14: Barbed Wire And Electric Fences
7-1-15: Penalty
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following definitions shall be applicable:
SIDEWALK: That portion of any street set apart for pedestrian use, except where
such path crosses a street.
STREET: Any public thoroughfare, street, road, avenue, boulevard or alley in
the City. (1944 Code § 85)
7-1-2: SUPERVISION:
All public streets, alleys, sidewalks and other public ways in the City shall
be under the supervision of the Public Works Director. The Public Works
Director shall have supervision over all work thereon, and the cleaning
thereof, and shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinance provisions
relating to such public places (except traffic ordinances) and is hereby
authorized to enforce such ordinances. (1944 Code § 86)
7-1-3: CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIRS:
   A.   Permission Required; Application: It shall be unlawful to construct or
lay any pavement on any public street, sidewalk, alley or other public way, or
to repair the same without first having secured permission therefor.
Application for such permission shall be made to the Public Works Director and
shall state the location of the intended pavement or repair and the extent
thereof. (1944 Code § 87; 1997 Code)
   B.   Specifications: All street and sidewalk pavements shall be made in
conformity with specifications laid down or approved from time to time by the
Council. (1944 Code § 88)
   C.   Injury To New Pavements: It shall be unlawful to walk upon or drive any
vehicle or animal upon, or injure, any newly laid street or sidewalk pavement
while the same is guarded by a warning sign or barricade or to knowingly injure
any soft newly made pavement. (1944 Code § 89)
   D.   Repairs: All public street, alley and sidewalk pavement shall be in
good repair. Such repair work, whether done by the City or by the abutting
owner, shall be under the supervision of the Public Works Director. (1944 Code
§ 90)
7-1-4: EXCAVATIONS:
   A.   Permit Required; Application: It shall be unlawful to make any
excavation in or tunnel under any public street, alley, sidewalk or other
public place in the City, without having first secured a permit therefor.
Applications for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk, and shall
specify the intended location and the purpose of the excavation.
   B.   Restoration: Any person making such excavation shall refill the same
properly and shall restore the surface to its condition before the excavation
was made, as soon as possible. (1944 Code § 103)
   C.   Water Or Sewer Line Repairs; Fee: The fee for filling and repairing
excavations in the street when made by the citizens of the City for repairs on
water or sewer lines to their premises shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord.
72-34, 1-4-1972; 1997 Code)
   D.   Leaving Excavations Open: No person shall, in the City, keep or leave
open any cellar door or grating of any vault, or shall keep or leave uncovered
any other excavation on any highway, thoroughfare or sidewalk, or shall suffer
any such door belonging to premises owned by him or her to be in an insecure
position or condition, whereby passers-by may be in danger of falling into such
cellar, vault or other excavation. (1944 Code § 104)
   E.   Excavations In Walks; Bridge Required: Whoever in the City shall
excavate the walk of any street for building purposes, shall build, or cause to
be built, a strong and substantial foot bridge along such excavation, outside
of the gutter, adjacent to such excavated portion of the sidewalk; such bridge
shall not be less than five feet (5') broad and securely protected by a
substantial frame on each side, not less than three feet (3') in height, the
boards or rails of which shall not be more than one foot (1') apart, so that
foot passengers may pass over it safely and conveniently at all times. (1944
Code § 105)
   F.   Securing Excavations On Private Property: All holes, depressions,
excavations or other dangerous places on private property within the City, that
are below the natural or artificial grade of the surrounding or adjacent
streets, shall be enclosed with a proper and sufficient fence or wall, and
filled up so as to prevent animals and persons from falling into the same. It
is hereby made the duty of the Public Works Director and/or Chief Of Police to
notify the owners or occupants of the premises on which such dangerous places
exist, to sufficiently enclose the same with a fence or wall, or cause the same
to be filled within such time as they may deem the exigency of the case
demands. (1944 Code § 106; 1997 Code)
7-1-5: BARRICADES AND LIGHTS:
   A.   Required: Any person laying or repairing any pavement on a street,
sidewalk or other public place, or making an excavation in any such place,
shall maintain suitable barricades to prevent injury to any person or vehicle
by reason of the work. Such barricades shall be protected by a light at
nighttime. (1944 Code § 93)
   B.   Disturbing: It shall be unlawful to disturb or interfere with any
barricade or lights lawfully placed to protect or mark any new pavement or
opening in any public street, alley or sidewalk. (1944 Code § 94)
7-1-6: REPORT DEFECTS:
It shall be the duty of every City officer or employee becoming cognizant of
any defect in any street, alley or sidewalk, or any obstruction thereof, to
report the same to the Public Works Director, as soon as possible. (1944 Code §
91)
7-1-7: PARKING AND OTHER USE OF PUBLIC STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS OF
WAY:
   A.   Parking of Passenger Cars And Light Trucks: It shall be unlawful for
any person to park, store, abandon, place or otherwise leave any passenger car
or trucks on a public street, alley or other public right of way unless that
vehicle is:
      1.   Licensed;
      2.   Insured as required by the laws of the State of Illinois; and
      3.   Operable and capable of being moved under its own power.
   B.   Parking by Campers, Trailers, Heavy Trucks and Enclosed Recreational
Vehicles: It shall be unlawful for any person to park, store, abandon, place or
otherwise leave any camper, trailer, heavy truck or enclosed recreational
vehicle on any public street, alley or other public right of way within the
City of Barry without first obtaining written permission to do so from the
City's Public Works Director. In granting such permission, the Public Works
Director shall issue a permit authorizing temporary parking of such vehicle or
trailer at a place designated in the permit for a period of time not to exceed
fourteen (14) days and specified in that permit.
   C.   Obstructions: It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, create or
maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public way
with any object, vehicle, display or by any other means except as may be
specifically authorized by ordinance or by the Public Works Director.
   D.   Obstruction of Drains: It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct,
cause to be obstructed or allowed to become obstructed any drain in any public
street, alley or public right of way. (Ord. 2020-04, 6-1-2020)
7-1-8: ENCROACHMENTS:
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any building or structure which
encroaches upon any public street or property. (1944 Code § 96)
7-1-9: PRIVATE USE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to use any street, sidewalk or other public
place, as space for the display or sale of goods or merchandise; or to write or
make any signs or advertisements on any such pavements. (1944 Code § 95)
7-1-10: DEPOSITS ON STREETS OR SIDEWALKS:
   A.   Streets:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any street any material which may
be harmful to the pavement thereof or any waste material, or any glass, or
other articles which may do injury to any person, animal or property.
      2.   Coal or other materials may be deposited in streets preparatory to
delivery or use, provided such deposit does not reduce the useable width of the
roadway at that point to less than eighteen feet (18'); provided, that such
material or coal, other than material to be used in actual building
construction, shall not be permitted to remain on such street for more than
three (3) hours.
      3.   Any such material or coal shall be guarded by lights if the same
remains upon any sidewalk after nighttime. (1944 Code § 98)
   B.   Sidewalks:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to deposit on any public sidewalk any material
which may be harmful to the pavement thereof, or any waste materials or any
glass or other articles which might cause injury to persons, animals or
property.
      2.   Merchandise or other articles may be deposited on sidewalks
preparatory to delivery; provided, that the useable width of the walk is not
thereby reduced to less than four feet (4'); and provided, that no such article
shall remain on such walk for more than one-half (1/2) hour. (1944 Code § 99)
7-1-11: INJURY TO PAVEMENT:
   A.   Protection Of Pavement: It shall be unlawful to injure any sidewalk,
street or alley pavement. (1944 Code § 97)
   B.   Barricades And Lights Required 1 : Any person maintaining any opening
or excavation of such pavement or defect shall properly barricade and light
opening as long as said defect remains open. (1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  8-1-6 of this Code.
7-1-12: POLES AND WIRES 1 :
It shall be unlawful to erect or maintain any poles or wires on or over any
public street, alley, or other public way without having first secured
permission from the Council. (1944 Code § 101)
 
Notes
1 2. See also Chapter 4 of this Title.
7-1-13: GAMES:
It shall be unlawful to play any games upon any street, alley or sidewalk,
where such games cause unnecessary noise, or interfere with traffic or
pedestrians. (1944 Code § 107)
7-1-14: BARBED WIRE AND ELECTRIC FENCES:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or construct any fence composed in whole or in
part of barbed wire, or with any similar material designed to cause injury to
persons, or any wire charged with electric current, anywhere within ten feet
(10') of any public place, street, sidewalk, alley, park or other public way.
(1944 Code § 108; 1997 Code)
7-1-15: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day or fraction thereof on which a violation occurs or
continues. (1944 Code § 109; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-2-1: Compliance With State Law
7-2-2: Special Taxation Of Adjoining Property
7-2-3: Ordinance For Construction
7-2-4: City Treasurer As Collector
7-2-5: Billing Procedure; Tax Collection
7-2-6: Report Of Unpaid Special Tax
7-2-7: Judgment And Sale
7-2-8: Construction By Owner; Order For Reimbursement
7-2-9: Contracts Let By Bid
7-2-10: New Tax And Ordinance When Special Tax Set Aside
7-2-11: Construction Specifications
7-2-1: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW:
All sidewalks hereinafter ordered to be constructed in the City on, along, or
upon any street or part of a street therein, shall, unless otherwise specially
ordained, be constructed of Portland cement concrete hereinafter abbreviated as
PCC and shall be constructed under provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-84-1 et seq. (1944 Code § 463)
7-2-2: SPECIAL TAXATION OF ADJOINING PROPERTY:
   A.   Construction And Assessment Of Costs: In addition to any other manner
authorized by law, the City, by ordinance, may provide for the construction of
sidewalks therein, along or upon any street or streets or part of streets
therein. The City Council, by ordinance, may provide for the payment of the
whole or any part of the cost thereof by special taxation of the lots, blocks,
tracts, or parcels of land touching upon the line where such a sidewalk is
ordered.
   B.   Special Taxation: This special taxation may be either by levying the
whole or any part of the cost thereof upon each of the lots, blocks, tracts, or
parcels of land touching upon the line of the sidewalk, pro rata, according to
their respective values. The values of the lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of
land shall be determined by the last preceding assessment thereof for the
purpose of State and County taxation. Or the whole or any part of the cost
thereof may be levied upon such lots, blocks, tracts, or parcels of land in
proportion to their frontage upon such sidewalk or sidewalks, or in proportion
to their superficial area, as may be provided by ordinance ordering the laying
down of the sidewalk.
   C.   Partial Payment By Taxation: In case the ordinance only requires a part
of the cost of the sidewalk to be paid by a special tax as provided in this
Section, the residue of the cost shall be paid out of any fund of the City
raised by general taxation upon the property in the City and not otherwise
appropriated. One and the same ordinance can provide for the construction of
sidewalks under this Chapter on two (2) or more streets, or parts of streets,
or on one or both sides of any street or streets, whenever the sidewalks are so
connected, or otherwise related, as to constitute a single system of
improvement. (1944 Code § 464)
7-2-3: ORDINANCE FOR CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Terms Of Ordinance: Such ordinance shall define the location of a
proposed sidewalk with reasonable certainty, shall prescribe its width, the
materials of which it is to be constructed and the manner of its construction,
and shall provide that the materials and construction shall be made under the
supervision of and subject to the approval of the Public Works Director and
Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks Committee. (1944 Code § 465; 1997 Code)
   B.   Owner Requirements Specified; Time Limit: The ordinance shall require
all owners of lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of land touching the line of a
proposed sidewalk to construct a sidewalk in front of or touching upon their
respective lots, blocks, tracts, or parcels of land in accordance with the
specifications of the ordinance, within thirty (30) days after the mailing of
notice of the passage of the ordinance, addressed to the party who last paid
the general taxes on the respective lots, blocks, tracts, or parcels.
   C.   Failure Of Owner To Construct: In default thereof, the City may furnish
the materials and construct the sidewalk in accordance with the ordinance, or
may enter into a contract for the furnishing of materials and construction of
the sidewalk as hereinafter provided in this Chapter. The cost of such part
thereof as may be fixed in the ordinance may be collected as hereinafter
provided in this Chapter.
   D.   Issuance Of Vouchers: The City may issue vouchers bearing not to exceed
six percent (6%) interest annually in payment of these sidewalks, payable
solely out of the special tax provided for in this Chapter when the tax is
collected. (1944 Code § 465)
7-2-4: CITY TREASURER AS COLLECTOR:
The City Treasurer shall be the collector of special taxes under this Chapter.
(1944 Code § 467)
7-2-5: BILLING PROCEDURE; TAX COLLECTION:
   A.   Bill For Costs: Such an ordinance may provide that a bill for the costs
of the sidewalk, showing the cost of the construction and supervision thereof,
shall be made by the Public Works Director and Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks
Committee designated by the ordinance to take charge of the construction of the
sidewalk, together with a list of the lots, blocks, tracts, or parcels of land
touching upon the line of the sidewalks, the names of the parties who last paid
the general taxes on the respective lots, blocks, tracts or parcels, and the
frontage, superficial area, or assessed value as specified in Section
7-2-2 of this Chapter, accordingly as the ordinance provides for the levy of
the cost by the frontage, superficial area, or assessed value.
   B.   Failure To Construct: Thereupon, if the owner of any lot, block, tract
or parcel of land has failed or refused to construct his/her portion of the
sidewalk in accordance with the provisions of the ordinance, the Public Works
Director and Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks Committee shall proceed to prepare a
special tax list against those lots, blocks, tracts, or parcels of land in
front of or touching upon which the sidewalk has not been constructed,
ascertaining by computation the amount of special taxes and the annual
installments thereof to be charged against each of those lots, blocks, tracts,
or parcels of land on account of the construction of the sidewalk, according to
the rule fixed for the levy of that special tax by ordinance.
   C.   Collection Of Special Tax: This special tax list shall be filed with
the City Council and the City Council shall thereupon issue warrants directed
to the City Treasurer for the collection of the amount of special tax as
ascertained and appearing from this special tax list to be due from the
respective lots, blocks, tracts, or parcels of land touching upon the line of
the sidewalk. However, the aggregate amount of such special tax shall be
divided into five (5) annual installments of equal amounts, except that all
fractional amounts shall be added to the first installment, so as to leave the
remaining installments equal in amount and each a multiple of one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   D.   Payment Of Installments: The first installment shall be due and payable
on January 2 next after the date of the first voucher issued on account of the
work done, and the second installment one year thereafter, and so on annually
until all installments are paid. The Public Works Director and Streets, Alleys
and Sidewalks Committee shall file in the office of the City Treasurer a
certificate, signed by the City Clerk of the date of the first voucher and of
the amount thereof within thirty (30) days after the issuance thereof.
   E.   Interest On Unpaid Installments:
      1.   All the installments shall bear interest as provided in this Section
until paid, at the rate of not to exceed six percent (6%) annually. Interest on
assessments shall begin to run from the date of the first voucher issued on
account of work done. The interest on each installment shall be payable as
follows: on January 2 next succeeding the date of the first voucher as
certified, the interest accrued up to date on all unpaid installments shall be
due and payable and it shall be collected with the installment. Thereafter the
interest on all unpaid installments shall be payable annually and be due and
payable at the same time as the installment maturing in that year and be
collected therewith.
      2.   In all cases the City Treasurer, whenever payment is made of any
installment, shall collect all interest that is due up to the date of that
payment, whether the payment is made at or after maturity, Any person may at
any time pay the whole assessment against any lot, block, tract or parcel of
land, or any installment thereof, with interest as provided in this Section up
to the date of payment. The Treasurer shall proceed to collect the warrants by
mailing a written notice to the address of the party who last paid the general
taxes on the respective lots, blocks, tracts, or parcels of land in the list,
that the tax list is in his/her possession for collection. (1944 Code § 468)
7-2-6: REPORT OF UNPAID SPECIAL TAX:
Upon failure to collect the special tax as heretofore provided in this Chapter,
the Treasurer, on or before August 1 in each year, shall make a written report
of this special tax to such general officer of the County as may be authorized
by law to apply for judgment against and sell lands for taxes due the County or
State. This report shall also contain an enumeration of: 1) all the lots,
blocks, tracts, or parcels of land upon which this special tax remains unpaid,
2) the names of the respective owners thereof, so far as the names are known to
the collecting officer, 3) the amount due and unpaid upon each lot, block,
tract, or parcel, and 4) a copy of the ordinance ordering the construction of
the sidewalk. This report shall be accompanied by the oath of the officer that
the list is a correct return of the lots, blocks, tracts or parcels of land on
which the special tax levied by authority of the City for the cost or partial
cost, as the case may be, of the sidewalk specified in that ordinance remains
due and unpaid, and that the amounts therein stated as due and unpaid have not
been collected, nor any part thereof. This report, when so made, is prima facie
evidence that all the forms and requirements of the law in relation to making
that return have been complied with, and that the special tax, as mentioned in
the report, is due and unpaid. (1944 Code § 469; 1997 Code)
7-2-7: JUDGMENT AND SALE:
When the specified general officer of the County receives such a report, he/she
shall at once proceed to obtain judgment against the lots, blocks, tracts, or
parcels of land enumerated therein for the special tax remaining due and
unpaid, in the same manner as may be provided by law for obtaining judgment
against land for taxes due and unpaid to the County and State, and in the same
manner shall proceed to sell the same for the special tax due and unpaid. In
obtaining this judgment, and making this sale, the specified officer shall be
governed by the general revenue laws of Illinois, except when otherwise
provided in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes, division 84. The general revenue
laws shall also apply to the execution of certificates of sale and deeds, and
to the force and effect of these sales and deeds. All other laws in relation to
the enforcement and collection of taxes, and redemption from tax sales, shall
apply to proceedings to collect this special tax, except as otherwise provided
in 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes, division 84. (1944 Code § 470)
7-2-8: CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER; ORDER FOR REIMBURSEMENT:
Whenever payment of the cost of such a sidewalk is required to be made in part
by special tax and in part out of any general fund of the City, and the owner
of a lot, block, tract, or parcel of land constructs the sidewalk in accordance
with the ordinance for its construction, the Public Works Director and Streets,
Alleys and Sidewalks Committee, directed by the ordinance to superintend the
construction thereof, shall thereupon have issued to that owner, an order on
the City Treasurer for the cost of the construction of the sidewalk, less the
amount of special tax chargeable to the lot, block, tract or parcel of land of
that owner on the line of which the sidewalk, has been so constructed. (1944
Code § 471)
7-2-9: CONTRACTS LET BY BID:
All contracts for the construction of sidewalks as provided in this Chapter,
when the expense thereof exceeds one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00),
shall be let to the lowest responsible bidder in the following manner: notice
shall be given by Public Works Director and Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks
Committee designated in this Chapter to take charge of the construction and
supervision of a sidewalk, by advertisement in some newspaper of general
circulation in the City, that bids will be received for the construction of
that sidewalk in accordance with the ordinance therefor. The notice shall state
the time of opening the bids, not more than ten (10) nor less than five (5)
days thereafter. If no newspaper is published in the City, four (4) such
notices shall be posted in the vicinity of the proposed sidewalk. All bids
offered shall be accompanied by cash or a check payable to the order of the
City officials having charge of the improvement, and certified by a responsible
bank, for an amount which shall not be less than ten percent (10%) of the
aggregate of the bid. All contracts shall be approved by the Public Works
Director and Streets, Alleys and Sidewalks Committee having the supervision of
the construction of that sidewalk. (1944 Code § 472; 1997 Code)
7-2-10: NEW TAX AND ORDINANCE WHEN SPECIAL TAX SET ASIDE:
   A.   New Tax And Ordinance: If a special tax for the construction of a
sidewalk is annulled by the City Council or set aside by any court, a new
ordinance may be passed and a new tax may be made and returned. This power to
pass a new ordinance providing for a new tax exists only when: 1) the prior
ordinance was passed under "An Act to provide additional means for the
construction of sidewalks in cities, towns and villages," approved April 15,
1875, as amended, or under 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes division 84; and 2)
when the prior ordinance was merely defective but not void.
   B.   Procedure: The proceedings therefor shall be the same as in the first
instance, and all parties in interest shall have like rights and like powers in
relation to any subsequent tax as are hereby given in relation to the first
tax. No special tax shall be levied for work already done under a prior
ordinance, unless it appears that the work was done in good faith, by the City,
or under contract duly let and executed, pursuant to an ordinance providing
that the sidewalk should be paid for by special tax. (1944 Code § 473)
7-2-11: CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
Whenever any special ordinance shall be passed providing for the construction
of a sidewalk or sidewalks, such sidewalk or sidewalks shall be constructed in
the following manner, and of such material hereinafter provided:
   A.   Specifications: Sidewalks shall be constructed according to the grade
line for the street on which they are to be laid. The earth bed shall be at
least four inches (4") below the line established for the finished surface and
at least six inches (6") at crossings or driveways. Said earth bed shall have
all roots, stumps and trees removed and shall be thoroughly tamped to a firm
surface. In case of fills, earth shall be added at the rate of not more than
four inches (4") at a time and each layer thoroughly tamped. If such fill is
more than two feet (2'), it shall be "jetted" and allowed to stand for at least
twenty four (24) hours before the concrete slab is poured. The PCC mixture
shall be in the proportion of three (3) parts gravel or stone graded to one
inch (1"), two (2) parts sand and one part Portland cement. The surface shall
be finished free of pits and with a smooth brushed surface.
   B.   Inspection: All material shall be subject to the inspection of the
Public Works Director and all construction shall be under his/her direction.
(1944 Code § 474)
CHAPTER 3
DRIVEWAY CONSTRUCTION
SECTION:
7-3-1: Permit Required
7-3-2: Construction Requirements
7-3-3: Repair
7-3-4: Penalty
7-3-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall construct a driveway for vehicles or animals across any
sidewalk in the City without having obtained a permit therefor. (1944 Code §
115)
7-3-2: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Grade Surface:
      1.   No driveway shall be so constructed or graded as to leave a step,
sharp depression or other obstruction in the sidewalk.
      2.   The grade shall be as nearly as possible the same as that of the
adjoining sidewalk. It shall be unlawful to have the surface finish of any
driveway where the same crosses the sidewalk constructed of such material as to
render it slippery and hazardous for pedestrians, or to have the grade of such
portion vary from the grade of the sidewalk, or be other than level. (1944 Code
§ 116)
   B.   Materials: Driveways across sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete
or of such other material as may be approved by the Council. (1944 Code § 117)
7-3-3: REPAIR:
It shall be the duty of every person maintaining a driveway to keep the same in
good repair where it crosses the sidewalk, and free from obstruction and
openings. (1944 Code § 118)
7-3-4: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense. (1944 Code § 119; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 4
POLES AND WIRES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Permit To Erect; Ordinance Required
7-4-2: Construction
7-4-3: Interference With Other Wires Or Trees
7-4-4: Removal By Owner
7-4-5: Pole Placement And Specifications
7-4-6: Rights Reserved To City
7-4-7: Wires Near Trees And Shrubs
7-4-8: Gas Pipes
7-4-9: Excavations
7-4-10: Penalty
7-4-1: PERMIT TO ERECT; ORDINANCE REQUIRED:
No person shall erect or set up in any of the streets, avenues, alleys or other
public places or grounds of the City any pole, poles or other means of support,
from and over which any wires are strung and extended for the purpose of
communication, or for any other purposes whatsoever, or to run, string or
extend wires in, along, upon or over any of the streets, avenues, alleys,
sidewalks, or other public places or grounds of the City for any purpose
whatsoever unless first duly authorized by an ordinance of the City Council.
(1944 Code § 120)
7-4-2: CONSTRUCTION:
All wires now extended, or which may be extended, within the City for electric
lights, telegraph or telephone, or other purposes of correspondence or
communication shall be erected according to the regulations governing such
construction as set forth in the National Electrical Code. (1944 Code § 121)
7-4-3: INTERFERENCE WITH OTHER WIRES OR TREES:
No wires shall be extended upon any street, sidewalk or alley in the City so as
to interfere with the wires of another company, or of the City, or with any
shade or ornamental trees, whether the same are growing upon public streets or
private grounds; nor shall any person, in laying or extending said wires, enter
upon the premises of any citizen or individual without first obtaining from
such person the consent to do so. (1944 Code § 122)
7-4-4: REMOVAL BY OWNER:
Whenever it shall become necessary to have any of such wires raised or removed
to enable buildings or other things to pass along any of said streets or
alleys, the owners or managers of such wires shall, without delay when notified
by the City Council, cause said wires to be raised or removed. (1944 Code §
123)
7-4-5: POLE PLACEMENT AND SPECIFICATIONS:
   A.   Placement: Upon the granting of the right by the City Council to any
person to erect or set up poles in any of the streets, avenues, alleys or other
public grounds of the City, all such poles to be erected or set up shall be
placed at the outside edge of the sidewalk, and next to the curbstone or
curbing.
   B.   Specifications And Requirements: The kind and character of poles, the
length of the same, the manner in which said poles shall be maintained and
kept, the purposes for which said poles may be used and any and all such other
terms and conditions as the City Council may deem expedient shall be fully set
forth in the authority of the City Council, granting any such permit or
privilege, as aforesaid. (1944 Code § 124)
7-4-6: RIGHTS RESERVED TO CITY:
In case the City shall change the width or grade of any street, sidewalk or
alley, where said poles are or may be placed, or when, for any reason, the City
Council shall direct the same to be done, the parties owning or controlling
said poles shall remove and reset the same at such place and in such manner as
the City Council may direct, whether such provision is specifically set forth
or not, in the grant of any such privilege. (1944 Code § 125)
7-4-7: WIRES NEAR TREES AND SHRUBS:
   A.   Attaching To Trees Or Shrubs: It shall be unlawful to attach any wire
or rope to any tree or shrub in any public street, parkway or other public
place without the permission of the City Council.
   B.   Injury To Trees Or Shrubs: Any person or company which maintains poles
and wires in the streets, alleys or other public places shall, in the absence
of provision in the franchise concerning the subject, keep such wires and poles
free from and away from any trees and shrubs in such places so far as may be
possible, and shall keep all such trees and shrubs near such wires and poles
properly trimmed, subject to the supervision of the Public Works Director, so
that no injury shall be done either to the poles or wires or to the shrubs and
trees by the contact. (1944 Code § 126)
7-4-8: GAS PIPES:
Any person or company maintaining any gas pipes in the City shall keep such
pipes free from leaks so that no injury shall be done thereby to any trees or
shrubs. (1944 Code § 127)
7-4-9: EXCAVATIONS:
In making excavations in streets or other public places, proper care shall be
taken to avoid injury to the roots of any tree or shrub, wherever possible.
(1944 Code § 128)
7-4-10: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (1944
Code § 129; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 5
TREES AND SHRUBS
SECTION:
7-5-1: Permits Required
7-5-2: Injury
7-5-3: Advertisements Or Notices
7-5-4: Dangerous Trees
7-5-1: PERMITS REQUIRED:
   A.   Planting: It shall be unlawful to plant any tree or bush in any public
place, street or parkway without having secured a permit therefor. Applications
for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and shall be referred by the
City Clerk to the Public Works Director before issuance. All trees and shrubs
so planted shall be placed subject to the directions and approval of said
Public Works Director. (1944 Code § 110)
   B.   Removal: It shall be unlawful to remove or cut down any tree or shrub
in any such public place without having secured a permit therefor. Applications
for such permits shall be made to the City Clerk and shall be referred to the
City Council before issuance. (1944 Code § 111)
7-5-2: INJURY:
It shall be unlawful to injure any tree or shrub planted or growing in any such
public place. (1944 Code § 112)
7-5-3: ADVERTISEMENTS OR NOTICES:
It shall be unlawful to attach any sign, advertisement or notice to any tree or
shrub in any such public place. (1944 Code § 113)
7-5-4: DANGEROUS TREES:
   A.   Trimming:
      1.   Any tree or shrub which overhangs any sidewalk, street or other
public place in the City in such a way as to impede or interfere with traffic
or travel shall be trimmed by the owner of the abutting premises or of the
premises on which such tree or shrub grows so that the obstruction shall cease.
      2.   The Public Works Director may trim any such tree or shrub or remove
any such tree or branch thereof so that the obstruction or danger to traffic or
passage shall be eliminated.
   B.   Removal: Any tree or limb of a tree which has become likely to fall on
or across any public place or way shall be removed by the owner of the premises
on which such tree grows or stands. (1944 Code § 114)
CHAPTER 6
CITY PARKS
SECTION:
7-6-1: Use During Certain Hours
7-6-1: USE DURING CERTAIN HOURS:
   A.   Closing Hours: The city deems it to be in its best interest to close to
the public during the hours of ten thirty o'clock (10:30) P.M. to five o'clock
(5:00) A.M. the following parks owned by the city:
Barry Pool Park
Holy Redeemer Park
Lafayette Park
   B.   Park Use Prohibited; Exceptions: Except as allowed by permit issued by
the city clerk for special events, no person shall be present in said Lafayette
Park, Holy Redeemer Park or Barry Pool Park during the aforesaid times of any
day. This section shall not apply to ambulance or emergency personnel or to
public utility personnel or other service personnel while engaged in the
necessary performance of emergency or service duties. (Ord. 92-6, 8-3-1992;
amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 2001-06-02, 6-4-2001; Ord. 2012-06, 6-4-2012)
   C.   Penalty: Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with the
provisions of this section shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. (Ord. 92-6, 8-3-1992; amd. 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 7
PUBLIC LIBRARY
SECTION:
7-7-1: Public Library Created
7-7-1: PUBLIC LIBRARY CREATED:
There is hereby established and shall hereafter be maintained in the City a
public library and reading room for the use and benefit of the inhabitants of
the City, and which shall be forever free to the use of such inhabitants,
always subject to such reasonable rules and regulations as the Board of
Directors 1  of such library may adopt. (1944 Code § 297)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 2, Chapter 1 of this Code.
CHAPTER 8
CONSTRUCTION OF UTILITY FACILITIES IN THE RIGHTS OF WAY
SECTION:
7-8-1: Purpose And Scope
7-8-2: Definitions
7-8-3: Annual Registration Required
7-8-4: Permit Required; Applications And Fees
7-8-5: Action On Permit Applications
7-8-6: Effect Of Permit
7-8-7: Revised Permit Drawings
7-8-8: Insurance
7-8-9: Indemnification
7-8-10: Security
7-8-11: Permit Suspension And Revocation
7-8-12: Change Of Ownership Or Owner's Identity Or Legal Status
7-8-13: General Construction Standards
7-8-14: Traffic Control
7-8-15: Location Of Facilities
7-8-16: Construction Methods And Materials
7-8-17: Vegetation Control
7-8-18: Removal, Relocation, Or Modifications Of Utility Facilities
7-8-19: Cleanup And Restoration
7-8-20: Maintenance And Emergency Maintenance
7-8-21: Variances
7-8-22: Penalties
7-8-23: Enforcement
7-8-1: PURPOSE AND SCOPE:
   A.   Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish policies and
procedures for constructing facilities on rights of way within the city's
jurisdiction, which will provide public benefit consistent with the
preservation of the integrity, safe usage, and visual qualities of the city
rights of way and the city as a whole.
   B.   Intent: In enacting this chapter, the city intends to exercise its
authority over the rights of way in the city and, in particular, the use of the
public ways and property by utilities, by establishing uniform standards to
address issues presented by utility facilities, including, without limitation:
      1.   Prevent interference with the use of streets, sidewalks, alleys,
parkways and other public ways and places;
      2.   Prevent the creation of visual and physical obstructions and other
conditions that are hazardous to vehicular and pedestrian traffic;
      3.   Prevent interference with the facilities and operations of the
city's utilities and of other utilities lawfully located in rights of way or
public property;
      4.   Protect against environmental damage, including damage to trees,
from the installation of utility facilities;
      5.   Protect against increased stormwater runoff due to structures and
materials that increase impermeable surfaces;
      6.   Preserve the character of the neighborhoods in which facilities are
installed;
      7.   Preserve open space, particularly the tree lined parkways that
characterize the city's residential neighborhoods;
      8.   Prevent visual blight from the proliferation of facilities in the
rights of way; and
      9.   Assure the continued safe use and enjoyment of private properties
adjacent to utility facilities locations.
   C.   Facilities Subject To This Chapter: This chapter applies to all
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of
way within the jurisdiction of the city. A facility lawfully established prior
to the effective date of this chapter may continue to be maintained, repaired
and operated by the utility as presently constructed and located, except as may
be otherwise provided in any applicable franchise, license or similar
agreement.
   D.   Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements: The city, in its
discretion and as limited by law, may require utilities to enter into a
franchise, license or similar agreement for the privilege of locating their
facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the city
rights of way. Utilities that are not required by law to enter into such an
agreement may request that the city enter into such an agreement. In such an
agreement, the city may provide for terms and conditions inconsistent with this
chapter.
   E.   Effect Of Franchises, Licenses, Or Similar Agreements:
      1.   Utilities Other Than Telecommunications Providers: In the event that
a utility other than a telecommunications provider has a franchise, license or
similar agreement with the city, such franchise, license or similar agreement
shall govern and control during the term of such agreement and any lawful
renewal or extension thereof.
      2.   Telecommunications Providers: In the event of any conflict with, or
inconsistency between, the provisions of this chapter and the provisions of any
franchise, license or similar agreement between the city and any
telecommunications provider, the provisions of such franchise, license or
similar agreement shall govern and control during the term of such agreement
and any lawful renewal or extension thereof.
   F.   Conflicts With Other Chapters: This chapter supersedes all chapters or
parts of chapters adopted prior hereto that are in conflict herewith, to the
extent of such conflict.
   G.   Conflicts With State And Federal Laws: In the event that applicable
federal or state laws or regulations conflict with the requirements of this
chapter, the utility shall comply with the requirements of this chapter to the
maximum extent possible without violating federal or state laws or regulations.
   H.   Sound Engineering Judgment: The city shall use sound engineering
judgment when administering this chapter and may vary the standards,
conditions, and requirements expressed in this chapter when the city so
determines. Nothing herein shall be construed to limit the ability of the city
to regulate its rights of way for the protection of the public health, safety
and welfare. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter and unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the
words and terms listed shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this
section. Any term not defined in this section shall have the meaning ascribed
to it in 92 Illinois administrative code section 530.30, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
AASHTO: American Association Of State Highway And Transportation Officials.
ANSI: American National Standards Institute.
ASTM: American Society For Testing And Materials.
APPLICANT: A person applying for a permit under this chapter.
BACKFILL: The methods or materials for replacing excavated material in a trench
or pit.
BORE OR BORING: To excavate an underground cylindrical cavity for the insertion
of a pipe or electrical conductor.
CABLE OPERATOR: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(5).
CABLE SERVICE: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM: That term as defined in 47 USC 522(7).
CARRIER PIPE: The pipe enclosing the liquid, gas or slurry to be transported.
CASING: A structural protective enclosure for transmittal devices such as:
carrier pipes, electrical conductors, and fiber optic devices.
CITY: The city of Barry.
CLEAR ZONE: The total roadside border area, starting at the edge of the
pavement, available for safe use by errant vehicles. This area may consist of a
shoulder, a recoverable slope, a nonrecoverable slope, and a clear run out
area. The desired width is dependent upon the traffic volumes and speeds, and
on the roadside geometry. Distances are specified in the AASHTO "Roadside
Design Guide".
COATING: Protective wrapping or mastic cover applied to buried pipe for
protection against external corrosion.
CODE: The municipal code of the city of Barry.
CONDUCTOR: Wire carrying electrical current.
CONDUIT: A casing or encasement for wires or cables.
CONSTRUCTION OR CONSTRUCT: The installation, repair, maintenance, placement,
alteration, enlargement, demolition, modification or abandonment in place of
facilities.
COVER: The depth of earth or backfill over buried utility pipe or conductor.
CROSSING FACILITY: A facility that crosses one or more right of way lines of a
right of way.
DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS: The city director of public works or his or her
designee.
DISRUPT THE RIGHT OF WAY: For the purposes of this chapter, any work that
obstructs the right of way or causes a material adverse effect on the use of
the right of way for its intended use. Such work may include, without
limitation, the following: excavating or other cutting; placement (whether
temporary or permanent) of materials, equipment, devices, or structures; damage
to vegetation; and compaction or loosening of the soil, and shall not include
the parking of vehicles or equipment in a manner that does not materially
obstruct the flow of traffic on a highway.
EMERGENCY: Any immediate maintenance to the facility required for the safety of
the public using or in the vicinity of the right of way or immediate
maintenance required for the health and safety of the general public served by
the utility.
ENCASEMENT: Provision of a protective casing.
ENGINEER: The city engineer or his or her designee.
EQUIPMENT: Materials, tools, implements, supplies, and/or other items used to
facilitate construction of facilities.
EXCAVATION: The making of a hole or cavity by removing material, or laying bare
by digging.
EXTRA HEAVY PIPE: Pipe meeting ASTM standards for this pipe designation.
FACILITY: All structures, devices, objects, and materials (including, but not
limited to, track and rails, wires, ducts, fiber optic cable, antennas, vaults,
boxes, equipment enclosures, cabinets, pedestals, poles, conduits, grates,
covers, pipes, cables, and appurtenances thereto) located on, over, above,
along, upon, under, across, or within rights of way under this chapter. For
purposes of this chapter, the term "facility" shall not include any facility
owned or operated by the city.
FREESTANDING FACILITY: A facility that is not a crossing facility or a parallel
facility, such as an antenna, transformer, pump, or meter station.
FRONTAGE ROAD: Roadway, usually parallel, providing access to land adjacent to
the highway where it is precluded by control of access to a highway.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS: Any substance or material which, due to its quantity,
form, concentration, location, or other characteristics, is determined by the
city director of public works to pose an unreasonable and imminent risk to the
life, health or safety of persons or property or to the ecological balance of
the environment, including, but not limited to, explosives, radioactive
materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases, poisons, etiology
(biological) agents, flammables, corrosives or any substance determined to be
hazardous or toxic under any federal or state law, statute or regulation.
HIGHWAY: A specific type of right of way used for vehicular traffic including
rural or urban roads or streets. "Highway" includes all highway land and
improvements, including roadways, ditches and embankments, bridges, drainage
structures, signs, guardrails, protective structures and appurtenances
necessary or convenient for vehicle traffic.
HIGHWAY CODE: The Illinois highway code, 605 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-101
et seq., as amended from time to time.
HOLDER: A person or entity that has received authorization to offer or provide
cable or video service from the ICC pursuant to the Illinois cable and video
competition law, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/21-401.
ICC: Illinois commerce commission.
IDOT: Illinois department of transportation.
JULIE: The joint utility locating information for excavators utility
notification program.
JACKING: Pushing a pipe horizontally under a roadway by mechanical means with
or without boring.
JETTING: Pushing a pipe through the earth using water under pressure to create
a cavity ahead of the pipe.
JOINT USE: The use of pole lines, trenches or other facilities by two (2) or
more utilities.
MAJOR INTERSECTION: The intersection of two (2) or more major arterial
highways.
OCCUPANCY: The presence of facilities on, over or under right of way.
PARALLEL FACILITY: A facility that is generally parallel or longitudinal to the
centerline of a right of way.
PARKWAY: Any portion of the right of way not improved by street or sidewalk.
PAVEMENT CUT: The removal of an area of pavement for access to a facility or
for the construction of a facility.
PERMITTEE: That entity to which a permit has been issued pursuant to sections
7-8-4 and
7-8-5 of this chapter.
PETROLEUM PRODUCTS PIPELINES: Pipelines carrying crude or refined liquid
petroleum products including, but not limited to, gasoline, distillates,
propane, butane, or coal slurry.
PRACTICABLE: That which is performable, feasible or possible, rather than that
which is simply convenient.
PRESSURE: The internal force acting radially against the walls of a carrier
pipe expressed in pounds per square inch gauge (psig).
PROMPT: That which is done within a period of time specified by the city. If no
time period is specified, the period shall be thirty (30) days.
PUBLIC ENTITY: A legal entity that constitutes or is part of the government,
whether at local, state or federal level.
RESTORATION: The repair of a right of way, highway, roadway, or other area
disrupted by the construction of a facility.
RIGHT OF WAY OR RIGHTS OF WAY: Any street, alley, other land or waterway,
dedicated or commonly used for pedestrian or vehicular traffic or other similar
purposes, including utility easements, in which the city has the right and
authority to authorize, regulate or permit the location of facilities other
than those of the city. "Right of way" or "rights of way" shall not include any
real or personal city property that is not specifically described in the
previous two (2) sentences and shall not include city buildings, fixtures and
other structures or improvements, regardless of whether they are situated in
the right of way.
ROADWAY: That part of the highway that includes the pavement and shoulders.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SECURITY FUND: That amount of security required pursuant to section
7-8-10 of this chapter.
SHOULDER: A width of roadway, adjacent to the pavement, providing lateral
support to the pavement edge and providing an area for emergency vehicular
stops and storage of snow removed from the pavement.
SOUND ENGINEERING JUDGMENT: A decision(s) consistent with generally accepted
engineering principles, practices and experience.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: This term includes, but is not limited to, messages or
information transmitted through use of local, toll and wide area telephone
service, channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer
exchange service, private line services, mobile radio services, cellular mobile
telecommunications services, stationary two-way radio, paging service and any
other form of mobile or portable one-way or two-way communications, and any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. "Private line" means a dedicated nontraffic
sensitive service for a single customer that entitles the customer to exclusive
or priority use of a communications channel, or a group of such channels, from
one or more specified locations to one or more other specified locations.
"Telecommunications" shall not include value added services in which computer
processing applications are used to act on the form, content, code and protocol
of the information for purposes other than transmission. "Telecommunications"
shall not include purchase of telecommunications by a telecommunications
service provider for use as a component part of the service provided by such
provider to the ultimate retail consumer who originates or terminates the end
to end communications. "Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of
cable services through a cable system as defined in the cable communications
act of 1984 (47 USC section 521 and following), as now or hereafter amended, or
cable or other programming services subject to an open video system fee payable
to the city through an open video system as defined in the rules of the federal
communications commission (47 CFR section 76.1500 and following), as now or
hereafter amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: Any person that installs, owns, operates or
controls facilities in the right of way used or designed to be used to transmit
telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER: Means and includes every person engaged in making
sales of telecommunications at retail as defined herein.
TRENCH: A relatively narrow open excavation for the installation of an
underground facility.
UTILITY: The individual or entity owning or operating any "facility" as defined
in this chapter.
VENT: A pipe to allow the dissipation into the atmosphere of gases or vapors
from an underground casing.
VIDEO SERVICE: That term as defined in section 21-201(v) of the Illinois cable
and video competition law of 2007, 220 Illinois Compiled Statutes 21-201(v).
WATER LINES: Pipelines carrying raw or potable water.
WET BORING: Boring using water under pressure at the cutting auger to soften
the earth and to provide a sluice for the excavated material. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-
5-2008)
7-8-3: ANNUAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Every utility that occupies right of way within the city shall register on
January 1 of each year with the director of public works, providing the
utility's name, address and regular business telephone and telecopy numbers,
the name of one or more contact persons who can act on behalf of the utility in
connection with emergencies involving the utility's facilities in the right of
way and a twenty four (24) hour telephone number for each such person, and
evidence of insurance as required in section
7-8-8 of this chapter, in the form of a certificate of insurance. (Ord. 2008-6,
5-5-2008)
7-8-4: PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS AND FEES:
   A.   Permit Required: No person shall construct (as defined in this chapter)
any facility on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within any city
right of way which: 1) changes the location of the facility, 2) adds a new
facility, 3) disrupts the right of way (as defined in this chapter), or 4)
materially increases the amount of area or space occupied by the facility on,
over, above, along, under, across or within the right of way, without first
filing an application with the city director of public works and obtaining a
permit from the city therefor, except as otherwise provided in this chapter. No
permit shall be required for installation and maintenance of service
connections to customers' premises where there will be no disruption of the
right of way.
   B.   Permit Application: All applications for permits pursuant to this
chapter shall be filed on a form provided by the city and shall be filed in
such number of duplicate copies as the city may designate. The applicant may
designate those portions of its application materials that it reasonably
believes contain proprietary or confidential information as "proprietary" or
"confidential" by clearly marking each page of such materials accordingly.
   C.   Minimum General Application Requirements: The application shall be made
by the utility or its duly authorized representative and shall contain, at a
minimum, the following:
      1.   The utility's name and address and telephone and telecopy numbers;
      2.   The applicant's name and address, if different than the utility, its
telephone and telecopy numbers, e-mail address, and its interest in the work;
      3.   The names, addresses and telephone and telecopy numbers and e-mail
addresses of all professional consultants, if any, advising the applicant with
respect to the application;
      4.   A general description of the proposed work and the purposes and
intent of the facility and the uses to which the facility will be put. The
scope and detail of such description shall be appropriate to the nature and
character of the work to be performed, with special emphasis on those matters
likely to be affected or impacted by the work proposed;
      5.   Evidence that the utility has placed on file with the city:
         a.   A written traffic control plan demonstrating the protective
measures and devices that will be employed consistent with the "Illinois Manual
On Uniform Traffic Control Devices", to prevent injury or damage to persons or
property and to minimize disruptions to efficient pedestrian and vehicular
traffic; and
         b.   An emergency contingency plan which shall specify the nature of
potential emergencies, including, without limitation, construction and
hazardous materials emergencies, and the intended response by the applicant.
The intended response shall include notification to the city and shall promote
protection of the safety and convenience of the public. Compliance with ICC
regulations for emergency contingency plans constitutes compliance with this
section unless the city finds that additional information or assurances are
needed;
      6.   Drawings, plans and specifications showing the work proposed,
including the certification of an engineer that such drawings, plans, and
specifications comply with applicable codes, rules, and regulations;
      7.   Evidence of insurance as required in section
7-8-8 of this chapter;
      8.   Evidence of posting of the security fund as required in section
7-8-10 of this chapter;
      9.   Any request for a variance from one or more provisions of this
chapter (see section
7-8-21 of this chapter); and
      10.   Such additional information as may be reasonably required by the
city.
   D.   Supplemental Application Requirements For Specific Types Of Utilities:
In addition to the requirements of subsection C of this section, the permit
application shall include the following items, as applicable to the specific
utility that is the subject of the permit application:
      1.   In the case of the installation of a new electric power,
communications, telecommunications, cable television service, video service or
natural gas distribution system, evidence that any "certificate of public
convenience and necessity" or other regulatory authorization that the applicant
is required by law to obtain, or that the applicant has elected to obtain, has
been issued by the ICC or other jurisdictional authority;
      2.   In the case of natural gas systems, state the proposed pipe size,
design, construction class, and operating pressures;
      3.   In the case of water lines, indicate that all requirements of the
Illinois environmental protection agency, division of public water supplies,
have been satisfied;
      4.   In the case of sewer line installations, indicate that the land and
water pollution requirements of the Illinois environmental protection agency,
division of water pollution control and the metropolitan water reclamation
district, have been satisfied; or
      5.   In the case of petroleum products pipelines, state the type or types
of petroleum products, pipe size, maximum working pressure, and the design
standard to be followed.
   E.   Applicant's Duty To Update Information: Throughout the entire permit
application review period and the construction period authorized by the permit,
any amendments to information contained in a permit application shall be
submitted by the utility in writing to the city within thirty (30) days after
the change necessitating the amendment.
   F.   Application Fees: Unless otherwise provided by franchise, license, or
similar agreement, all applications for permits pursuant to this chapter shall
be accompanied by a fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). No application
fee is required to be paid by any electricity utility that is paying the
municipal electricity infrastructure maintenance fee pursuant to the
electricity infrastructure maintenance fee act. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-5: ACTION ON PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   A.   City Review Of Permit Applications: Completed permit applications,
containing all required documentation, shall be examined by the city director
of public works within a reasonable time after filing. If the application does
not conform to the requirements of applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules,
and regulations, the city director of public works shall reject such
application in writing, stating the reasons therefor. If the city director of
public works is satisfied that the proposed work conforms to the requirements
of this chapter and applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules, and regulations,
the city director of public works shall issue a permit therefor as soon as
practicable. In all instances, it shall be the duty of the applicant to
demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the city director of public works, that the
construction proposed under the application shall be in full compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   B.   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Telecommunications Retailers:
      1.   Pursuant to section 4 of the telephone company act, 220 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 65/4, a telecommunications retailer shall notify the city
that it intends to commence work governed by this chapter for facilities for
the provision of telecommunications services. Such notice shall consist of
plans, specifications, and other documentation sufficient to demonstrate the
purpose and intent of the facilities, and shall be provided by the
telecommunications retailer to the city not less than ten (10) days prior to
the commencement of work requiring no excavation and not less than thirty (30)
days prior to the commencement of work requiring excavation. The city director
of public works shall specify the portion of the right of way upon which the
facility may be placed, used and constructed.
      2.   In the event that the city director of public works fails to provide
such specification of location to the telecommunications retailer within
either: a) ten (10) days after service of notice to the city by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work not involving excavation for
new construction or b) twenty five (25) days after service of notice by the
telecommunications retailer in the case of work involving excavation for new
construction, the telecommunications retailer may commence work without
obtaining a permit under this chapter.
      3.   Upon the provision of such specification by the city, where a permit
is required for work pursuant to section
7-8-4 of this chapter the telecommunications retailer shall submit to the city
an application for a permit and any and all plans, specifications and
documentation available regarding the facility to be constructed. Such
application shall be subject to the requirements of subsection A of this
section.
   C.   Additional City Review Of Applications Of Holders Of State
Authorization Under The Cable And Video Competition Law Of 2007: Applications
by a utility that is a holder of a state issued authorization under the cable
and video competition law of 2007 shall be deemed granted forty five (45) days
after submission to the city, unless otherwise acted upon by the city, provided
the holder has complied with applicable city codes, ordinances, and
regulations. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-6: EFFECT OF PERMIT:
   A.   Authority Granted; No Property Right Or Other Interest Created: A
permit from the city authorizes a permittee to undertake only certain
activities in accordance with this chapter on city rights of way, and does not
create a property right or grant authority to the permittee to impinge upon the
rights of others who may have an interest in the rights of way.
   B.   Duration: No permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for a
period longer than six (6) months unless construction is actually begun within
that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion.
   C.   Preconstruction Meeting Required: No construction shall begin pursuant
to a permit issued under this chapter prior to attendance by the permittee and
all major contractors and subcontractors who will perform any work under the
permit at a preconstruction meeting. The preconstruction meeting shall be held
at a date, time and place designated by the city with such city representatives
in attendance as the city deems necessary. The meeting shall be for the purpose
of reviewing the work under the permit, and reviewing special considerations
necessary in the areas where work will occur, including, without limitation,
presence or absence of other utility facilities in the area and their
locations, procedures to avoid disruption of other utilities, use of rights of
way by the public during construction, and access and egress by adjacent
property owners.
   D.   Compliance With All Laws Required: The issuance of a permit by the city
does not excuse the permittee from complying with other requirements of the
city and applicable statutes, laws, ordinances, rules, and regulations. (Ord.
2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-7: REVISED PERMIT DRAWINGS:
In the event that the actual locations of any facilities deviate in any
material respect from the locations identified in the plans, drawings and
specifications submitted with the permit application, the permittee shall
submit a revised set of drawings or plans to the city within ninety (90) days
after the completion of the permitted work. The revised drawings or plans shall
specifically identify where the locations of the actual facilities deviate from
the locations approved in the permit. If any deviation from the permit also
deviates from the requirements of this chapter, it shall be treated as a
request for variance in accordance with section
7-8-21 of this chapter. If the city denies the request for a variance, then the
permittee shall either remove the facility from the right of way or modify the
facility so that it conforms to the permit and submit revised drawings or plans
therefor. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-8: INSURANCE:
   A.   Required Coverages And Limits: Unless otherwise provided by franchise,
license, or similar agreement, each utility occupying right of way or
constructing any facility in the right of way shall secure and maintain the
following liability insurance policies insuring the utility as named insured
and naming the city, and its elected and appointed officers, officials, agents,
and employees as additional insureds on the policies listed in subsections A1
and A2 of this section.
      1.   Commercial general liability insurance, including premises-
operations, explosion, collapse, and underground hazard (commonly referred to
as "X", "C", and "U" coverages) and products- completed operations coverage
with limits not less than:
         a.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for bodily injury or death
to each person;
         b.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for property damage
resulting from any one accident; and
         c.   Five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) for all other types of
liability;
      2.   Automobile liability for owned, nonowned and hired vehicles with a
combined single limit of one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for personal
injury and property damage for each accident;
      3.   Workers' compensation with statutory limits; and
      4.   Employer's liability insurance with limits of not less than one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) per employee and per accident.
If the utility is not providing such insurance to protect the contractors and
subcontractors performing the work, then such contractors and subcontractors
shall comply with this section.
   B.   Excess Or Umbrella Policies: The coverages required by this section may
be in any combination of primary, excess, and umbrella policies. Any excess or
umbrella policy must provide excess coverage over underlying insurance on a
following form basis such that when any loss covered by the primary policy
exceeds the limits under the primary policy, the excess or umbrella policy
becomes effective to cover such loss.
   C.   Copies Required: The utility shall provide copies of any of the
policies required by this section to the city within ten (10) days following
receipt of a written request therefor from the city.
   D.   Maintenance And Renewal Of Required Coverages: The insurance policies
required by this section shall contain the following endorsement:
It is hereby understood and agreed that this policy may not be canceled nor the
intention not to renew be stated until thirty (30) days after receipt by the
City, by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, of a
written notice addressed to the City Mayor of such intent to cancel or not to
renew.
Within ten (10) days after receipt by the city of said notice, and in no event
later than ten (10) days prior to said cancellation, the utility shall obtain
and furnish to the city evidence of replacement insurance policies meeting the
requirements of this section.
   E.   Self-Insurance: A utility may self-insure all or a portion of the
insurance coverage and limit requirements required by subsection A of this
section. A utility that self-insures is not required, to the extent of such
self-insurance, to comply with the requirement for the naming of additional
insureds under subsection A of this section, or the requirements of subsections
B, C and D of this section. A utility that elects to self-insure shall provide
to the city evidence sufficient to demonstrate its financial ability to self-
insure the insurance coverage and limit requirements required under subsection
A of this section, such as evidence that the utility is a "private self-
insurer" under the workers' compensation act.
   F.   Effect Of Insurance And Self-Insurance On Utility's Liability: The
legal liability of the utility to the city and any person for any of the
matters that are the subject of the insurance policies or self-insurance
required by this section shall not be limited by such insurance policies or
self-insurance or by the recovery of any amounts thereunder.
   G.   Insurance Companies: All insurance provided pursuant to this section
shall be effected under valid and enforceable policies, issued by insurers
legally able to conduct business with the licensee in the state of Illinois.
(All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated "A-" or better
and of a class size "X" or higher by A.M. Best Company.) (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-
2008)
7-8-9: INDEMNIFICATION:
By occupying or constructing facilities in the right of way, a utility shall be
deemed to agree to defend, indemnify and hold the city and its elected and
appointed officials and officers, employees, agents and representatives
harmless from and against any and all injuries, claims, demands, judgments,
damages, losses and expenses, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of
suit or defense, arising out of, resulting from or alleged to arise out of or
result from the negligent, careless or wrongful acts, omissions, failures to
act or misconduct of the utility or its affiliates, officers, employees,
agents, contractors or subcontractors in the construction of facilities or
occupancy of the rights of way, and in providing or offering service over the
facilities, whether such acts or omissions are authorized, allowed or
prohibited by this chapter or by a franchise, license, or similar agreement;
provided, however, that the utility's indemnity obligations hereunder shall not
apply to any injuries, claims, demands, judgments, damages, losses or expenses
arising out of or resulting from the negligence, misconduct or breach of this
chapter by the city, its officials, officers, employees, agents or
representatives. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-10: SECURITY:
   A.   Purpose: The permittee shall establish a security fund in a form and in
an amount as set forth in this section. The security fund shall be continuously
maintained in accordance with this section at the permittee's sole cost and
expense until the completion of the work authorized under the permit. The
security fund shall serve as security for:
      1.   The faithful performance by the permittee of all the requirements of
this chapter;
      2.   Any expenditure, damage, or loss incurred by the city occasioned by
the permittee's failure to comply with any codes, rules, regulations, orders,
permits and other directives of the city issued pursuant to this chapter; and
      3.   The payment by permittee of all liens and all damages, claims,
costs, or expenses that the city may pay or incur by reason of any action or
nonperformance by permittee in violation of this chapter including, without
limitation, any damage to public property or restoration work the permittee is
required by this chapter to perform that the city must perform itself or have
completed as a consequence solely of the permittee's failure to perform or
complete, and all other payments due the city from the permittee pursuant to
this chapter or any other applicable law.
   B.   Form: The permittee shall provide the security fund to the city in the
form, at the permittee's election, of cash, a surety bond in a form acceptable
to the city, or an unconditional letter of credit in a form acceptable to the
city. Any surety bond or letter of credit provided pursuant to this subsection
shall, at a minimum:
      1.   Provide that it will not be canceled without prior notice to the
city and the permittee;
      2.   Not require the consent of the permittee prior to the collection by
the city of any amounts covered by it; and
      3.   Shall provide a location convenient to the city and within the state
of Illinois at which it can be drawn.
   C.   Amount: The dollar amount of the security fund shall be sufficient to
provide for the reasonably estimated cost to restore the right of way to at
least as good a condition as that existing prior to the construction under the
permit, as determined by the city director of public works, and may also
include reasonable, directly related costs that the city estimates are likely
to be incurred if the permittee fails to perform such restoration. Where the
construction of facilities proposed under the permit will be performed in
phases in multiple locations in the city, with each phase consisting of
construction of facilities in one location or a related group of locations, and
where construction in another phase will not be undertaken prior to substantial
completion of restoration in the previous phase or phases, the city director of
public works may, in the exercise of sound discretion, allow the permittee to
post a single amount of security which shall be applicable to each phase of the
construction under the permit. The amount of the security fund for phased
construction shall be equal to the greatest amount that would have been
required under the provisions of this subsection for any single phase.
   D.   Withdrawals: The city, upon fourteen (14) days' advance written notice
clearly stating the reason for, and its intention to exercise withdrawal rights
under this subsection, may withdraw an amount from the security fund, provided
that the permittee has not reimbursed the city for such amount within the
fourteen (14) day notice period. Withdrawals may be made if the permittee:
      1.   Fails to make any payment required to be made by the permittee
hereunder;
      2.   Fails to pay any liens relating to the facilities that are due and
unpaid;
      3.   Fails to reimburse the city for any damages, claims, costs or
expenses which the city has been compelled to pay or incur by reason of any
action or nonperformance by the permittee; or
      4.   Fails to comply with any provision of this chapter that the city
determines can be remedied by an expenditure of an amount in the security fund.
   E.   Replenishment: Within fourteen (14) days after receipt of written
notice from the city that any amount has been withdrawn from the security fund,
the permittee shall restore the security fund to the amount specified in
subsection C of this section.
   F.   Interest: The permittee may request that any and all interest accrued
on the amount in the security fund be returned to the permittee by the city,
upon written request for said withdrawal to the city, provided that any such
withdrawal does not reduce the security fund below the minimum balance required
in subsection C of this section.
   G.   Closing And Return Of Security Fund: Upon completion of the work
authorized under the permit, the permittee shall be entitled to the return of
the security fund, or such portion thereof as remains on deposit, within a
reasonable time after account is taken for all offsets necessary to compensate
the city for failure by the permittee to comply with any provisions of this
chapter or other applicable law. In the event of any revocation of the permit,
the security fund, and any and all accrued interest therein, shall become the
property of the city to the extent necessary to cover any reasonable costs,
loss or damage incurred by the city as a result of said revocation, provided
that any amounts in excess of said costs, loss or damage shall be refunded to
the permittee.
   H.   Rights Not Limited: The rights reserved to the city with respect to the
security fund are in addition to all other rights of the city, whether reserved
by this chapter or otherwise authorized by law, and no action, proceeding or
exercise of right with respect to said security fund shall affect any other
right the city may have. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city shall not be
entitled to a double monetary recovery with respect to any of its rights which
may be infringed or otherwise violated. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-11: PERMIT SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION:
   A.   City Right To Revoke Permit: The city may revoke or suspend a permit
issued pursuant to this chapter for one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   Fraudulent, false, misrepresenting, or materially incomplete
statements in the permit application;
      2.   Noncompliance with this chapter;
      3.   Permittee's physical presence or presence of permittee's facilities
on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or within the rights of way
presents a direct or imminent threat to the public health, safety, or welfare;
or
      4.   Permittee's failure to construct the facilities substantially in
accordance with the permit and approved plans.
   B.   Notice Of Revocation Or Suspension: The city shall send written notice
of its intent to revoke or suspend a permit issued pursuant to this chapter
stating the reason or reasons for the revocation or suspension and the
alternatives available to permittee under this section.
   C.   Permittee Alternatives Upon Receipt Of Notice Of Revocation Or
Suspension: Upon receipt of a written notice of revocation or suspension from
the city, the permittee shall have the following options:
      1.   Immediately provide the city with evidence that no cause exists for
the revocation or suspension;
      2.   Immediately correct, to the satisfaction of the city, the
deficiencies stated in the written notice, providing written proof of such
correction to the city within five (5) working days after receipt of the
written notice of revocation; or
      3.   Immediately remove the facilities located on, over, above, along,
upon, under, across, or within the rights of way and restore the rights of way
to the satisfaction of the city providing written proof of such removal to the
city within ten (10) days after receipt of the written notice of revocation.
The city may, in its discretion, for good cause shown, extend the time periods
provided in this subsection.
   D.   Stop Work Order: In addition to the issuance of a notice of revocation
or suspension, the city may issue a stop work order immediately upon discovery
of any of the reasons for revocation set forth within subsection A of this
section.
   E.   Failure Or Refusal Of The Permittee To Comply: If the permittee fails
to comply with the provisions of subsection C of this section, the city or its
designee may, at the option of the city: 1) correct the deficiencies; 2) upon
not less than twenty (20) days' notice to the permittee, remove the subject
facilities or equipment; or 3) after not less than thirty (30) days' notice to
the permittee of failure to cure the noncompliance, deem them abandoned and
property of the city. The permittee shall be liable in all events to the city
for all costs of removal. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-12: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP OR OWNER'S IDENTITY OR LEGAL STATUS:
   A.   Notification Of Change: A utility shall notify the city no less than
thirty (30) days prior to the transfer of ownership of any facility in the
right of way or change in identity of the utility. The new owner of the utility
or the facility shall have all the obligations and privileges enjoyed by the
former owner under the permit, if any, and applicable laws, ordinances, rules
and regulations, including this chapter, with respect to the work and
facilities in the right of way.
   B.   Amended Permit: A new owner shall request that any current permit be
amended to show current ownership. If the new owner fails to have a new or
amended permit issued in its name, the new owner shall be presumed to have
accepted, and agreed to be bound by, the terms and conditions of the permit if
the new owner uses the facility or allows it to remain on the city's right of
way.
   C.   Insurance And Bonding: All required insurance coverage or bonding must
be changed to reflect the name of the new owner upon transfer. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-
5-2008)
7-8-13: GENERAL CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   A.   Standards And Principles: All construction in the right of way shall be
consistent with applicable ordinances, codes, laws, rules and regulations, and
commonly recognized and accepted traffic control and construction principles,
sound engineering judgment and, where applicable, the principles and standards
set forth in the following IDOT publications, as amended from time to time:
      1.   "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction";
      2.   "Supplemental Specifications And Recurring Special Provisions";
      3.   "Highway Design Manual";
      4.   "Highway Standards Manual";
      5.   "Standard Specifications For Traffic Control Items";
      6.   "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices" (92 Ill. adm.
code section 545);
      7.   "Flagger's Handbook"; and
      8.   "Work Site Protection Manual For Daylight Maintenance Operations".
   B.   Interpretation Of Municipal Standards And Principles: If a discrepancy
exists between or among differing principles and standards required by this
chapter, the city director of public works shall determine, in the exercise of
sound engineering judgment, which principles apply and such decision shall be
final. If requested, the city director of public works shall state which
standard or principle will apply to the construction, maintenance, or operation
of a facility in the future. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-14: TRAFFIC CONTROL:
   A.   Minimum Requirements: The city's minimum requirements for traffic
protection are contained in IDOT's "Illinois Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and this code.
   B.   Warning Signs, Protective Devices, And Flaggers: The utility is
responsible for providing and installing warning signs, protective devices and
flaggers, when necessary, meeting applicable federal, state, and local
requirements for protection of the public and the utility's workers when
performing any work on the rights of way.
   C.   Interference With Traffic: All work shall be phased so that there is
minimum interference with pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   D.   Notice When Access Is Blocked: At least forty eight (48) hours prior to
beginning work that will partially or completely block access to any residence,
business or institution, the utility shall notify the resident, business or
institution of the approximate beginning time and duration of such work;
provided, however, that in cases involving emergency repairs pursuant to
section
7-8-20 of this chapter, the utility shall provide such notice as is practicable
under the circumstances.
   E.   Compliance: The utility shall take immediate action to correct any
deficiencies in traffic protection requirements that are brought to the
utility's attention by the city. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-15: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   A.   General Requirements: In addition to location requirements applicable
to specific types of utility facilities, all utility facilities, regardless of
type, shall be subject to the general location requirements of this subsection.
      1.   No Interference With City Facilities: No utility facilities shall be
placed in any location if the city director of public works determines that the
proposed location will require the relocation or displacement of any of the
city's utility facilities or will otherwise interfere with the operation or
maintenance of any of the city's utility facilities.
      2.   Minimum Interference And Impact: The proposed location shall cause
only the minimum possible interference with the use of the right of way and
shall cause only the minimum possible impact upon, and interference with the
rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who adjoin said right of
way.
      3.   No Interference With Travel: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location that interferes with the usual travel on such right of way.
      4.   No Limitations On Visibility: No utility facility shall be placed in
any location so as to limit visibility of or by users of the right of way.
      5.   Size Of Utility Facilities: The proposed installation shall use the
smallest suitable vaults, boxes, equipment enclosures, power pedestals, and/or
cabinets then in use by the facility owner, regardless of location, for the
particular application.
      6.   Zoning Compliance: All utility facilities shall be in compliance
with existing city zoning codes.
   B.   Parallel Facilities Located Within Highways:
      1.   Overhead Parallel Facilities: An overhead parallel facility may be
located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   Lines are located as near as practicable to the right of way line
and as nearly parallel to the right of way line as reasonable pole alignment
will permit;
         b.   Where pavement is curbed, poles are as remote as practicable from
the curb with a minimum distance of two feet (2') (0.6 m) behind the face of
the curb, where available;
         c.   Where pavement is uncurbed, poles are as remote from pavement
edge as practicable with minimum distance of four feet (4') (1.2 m) outside the
outer shoulder line of the roadway and are not within the clear zone;
         d.   No pole is located in the ditch line of a highway; and
         e.   Any ground mounted appurtenance is located within one foot (1')
(0.3 m) of the right of way line or as near as possible to the right of way
line.
      2.   Underground Parallel Facilities: An underground parallel facility
may be located within the right of way lines of a highway only if:
         a.   The facility is located as near the right of way line as
practicable and not more than eight feet (8') (2.4 m) from and parallel to the
right of way line;
         b.   A new facility may be located under the paved portion of a
highway only if other locations are impracticable or inconsistent with sound
engineering judgment (e.g., a new cable may be installed in existing conduit
without disrupting the pavement); and
         c.   In the case of an underground power or communications line, the
facility shall be located as near the right of way line as practicable and not
more than five feet (5') (1.5 m) from the right of way line and any above
grounded appurtenance shall be located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the
right of way line or as near as practicable.
   C.   Facilities Crossing Highways:
      1.   No Future Disruption: The construction and design of crossing
facilities installed between the ditch lines or curb lines of city highways may
require the incorporation of materials and protections (such as encasement or
additional cover) to avoid settlement or future repairs to the roadbed
resulting from the installation of such crossing facilities.
      2.   Cattle Passes, Culverts, Or Drainage Facilities: Crossing facilities
shall not be located in cattle passes, culverts, or drainage facilities.
      3.   Ninety Degree Crossing Required: Crossing facilities shall cross at
or as near to a ninety degree (90°) angle to the centerline as practicable.
      4.   Overhead Power Or Communication Facility: An overhead power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   It has a minimum vertical line clearance as required by ICC's
rules entitled, "construction of electric power and communication lines" (83
Ill. adm. code 305);
         b.   Poles are located within one foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of
way line of the highway and outside of the clear zone; and
         c.   Overhead crossings at major intersections are avoided.
      5.   Underground Power Or Communication Facility: An underground power or
communication facility may cross a highway only if:
         a.   The design materials and construction methods will provide
maximum maintenance free service life; and
         b.   Capacity for the utility's foreseeable future expansion needs is
provided in the initial installation.
      6.   Markers: The city may require the utility to provide a marker at
each right of way line where an underground facility other than a power or
communication facility crosses a highway. Each marker shall identify the type
of facility, the utility, and an emergency phone number. Markers may also be
eliminated as provided in current federal regulations (49 CFR section 192.707
(1989)).
   D.   Facilities To Be Located Within Particular Rights Of Way: The city may
require that facilities be located within particular rights of way that are not
roadways, rather than within particular roadways.
   E.   Freestanding Facilities:
      1.   The city may restrict the location and size of any freestanding
facility located within a right of way.
      2.   The city may require any freestanding facility located within a
right of way to be screened from view.
   F.   Facilities Installed Aboveground: Aboveground facilities may be
installed only if:
      1.   No other existing facilities in the area are located underground;
      2.   New underground installation is not technically feasible;
      3.   The proposed installation will be made at a location, and will
employ suitable design and materials, to provide the greatest protection of
aesthetic qualities of the area being traversed without adversely affecting
safety. Suitable designs include, but are not limited to, self-supporting
armless, single pole construction with vertical configuration of conductors and
cable. Existing utility poles and light standards shall be used wherever
practicable; the installation of additional utility poles is strongly
discouraged; and
      4.   The facility complies with all existing city zoning codes.
   G.   Facility Attachments To Bridges Or Roadway Structures:
      1.   Facilities may be installed as attachments to bridges or roadway
structures only where the utility has demonstrated that all other means of
accommodating the facility are not practicable. Other means shall include, but
are not limited to, underground, underwater, independent poles, cable supports
and tower supports, all of which are completely separated from the bridge or
roadway structure. Facilities transmitting commodities that are volatile,
flammable, corrosive, or energized, especially those under significant pressure
or potential, present high degrees of risk and such installations are not
permitted.
      2.   A utility shall include in its request to accommodate a facility
installation on a bridge or roadway structure supporting data demonstrating the
impracticability of alternate routing. Approval or disapproval of an
application for facility attachment to a bridge or roadway structure will be
based upon the following considerations:
         a.   The type, volume, pressure or voltage of the commodity to be
transmitted and an evaluation of the resulting risk to persons and property in
the event of damage to or failure of the facility;
         b.   The type, length, value, and relative importance of the highway
structure in the transportation system;
         c.   The alternative routings available to the utility and their
comparative practicability;
         d.   The proposed method of attachment;
         e.   The ability of the structure to bear the increased load of the
proposed facility;
         f.   The degree of interference with bridge maintenance and painting;
         g.   The effect on the visual quality of the structure; and
         h.   The public benefit expected from the utility service as compared
to the risk involved.
   H.   Appearance Standards:
      1.   The city may prohibit the installation of facilities in particular
locations in order to preserve visual quality.
      2.   A facility may be constructed only if its construction does not
require extensive removal or alteration of trees or terrain features visible to
the right of way user or to adjacent residents and property owners, and if it
does not impair the aesthetic quality of the lands being traversed. (Ord. 2008-
6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-16: CONSTRUCTION METHODS AND MATERIALS:
   A.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Construction
Methods:
      1.   Boring Or Jacking:
         a.   Pits And Shoring: Boring or jacking under rights of way shall be
accomplished from pits located at a minimum distance specified by the city
director of public works from the edge of the pavement. Pits for boring or
jacking shall be excavated no more than forty eight (48) hours in advance of
boring or jacking operations and backfilled within forty eight (48) hours after
boring or jacking operations are completed. While pits are open, they shall be
clearly marked and protected by barricades. Shoring shall be designed, erected,
supported, braced, and maintained so that it will safely support all vertical
and lateral loads that may be imposed upon it during the boring or jacking
operation.
         b.   Wet Boring Or Jetting: Wet boring or jetting shall not be
permitted under the roadway.
         c.   Borings With Diameters Greater Than Six Inches: Borings over six
inches (6") (0.15 m) in diameter shall be accomplished with an auger and
following pipe, and the diameter of the auger shall not exceed the outside
diameter of the following pipe by more than one inch (1") (25 mm).
         d.   Borings With Diameters Six Inches Or Less: Borings of six inches
(6") or less in diameter may be accomplished by either jacking, guided with
auger, or auger and following pipe method.
         e.   Tree Preservation: Any facility located within the drip line of
any tree designated by the city to be preserved or protected shall be bored
under or around the root system.
      2.   Trenching: Trenching for facility installation, repair, or
maintenance on rights of way shall be done in accord with the applicable
portions of section 603 of IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction".
         a.   Length: The length of open trench shall be kept to the
practicable minimum consistent with requirements for pipe/line testing. Only
one-half (1/2) of any intersection may have an open trench at any time unless
special permission is obtained from the city director of public works.
         b.   Open Trench And Excavated Material: Open trench and windrowed
excavated material shall be protected as required by chapter 6 of the "Illinois
Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices". Where practicable, the excavated
material shall be deposited between the roadway and the trench as added
protection. Excavated material shall not be allowed to remain on the paved
portion of the roadway. Where right of way width does not allow for windrowing
excavated material off the paved portion of the roadway, excavated material
shall be hauled to an off road location.
         c.   Drip Line Of Trees: The utility shall not trench within the drip
line of any tree designated by the city to be preserved.
      3.   Backfilling:
         a.   Any pit, trench, or excavation created during the installation of
facilities shall be backfilled for its full width, depth, and length using
methods and materials in accordance with IDOT's "Standard Specifications For
Road And Bridge Construction". When excavated material is hauled away or is
unsuitable for backfill, suitable granular backfill shall be used.
         b.   For a period of three (3) years from the date construction of a
facility is completed, the utility shall be responsible to remove and restore
any backfilled area that has settled due to construction of the facility. If so
ordered by the director of public works, the utility, at its expense, shall
remove any pavement and backfill material to the top of the installed facility,
place and properly compact new backfill material, and restore new pavement,
sidewalk, curbs, and driveways to the proper grades, as determined by the
director of public works.
      4.   Pavement Cuts: Pavement cuts for facility installation or repair
shall be permitted on a highway only if that portion of the highway is closed
to traffic. If a variance to the limitation set forth in this subsection A4 is
permitted under section
7-8-21 of this chapter, the following requirements shall apply:
         a.   Any excavation under pavements shall be backfilled and compacted
as soon as practicable with granular material of CA-6 or CA-10 gradation, as
designated by the director of public works.
         b.   Restoration of pavement, in kind, shall be accomplished as soon
as practicable, and temporary repair with bituminous mixture shall be provided
immediately. Any subsequent failure of either the temporary repair or the
restoration shall be rebuilt upon notification by the city.
         c.   All saw cuts shall be full depth.
         d.   For all rights of way which have been reconstructed with a
concrete surface/base in the last seven (7) years, or resurfaced in the last
three (3) years, permits shall not be issued unless such work is determined to
be an emergency repair or other work considered necessary and unforeseen before
the time of the reconstruction or unless a pavement cut is necessary for a
JULIE locate.
      5.   Encasement:
         a.   Casing pipe shall be designed to withstand the load of the
highway and any other superimposed loads. The casing shall be continuous either
by one piece fabrication or by welding or jointed installation approved by the
city.
         b.   The venting, if any, of any encasement shall extend within one
foot (1') (0.3 m) of the right of way line. No aboveground vent pipes shall be
located in the area established as clear zone for that particular section of
the highway.
         c.   In the case of water main or service crossing, encasement shall
be furnished between bore pits unless continuous pipe or city approved jointed
pipe is used under the roadway. Casing may be omitted only if pipe is installed
prior to highway construction and carrier pipe is continuous or mechanical
joints are of a type approved by the city. Bell and spigot type pipe shall be
encased regardless of installation method.
         d.   In the case of gas pipelines of sixty (60) psig or less,
encasement may be eliminated.
         e.   In the case of gas pipelines or petroleum products pipelines with
installations of more than sixty (60) psig, encasement may be eliminated only
if: 1) extra heavy pipe is used that precludes future maintenance or repair and
2) cathodic protection of the pipe is provided.
         f.   If encasement is eliminated for a gas or petroleum products
pipeline, the facility shall be located so as to provide that construction does
not disrupt the right of way.
      6.   Minimum Cover Of Underground Facilities: Cover shall be provided and
maintained at least in the amount specified in the following table for minimum
cover for the type of facility:
Type Of Facility  Minimum Cover
Type Of Facility                          Minimum Cover
Electric lines                            30 inches (0.8 m)
Communication, cable or video service     18 to 24 inches (0.46 m to 0.6 m, as
lines                                      determined by city)
Gas or petroleum products                 30 inches (0.8 m)
Water mains                               48 inches cover
Water service                             42 inches cover
Sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or drainage  Sufficient cover to provide freeze
line                                       protection
Sewer mains                               8 inches vertical separation
                                           10 feet horizontal separation
 
All construction shall comply with and conform to Illinois department of public
health and IEPA standards.
   B.   Standards And Requirements For Particular Types Of Facilities:
      1.   Electric Power Or Communication Lines:
         a.   Code Compliance: Electric power or communications facilities
within city rights of way shall be constructed, operated, and maintained in
conformity with the provisions of 83 Illinois administrative code part 305
(formerly general order 160 of the Illinois commerce commission) entitled
"rules for construction of electric power and communication lines", and the
national electrical safety code.
         b.   Overhead Facilities: Overhead power or communication facilities
shall use single pole construction and, where practicable, joint use of poles
shall be used. Utilities shall make every reasonable effort to design the
installation so guys and braces will not be needed. Variances may be allowed if
there is no feasible alternative and if guywires are equipped with guy guards
for maximum visibility.
         c.   Underground Facilities:
            (1)   Cable may be installed by trenching or plowing, provided that
special consideration is given to boring in order to minimize damage when
crossing improved entrances and side roads.
            (2)   If a crossing is installed by boring or jacking, encasement
shall be provided between jacking or bore pits. Encasement may be eliminated
only if: a) the crossing is installed by the use of "moles", "whip augers", or
other approved methods which compress the earth to make the opening for cable
installation or b) the installation is by the open trench method which is only
permitted prior to roadway construction.
            (3)   Cable shall be grounded in accordance with the national
electrical safety code.
         d.   Burial Of Drops: All temporary service drops placed between
November 1 of the prior year and March 15 of the current year, also known as
snow drops, shall be buried by May 31 of the current year, weather permitting,
unless otherwise permitted by the city. Weather permitting, utilities shall
bury all temporary drops, excluding snow drops, within ten (10) business days
after placement.
      2.   Underground Facilities Other Than Electric Power Or Communication
Lines: Underground facilities other than electric power or communication lines
may be installed by:
         a.   The use of "moles", "whip augers", or other approved methods
which compress the earth to move the opening for the pipe;
         b.   Jacking or boring with vented encasement provided between the
ditch lines or toes of slopes of the highway;
         c.   Open trench with vented encasement between ultimate ditch lines
or toes of slopes, but only if prior to roadway construction; or
         d.   Tunneling with vented encasement, but only if installation is not
possible by other means.
      3.   Gas Transmission, Distribution And Service: Gas pipelines within
rights of way shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in a city approved
manner and in conformance with the federal code of the office of pipeline
safety operations, department of transportation, part 192 - transportation of
natural and other gas by pipeline: minimum federal safety standards (49 CFR
section 192), IDOT's "Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge
Construction", and all other applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
      4.   Petroleum Products Pipelines: Petroleum products pipelines within
rights of way shall conform to the applicable sections of ANSI standard code
for pressure piping (liquid petroleum transportation piping systems ANSI-
B 31.4).
      5.   Water Lines, Sanitary Sewer Lines, Stormwater Sewer Lines Or
Drainage Lines: Water lines, sanitary sewer lines, storm sewer lines, and
drainage lines within rights of way shall meet or exceed the recommendations of
the current "Standard Specifications For Water And Sewer Main Construction In
Illinois" and conform with the Illinois plumbing code.
      6.   Ground Mounted Appurtenances: Ground mounted appurtenances to
overhead or underground facilities, when permitted within a right of way, shall
be provided with a vegetation free area extending one foot (1') (305 mm) in
width beyond the appurtenance in all directions. The vegetation free area may
be provided by an extension of the mounting pad, or by heavy duty plastic or
similar material approved by the director of public works. With the approval of
the director of public works, shrubbery surrounding the appurtenance may be
used in place of vegetation free area. The housing for ground mounted
appurtenances shall be painted a neutral color to blend with the surroundings.
   C.   Materials:
      1.   General Standards: The materials used in constructing facilities
within rights of way shall be those meeting the accepted standards of the
appropriate industry, the applicable portions of IDOT's "Standard
Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", the requirements of the
Illinois commerce commission, or the standards established by other official
regulatory agencies for the appropriate industry.
      2.   Material Storage On Right Of Way: No material shall be stored on the
right of way without the prior written approval of the city director of public
works. When such storage is permitted, all pipe, conduit, wire, poles, cross
arms, or other materials shall be distributed along the right of way prior to
and during installation in a manner to minimize hazards to the public or an
obstacle to right of way maintenance or damage to the right of way and other
property. If material is to be stored on right of way, prior approval must be
obtained from the city.
      3.   Hazardous Materials: The plans submitted by the utility to the city
shall identify any hazardous materials that may be involved in the construction
of the new facilities or removal of any existing facilities.
   D.   Operational Restrictions:
      1.   Construction operations on rights of way may, at the discretion of
the city, be required to be discontinued when such operations would create
hazards to traffic or the public health, safety, and welfare. Such operations
may also be required to be discontinued or restricted when conditions are such
that construction would result in extensive damage to the right of way or other
property.
      2.   These restrictions may be waived by the director of public works
when emergency work is required to restore vital utility services.
      3.   Unless otherwise permitted by the city, the hours of construction
are those set forth in this code.
   E.   Location Of Existing Facilities: Any utility proposing to construct
facilities in the city shall contact JULIE and ascertain the presence and
location of existing aboveground and underground facilities within the rights
of way to be occupied by its proposed facilities. The city will make its permit
records available to a utility for the purpose of identifying possible
facilities. When notified of an excavation or when requested by the city or by
JULIE, a utility shall locate and physically mark its underground facilities
within forty eight (48) hours, excluding weekends and holidays, in accordance
with the Illinois underground facilities damage prevention act 1 . (Ord. 2008-
6, 5-5-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 220 ILCS 50/1 et seq.
7-8-17: VEGETATION CONTROL:
   A.   Electric Utilities; Compliance With State Laws And Regulations: An
electric utility shall conduct all tree trimming and vegetation control
activities in the right of way in accordance with applicable Illinois laws and
regulations, and additionally, with such local franchise or other agreement
with the city as permitted by law.
   B.   Other Utilities; Tree Trimming Permit Required: Tree trimming that is
done by any other utility with facilities in the right of way and that is not
performed pursuant to applicable Illinois laws and regulations specifically
governing same, shall not be considered a normal maintenance operation, but
shall require the application for, and the issuance of, a permit, in addition
to any other permit required under this chapter.
      1.   Application For Tree Trimming Permit: Applications for tree trimming
permits shall include assurance that the work will be accomplished by competent
workers with supervision who are experienced in accepted tree pruning
practices. Tree trimming permits shall designate an expiration date in the
interest of assuring that the work will be expeditiously accomplished.
      2.   Damage To Trees: Poor pruning practices resulting in damaged or
misshapen trees will not be tolerated and shall be grounds for cancellation of
the tree trimming permit and for assessment of damages. The city will require
compensation for trees extensively damaged and for trees removed without
authorization. The formula developed by the International Society Of
Arboriculture will be used as a basis for determining the compensation for
damaged trees or unauthorized removal of trees. The city may require the
removal and replacement of trees if trimming or radical pruning would leave
them in an unacceptable condition.
   C.   Specimen Trees Or Trees Of Special Significance: The city may require
that special measures be taken to preserve specimen trees or trees of special
significance. The required measures may consist of higher poles, side arm
extensions, covered wire or other means.
   D.   Chemical Use:
      1.   Except as provided in the following subsection, no utility shall
spray, inject or pour any chemicals on or near any trees, shrubs or vegetation
in the city for any purpose, including the control of growth, insects or
disease.
      2.   Spraying of any type of brush killing chemicals will not be
permitted on rights of way unless the utility demonstrates to the satisfaction
of the director of public works that such spraying is the only practicable
method of vegetation control. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-18: REMOVAL, RELOCATION, OR MODIFICATIONS OF UTILITY FACILITIES:
   A.   Notice: Within ninety (90) days following written notice from the city,
a utility shall, at its own expense, protect, support, temporarily or
permanently disconnect, remove, relocate, change or alter the position of any
utility facilities within the rights of way whenever the corporate authorities
have determined that such removal, relocation, change or alteration, is
reasonably necessary for the construction, repair, maintenance, or installation
of any city improvement in or upon, or the operations of the city in or upon,
the rights of way.
   B.   Removal Of Unauthorized Facilities: Within thirty (30) days following
written notice from the city, any utility that owns, controls, or maintains any
unauthorized facility or related appurtenances within the rights of way shall,
at its own expense, remove all or any part of such facilities or appurtenances
from the rights of way. A facility is unauthorized and subject to removal in
the following circumstances:
      1.   Upon expiration or termination of the permittee's license or
franchise, unless otherwise permitted by applicable law;
      2.   If the facility was constructed or installed without the prior grant
of a license or franchise, if required;
      3.   If the facility was constructed or installed without prior issuance
of a required permit in violation of this chapter; or
      4.   If the facility was constructed or installed at a location not
permitted by the permittee's license or franchise.
   C.   Emergency Removal Or Relocation Of Facilities: The city retains the
right and privilege to cut or move any facilities located within the rights of
way of the city, as the city may determine to be necessary, appropriate or
useful in response to any public health or safety emergency. If circumstances
permit, the municipality shall attempt to notify the utility, if known, prior
to cutting or removing a facility and shall notify the utility, if known, after
cutting or removing a facility.
   D.   Abandonment Of Facilities: Upon abandonment of a facility within the
rights of way of the city, the utility shall notify the city within ninety (90)
days. Following receipt of such notice the city may direct the utility to
remove all or any portion of the facility if the city director of public works
determines that such removal will be in the best interest of the public health,
safety and welfare. In the event that the city does not direct the utility that
abandoned the facility to remove it, by giving notice of abandonment to the
city, the abandoning utility shall be deemed to consent to the alteration or
removal of all or any portion of the facility by another utility or person.
(Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-19: CLEANUP AND RESTORATION:
The utility shall remove all excess material and restore all turf and terrain
and other property within ten (10) days after any portion of the rights of way
are disturbed, damaged or destroyed due to construction or maintenance by the
utility, all to the satisfaction of the city. This includes restoration of
entrances and side roads. Restoration of roadway surfaces shall be made using
materials and methods approved by the city director of public works. Such
cleanup and repair may be required to consist of backfilling, regrading,
reseeding, resodding, or any other requirement to restore the right of way to a
condition substantially equivalent to that which existed prior to the
commencement of the project. The time period provided in this section may be
extended by the city director of public works for good cause shown. (Ord. 2008-
6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-20: MAINTENANCE AND EMERGENCY MAINTENANCE:
   A.   General: Facilities on, over, above, along, upon, under, across, or
within rights of way are to be maintained by or for the utility in a manner
satisfactory to the city and at the utility's expense.
   B.   Emergency Maintenance Procedures: Emergencies may justify noncompliance
with normal procedures for securing a permit:
      1.   If an emergency creates a hazard on the traveled portion of the
right of way, the utility shall take immediate steps to provide all necessary
protection for traffic on the highway or the public on the right of way
including the use of signs, lights, barricades or flaggers. If a hazard does
not exist on the traveled way, but the nature of the emergency is such as to
require the parking on the shoulder of equipment required in repair operations,
adequate signs and lights shall be provided. Parking on the shoulder in such an
emergency will only be permitted when no other means of access to the facility
is available.
      2.   In an emergency, the utility shall, as soon as possible, notify the
city director of public works or his or her duly authorized agent of the
emergency, informing him or her as to what steps have been taken for protection
of the traveling public and what will be required to make the necessary
repairs. If the nature of the emergency is such as to interfere with the free
movement of traffic, the city police shall be notified immediately.
      3.   In an emergency, the utility shall use all means at hand to complete
repairs as rapidly as practicable and with the least inconvenience to the
traveling public.
   C.   Emergency Repairs: The utility must file in writing with the city a
description of the repairs undertaken in the right of way within forty eight
(48) hours after an emergency repair. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-21: VARIANCES:
   A.   Request For Variance: A utility requesting a variance from one or more
of the provisions of this chapter must do so in writing to the city director of
public works as a part of the permit application. The request shall identify
each provision of this chapter from which a variance is requested and the
reasons why a variance should be granted.
   B.   Authority To Grant Variances: The city director of public works shall
decide whether a variance is authorized for each provision of this chapter
identified in the variance request on an individual basis.
   C.   Conditions For Granting Of Variance: The city director of public works
may authorize a variance only if the utility requesting the variance has
demonstrated that:
      1.   One or more conditions not under the control of the utility (such as
terrain features or an irregular right of way line) create a special hardship
that would make enforcement of the provision unreasonable, given the public
purposes to be achieved by the provision; and
      2.   All other designs, methods, materials, locations or facilities that
would conform with the provision from which a variance is requested are
impracticable in relation to the requested approach.
   D.   Additional Conditions For Granting Of A Variance: As a condition for
authorizing a variance, the city director of public works may require the
utility requesting the variance to meet reasonable standards and conditions
that may or may not be expressly contained within this chapter but which carry
out the purposes of this chapter.
   E.   Right To Appeal: Any utility aggrieved by any order, requirement,
decision or determination, including denial of a variance, made by the city
director of public works under the provisions of this chapter shall have the
right to appeal to the city council, or such other board or commission as it
may designate. The application for appeal shall be submitted in writing to the
city clerk within thirty (30) days after the date of such order, requirement,
decision or determination. The city council shall commence its consideration of
the appeal at the council's next regularly scheduled meeting occurring at least
seven (7) days after the filing of the appeal. The city council shall timely
decide the appeal. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-22: PENALTIES:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of no less than twenty
five dollars ($25.00) per day and no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
per day per violation. Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense and shall be subject to its own individual
penalty. In addition, there may be times when the city will incur delay or
other costs, including third party claims, because the utility will not or
cannot perform its duties under its permit and this chapter. Unless the utility
shows that another allocation of the cost of undertaking the requested action
is appropriate, the utility shall bear the city's costs of damages and its
costs of installing, maintaining, modifying, relocating, or removing the
facility that is the subject of the permit. No other administrative agency or
commission may review or overrule a permit related cost apportionment of the
city. Sanctions may be imposed upon a utility that does not pay the costs
apportioned to it. (Ord. 2008-6, 5-5-2008)
7-8-23: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the city may have for enforcement of this chapter. (Ord.
2008-6, 5-5-2008)
TITLE 8
WATER AND SEWER
CHAPTER 1
WATERWORKS USE AND CHARGES
SECTION:
8-1-1: Application For Service
8-1-2: Deposit Required
8-1-3: Water Connections; Permit; Service Pipes
8-1-4: Location Of Curb Stops
8-1-5: Water Main Tap Construction Charge
8-1-6: Excavations Guarded; Restoration Of Property
8-1-7: Repair Of Service Pipes
8-1-8: Authority To Turn On Water
8-1-9: Resale Of Water
8-1-10: City Not Liable For Damages
8-1-11: Right Of Access By City Employees
8-1-12: Consumer Supplying Water To Others
8-1-13: Right To Shut Off Water For Repairs Or Emergency
8-1-14: Connections To Two Premises
8-1-15: Meters
8-1-16: Tampering With Waterworks
8-1-17: Users On Raw Water Transmission Line
8-1-18: Water Service Charges
8-1-19: Billing Procedures
8-1-20: Lien For Nonpayment
8-1-21: Money Collected Paid To Treasurer
8-1-22: Policies
8-1-23: Penalties
8-1-1: APPLICATION FOR SERVICE:
Application to have water service shall be made on an application form
furnished by the City. Application forms shall be on file in the office of the
City Clerk. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978; 1997 Code)
8-1-2: DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
A deposit shall be made with each application, this sum to be retained by the
City to ensure payment of all bills. When service to the applicant is
discontinued, this deposit, less any amount still due the City for water
service, shall be returned when the user presents the receipt for the deposit
with the final bill. When water service is for an owner of the premises to be
served, no such deposit will be required. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978; 1997 Code)
8-1-3: WATER CONNECTIONS; PERMIT; SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Permit Required; Inspection: No connection shall be made without a
permit being issued. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the Public Works Director. The Public Works Director shall be given twenty four
(24) hours' notice when a connection is to be made, and no connection shall be
covered until the work has been inspected by the Public Works Director.
   B.   Service Pipe Specifications; Installed At Owner's Expense: Service
pipes from the main to the curb stand shall be not less than three-fourths inch
(3/4") inside diameter and shall be type K hardened copper. All streets shall
be backfilled with sand and excess earth excavation shall be removed. Service
pipes and appurtenances thereto shall be installed by and at the expense of the
owner to be served. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
   C.   Mains Outside City Limits: No new mains shall be run outside of the
City limits. A "water main" is defined as any line larger than one inch (1").
(1997 Code)
8-1-4: LOCATION OF CURB STOPS:
Curb stops or shutoff boxes shall be installed in service pipes supplying each
meter in such a manner as will permit shutting off the supply to any meter
without affecting the supply to any other meter. Such curb stops shall be so
located as to be easily accessible. The top of such curb stop stands shall be
flush with the surface of the earth or pavement. Such curb stops shall be
located close to the street edge of the sidewalk when practical. When necessary
to locate in other places, permission shall be first obtained from the Public
Works Director. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-5: WATER MAIN TAP CONSTRUCTION CHARGE:
The tap to the water main shall be constructed by the City for a fee pursuant
to the "schedule of charges" set by the Water and Sewer Committee. (Ord. 78-11,
3-6-1978; 1997 Code)
8-1-6: EXCAVATIONS GUARDED; RESTORATION OF PROPERTY:
   A.   Barricades And Lights Required: All excavations for the water service
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard.
   B.   Restoration Of Property: Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored by the user in a
manner satisfactory to the Public Works Director. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-7: REPAIR OF SERVICE PIPES:
   A.   Expense Of Owner: All repairs on service pipes from the mains to the
meter shall be made by and at the expense of the owner of the premises served.
   B.   Repair By City; Cost To Be Repaid: The City may, in case of emergency
or failure of the owner to repair any service pipe, repair any service pipe
itself or cause it to be repaired. If this is done, the cost of such repair
work shall be repaid to the City by the owner of the property served. (Ord. 78-
11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-8: AUTHORITY TO TURN ON WATER:
No water from the City waterworks system shall be turned on for service by any
person except the Public Works Director or some person authorized by the Public
Works Director to perform this service. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-9: RESALE OF WATER:
No water supplied by the waterworks system of the City shall be resold by any
user and such resale shall be grounds for the discontinuance of water service
to the user reselling water. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-10: CITY NOT LIABLE FOR DAMAGES:
All water service supplied shall be upon the express condition that the City
shall not be liable nor shall any claim be made against it for damages or
injury caused by reason of the breaking of any main, branches, service pipes,
apparatus, or appurtenances connected with said system or any part or portion
thereof, or for any interruption of the supply by reason of the breakage of
machinery, or by reason of stoppage, alterations, extensions or renewals. (Ord.
78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-11: RIGHT OF ACCESS BY CITY EMPLOYEES:
The City and its employees shall have ready access at all reasonable times to
the premises, places or buildings where water service is supplied for the
purpose of examining and testing the consumption, use and flow of water and it
shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with, prevent, or obstruct the
City or its duly authorized agent, in its duties hereunder. Every user of the
system shall take the same upon the conditions prescribed in this Section.
(Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-12: CONSUMER SUPPLYING WATER TO OTHERS:
   A.   Supplying Water To Others; Permit Required: No water consumer may
supply water to other families or allow them to take water, except for use on
the premises and for the purposes specified in the application, nor after water
is introduced into any building or upon any premises shall any person make or
employ any other person to make any tap, or connection with work upon the
premises for alterations, repairs, extensions or attachments without written
permit therefor.
   B.   Water Use On Customer's Premises Only: A customer or water taker who
has installed a meter and who shall observe all provisions required may thereby
use water for any purpose on his/her own premises, but will not be permitted to
supply any other persons with water from such premises by any means whatever.
(Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-13: RIGHT TO SHUT OFF WATER FOR REPAIRS OR EMERGENCY:
   A.   City Authority: The City reserves the right to shut off water at any
time in the mains for the purpose of repairing, cleaning, making connections
with or extensions to same, or for the concentrating of water in any part of
the City in case of fire, and for restricting the use of water in case of
deficiency in supply, including the suspension of the use of water for
sprinkling lawns or gardens.
   B.   Nonliability Of City: No claim shall be made against the City by reason
of the breaking of any service pipe or service cock, or damage arising from
shutting off of water for repairing, laying or relaying mains, hydrants or
other connections or repairing any part of the water system, or from failure of
the water supply, or by increasing the water pressure at any time, or from
restricting supply of water as above provided. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-14: CONNECTIONS TO TWO PREMISES:
No owner or plumber shall be permitted to connect water pipes into two (2)
distinct premises or tenements unless separate and distinct stopcocks shall be
placed on the outside of each such premises along the sidewalk opposite same
nor shall any pipe be allowed to cross lots or buildings to adjoining premises.
Double flats, double houses, and apartment houses shall be considered as one
"premises". Upon the approval of the City, separate bills may be rendered to
each family in a multiple-family dwelling. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-15: METERS:
   A.   Required: All premises using water from the City water supply shall be
equipped with an adequate water meter furnished by the City; provided, that
such water service may be supplied by the City at a flat rate of charge until
such meter may be installed. Such flat rate shall be not less than the minimum
charge for such period of time the flat rate was effective.
   B.   Installations: Meters shall be installed by the City in a location that
will be easy of access, on the following basis: upon application for service
where no meter has been previously installed, the City will furnish two (2)
meter stubs which shall be installed by the owner. The location for meters
shall be such as will be easily accessible and will provide protection to the
meter from mechanical damage and frost.
   C.   Residents Responsible For Meter Damage: The residents of property upon
which meters are installed will be held responsible for any wilful or malicious
damage to such meters, and such residents will be held responsible for any
damage sustained by freezing or caused by hot water backing through same, and
must bear all costs of repairing meters, when the same become damaged through
any of the causes designated herein.
   D.   Separate Meter For Each Building: No meter shall be used for the
purpose of registering or measuring the amount of water taken or used in
separate buildings upon two (2) or more lots, pieces or parcels of ground.
Where two (2) or more buildings are located upon one lot, piece or parcel of
ground, all owned by the same person, a meter will not be required for each
separate building thereon, but one meter may be installed as herein provided,
to register and measure the water taken and used in all buildings so owned and
located. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-16: TAMPERING WITH WATERWORKS:
It shall be unlawful for any person not authorized by the City to tamper with,
alter or injure any part of the City waterworks or supply system of any meter.
(Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-17: USERS ON RAW WATER TRANSMISSION LINE:
   A.   Application For Connection: Property owners desiring to connect to the
raw water transmission line shall make application on an application form
furnished by the City. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
   B.   Tapping And Meter Fee: The fee for tapping the transmission line shall
be pursuant to the "schedule of charges" set by the Waterworks and Sewer
Committee. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978; 1997 Code)
   C.   Compliance With City Provisions: Applicants shall agree to abide by all
provisions of the City pertaining to the use of the waterworks system of the
City and agree to have no redress on the City for the purity of said water, as
said water shall be raw water, not treated or purified. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-18: WATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing user charges
shall be the metered water consumption read to the lowest even increments of
one thousand (1,000) gallons.
   B.   Meter Failure: Whenever, for any cause, a water meter fails to operate,
a reasonable estimate shall be made by the public works director of the amount
of water supplied during the period such meter fails to operate and the user
shall pay a rate based in whole or in part on the estimated amount of water
supplied. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
   C.   Service Rates:
      1.   Within City Limits: The rates for water service in the city limits
are set by the waterworks and sewer committee.
      2.   Outside City Limits: The rates for water service out of the city
limits and raw water line service are one and one- half (11/2) times the rates
charged within the city limits.
   D.   Period Of Service; Discontinuance: Water shall be deemed to have been
supplied to any property connected to the waterworks system during any period,
unless the water user shall have given written notice to the public works
director prior to the first day of the period that service should be
discontinued on or prior to the first day of such period. Upon the receipt of
such notice, water service shall be discontinued in accordance therewith and
shall not be resumed until a request for the resumption of water services shall
be made.
   E.   Right To Impose Special Charges: The city council reserves the right to
impose special charges for water supplied to properties not covered by the
above rates or which, in the judgment of said council, should be charged
special rates.
   F.   Water Turned Off; Turn-On Charge: Any user wanting the water service
shut off, and then turned on for the user's convenience, shall pay a charge for
this service pursuant to the "schedule of charges" set by the waterworks and
sewer committee. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978; amd. 1997 Code)
   G.   Review Of Service Charge: The adequacy of the water service charge
shall be reviewed, not less often than annually, by certified public
accountants for the city of Barry, in their annual audit report. The water
service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect a change in local
capital costs or operation, maintenance and replacement (OM&R) costs.
   H.   Access To Books And Records: The IEPA or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the city of
Barry which are applicable to the city of Barry system of user charges for the
purpose of making audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to
ensure compliance with the terms of the special and general conditions to any
state grant.
   I.   Method Of Computation: The method for computation of rates and service
charges established for user charges in ordinance 1977-78-11 shall be made
available to a user within five (5) days of receipt of a written requirement
for such. Any disagreement over the method used or in the computations thereof
shall be remedied by the city collector within five (5) days after notification
of a formal written appeal outlining the discrepancies. (Ord. 1-2000, 2-7-2000)
8-1-19: BILLING PROCEDURES:
   A.   Bimonthly Payments: The rates or charges for service shall be payable
bimonthly.
   B.   Owner, Occupant And User Responsible For Payment: The owner of the
premises, the occupant thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and
severally liable to pay for the service to such premises and the service is
furnished to the premises by the city only upon the condition that the owner of
the premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly and severally
liable therefor to the city.
   C.   Rendition Of Bills: Bills for water service shall be sent out by the
city on the first day of the month succeeding the period for which the service
is billed.
   D.   Penalty For Late Payments: All water bills are due and payable ten (10)
days after being sent out. A penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be added to all
bills not paid by the tenth day after they have been rendered.
   E.   Water And Sewer Billings Combined: Charges for water service and for
sewerage service shall be united in the same bill and payment of the one charge
shall not be accepted without payment of the other charge. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-
1978)
   F.   Payments; Delinquencies:
      1.   Time And Place For Payment: Payment shall be made on or before the
tenth day of each period at the city hall.
      2.   Failure To Pay; Service Disconnection: If any bill for service
remains unpaid at the end of the twenty fifth day of any billing month, the
public works director will disconnect service to such user. When thus shut off,
the supply shall not be turned on until all charges and a fee set forth in the
"schedule of charges" for reconnection has been paid. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978;
amd. 1997 Code)
   G.   Rental Units: The owners of all "rental dwellings" defined as dwellings
wherein one or more persons other than the owners of the real estate reside in
separate living quarters, shall be billed for the total of water and sewer
services provided by the city at the rate provided by ordinance per resident
unit per month. In the event that said payment is not paid by the owners, the
city is authorized to disconnect or shut off said water and sewer service to
said rental dwelling house. (Ord. 88-1, 7-7-1988)
8-1-20: LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Statement Of Lien Claim; Notice:
      1.   Whenever a bill for water service remains unpaid for ninety (90)
days for bimonthly service after it has been rendered, the city treasurer shall
file with the county recorder of deeds a statement of lien claim. This
statement shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the
amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the city claims a lien for this
amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      2.   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the city treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner
of the premises, if such owner's address be known to the treasurer, whenever
such bill remains unpaid for the period of forty five (45) days for a bimonthly
bill after it has been rendered.
      3.   The failure of the city treasurer to record such lien or to mail
such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the following
subsection.
   B.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in-equity in
the name of the city. The city attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings in the name of the city in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid ninety (90) days in the case of a bimonthly bill after it has
been rendered. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-21: MONEY COLLECTED PAID TO TREASURER:
All monies collected from any source provided in this chapter shall be promptly
paid over to the city treasurer who shall place it in the water fund of the
city. (Ord. 78-11, 3-6-1978)
8-1-22: POLICIES:
The city council may adopt any new rules or regulations as deemed necessary.
(1997 Code)
8-1-23: PENALTIES:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Remedial Action: Any person found to be violating
any provision of this chapter shall be served by the city with written notice
stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for
the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of
time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. The city may
revoke any permit for water service as a result of any violation of any
provision of this chapter.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in subsection A of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Liability Of Violator: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this chapter shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation. (Ord.
78-11, 3-6-1978; amd. 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE SEWERS
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-2-3: Use Of Public Sewers Required; Restrictions
8-2-4: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-2-5: Building Sewers And Connections
8-2-6: Application Permit Forms
8-2-7: Wastewater Service Charges
8-2-8: Billings; Delinquencies
8-2-9: Lien For Nonpayment
8-2-10: Revenues; Sewerage Fund
8-2-11: System Of Accounts
8-2-12: Notice Of Rates
8-2-13: Access To Records
8-2-14: Prohibited Discharges; Tests And Analyses
8-2-15: Protection Of Sewage Works From Damage
8-2-16: Discharging Wastes To Storm Drains Prohibited
8-2-17: Penalty
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this Chapter shall be as follows:
CLARIFICATION OF WORD USAGE: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT:
Administrator: The Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
Federal Act: The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.)
as amended by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of Amendments of 1972
(Pub. L. 92-500) and (Pub. L. 93-243).
Federal Grant: The U.S. Government participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by Title II - Grants for
Construction of Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
Approving Authority: The Public Works Director.
City: The City of Barry, Illinois.
Ordinance: This Ordinance (termed throughout as "this Chapter").
NPDES PERMIT: Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the
Administrator, or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Amendments of 1972, to regulate the discharge
of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of the Federal Act.
PERSON: Any and all persons, natural or artificial, including any individual,
firm, company, municipal or private corporation, association, society,
institution, enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES AND APPURTENANCES:
Building Drain: That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which
receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the
walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved
point of discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner
face of the building wall.
Building Sewer: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
Combined Sewer: A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater,
storm, surface and ground water drainage.
Easement: An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by others.
Public Sewer: A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the City.
It shall also include sewers within or outside the City boundaries that serve
one or more persons and ultimately discharge into the City sanitary (or
combined) sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
with City funds.
Sanitary Sewer: A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a
combination of both, and into which storm, surface, and ground waters or
unpolluted industrial wastes are not intentionally admitted.
Sewer: A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids,
including storm, surface and ground water drainage.
Sewerage: The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection,
transportation and pumping of sewage.
Storm Sewer: A sewer that carries storm, surface and ground water drainage but
excludes sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
Storm Water Runoff: That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the
sewers,
STATE GOVERNMENT:
Director: The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
State Act: The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
State Grant: The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the
construction of treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution
Bond Act and for making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Illinois.
TREATMENT:
Pretreatment: The treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction
into the wastewater treatment works.
Wastewater Treatment Works: An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes, and sludge, Sometimes used as
synonymous with "waste treatment plant" or "wastewater treatment plant" or
"pollution control plant".
TYPES OF CHARGES:
Basic User Charge: The basic assessment levied on all users of the public sewer
system.
Bimonthly: Every two (2) months.
Debt Service Charge: The amount to be paid each billing period for payment of
interest, principal and coverage of bonds outstanding and shall be computed by
dividing the annual debt service by the number of users connected to the
wastewater facilities.
Replacement: Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment, accessories,
or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of the treatment
works to maintain the capacity and performance for which such works were
designed and constructed. The term "operation and maintenance" includes
replacement.
Sewerage Fund: The principal accounting designation for all revenues received
in the operation of the sewerage system.
Surcharge: The assessment in addition to the basic user charge and debt service
charge which is levied on those persons whose wastes are greater in strength
than the concentration values established in Section
8-2-7 of this Chapter.
Useful Life: The estimated period during which the collection system and/or
treatment works will be operated and shall be twenty (20) years from the date
of start-up of any wastewater facilities constructed with a State grant.
User Charge: A charge levied on users of treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance.
Wastewater Service Charge: The charge bimonthly levied on all users of the
wastewater facilities. The service charge shall be computed as outlined in
Section
8-2-7 of this Chapter and shall consist of the total of the basic user charge,
the debt service charge and a surcharge, if applicable.
WASTEWATER AND ITS CHARACTERISTICS:
BOD (denoting Biochemical Oxygen Demand): The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure
in five (5) days at twenty degrees (20°) C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
Effluent Criteria: Are defined in any applicable "NPDES permit".
Floatable Oil: Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
Garbage: Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking,
and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
Industrial Waste: Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted
to flow or escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
Major Contributing Industry: An industrial user of the publicly-owned treatment
works that: 1) has a flow of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per
average work day; or 2) has a flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow
carried by the Municipal system receiving the waste; or 3) has in its waste, a
toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in standards issued under section
307(a) of the Federal Act; or 4) is found by the permit issuance authority, in
connection with the issuance of the NPDES permit, to be publicly-owned
treatment works receiving the waste, to have significant impact, either singly
or in combination with other contributing industries, on that treatment works
or upon the quality of effluent from that treatment works.
Milligrams Per Liter: A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater
constituent. It is 0.001 g of the constituent in 1,000 ml of water. It has
replaced the unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is
approximately equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater
analysis.
pH: The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration
expressed by one of the procedures outlined in "Standard Methods".
ppm: Parts per million by weight.
Population Equivalent: A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or
other waste on a treatment works or stream. One population equivalent is one
hundred (100) gallons of sewage per day, containing seventeen one-hundredths
(0.17) pounds of BOD.
Properly Shredded Garbage: The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters)
in any dimension.
Sewage: Is used interchangeably with "wastewater".
Slug: Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration
of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of
duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average
twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation.
Standard Methods: The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater" published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the
American Water Works Association and the Water Pollution Control Federation.
Suspended Solids: Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a
laboratory filtration device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids
shall be made in accordance with procedures set forth in "Standard Methods".
Wastewater: The spent water of a community. From this standpoint, of course, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any
ground water, surface water, and storm water that may be present.
Water Quality Standards: Are defined in the Water Pollution Regulations of
Illinois.
Unpolluted Water: Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not be benefited by discharge to the
sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport
effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSE AND CONNECTIONS:
Natural Outlet: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body
of surface or ground water.
Watercourse: A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
intermittently.
USER TYPES:
Control Manhole: A structure located on a site from which industrial wastes are
discharged. Where feasible, the manhole shall have an interior drop. The
purpose of a "control manhole" is to provide access for the City representative
to sample and/or measure discharges.
Industrial User: Any nongovernmental user of publicly- owned treatment works
identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of
Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented, under the following
divisions:
   A.   Division A - Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing.
   B.   Division B - Mining.
   C.   Division D - Manufacturing.
   D.   Division E - Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and Sanitary
Services.
   E.   Division I - Services.
A user in the divisions listed may be excluded if it is determined by the
Public Works Director that it will introduce primarily segregated domestic
wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
Residential Or Commercial Or Nonindustrial User: Any user of the treatment
works not classified as an industrial user or excluded as an industrial user as
provided for in this Section.
User Class: The type of user either "residential or commercial" (nonindustrial)
or "industrial" as defined herein. (Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978)
8-2-2: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   A.   Right Of Entry:
      1.   The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of the
City, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency, and the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be
permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter. The Public Works Director or his/her representative shall have no
authority to inquire into any processes, including metallurgical, chemical, oil
refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries beyond that point having a direct
bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the sewer or waterway or
facilities for waste treatment.
      2.   The Public Works Director and other duly authorized employees of the
City bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter
all private properties through which the City holds a duly negotiated easement
for the purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying
within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement,
shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
   B.   Observe Safety Rules: While performing the necessary work on private
properties referred to in subsection A above, the Public Works Director or duly
authorized employees of the City, the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency,
and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises established by the company and the company shall be
held harmless for injury or death to the City employees and the City shall
indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by City employees
and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property damage
asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain safe conditions as required in subsection 8-2-14I of this Chapter.
(Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978)
8-2-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS:
   A.   Garbage And Waste Deposits Prohibited 1 : It shall be unlawful for any
person to place, deposit, or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on
public or private property within the City or in any area under the
jurisdiction of the City, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other
objectionable waste.
   B.   Treatment Of Sewage: It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural
outlet within the City, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the City, any
sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this Chapter.
   C.   Privies And Cesspools Restricted 2 : Except as hereinafter provided, it
shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   D.   Connection To Sewer System Required: The owner of all houses,
buildings, or properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or
other purposes situated within the City and abutting on any street, alley, or
right of way in which there is now located or may in the future be located any
public sanitary (or combined) sewer of the City, is hereby required at his/her
expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect such
facilities directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the
provisions of this Chapter, within thirty (30) days after date of official
notice to do so; provided, that said public sewer is within three hundred feet
(300') (91.5 meters) of the property line. (Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978; 1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also Section
  4-4-3 of this Code.
2 2. See also Section
  4-3-6 of this Code.
8-2-4: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
   A.   Connection To Private System: Where a public sanitary (or combined)
sewer is not available under the provisions of subsection
8-2-3D of this Chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
sewage disposal system complying with the provisions of the County Health
Department.
   B.   Compliance With State Regulations: The type, capacities, location, and
layout of a private sewage disposal system shall comply with all
recommendations of the State of Illinois Private Sewage Disposal Licensing Act
and Code and with the State of Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. No
permit shall be issued for any private sewage disposal system employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet. No septic tank or cesspool shall be
permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
   C.   Connection To Public Sewer When Available:
      1.   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in subsection
8-2-3D of this Chapter, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer
in compliance with this Chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
      2.   When a private sewer becomes available, the building sewer shall be
connected to said sewer within thirty (30) days and the private sewage disposal
system shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with clean bank-run gravel or
dirt.
   D.   Operation And Maintenance: The owner shall operate and maintain the
private sewage disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, and at no
expense to the City.
   E.   Interpretation Of Provisions: No statement contained in this Section
shall be construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be
imposed by the City. (Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978; 1997 Code)
8-2-5: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   A.   Connection To Public Sewer: No unauthorized person shall uncover, make
any connections with, or opening into; use; alter; or disturb any public sewer
or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the City.
   B.   Disposal To Comply With State Regulations: All disposal by any person
into the sewer system is unlawful except those discharges in compliance with
Federal standards promulgated pursuant to the Federal Act and more stringent
State and local standards.
   C.   Sufficient Reserve Capacity: A building sewer permit will only be
issued and a sewer connection shall only be allowed if it can be demonstrated
that the downstream sewerage facilities, including sewers, pump stations and
wastewater treatment facilities, have sufficient reserve capacity to adequately
and efficiently handle the additional anticipated waste load.
   D.   Owner Responsible For Costs: All costs and expense incident to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner.
The owner shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   E.   Separate Building Sewers: A separate and independent building sewer
shall be provided for every building, except that where one building stands at
the rear of another on an interior lot and no private sewer is available or can
be constructed to the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or
driveway, the building sewer from the front building may be extended to the
rear building and the whole considered as one building sewer.
   F.   Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination and test
by the Public Works Director, to meet all requirements of this Chapter.
   G.   Construction Specifications: The size, slope, alignment, materials of
construction of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating,
placing of the pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all
conform to the requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City. In the absence of Code provisions
or in amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing Materials, Water
Pollution Control Federation Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard
Specifications for Water and Sewer Main Construction in Illinois shall apply.
   H.   Elevation; Gravity Flow: Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be
brought to the building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all
buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the
public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by
a means which is approved in accordance with subsection B above, and discharged
to the building sewer.
   I.   Surface Runoff Prohibited: No person shall make connection of roof
downspouts, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or other sources of
surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building drain which in
turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   J.   Connection Of Building Sewer To Public Sewer: The connection of the
building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the
State Building and Plumbing Codes, or other applicable rules and regulations of
the City, or the procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials, Water Pollution Control Federation
Manual of Practice No. 9, and Standard Specifications for Water and Sewer Main
Construction in Illinois. All such connections shall be made gastight and
watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be
approved by the Public Works Director before installation.
   K.   Inspection And Supervision: The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the Public Works Director when the building sewer is ready for
inspection and connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made
under the supervision of the Public Works Director or his/her representatives.
   L.   Excavations Guarded By Barricades: All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the City. (Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978; 1997 Code)
8-2-6: APPLICATIONS PERMIT FORMS:
Application permit forms shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(1997 Code)
8-2-7: WASTEWATER SERVICE CHARGES:
   A.   Basis For Wastewater Service Charges:
      1.   The wastewater service charge for the use of and for service
supplied by the wastewater facilities of the City shall consist of a basic user
charge for operation and maintenance plus replacement, a debt service charge
and a surcharge, if applicable.
      2.   The debt service charge shall be computed by dividing the annual
debt service of all outstanding bonds by the number of users. Through further
divisions, the bimonthly debt service charges can be computed.
      3.   The basic user charge shall be based on water usage as recorded by
water meters and/or sewage meters for wastes having the following normal
concentrations:
         a.   A five (5) day, twenty degree centigrade (20°C) biochemical
oxygen demand (BOD) of three hundred (300) mg/l.
         b.   A suspended solids (SS) content of three hundred fifty (350) mg/
l.
      4.   It shall consist of operation and maintenance costs plus replacement
and shall be computed as follows:
         a.   Estimate the projected annual revenue required to operate and
maintain the wastewater facilities including a replacement fund for the year,
for all works categories.
         b.   Proportion the estimated costs to wastewater facility categories
by volume, suspended solids and BOD, if possible.
         c.   Estimate wastewater volume, pounds of SS and pounds of BOD to be
treated.
         d.   Proportion the estimated costs to nonindustrial and industrial
users by volume, suspended solids and BOD.
         e.   Compute costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons for normal sewage
strength.
         f.   Compute surcharge costs per one thousand (1,000) gallons per mg/
l in excess of normal sewage strength for BOD and SS.
      5.   A surcharge will be levied to all users whose waters exceed the
normal concentrations for BOD (300 mg/l) and SS (350 mg/l). The surcharge will
be based on water usage as recorded by water meters and/or sewage meters for
all wastes which exceed the three hundred (300) mg/l and three hundred fifty
(350) mg/l concentration for BOD and SS respectively. Subsection F below
specifies the procedure to compute a surcharge.
      6.   The adequacy of the wastewater service charge shall be reviewed
annually by certified public accountants for the City in their annual audit
report. The wastewater service charge shall be revised periodically to reflect
a change in debt service or a change in operation and maintenance costs
including replacement costs.
   B.   Measurement Of Flow: The volume of flow used for computing basic user
charges and surcharges shall be the metered water consumption read to the
lowest even increments of 1,000(Y).
      1.   If the person discharging wastes into the public sewers procures any
part, or all, of the water from sources other than the public waterworks
system, all or a part of which is discharged into the public sewers, the person
shall install and maintain, at his/her expense, water meters of a type approved
by the Public Works Director for the purpose of determining the volume of water
obtained from these other sources.
      2.   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be required
by the Public Works Director if these volumes cannot otherwise be determined
from the metered water consumption records.
      3.   Metering devices for determining the volume of waste shall be
installed, owned, and maintained by the person. Following approval and
installation, such meters may not be removed, unless service is cancelled
without the consent of the Public Works Director.
   C.   Debt Service Charge: A debt service charge of three dollars twenty five
cents ($3.25) bimonthly to each user of the wastewater facility of the City is
hereby established. (Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978)
   D.   Basic User Rate:
      1.   There shall be and there is hereby established a minimum charge and
a basic user rate for the use of and for service supplied by the wastewater
facilities of the City. A minimum charge bimonthly shall be applied to all
users whose water consumption does not exceed 2,000(X) gallons bimonthly. A
basic user rate per 1,000(Y) gallons shall be applied to all users for water
consumption in excess of 2,000(X) gallons bimonthly. Rates are pursuant to the
"schedule of charges" set by the Waterworks and Sewer Committee.
      2.   All nonmetered residential users of the wastewater facilities shall
pay a minimum flat rate charge bimonthly adequate to cover the costs of the
minimum debt service charge. The flat rate charge will allow a maximum of two
thousand (2,000) gallons bimonthly.
      3.   In the event use of the wastewater facilities is determined by the
Public Works Director to be in excess of 2,000(Z) gallons bimonthly, the Public
Works Director may require such flat rate user to install metering devices on
the water supply or sewer main to measure the amount of service supplied. (Ord.
78-12, 3-6-1978; 1997 Code)
   E.   Surcharge Rate: The rates of surcharges for BOD5 and SS shall be as
follows: determine the average percent over the maximum for BOD5 and SS and
multiply that percent times the basic user rate.
   F.   Computation Of Surcharge: The concentration of wastes used for
computing surcharges shall be established by waste sampling. Waste sampling
shall be performed as often as may be deemed necessary by the Public Works
Director and shall be binding as a basis for surcharges.
   G.   Computation Of Wastewater Service Charge: The wastewater service charge
shall be computed by the following formula:
CW = CD + CM + (Vu-X) CU + CS
Where
CW =   Amount of wastewater service charge ($) per billing period.
CD =   Debt Service Charge (subsection C).
CM =   Minimum Charge for Operation, Maintenance and Replacement (subsection
D).
Vu =   Wastewater Volume for the billing period.
X =   Allowable consumption in gallons for the minimum charge (subsection D).
CU =    Basic User Rate for Operation, Maintenance and Replacement (subsection
D).
CS =    Amount of Surcharge (subsections E and F).
   H.   Effective Date Of Rates: The rates and service charges established for
user charges in this Section shall be effective as of the next fiscal year
beginning May 1, 1978 and on bills to be rendered for the next succeeding
period ending May 31, 1978 for bimonthly users. (Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978)
8-2-8: BILLINGS; DELINQUENCIES:
   A.   Bills:
      1.   Payments Bimonthly: Rates or charges for service shall be payable
bimonthly.
      2.   Owner, Occupant And User Liable: The owner of the premises, the
occupant thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the service to such premises and the service is furnished to
the premises by the City only upon the condition that the owner of the
premises, occupant and user of the services are jointly and severally liable
therefor to the City.
      3.   Rendition Of Bills: Bills for sewer service shall be sent out by the
City Treasurer on the first day of the month succeeding the period for which
the service is billed.
      4.   Penalty For Late Payments: All sewer bills are due and payable ten
(10) days after being sent out. A penalty of ten percent (10%) shall be added
to all bills not paid by the tenth day after they have been rendered.
   B.   Delinquent Bills; Discontinuance Of Service: If the charges for such
services are not paid within twenty five (25) days after the rendition of the
bill for such services, such services shall be discontinued without further
notice and shall not be reinstated until all claims are settled. (Ord. 78-12,
3-6-1978)
8-2-9: LIEN FOR NONPAYMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Delinquency; Statement Of Lien Claim:
      1.   Whenever a bill for sewer service remains unpaid for ninety (90)
days for bimonthly service after it has been rendered, the City Treasurer shall
file with the County Recorder of Deeds a statement of lien claim. This
statement shall contain the legal description of the premises served, the
amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice that the City claims a lien for this
amount as well as for all charges subsequent to the period covered by the bill.
      2.   If the user whose bill is unpaid is not the owner of the premises
and the City Treasurer has notice of this, notice shall be mailed to the owner
of the premises, if such owner's address be known to the Treasurer, whenever
such bill remains unpaid for the period of forty five (45) days for a bimonthly
bill after it has been rendered.
      3.   The failure of the City Treasurer to record such lien or to mail
such notice or the failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect
the right to foreclose the lien for unpaid bills as mentioned in the following
subsection.
   B.   Foreclosure Of Lien: Property subject to a lien for unpaid charges
shall be sold for nonpayment of the same, and the proceeds of the sale shall be
applied to pay the charges, after deducting costs, as is the case in the
foreclosure of statutory liens. Such foreclosure shall be by bill-in-equity in
the name of the City. The City Attorney is hereby authorized and directed to
institute such proceedings in the name of the City in any court having
jurisdiction over such matters against any property for which the bill has
remained unpaid ninety (90) days in the case of a bimonthly bill after it has
been rendered. (Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978)
8-2-10: REVENUES; SEWERAGE FUND:
All revenues and monies derived from the operation of the sewerage system shall
be deposited in the sewerage account of the Sewerage Fund. All such revenues
and monies shall be held by the City Treasurer separate and apart from his/her
private funds and separate and apart from all other funds of the City, and all
of said sum, without any deductions whatever, shall be delivered to the City
Treasurer not more than ten (10) days after receipt of the same, or at such
more frequent intervals as may from time to time be directed by the Mayor and
Council. The City Treasurer shall receive all such revenues from the sewage
system and all other funds and monies incident to the operation of such system
as the same may be delivered to him and deposit the same in the account of the
fund designated as the "Sewerage Fund of the City of Barry". Said Treasurer
shall administer such Fund in every respect in the manner provided by 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-141-18. (Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978)
8-2-11: SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTS:
   A.   Accounts And Records: The City Treasurer shall establish a proper
system of accounts and shall keep proper books, records, and accounts in which
complete and correct entries shall be made of all transactions relative to the
sewerage system, and at regular annual intervals shall cause to be made an
audit by an independent auditing concern of the books to show the receipts and
disbursements of the sewerage system.
   B.   Audit Report: In addition to the customary operating statements, the
annual audit report shall also reflect the revenues and operating expenses of
the wastewater facilities, including a replacement cost, to indicate that sewer
service charges under the waste cost recovery system and capital amounts
required to be recovered under the industrial cost recovery system do in fact
meet these regulations. In this regard, the financial information to be shown
in the audit report shall include the following:
      1.   Flow data showing total gallons received at the wastewater plant for
the current fiscal year.
      2.   Billing data to show total number of gallons billed.
      3.   Debt service for the next succeeding fiscal year.
      4.   Number of users connected to the system.
      5.   Number of nonmetered users. (Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978)
8-2-12: NOTICE OF RATES:
A copy of this Chapter, properly certified by the City Treasurer, shall be
filed in the office of the Recorder of Deeds of Pike County and shall be deemed
notice to all owners of real estate of the charges of the sewerage system of
the City on their properties. (Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978)
8-2-13: ACCESS TO RECORDS:
The Illinois Environmental Protection Agency or its authorized representative
shall have access to any books, documents, papers and records of the City which
are applicable to the City's system of user charges for the purpose of making
audit, examination, excerpts and transcriptions thereof to ensure compliance
with the terms of the special and general conditions to any State grant. (Ord.
78-12, 3-6-1978)
8-2-14: PROHIBITED DISCHARGES; TESTS AND ANALYSES:
   A.   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   B.   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Public Works Director. Industrial
cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on approval of the
Public Works Director, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   C.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas.
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than five and five- tenths
(5.5) or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes,
cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar,
plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and
fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   D.   No industrial user may discharge sewage into any public sewer until the
City has adopted an industrial cost recovery system which:
      1.   Meets the requirements of General Condition 20 of the grant offer
between the City of Barry and the State of Illinois numbered "Barry C171342".
      2.   Has been approved by the Agency in accordance with the conditions of
any grant made to the City by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
or by the State of Illinois for the construction of any part of the sewer
system or sewage treatment works of the City.
   E.   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Public Works Director that such wastes can harm either the
sewers, sewage treatment process, or equipment; have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream; or can otherwise endanger life, limb, public property, or
constitute a nuisance. In forming the opinion as to the acceptability of these
wastes, the Public Works Director will give consideration to such factors as
the quantities of subject wastes in relation to flows and velocities in the
sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of treatability of
wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and maximum limits established by
regulatory agencies. The substances prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F)(65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two degrees and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (32° and
150°F)(0° and 65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Public Works Director.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Public Works Director for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Public Works Director as necessary after treatment of the
composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the State, Federal, or other
public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Public Works Director in
compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any waters or wastes having a pH in excess of nine and five-tenths
(9.5).
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the Public Works Director in compliance with
applicable State and Federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as permitted
by the Public Works Director in compliance with applicable State and Federal
regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations or inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of wastes constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge of the receiving waters.
   F.   If any waters or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in subsection E of this Section, and/or which
are in violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in chapter 1, EPA
Rules and Regulations, subchapter D, Water Programs Part 128 - Pretreatment
Standards, Federal Register Volume 38, No. 215, Thursday, November 8, 1973 and
any amendments thereto, and which in the judgment of the Public Works Director
may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the Public Works Director may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of subsection K of this Section.
If the Public Works Director permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Public Works Director, and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   G.   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Public Works Director they are necessary for the proper handling
of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable
wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Public Works Director, and
shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   H.   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided,
they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation
by the owner at his/her expense.
   I.   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Public Works Director, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Public Works
Director. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his/her expense, and
shall be maintained by him/her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   J.   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
waters and wastes to illustrate compliance with this Chapter and any special
conditions for discharge established by the City or regulatory agencies having
jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type, and frequency of laboratory
analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the City, but
no less than once per year the industry must supply a complete analysis of the
constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that compliance with the
Federal, State and local standards are being met. The owner shall report the
results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the City at such times and
in such manner as prescribed by the City. The owner shall bear the expense of
all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the City. At such times as
deemed necessary, the City reserves the right to take measurements and samples
for analysis by an outside laboratory service.
   K.   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this Chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health Association, and
shall be determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples
taken at said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been
required, the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream
manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is
connected. Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property. (The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24 hour composite of all outfalls of a
premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
24 hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined from periodic
grab samples.)
   L.   No statement contained in this Section shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the City and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment therefor, in accordance
with Section
8-2-7 hereof, by the industrial concern, provided such payments are in
accordance with Federal and State Guidelines for User Charge System and
Industrial Cost Recovery System. (Ord. 78-12, 3-6-1978)
8-2-15: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall be
subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 78-12, 3-
6-1978)
8-2-16: DISCHARGING WASTES TO STORM DRAINS PROHIBITED:
   A.   Discharge Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to connect or
cause to be connected any drain carrying, or to carry, any toilet, sink,
basement, septic tank, cesspool, industrial water, or any fixture or device
discharging polluting substances, to any storm water in the City constructed as
part of the improvement of F.A. Route 408, known as State section 75-4HB.
   B.   Penalty: Any person violating this Section shall be subject to penalty
as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed for each and every day during which a violation continues or exists.
(Ord. 88-2, 2-20-1988; 1997 Code)
8-2-17: PENALTY:
   A.   Notice Of Violation; Remedial Action: Any person found to be violating
any provision of this Chapter, except Sections
8-2-15 and
8-2-16 herein, shall be served by the City with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the
satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time
stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations. The City may revoke
any permit for sewage disposal as a result of any violation of any provision of
this Chapter.
   B.   Penalty Imposed: Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in subsection A above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, on conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each violation. Each day in which any such violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
   C.   Liability Of Violator: Any person violating any of the provisions of
this Chapter shall become liable to the City by reason of such violation. (Ord.
78-12, 3-6-1978; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 3
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
SECTION:
8-3-1: Installation Of Backflow Prevention Device
8-3-2: Approval Of Water Supply And Method Of Connection
8-3-3: Surveys And Investigations
8-3-4: Right Of Entry
8-3-5: Discontinue Water Service For Violation
8-3-6: Illegal Cross-Connection; Responsibility For Cleanup
8-3-1: INSTALLATION OF BACKFLOW PREVENTION DEVICE:
If in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code or in the judgment of the
Public Works Director, an approved backflow prevention device is necessary for
the safety of the public water supply system, the Public Works Director will
give notice to the water customer to install such an approved device at a
location and in a manner in accordance with the Illinois Plumbing Code and all
application local regulations, and shall have inspections and tests made of
such approved devices as required by the Illinois Plumbing Code and local
regulations. (Ord. 91-6, 12-2-1991)
8-3-2: APPROVAL OF WATER SUPPLY AND METHOD OF CONNECTION:
No person shall establish or permit to be established or maintain or permit to
be maintained any connection whereby a private, auxiliary or emergency water
supply, other than the regular public water supply of the City, enters the
supply or distributive system of City, unless such private, auxiliary or
emergency water supply and the method of connection and use of such supply
shall have been approved by the Public Works Director and the Illinois
Environmental Protection Agency. (Ord. 91-6, 12-2-1991)
8-3-3: SURVEYS AND INVESTIGATIONS:
It shall be the duty of the Public Works Director to cause surveys and
investigations to be made of industrial and other properties served by the
public water supply to determine whether actual or potential hazards to the
public water supply may exist. Such surveys or investigations shall be made a
matter of public record and shall be repeated at least every two (2) years, or
as often as the Public Works Director shall deem necessary. Records of such
survey shall be maintained and available for review for a period of at least
five (5) years. (Ord. 91-6, 12-2-1991)
8-3-4: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The approved cross-connection control device inspector shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply or distribution system of the City for the purpose of verifying
the presence or absence of cross-connections, and the Public Works Director or
his/her authorized agent shall have the right to enter at any reasonable time
any property served by a connection to the public water supply or distribution
system of the City for the purpose of verifying information submitted by the
customer regarding the required cross-connection control inspection. On demand,
the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
Public Works Director any information which the Public Works Director may
request regarding the piping system or systems for water use on such property.
The refusal of such information, when demanded, shall, within the discretion of
the Public Works Director, be deemed evidence of the presence of improper
connections as provided in this Chapter. (Ord. 91-6, 12-2-1991)
8-3-5: DISCONTINUE WATER SERVICE FOR VIOLATION:
The Public Works Director is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue,
after reasonable notice to the occupant thereof, the water service to any
property wherein any connection in violation of the provisions of this Chapter
is known to exist, and to take such other precautionary measures as the Public
Works Director may deem necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of
the public water supply distribution mains. Water service to such property
shall not be restored until such conditions have been eliminated or corrected
in compliance with the provisions of this Chapter, and until a reconnection fee
is paid to the City. Immediate disconnection with verbal notice can be effected
when the Public Works Director is assured that imminent danger of harmful
contamination of the public water supply system exists. Such action shall be
followed by written notification of the cause of disconnection. (Ord. 91-6, 12-
2-1991; 1997 Code)
8-3-6: ILLEGAL CROSS-CONNECTION; RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLEANUP:
The consumer responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination through
backflow, if contamination of the potable water system occurs through an
illegal cross- connection of an improperly installed, maintained or repaired
device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of cleanup of
the potable water supply system. (Ord. 91-6, 12-2-1991)
CHAPTER 4
USE OF GROUND WATER AS POTABLE WATER SUPPLY
SECTION:
8-4-1: Definitions
8-4-2: Prohibited
8-4-3: Memorandum Of Understanding
8-4-4: Penalties
8-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representatives, agents or assigns.
POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including, but
not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes, or
preparing foods. (Ord. 2004-08, 7-12-2004)
8-4-2: PROHIBITED:
The use or attempt to use as a potable water supply ground water from within
the corporate limits of the city of Barry by the installation or drilling of
wells or by any other method is hereby prohibited. (Ord. 2004-08, 7-12-2004)
8-4-3: MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING:
The mayor of the city of Barry is hereby authorized and directed to enter into
a memorandum of understanding with the Illinois environmental protection agency
("Illinois EPA") in which the city of Barry assumes responsibility for tracking
remediated sites, notifying the Illinois EPA of changes to this chapter and
taking certain precautions when siting public potable water supply wells. (Ord.
2004-08, 7-12-2004)
8-4-4: PENALTIES:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine
of up to seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each violation. (Ord. 2004-
08, 7-12-2004)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE LIMITS; BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: Fire Limits Established
9-1-2: Building Construction Requirements
9-1-3: Buildings In Noncompliance A Nuisance; Abatement
9-1-4: Moving Buildings
9-1-5: Numbering Buildings
9-1-6: Fire Safety Provisions
9-1-1: FIRE LIMITS ESTABLISHED:
All that part of the city embraced within the following limits shall hereafter
be known as the fire limits of the city: block twenty (20), twenty one (21),
twenty two (22), twenty three (23), thirty five (35), the west half of block
thirty six (36) and the east half of blocks nineteen (19) and east twenty four
(24) of the original city of Barry. (1944 Code § 314)
9-1-2: BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Walls:
      1.   Composition: No building or structure of any kind or description
shall be erected or constructed within the fire limits, unless the outside and
party walls thereof shall be composed of brick, stone, iron or other
incombustible material. (1944 Code § 315)
      2.   Thickness: (Rep. by motion passed 4-11-2002)
      3.   Other Specifications: No cornice of wood shall be placed on any
building, and all wooden joists, beams or other timbers in party walls shall be
separated at least four inches (4") from each other with stone or brick laid in
mortar, and all wooden lintels or plate pieces in the front, rear or side walls
shall recede from the outside of the wall at least two inches (2"), or when
they shall not recede, they shall be covered with fireproof material. (1944
Code § 315; amd. motion passed 4-11-2002)
   B.   Outside Covering Of Buildings: It shall be unlawful for any person to
cover or recover any building now erected or hereafter erected within the fire
limits with any shingles, boards, planks or other combustible material
whatever; but all such buildings shall, in all cases, be covered with metal,
tile, slate or some other equally good fireproof material; provided, that the
city council may, for good and sufficient reason shown, grant a permit to any
person applying therefor, to cover or recover any building in the fire limits,
with shingles or other material. (1944 Code § 316)
   C.   Repair Or Moving Of Buildings: No wooden building or any part of any
wooden building within the fire limits shall be raised, enlarged or repaired,
except that those buildings used exclusively for private dwelling houses may be
repaired, subject to the provisions of subsection B of this section, but shall
not be raised or enlarged nor shall any such wooden building or part of such
wooden building within the fire limits be removed to any other place within the
same.
   D.   Repairing Buildings Contrary To Chapter: Any owner, builder or other
person who shall own, build or aid in the erection of any building within the
fire limits, contrary to, or in any other manner than authorized by the
provisions of this chapter, or who shall own, remove or assist in repairing any
damaged or wooden building contrary in either case to any provisions of this
chapter, shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for the first offense, and to a like fine for every forty
eight (48) hours such person fails to comply with the provisions of this
chapter, or continue in the violation of the same. (1944 Code § 320; amd. 1997
Code)
   E.   Sheds: Sheds not exceeding twelve feet (12') in height at the peak or
highest part thereof may be constructed of wood; provided, that the term "shed"
be so construed as to mean a structure with the roof sloping one way and with
one or more sides of such structure entirely open. (1944 Code § 317)
   F.   Foundations; Footings:
      1.   a. All foundation grades shall be established in a manner as to
achieve the free, natural and unobstructed flow of surface water.
         b.   The director of public works shall from time to time promulgate
detailed rules, not inconsistent with this subsection, for the purpose of
determining foundation grades.
         c.   Every application for a building permit shall show the foundation
grade and set forth a grading plan for the proposed construction, determined in
accordance with this subsection and rules established thereto. No building
permit shall be issued unless such foundation grade and grading plan is in
accordance with the provisions of this subsection and rules issued under this
subsection.
      2.   A single-story dwelling shall meet the following requirements:
         a.   Footings shall be poured concrete no less than three feet (3')
belowground, no less than two feet (2') wide, no less than six inches (6")
thick.
         b.   Foundation walls shall be no less than eight inch (8") block or
eight inch (8") poured concrete and at least one foot (1') above grade.
      3.   For any building more than one story, a structural engineer should
be consulted prior to commencement of any construction.
      4.   Any person violating the provisions of this subsection shall be
subject to a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each violation.
(Ord. 2004-12, 8-2-2004)
9-1-3: BUILDINGS IN NONCOMPLIANCE A NUISANCE; ABATEMENT:
Any wooden building or part of any wooden building which may be erected,
enlarged, removed or repaired contrary to this chapter shall be deemed a
nuisance, and upon information of such violation, the mayor shall give due and
reasonable notice to the owner and builder thereof to abate, remedy or remove
the same or such part thereof as may be deemed necessary. Upon the owner's
failure to comply with said notice, the mayor shall, by an order in writing,
require the chief of police and/or public works director to remove or tear down
such building or such part thereof as may be necessary. The chief of police
and/or public works director shall execute the order of the mayor and report
the costs and expenses of such removal, under oath, to the city council for
allowance, and such costs and expenses may be collected of the owner or builder
of any such building liable therefor, by suit, in the name of the city before
any court having jurisdiction. (1944 Code § 321; amd. 1997 Code)
9-1-4: MOVING BUILDINGS:
No person shall remove, or cause to be removed, any building through or along
any street, avenue or alley of the city without a written permit therefor from
the public works director; nor, in removing such building, unnecessarily
encumber or obstruct any street, avenue or alley; nor damage any public or
private property in so doing. (1944 Code § 251)
9-1-5: NUMBERING BUILDINGS:
   A.   Streets Running North And South: All buildings on the streets of the
city running north and south shall be numbered as follows: commencing with the
number 100 at Smith Street, with the even numbers on the west or right hand
side of the street going south, and so continue that all even numbers be on the
right hand side, alternating from side to side, so that the odd numbers are on
the east or left hand side, increasing the number one hundred (100) with each
block, so that in all cases the initial figure or figures in each block shall
indicate and correspond with the number of streets south from Smith Street.
   B.   Streets Running East And West: All buildings on streets running east
and west shall be numbered as follows: commencing with number 100 at Blades
Avenue and Porter Street with the odd numbers on the north side and the even
numbers on the south side increasing one hundred (100) with each block the same
as streets running north and south.
   C.   Failure To Number; Penalty: Any owner of any building required to be
numbered by subsections A and B of this section who shall fail or refuse to so
number such building, at his/her own expense, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (1944 Code § 325; amd. 1997 Code)
9-1-6: FIRE SAFETY PROVISIONS 1 :
   A.   Depositories For Ashes: All depositories for ashes, within or without
the fire limits, shall be built of brick or other fireproof material, when not
at least twenty five feet (25') distant from any combustible material or
building. (1944 Code § 318)
   B.   Depositing Combustible Materials: No person shall, without the consent
in writing of the mayor or an order of the city council, throw, place, pile or
deposit within the fire limits of city, any wood, lumber, timber, hay, straw or
other combustible material, so as to endanger any building by the burning
thereof; and any person so offending shall be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code for every offense, and a further sum for every twenty four
(24) hours such person allows the same to remain after notice to remove the
same by the chief of police or mayor, to be recovered as other penalties herein
provided. (1944 Code § 322; amd. 1997 Code)
   C.   Endangering Buildings Or Property Of Others; Storage Of Materials: No
person shall, within the fire limits of the city, place, pile or throw any
wood, lumber, timber, hay, straw or other combustible material on any lot,
street or alley, or on such person's own premises, contiguous to and so as to
endanger the buildings or property of any other person, and the person so
offending shall be considered and adjudged guilty of nuisance, and shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each day such person shall allow the same to remain,
after notice by the chief of police, or other person, to remove or abate the
same. (1944 Code § 323; amd. 1997 Code)
   D.   Kindling Fires In Temporary Buildings: No person shall build, make or
kindle any fire in any plank or other temporary shed, unless such building or
shed shall have therein a stone chimney or vault in which to make or kindle
such fire, and every person so offending shall be subject to penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each and every offense. (1944 Code § 324; amd. 1997
Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also title 4, chapter 2 of this code.
CHAPTER 2
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Definition
9-2-2: Nuisance Declared
9-2-3: Allowing Dangerous Conditions To Continue
9-2-4: Fire Damaged Buildings; Determine Damage
9-2-5: Notice Of Violation; Abatement
9-2-6: Unknown Owners
9-2-7: Alternative Action
9-2-8: Penalty
9-2-1: DEFINITION:
The term "dangerous building", as used in this Chapter, is hereby defined to
mean and include:
   A.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which is
dangerous to public health because of its construction or condition, or which
may cause or aid in the spread of disease or cause injury to the health of the
occupants of it or of neighboring structures.
   B.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which, because of
faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or other cause, is especially
liable to fire, and constitutes or creates a fire hazard.
   C.   Any building, shed, fence, or other manmade structure which, by reason
of faulty construction, age, lack of proper repair or other cause, is liable to
cause injury or damage by collapsing or by collapse or fall of any part of such
structure.
   D.   Any building, shed, fence, or any other manmade structure which,
because of its condition or because of lack of proper doors or windows, is
available to and frequented by malefactors or disorderly persons who are not
lawful occupants of such structure. (Ord. 64-2, 8-4-1964)
9-2-2: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any such dangerous building in the City is hereby declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 64-2, 8-4-1964)
9-2-3: ALLOWING DANGEROUS CONDITIONS TO CONTINUE:
It shall be unlawful to maintain or permit the existence of any dangerous
building in the City; and it shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or
person in custody of any dangerous building to permit the same to remain in a
dangerous condition, or to occupy such building or permit it to be occupied
while it is or remains in a dangerous condition. (Ord. 64-2, 8-4-1964)
9-2-4: FIRE DAMAGED BUILDINGS; DETERMINE DAMAGE:
   A.   Removal Of Damaged Building: Any building or structure within the fire
limits of the City as hereinbefore prescribed by ordinance 1  which has or may
be damaged by fire, decay, or other cause to the extent of fifty percent (50%)
of its fair market value, shall be torn down and removed.
   B.   Notification Of Damaged Building; Determine Extent Of Damage:
      1.   Notify; Determine Damage: Upon written notice by the Public Works
Director, the Clerk shall notify the Mayor of the receipt of such notice. The
Mayor shall then appoint three (3) persons to determine whether or not such
building or structure has been damaged to the extent of fifty percent (50%) of
its value. A copy of the notice filed by the City official, together with a
notice of the appointment of this board of three (3) persons to determine the
damage, shall be served upon the owner of the premises by personal service or
by registered mail to his/her last known address.
      2.   Form: Said form shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   C.   Owner Responsibility To Remove: If the said board of three (3) members
determines that the building in question has been damaged to the extent of
fifty percent (50%) of its value, it shall be the duty of the owner to tear
down or remove the said building within sixty (60) days after the finding of
the board; and it shall be unlawful to occupy or permit such building to be
occupied after such finding. (Ord. 64-2, 8-4-1964; 1997 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Section
  9-1-1 of this Title.
9-2-5: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ABATEMENT:
   A.   Notice Of Violation:
      1.   Notification: Whenever the Public Works Director, or any other
officer or employee of the City shall find that any building or structure in
the City is in a dangerous condition, he/she shall file a written statement to
this effect with the City Clerk. The Clerk shall thereupon cause written notice
to be served upon the owner thereof, and upon the occupant thereof, if any, by
registered mail or by personal service. Such notice shall state that the
building has been declared to be in a dangerous condition, and that such
dangerous condition must be removed or remedied by repairing or altering the
building or by demolishing it, and that the condition must be remedied at once.
      2.   Form: Such form shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   B.   Failure To Remedy; City Abatement: If the person receiving such notice
has not complied therewith within sixty (60) days from the time when the notice
is served upon such person by personal service or by registered mail, the
proper City official may, upon orders of the Mayor, proceed to remedy the
condition or demolish the dangerous building. (Ord. 64-2, 8-4-1964; 1997 Code)
9-2-6: UNKNOWN OWNERS:
If the owner of the premises concerned is unknown, or if his/her address is
unknown, service of any notice provided for in this Chapter may be made by
publishing one time a copy in a newspaper of general circulation in the City
and by posting a copy thereof on the premises. (Ord. 64-2, 8-4-1964; 1997 Code)
9-2-7: ALTERNATIVE ACTION:
In addition to the actions authorized by other sections of this Chapter, the
State Fire Marshal, Chief of the Fire Department or any other City official
whose duty is to investigate fires, may make the investigations authorized by
the statutes found in 425 Illinois Compiled Statutes 25/9 to 25/9e. If such
officer shall find that any building or structure is so occupied or situated as
to endanger persons or property, or by reason of faulty construction, age, lack
of repair or any other cause is especially liable to fire, or is liable to
cause injury by collapsing or otherwise, such officer shall order the dangerous
condition removed or remedied, and shall so notify the owner or occupant of the
premises. Service of such notice may appeal from the decision of such officer
in the manner provided by law. (Ord. 64-2, 8-4-1964; 1997 Code)
9-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter or permitting any dangerous
building, or any building or structure to remain in a dangerous condition, or
to remain in the fire limits after it has been damaged to the extent of fifty
percent (50%) of its value, shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs. (Ord. 64-2, 8-4-
1964; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 3
FENCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-3-1: Compliance
9-3-2: Definitions
9-3-3: Residential Fence Regulation
9-3-4: Setback Requirement For Privacy Fences
9-3-5: Height Restriction
9-3-6: Public Safety
9-3-7: Interference With Drainage
9-3-8: Interference With Fire Hydrant Access
9-3-9: Interference With Public Right-Of-Way
9-3-10: Maintenance Of Fences
9-3-11: Fencing On Property Lines
9-3-12: Existing Fences
9-3-13: Permit Required; Fee
9-3-14: Penalty
9-3-1: COMPLIANCE:
No fence may be erected within the City which does not comply with the
specifications set forth herein. (Ord. 2008-14, 10-6-2008)
9-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
FENCE: Any barrier bordering a lot, field, or yard which is used to either mark
a boundary, to confine or prevent entrance. For purposes of this definition,
shrubbery or plants may be deemed a fence if such is planted, cultivated,
arranged or grows naturally in such a way as to indicate a boundary or impede
ingress and egress.
PRIVACY FENCE: Any fence which blocks or otherwise obstructs view. For purpose
of this definition, any fence which is less than fifty percent (50%) open shall
be deemed a privacy fence. (Ord. 2008-14, 10-6-2008)
9-3-3: RESIDENTIAL FENCE REGULATION:
Any fence erected in a front yard or in front of the front facade of a
residence, commercial building or industrial building shall be at least fifty
percent (50%) open and may not exceed four feet (4') in height. For purposes of
determining the height of a fence, a clearance of three inches (3") shall be
allowed for installation purposes and shall not count in determining the height
of the fence. In no event may a privacy fence be erected in front of the front
facade of a residence, commercial building or industrial building. In the event
that such a building is located on a through lot, that part of the lot which is
used as a rear yard and would normally be considered a rear yard for the lot
shall not be subject to the same requirements as the front facade. (A through
lot shall be considered a contiguous piece of property which runs from street
to street.) (Ord. 2008-14, 10-6-2008)
9-3-4: SETBACK REQUIREMENT FOR PRIVACY FENCES:
All fences may be constructed on the defined right-of-way boundary line as long
as any such fence does not limit easement access to a public sidewalk or public
infrastructure. Utility location services must be contacted prior to the
construction or erection of any fence so as to prevent any new fence erection
from disturbing or otherwise interfering with existing utility services. (Ord.
2017-04, 8-7-2017)
9-3-5: HEIGHT RESTRICTION:
No fence may be erected, constructed, maintained or allowed to grow to a height
in excess of eight feet (8') above ground level. A natural fence may be allowed
to grow in excess of eight feet (8') upon approval of the City Administrator.
(Ord. 2008-14, 10-6-2008)
9-3-6: PUBLIC SAFETY:
Any type of electric or electrified fencing is specifically prohibited.
Similarly, no fence may be constructed or maintained which incorporates barbed
or razor wire. Any fence which is constructed, damaged or falls into a state of
disrepair whereby that fence would pose a risk to the public safety, shall be
deemed a nuisance and shall be subject to action by the City as prescribed in
title 4 of this Code. (Ord. 2008-14, 10-6-2008)
9-3-7: INTERFERENCE WITH DRAINAGE:
No fence or other barrier may be erected, maintained or planted where such
fence may interfere or impede the natural flow or drainage of water or runoff.
Further, no fence may be erected, maintained or planted where such fence may
interfere or impede the water flow or drainage of City property or property of
a contiguous owner. (Ord. 2008-14, 10-6-2008)
9-3-8: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE HYDRANT ACCESS:
No fence may be erected, maintained, planted or allowed to grow where such
fence may block or otherwise interfere with access to fire hydrants. In the
event that any fence impedes or interferes with access to a fire hydrant, the
City may, without further notice, take remedial action to remove that portion
of the fence which may impede access to the fire hydrant. In the event that the
City removes a portion of fencing, the City's cost associated with removing the
offending portion of the fence shall be assessed to the property owner. (Ord.
2008-14, 10-6-2008)
9-3-9: INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY:
No fence shall be erected, maintained, planted or allowed to grow within the
right-of-way of any street or alley within the City. In the event that any
fence impedes or interferes with access to a public right-of-way, the City may,
without further notice, take remedial action to remove that portion of the
fence which may impede access to the public right-of-way. In the event that the
City removes a portion of fencing, the City's cost associated with removing the
offending portion of the fence shall be assessed to the property owner. (Ord.
2008-14, 10-6-2008)
9-3-10: MAINTENANCE OF FENCES:
It shall be the duty of the owner and/or occupant of any property with fencing
to maintain that fencing. In the event that any fencing becomes damaged or
neglected to the extent that it poses a risk to public health, provisions of
this Code related to nuisances shall apply. (Ord. 2008-14, 10-6-2008; amd. Ord.
2017-04, 8-7-2017)
9-3-11: FENCING ON PROPERTY LINES:
No fence shall be erected, planted or allowed to grow on a property line
without the written permission of the contiguous property owners or in the
alternative, upon obtaining a legal survey by an Illinois licensed surveyor
monumenting the true property lines. (Ord. 2008-14, 10-6-2008)
9-3-12: EXISTING FENCES:
All fences which are in existence at the time of the passage hereof, but which
do not conform to one or more applicable provisions of this chapter, shall be
allowed to remain until such time as any such existing fence is damaged or
removed. In the event that any such existing fence is repaired or replaced,
that portion or portions which are repaired or replaced shall be in compliance
with the requirements of this chapter. (Ord. 2008-14, 10-6-2008)
9-3-13: PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE:
No fence may be erected, planted or allowed to grow until a permit is obtained
from the City Public Works Director and/or City Administrator. The application
for a fence permit shall contain a plat and building materials list which must
be approved by the City Public Works Director and/or City Administrator. The
permit fee for a fence shall be twenty dollars ($20.00). (Ord. 2008-14, 10-6-
2008)
9-3-14: PENALTY:
Any violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalties as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-14, 10-6-2008)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE, PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Title And Purpose
10-1-2: Rules Of Construction
10-1-3: Definitions
10-1-1: TITLE AND PURPOSE:
   A.   Title: This Title may be known and may be cited as the CITY OF BARRY
ZONING ORDINANCE.
   B.   Purposes: This Title has been adopted for the following purposes:
      1.   For the purpose of dividing the City into zones or districts,
restricting and regulating therein the location, erection, construction,
reconstruction, structural alterations and use of buildings, structures, and
land for trade, industry, residence and other specified uses.
      2.   To regulate the intensity of the use of lot areas, and to regulate
and determine the area of open space surrounding such building.
      3.   To establish building lines and the location of buildings designed
for specified industrial, business, residential and other uses within such
areas.
      4.   To fix standards to which buildings or structures shall conform
therein.
      5.   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of such districts respectively.
      6.   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures, in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed hereunder.
      7.   To provide for the gradual elimination of nonconforming uses of
land, buildings and structures.
      8.   To prescribe penalties for the violation of this Title.
      9.   To lessen congestion in the streets.
      10.   To secure safety from fire, panic and other dangers.
      11.   To provide adequate light and air.
      12.   To prevent the overcrowding of land.
      13.   To conserve the taxable value of land and buildings throughout the
City.
      14.   To promote the public health, safety, and general welfare. (Ord.
90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-1-2: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular, where the context requires.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive.
   D.   The word "lot" shall include the words "piece", "parcel", and "tract";
and the phrase "used for" shall include the phrases "arranged for", "designed
for", "intended for", "maintained for", and "occupied for".
   E.   The word "person" shall include the words "firm", "association",
"organization", "partnership", "trust company", "corporation", and "government
body", as well as "an individual".
   F.   All measured distances shall be to the nearest integral foot - if a
fraction is one-half foot (1/2') or less, the integral foot next below shall be
taken.
   G.   Any words not defined as follows shall be construed in their generally
accepted meanings as defined in the most recent publication of Webster's
Dictionary. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-1-3: DEFINITIONS:
The words and terms set forth below, wherever they occur in this Title, shall
be interpreted as herein defined.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR USE: A subordinate building or a portion of a main
building, the use of which is incidental to that of the dominant use of the
main building or land. An accessory use is one which is incidental to the main
use of the premises.
AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY: Includes general farming and animal husbandry,
pasturage, outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, viticulture, truck farming,
forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting but not including commercial
seed, fertilizer, grain mills, food processing, or canning operations which
require retailer occupations or other State license.
AGRICULTURE: Land, or land, buildings and structures the principal use of which
is growing farm or truck garden crops, dairying, pasturage, agriculture,
horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, or animal and poultry husbandry and
uses customarily incidental to agricultural activities, including but not
limited to farm dwellings for tenants and full-time hired farm workers and
dwellings or lodging rooms for seasonal workers.
ALLEY: A public or private way not more than thirty feet (30') wide providing
secondary access to abutting property.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A premises used for the sale at retail of motor
vehicle fuels, oils, or accessories, or for servicing or lubricating motor
vehicles, or for installing or repairing parts and accessories, but not to
include body shops and major engine rebuilding.
BASEMENT: A story the floor line of which is below grade at any entrance or
exit and the ceiling of which is not more than five feet (5') above grade at
any such entrance or exit.
BOARDING HOUSE: A building (other than a motel, apartment hotel, or hotel)
wherein, for compensation and by prearrangement for a definite period, meals
and/or lodging are provided.
BUILDING: Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the
shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, equipment, machinery or materials
(see also Structure).
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance from the average contact ground level to
the highest point of the building.
BUILDING LINE: The line beyond which no building or part thereof shall project,
except as otherwise provided by this Title.
BUILDABLE WIDTH: The width of the lot remaining to be built upon after the side
yard is provided.
CAMP OR CAMPGROUNDS: Tracts of land of a design or character suitable for and
used for seasonable, recreational, and other similar living purposes. The
tracts may have located on them a structure of a seasonable, temporary, or
movable nature such as a cabin, hunting shelter, or tent.
CAMPER TRAILER: A vehicle, other than a motor vehicle, designed or intended for
use for recreational and camping purposes, which has no foundation other than
wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses, or skirting, and which has been or
reasonably may be equipped with wheels or other devices for moving it from
place to place by motor power.
CELLAR: A structure having more than one-half (1/2) of its height below the
grade. A cellar is not included in computing the number of stories for the
purpose of height measurement.
CITY COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Barry.
CLINIC: An establishment wherein patients are admitted for examination and
treatment by a physician or a dentist or by a group of physicians and/or
dentists practicing together professionally.
CLUB: Structures and facilities owned or operated by a corporation,
association, person, or persons, for a social, educational, or recreational
purpose, but not primarily for profit and not primarily to render a service
which is customarily carried on as a business.
COMMERCIAL FEED LOT: Premises devoted to the feeding of livestock, where the
operation is not a part of agricultural activity.
COMMISSION: The Planning Commission of the City of Barry.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use of such variable nature as to make control by rigid pre-
regulation impractical. After due consideration in each case, by the City
Council,upon receiving a report and recommendation of the Plan Commission and/
or Zoning Board of Appeals relative to the impact of such use upon neighboring
land, and of the public need for the particular use at the particular location,
approval of a conditional use may or may not be granted by the City Council.
COURT: An open space more than one-half (1/2) surrounded by buildings.
DISTRICT: A section or sections of the City of Barry for which the zoning
regulations governing the use of buildings and premises, the height of
buildings, the size of yards, and the intensity of use are uniform.
DWELLING: Any building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively as the
residence or sleeping place of one person or more but not including a tent,
cabin, camper trailer, hotel, or motel.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE: A building designed to be occupied by three (3) families or
more.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A building designed to be occupied by one family.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A building designed to be occupied by two (2) families.
DWELLING UNIT: One room or more occupied or intended to be occupied as separate
living quarters by one family as defined herein.
FAMILY: One person or a group of persons occupying a premises and living as a
single housekeeping unit, whether or not related to each other by birth or
marriage, as distinguished from a group occupying a "boarding house", "lodging
house" or "hotel" as herein defined.
FARM: An area which is used for the growing of the usual farm products, such as
vegetables, fruit, trees, and grain and their storage on the area, as well as
for the raising thereon of the usual farm poultry and farm animals, such as
horses, cattle, sheep and swine. The term "farming" includes the operating of
such an area for one or more of the above uses, including dairy farms with
necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the produce; provided,
however, that the operation of such accessory uses shall be secondary to that
of the normal farming activities, and provided, further, that farming does not
include the feeding of collected garbage or offal to swine or other animals.
FENCE: A structure for enclosure or screening usually without a roof.
FLOOR AREA: The square-foot total of the floor space within the outside walls
of a building, excluding porches, garages, and basements and cellars used for
storage and incidental purposes. However, if the cellar, basement, or garage is
used for residential, business, or commercial purposes, it is counted as a
floor, and the floor area is computed in determining off-street parking.
FRONTAGE: All property on one side of a highway, road, street, alley, or other
public way.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: A detached accessory structure or portion of a main building,
housing the vehicles of the occupants of the premises.
GARAGE, PUBLIC: A structure or portion thereof, other than a private or storage
garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring, selling,
storing, and/or parking of motor vehicles. The term "repairing" does not
include dismantling of junked vehicles.
GARAGE, STORAGE: Any premises used for storing motor vehicles.
GRADE: The average level of the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the
exterior walls of a structure.
HOME OCCUPATION: An activity carried on in a residential premises in connection
with which there is no more than one person, other than the immediate family
residing on the premises, is employed and there is only one sign or nameplate,
not more than one square foot in area. No display that indicates from the
exterior that the building is being utilized in whole or in part for any
purposes other than that of a dwelling shall be permitted.
HOTEL: A building in which lodging is provided to the public for compensation,
and which is open to transient guests in contradistinction to a "boarding",
"lodging", or "rooming house" as herein defined.
HOUSE TRAILER: See Mobile Home.
INSTITUTION: A premises occupied by a nonprofit corporation for public use.
JUNK YARD: An open area with or without accessory buildings where waste or
scrap materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed,
disassembled, or handled, including but not limited to scrap iron and other
metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, and bottles. A junk yard includes an
automobile wrecking yard, but does not include such activities conducted
entirely within enclosed buildings, nor does it include an establishment
located in an industrial district engaged only in the processing of scrap iron
or other metals to be sold specifically for the manufacture of steel or metal
alloys.
KENNEL: An establishment where small animals are boarded for compensation or
where dogs are bred or raised on a commercial scale.
LANDSCAPED AREA: An area that is permanently devoted to shrubbery, grass, and
other plants.
LOADING SPACE: A space within the main structure, or on the same lot, for the
standing, loading, or unloading of vehicles, having a minimum area of five
hundred forty (540) square feet, a minimum width of twelve feet (12'), a
minimum depth of thirty five feet (35'), and a vertical clearance of at least
fourteen and one-half feet (141/2').
LODGING HOUSE: See Boarding House.
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities, and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms, each room which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as one
lodging room.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a use permitted by
this Title, including one main structure together with its accessory structures
and open spaces and parking spaces required by this Title.
LOT, CORNER: A lot abutting upon two (2) or more highways, roads, streets,
alleys, or other public ways, at their intersection.
LOT DEPTH: The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lines.
LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE: A lot having a frontage on two (2) nonintersecting
highways, roads, streets, alleys, or other public ways, distinguished from a
corner lot.
LOT, INTERIOR: A lot other than a corner lot.
LOT OF RECORD: A lot, the plat or deed of which has been recorded prior to the
adoption of this title.
LOT WIDTH: The width of a lot at the front yard line.
LOT, ZONING: A parcel of land recorded as a lot, occupied or to be occupied by
a principal building or buildings or principal use or uses along with permitted
accessory uses meeting all the requirements for area, buildable area, frontage,
width, yards, setbacks, and other requirements set forth in this title.
MEDICAL CANNABIS CULTIVATION CENTER: A facility operated by an organization or
business that is registered by the department of agriculture to provide
necessary activities to provide only registered medical cannabis dispensing
organizations with usable medical cannabis.
MEDICAL CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATIONS: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is registered by the department of financial and
professional regulation to acquire medical cannabis from a registered
cultivation center for the purpose of dispensing cannabis, paraphernalia or
related supplies and educational materials to registered qualifying patients.
MOBILE HOME: A single-family dwelling unit that has the following
characteristics:
   A.   Designed for long term occupancy containing sleeping accommodations,
flush toilet, tub or shower bath, and kitchen facilities, with plumbing and
electrical connections provided for attachment to outside systems.
   B.   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels,
flatbed, other trailers or detachable wheels.
   C.   Arrives at site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling unit complete
with major appliances and furniture and ready for occupancy except for minor
and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on foundation
supports, connection to utilities, and the like.
MOBILE HOME PARK: A lot, parcel, or tract of land upon which two (2) or more
occupied trailer coaches or mobile homes are harbored either free of charge or
for revenue purposes, including any building, structure, tent, vehicle, or
enclosure used or intended for use as a part of the equipment of such mobile
home park.
MOTEL: Any building or group of buildings containing guestrooms or dwelling
units, some or all of which have a separate entrance leading directly from the
outside of the building, with garage or parking area located on the lot, and
designed, used, or intended wholly or in part for accommodation of automobile
transients.
MOTEL COURT: See definition of Motel.
MOTOR LODGE: See definition of Motel.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: A structure which lawfully occupies a tract of land at
the time of adoption of this title, and which does not conform with the
regulations of the district in which it is located.
NONCONFORMING USE: A use which lawfully occupies a building or land at the time
of adoption of this title, and which does not conform with the use regulations
of the district in which it is located.
NURSING HOME: A home for the aged or infirm in which three (3) persons or more
not of the immediate family are received, kept, and provided with food,
shelter, and care, for compensation.
OPEN AREA: That part of a lot on which there is no structure or agricultural
activity.
PARKING SPACE: An area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one
vehicle (not less than 9 feet wide and 20 feet long), permitting ingress and
egress of a vehicle without the necessity of moving any other, and connected by
a driveway with a highway, road, street, alley, or other public way.
PERMITTED USE: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district, provided it conforms with all requirements and regulations of such
district.
PREMISES: A tract of land together with all structures thereon.
RESIDENCE: A dwelling that one or more persons occupies for the primary purpose
of living and sleeping.
ROOMING HOUSE: See definition of Boarding House.
SANITARY LANDFILL: A method of disposing of refuse by spreading and covering
with earth to a depth of two feet (2') or more on the top surface and one foot
(1') or more on the sides of the bank.
SERVICE STATION, FILLING STATION, GAS STATION: Any building or premises, the
principal use of which is the dispensing, sale, or offering for sale at retail
of any motor vehicle fuel or oils. Open storage shall be limited to no more
than four (4) vehicles stored for minor repair bearing current license plates.
Such storage shall not exceed seventy two (72) hours' duration and shall not
permit the storage of wrecked vehicles.
SETBACK, BUILDING: The minimum horizontal distance between the front line of a
building or structure and the front lot line.
SIGN: An identification, description, illustration, or device which is directly
or indirectly affixed to or painted on a structure or land and which calls
attention to a product, place, activity, person, institution, or business.
   A.   Advertising Devices: Banners affixed to poles, wires, or ropes;
streamers; wind operated items; flashing lights; and other similar items.
   B.   Ground Sign: Any sign supported by at least two (2) uprights, posts, or
braces placed upon or affixed in the ground and not attached to any part of a
structure.
   C.   Marquee Sign: Any sign affixed to a marquee over the entrance to a
building and supported from the building.
   D.   Post Sign: Any sign supported by a single stationary post or pole.
   E.   Roof Sign: Any sign erected, constructed, maintained, or painted on the
roof of a structure.
   F.   Wall Sign: Any sign or poster painted or affixed to the front, side, or
rear wall of a structure.
SIGN AREA: The total area used for the identification, description, and
illustration, including background structures, decorations and additions which
are integral parts of the sign. The sign support is not included in determining
the area of a sign. A double faced sign has twice the total area of a single
faced sign.
STREET: A public way which affords the principal access to abutting property.
The term "street" shall include avenue, drive, circle, court, road, parkway,
boulevard, highway, trafficway, thoroughfare, or any other similar term.
STREET CENTERLINE: A line halfway between the two (2) street lines.
STREET LINE: A dividing line between a lot and a contiguous street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, except those required by law or ordinance,
in the supporting members of a structure, such as bearing walls, columns,
beams, and girders.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected with a fixed location on the ground
or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground.
THOROUGHFARE: A street with a high degree of continuity which serves as an
intrastate, an intracounty, or interstate highway, or as an arterial trafficway
between the various areas of the city. It affords a primary means of access to
abutting properties except from thoroughfares classified as freeways or other
limited access routes not containing frontage roads.
TOURIST PARK: See definition of Mobile Home Park.
TOWNHOUSE: A building comprised of single-family dwelling units erected in a
row as a single building on adjoining lots, each separated from the adjoining
unit or units by a masonry party wall or walls extending from the basement
floor to the roof along the dividing lot line, and having a yard space on the
front, rear, and both sides.
TRAILER: See definition of Camper Trailer.
TRAILER PARK: See definition of Mobile Home Park.
UTILITIES: Public and private facilities such as water wells, water and sewage
pumping stations, water storage tanks, electric power substations, static
transformer stations, telephone and telegraph exchanges, microwave radio
relays, and gas regulations stations, but not including sewage disposal plants,
municipal incinerators, warehouses, shops and storage yards.
VARIATION: A relaxation of the terms of this zoning title where such variation
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property and not the result of actions of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of this title would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship. As used in this title, a variation is authorized only for height,
area, and size of structures or size of yards and open spaces; establishment or
expansion of a use otherwise prohibited shall not be allowed by variation, nor
shall a variation be granted because of the presence of nonconformities in the
zoning district or uses in an adjoining zoning district.
YARD: An open space on a lot, other than a court.
YARD DEPTH: The shortest horizontal distance from a lot line to the adjacent
front, rear, or side line of the main structure.
YARD, FRONT: The area across the width of a lot, extending from the front line
of the main structure to the front line of the lot.
YARD, REAR: The area across the width of a lot, extending from the rear line of
the main structure to the rear line of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: The area between a side line of the main structure and the adjacent
side line of the lot, extending from the front line of the lot to the rear line
of the lot.
YARD WIDTH: The shortest horizontal distance between the opposite side lines of
a lot.
ZONING ADMINISTRATOR 1 : The individual appointed by the city council to
administer and enforce the provisions of this zoning title and make such
determinations, interpretations and orders as are necessary therefor, and
require such plats, plans, and other descriptive material in connection with
applications for permits as are necessary in order that said administrator may
judge compliance with this title. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990; amd.
1997 Code; Ord. 2014-4, 7-2-2014)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-2-2 of this title.
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-2-1: Interpretation, Purpose And Conflict
10-2-2: Enforcing Officer
10-2-3: Parks And Zoning Committee
10-2-4: Building And Use Permits
10-2-5: Fees
10-2-6: Permanent Zoning Changes
10-2-7: Penalty
10-2-1: INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare. It is not intended by
this title to interfere with, abrogate, annul or repeal any ordinance, rules or
regulations previously adopted, and not in conflict with any of the provisions
of this title or which shall be adopted, pursuant to law relating to the use of
buildings or premises, nor is it intended by this title to interfere with or
abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between parties,
except that where this title imposes a greater restriction upon the use of
buildings or premises or upon the height of buildings or requires larger open
spaces than are imposed or required by such other ordinances or such easements,
covenants or other agreements, the provisions of this title shall control.
(Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-2-2: ENFORCING OFFICER:
The building inspector of the city is designated as the officer to be
responsible for enforcing this zoning title. Said building inspector shall have
the power and shall exercise the functions prescribed by state law and by terms
of all ordinances now in force or hereafter passed. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as
amd. 11-5-1990)
10-2-3: PARKS AND ZONING COMMITTEE:
   A.   Committee Established:
      1.   The zoning board of appeals shall cease to exist and shall be
replaced by the parks and zoning committee. Any reference to the zoning board
of appeals in this title is hereby amended to parks and zoning committee.
      2.   The parks and zoning committee, hereby referred to in this section
as the committee, shall be appointed by the mayor, and shall consist of three
(3) city aldermen. The mayor shall appoint one member of the committee to serve
as chairman who presides over all meetings of the committee.
   B.   Meetings: All meetings of the committee shall be open to the public.
Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairman and at such other times as
the committee may determine. Meetings may be called at the request of any
member of the committee, or the administrative official charged with the
enforcement of this title. The committee shall keep minutes of its proceedings.
A statement of the facts found by the committee shall be included in the
minutes of each case heard or considered by it. The reason for recommending or
denying an exception as herein provided shall also appear in the minutes. In
every instance, a statement of the facts upon which such recommendations are
based shall appear in the minutes. The committee shall adopt its own rules of
procedure, a copy of which and all amendments thereto shall be filed with the
office of the clerk. The minutes of the committee shall be open to public
examination during city hall regular business hours.
   C.   Jurisdiction:
      1.   The committee shall hear and decide appeals from, and review any
order, requirement, decision, or determination, made by the administrative
official charged with the enforcement of this title.
      2.   The committee shall also hear all applications for variations to the
provisions of this title and shall submit its recommendations, based upon a
finding of fact, for enactment in an amended ordinance. The committee shall not
have the power to grant a variation recommendation until a public hearing has
been held by the committee. The committee shall have no authority to authorize
change in the use of any parcel of property or structure.
      3.   The concurring vote of two (2) members of the committee shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the
officer from whom an appeal is taken or to decide in favor of the applicant any
matter in which said committee is required to pass under the provisions of this
title.
   D.   Appeals And Review: Any person aggrieved by a ruling of the building
inspector, respecting the interpretation of this title or any officer,
department, board or bureau of the city affected by a ruling of the building
inspector concerning the interpretation of this title, may take an appeal to
the committee. Such appeal shall by taken within such time as shall be
prescribed by the committee by general rules adopted by it, and shall be taken
by filing with the building inspector and with the committee a notice of
appeal, specifying the grounds thereof, together with such plats and exhibits
as are reasonably necessary. Such appeals shall be taken upon forms provided by
the committee. The building inspector shall forthwith transmit to the committee
all the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was
taken.
   E.   Stay Of Proceedings:
      1.   The appeal shall stay all proceeding and furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the building inspector certifies to the committee after
the notice of appeal has been filed with him/her that by reason of facts stated
in the certificate, a stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life
or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than
by restraining order which may be granted by the committee or by court of
record on application, with notice to the building inspector, and all due
causes shown.
      2.   The committee shall fix a reasonable time and place for the hearing
of appeals and shall give notice thereof to the person appealing and to the
officer from whom the appeal is taken. It shall hear and decide the appeal
within a reasonable time. At the hearing, parties of interest may appear in
person or by agent or attorney.
      3.   The committee may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may
modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination as in its opinion
ought to be made in the premises, and to that end shall have all the powers of
the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   F.   Variations: The city council, by ordinance, may authorize, in the
manner provided by law, variations from the provisions of this title where
there are practical difficulties or particular hardships in the way of carrying
out the strict letter of any of the provisions of this title relating to the
use, construction, alteration of buildings, structures or the use of land.
However, no such variation shall be made, except in a specific case and after a
public hearing before the committee, pursuant to notice and after a report with
findings of fact of the committee, as provided by the laws of this state.
   G.   Rules Governing Variations: No variation shall be allowed:
      1.   To permit a nonconforming use which will materially interfere with
the use of adjoining premises in conformity with the regulations applicable to
the use district in which it is located.
      2.   To permit a billboard to be erected or maintained.
      3.   To permit a nonconforming use in any residence district, excepting
that when there are two (2) or more similar nonconforming uses in the same
block, a variation may be allowed:
         a.   To alter or remodel a family residence so as to provide for two
(2) dwelling units therein;
         b.   To erect a two-family dwelling in a one-family dwelling; and
         c.   To erect, reconstruct, alter or remodel a building in a one-
family district for an apartment.
      4.   To permit a nonconforming manufacturing use in a business district:
         a.   Unless it is an extension of a permitted nonconforming use by
enlarging a building or erecting additional buildings as part of one
establishment upon a lot or lots adjoining a lot on which such nonconforming
use exists; or
         b.   Unless a separate tract, the title of which was of record on the
effective date of this title, is divided by a district boundary line, but such
variation shall be limited to the use permitted in the adjoining district and
shall not be extended more than twenty five feet (25') beyond the district
boundary lines.
   H.   Notice: Decisions and recommendations of the committee shall be reached
only after a public hearing and after notice has been given by registered mail
to the applicant. In addition, notice of the time and place of such public
hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation in the city not
less than fifteen (15) days nor more than thirty (30) days previous to the
hearing. Such notice shall contain the address or location of the property for
which a hearing by the committee is sought, as well as a brief description of
the nature of the application. (Ord. 2003-2, 2-3-2003)
10-2-4: BUILDING AND USE PERMITS:
   A.   Building Permit; Fee: A building permit must be obtained for any
structure that will have a completed structural value of five hundred dollars
($500.00). The value is determined by the cost of new materials times two (2).
The permit shall be issued by the building inspector and shall state that the
building or structure and the use of land comply with the regulations of this
title and all building and health laws and ordinances. A charge of twenty
dollars ($20.00) and one dollar ($1.00) per one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
over twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) shall be made for each building
permit issued. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amended 11-5-1990)
   B.   Application For Permit:
      1.   Requirements For Permit: All applications for building permits shall
be accompanied by both a plat and survey of the real estate for which a permit
is sought. Both documents shall be submitted in duplicate, drawn to scale,
showing the actual dimensions of the lot or lots to be built upon, the size of
the building or structure to be erected or structurally altered, its location
on the lot or lots and other such information as may be necessary to provide
for the enforcement of these regulations.
In lieu of a survey, the building inspector may, but shall not be required to
accept permanent boundary monuments located upon the lot or lots to be built
upon. In order for the building inspector to discretionarily rely upon such
monuments, such monuments must be of the type and character to be reasonably
and historically relied upon.
A careful record of such applications, surveys and plats shall be kept in the
office of the building inspector. (Ord. 2012-02, 3-5-2012)
      2.   Sewer System Requirement: No building shall be constructed, and no
permit shall be issued for any building on any premises not served by a sewer
unless the area of the lot on which such building is to be erected complies
with the ordinances relative to septic tanks as to size and condition of soil.
      3.   Term Of Permit: Said permit shall be valid for six (6) months from
date of issuance and thereafter shall be null and void unless construction has
been started under said permit during said six (6) months' period.
   C.   Use Permit Required: No change shall be made in the use of a building
or part thereof now or hereafter erected or structurally altered, or in the use
of land now or hereafter occupied, without a use permit having first been
issued by the building inspector. No such use permit shall be issued to make
such change unless it is in conformity with the provisions of this title or
amendments thereto hereafter duly enacted.
   D.   Continuance Of Existing Uses: Nothing in this title shall prevent the
continuance of the present occupancy or lawful use of any existing building,
except as may be necessary for the safety of life and property, and except as
provided in chapter 7, "Nonconforming Uses", of this title. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-
1990 as amended 11-5-1990)
10-2-5: FEES:
Fees pertaining to petitions for zoning amendments, use permits, certificates
of compliance, variations, and for appeals to the parks and zoning committee
shall be established by action of the council from time to time. Such fees
shall be paid to the clerk, who shall give a receipt therefor. (Ord. 90-3, 9-
12-1990 as amended 11-5-1990; amd. Ord. 2003-2, 2-3-2003)
10-2-6: PERMANENT ZONING CHANGES:
   A.   Submission To Planning Commission; Hearing: Any permanent change in
zoning shall first be submitted to the planning commission of the city. The
planning commission shall make a recommendation to the city council to either
accept or reject the proposed zoning change. Applications for permanent changes
in zoning shall be considered at a public hearing before the planning
commission, pursuant to the requirements of this title. Said planning
commission shall make its findings of fact and recommendations to the city
council within thirty (30) days after the public hearing.
   B.   Description Of Change; Time Limit: If any person, partnership,
corporation or other entity wishes to have a permanent change in zoning on any
property located within the city limits, a description of the particular change
in use that is requested is required to be listed on the petition. The person,
partnership, corporation or other entity making said request, or his/her or its
representatives, assigns or successors in interest shall begin that particular
change in use contemplated within six (6) months and shall complete said
particular change in use within two (2) years of the date such change is
granted, or such change that is granted by the city council will be considered
null and void and will revert back to the original zoning that it was before
the change was granted by the city council; or, further provided such reversion
will not cause undue hardship to such person or other entity making said
request, or his/her or its representatives, assigns or successors in interest.
(Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amended 11-5-1990)
10-2-7: PENALTY:
   A.   Penalty For Violation: Any person who violates this title or resists
the enforcement of its provisions shall, upon conviction, be subject to penalty
as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code for each offense. Each day after notification that the
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 90-
3, 9-12-1990 as amended 11-5-1990; amd. 1997 Code)
   B.   Failure To Obtain Permit Before Construction: If a permit has not been
obtained before any construction begins, there will be a penalty of twice the
cost of the original permit. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amended 11-5-1990)
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-3-1: Zoning Designation Of Streets And Public Ways
10-3-2: Building Use To Comply With District Regulations
10-3-3: Height Limits
10-3-4: Conformance With Area Regulations
10-3-5: Yards And Open Spaces
10-3-6: Buildings And Structures Restricted On Lots
10-3-7: Use Of Lots Or Tracts Not In Compliance
10-3-8: Easement Or Street Access Required
10-3-9: Visibility At Intersections
10-3-10: Start Of Construction Prior To Title Adoption
10-3-11: Park Or School Site Designations
10-3-12: Zoning Of Annexed Areas
10-3-13: Temporary Buildings
10-3-1: ZONING DESIGNATION OF STREETS AND PUBLIC WAYS:
All streets, alleys and railroad rights of way, if not otherwise specifically
designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as the property immediately
abutting upon such alleys, streets, or railroad rights of way. Where the
centerline of a street or alley serves as a district boundary, the zoning of
such street or alley, unless otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed
to be the same as that of the abutting property up to such centerline. (Ord.
90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-3-2: BUILDING USE TO COMPLY WITH DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used for any purpose
other than is permitted in the district in which the building or land is
located. All buildings within the city limits of the city of Barry shall be in
compliance with section
10-6-1 of this title. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990; amd. Ord. 2009-
1, 1-5-2009)
10-3-3: HEIGHT LIMITS:
No building or structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed
or structurally altered to exceed the height limit herein established for the
district in which the building is located, except that penthouses or roof
structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or
similar equipment required to operate and maintain the building, and fire or
parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks,
radio and television aerials or antennas, wireless masts, water tanks, or
similar structures may be erected above the height limits herein prescribed. No
such structure may be erected to exceed by more than twenty five feet (25') the
height limits of the district in which it is located, except that aerials or
antennas designed to aid home television reception and shortwave radio may be
erected to a height not to exceed sixty feet (60') from the ground level,
provided said aerial or antenna is attached to the building or erected in the
rear yard area. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-3-4: CONFORMANCE WITH AREA REGULATIONS:
No building or structure other than a building for conditional use shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered, except in
conformity with the area regulations of the district in which the building is
located. All buildings within the city limits of the city of Barry shall be in
compliance with section
10-6-1 of this title. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990; amd. Ord. 2009-
1, 1-5-2009)
10-3-5: YARDS AND OPEN SPACES:
   A.   Building Or Dwelling Groups: No space which, for the purpose of a
building or dwelling group, has been counted or calculated as part of a side
yard, rear yard, front yard, court or other open space required by this title,
may, by reason of change in ownership or otherwise, be counted, or calculated
to satisfy or comply with a yard, court or other open space requirement of or
for any other reason.
   B.   Restrictions As To Other Buildings: The minimum yards or other open
spaces, including lot areas per family, required by this title for each and
every building existing at the time of passage hereof or for any building
hereafter erected, shall not be encroached upon or considered as yard or open
space requirements for any other building. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-
1990)
10-3-6: BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES RESTRICTED ON LOTS:
   A.   One Building Per Lot: Every building hereafter erected or structurally
altered to provide dwelling units shall be located on a "lot" as herein
defined, and in no case shall there be more than one such building on one lot
unless otherwise provided in this title.
   B.   Structures On Rear Of Lot: No residential structure shall be erected
upon the rear of a lot or upon a lot with another dwelling; except that in a
two (2) story garage with living quarters upon the second floor, such quarters
may be occupied by a servant (and his/her family) of the family occupying the
main structure. There may also be constructed a guesthouse (without kitchen) or
rooms for guests within an accessory building, provided such facilities are
used for the occasional housing of guests of the occupants of the main
structure and not for permanent occupancy by others as a housekeeping unit.
(Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-3-7: USE OF LOTS OR TRACTS NOT IN COMPLIANCE:
Any separate tract, the title of which was of record at the time of the
adoption hereof, that does not meet the requirements of this title for yards,
courts, or other areas of open space may be utilized for single residence
purpose, provided the requirements for such yard or court (or lot) area, width,
depth or open space is within seventy five percent (75%) of that required by
the terms of this title. The purpose of this provision is to permit utilization
of recorded lots which lack adequate width or depth as long as reasonable
living standards can be provided. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-3-8: EASEMENT OR STREET ACCESS REQUIRED:
No building shall be constructed or erected upon a lot or parcel of land which
does not abut upon a public street or permanent easement of access to a public
street, which easement shall have a minimum width of fifteen feet (15'), unless
an easement of lesser width was of record prior to the adoption of the amended
ordinance codified herein. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-3-9: VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS:
No wall, fence, or shrubbery shall be erected, maintained or planted on any lot
which unreasonably obstructs or interferes with traffic visibility on a curve
or at any street intersection. All walls, fences or other shrubbery shall be in
compliance with title 9, chapter 3 of this code. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd.
11-5-1990; amd. Ord. 2009-1, 1-5-2009)
10-3-10: START OF CONSTRUCTION PRIOR TO TITLE ADOPTION:
Nothing in this title shall be deemed to require any change in the plans,
construction or designated use of any building upon which actual construction
was lawfully begun prior to the adoption hereof and upon which building actual
construction was lawfully begun prior to the adoption hereof and upon which
building actual construction has been diligently carried on; and provided
further, that such building shall be completed within two (2) years from the
date of passage and publication hereof. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-
1990)
10-3-11: PARK OR SCHOOL SITE DESIGNATIONS:
An area indicated on the official zoning map as a public park or recreation
area, public utility area, cemetery, public school site, or semipublic open
space shall not be used for any other purpose, and when the use of the area is
discontinued, it shall automatically be zoned R-1 single- family district,
until otherwise zoned. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-3-12: ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS:
Any area annexed to the city shall, upon such annexation, be automatically
zoned R-1 single-family district, until otherwise zoned. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990
as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-3-13: TEMPORARY BUILDINGS:
"Temporary buildings" shall be defined as any structure which is not
permanently fixed to the ground. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to
all buildings regardless of whether the building is a temporary or permanent
structure. Further, all buildings both permanent and temporary shall be in
compliance with section
10-6-1 of this title.
Plans for temporary buildings and a plat therefor must be submitted and
approved by the city public works director and/or city administrator. The plan
for temporary buildings must accurately describe the materials to be used for
the construction of the temporary building. In the event that either the plans
or the materials are deemed inadequate for health, safety or aesthetic reasons,
the city public works director and/or the city administrator may reject the
plans and material specifications and require a revision or resubmission of
plans and material prior to the issuance of a permit. (Ord. 2009-1, 1-5-2009)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS; MAP
SECTION:
10-4-1: Districts Established
10-4-2: Zoning Map
10-4-1: DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
For the purpose of this Title, the City is hereby divided into the following
districts:
   A   Agricultural District
   R-1   Single-Family Residential District
   R-2   Two-Family and Multiple-Family Residential District
   HDR-1   Historical District - Single-Family Residential District
   HDB-1   Historical District - Business District
   B-1   General Business District
   B-2   Highway Business District
   I-1   Industrial District
(Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-4-2: ZONING MAP:
The boundaries of designated districts are shown upon the map made a part of
this Title, which map is designated as the Zoning Map of the City. The Zoning
Map made a part of this Title and on file in the office of City Clerk, and all
notations, references and other information shown thereon are a part of this
Title and have the same force and effect as if the Zoning Map and all such
notations, references and other information shown thereon were fully set forth
or described herein. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
CHAPTER 5
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
ARTICLE A. A AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5A-1: Intent
10-5A-2: Permitted Uses
10-5A-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-5A-4: Conditional Uses
10-5A-5: Area Regulations
10-5A-1: INTENT:
Agricultural zoning is intended to protect prime agricultural soil and valid
agricultural enterprises. It is intended to prevent or minimize conflicts
between agricultural and nonagricultural land uses. Its effect is to restrict
and control the infiltration of urban development into areas generally devoted
to agriculture so that the continuance of this activity may be assured for the
foreseeable future. It is essential that scattered, indiscriminate urban
development with areas best suited for agriculture be precluded and that
orderly urban development be facilitated. For these reasons, the following
regulations of this Article shall apply. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-
1990)
10-5A-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used and no building or
structure shall hereafter be erected, structurally altered, or enlarged except
for the following uses:
Agricultural activity, including field crops, livestock, horticulture,
nurseries, greenhouses, orchards, general farming, dairy operations, and other
farm-related activities.
Churches, cemeteries, rectories, convents and retreat centers.
Rural, nonfarm single-family dwellings are permitted on lots of record.
Schools: public, parochial, trade, and junior college.
Solar farms and gardens. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990; Ord. 4-2023,
3-6-2023)
10-5A-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Uses customarily incident to any of the listed permitted uses may be continued,
specifically the following:
Any building or structure customarily incidental to any of the aforesaid
permitted uses.
Customary home occupations including handicrafts, dressmaking, millinery,
preserving, and home cooking; provided, that such occupation shall be conducted
exclusively by resident occupants.
Parking facilities, garages, carports, or other parking spaces for the
exclusive use of the residents on the premises, and their guests.
Professional office or studio in the residence of an architect, artist,
dentist, engineer, lawyer, physician, planner, scientist, teacher, or other
member of a recognized profession, including beauty parlors, barber shops, and
preschool nurseries; provided, that not more than one-half (1/2) of the floor
area of one floor of the dwelling is devoted to such accessory use; that not
more than one person not a resident of the premises is employed; that no such
use shall require structural alterations or involve construction features not
customarily in dwellings. An unlighted nameplate not more than six (6) square
feet in area, attached flat against the building, shall be permitted.
Residence of the owner, or owners, or lessee or lessor of the land upon which
the use is conducted.
Summer houses and living quarters used by persons employed on the premises,
without kitchen facilities and not rented or otherwise used as a separate
dwelling.
Swimming pools exclusively for the use of the residents on the premises, and
their guests.
Temporary produce stands on any premises used for agricultural purposes. (Ord.
90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5A-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be established in an Agricultural District,
subject to the securing of a use permit as provided in Section
10-2-4 of this Title, "Building And Use Permits":
Automobile service stations, auto repair garage, farm implement sales and
service, food store, and other retail stores and services that are necessary to
the every day function of agricultural activity.
Extraction of coal, oil, gas, sand, gravel, and limestone in accordance with
the provisions of a reclamation plan approved by the County Board.
Fertilizer, chemical, liquid petroleum products, and bottled gas storage
operations.
Hospital, nursing home, sanitarium, and other health institutions.
Mobile home park in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 8 of this Title.
Wildlife areas, open space, country clubs, regional or County recreation areas,
and other such pastoral uses. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5A-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
In District A, all regulations concerning the height of buildings; lot areas;
lot width; front yard, side yard and rear yard dimensions shall be as shown in
the schedule in Chapter 6 of this Title. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-
1990)
ARTICLE B. R-1 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5B-1: Intent
10-5B-2: Permitted Uses
10-5B-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-5B-4: Conditional Uses
10-5B-5: Area Regulations
10-5B-1: INTENT:
The R-1 District is intended and designed to provide for low- density
residential areas now developed with single-family detached dwellings and
adjoining vacant areas likely to be developed for such purposes. The
regulations are designed to stabilize such areas and to promote a suitable
environment for family life. For these reasons, the following regulations of
this Article shall apply. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5B-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or land shall be used and no building or structure shall
hereafter be erected, structurally altered or enlarged except for the following
uses:
Cemetery.
Churches and other places of worship, including religious education centers,
rectories, convents, buildings and other associated structures.
Fire stations, only on major thoroughfares.
Funeral homes.
Mobile home parks, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 8 of this
Title.
Private, parochial, and trade schools, colleges on property which abuts on
major thoroughfares.
Public elementary schools and nursery schools.
Public parks, playgrounds, swimming pools, community centers, athletic fields,
and recreation buildings therein.
Public secondary schools.
Single-family detached dwellings. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5B-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Uses customarily incident to any of the listed permitted uses may be continued,
specifically the following:
Customary home occupations including handicraft, dressmaking, millinery,
laundry, preserving and home cooking; provided, that such occupations shall be
conducted exclusively by the resident occupant; that not more than one-half (1/
2) of the area of one floor of said residence shall be used for such purposes;
that no structural alterations or construction involving features not
customarily found in dwellings are required. An unlighted sign not more than
six (6) square feet in area, attached flat against the building, is permitted.
Private garage or carport.
Professional office or studio in the residence of an architect, artist,
dentist, engineer, lawyer, physician, planner, scientist, teacher, or other
member of a recognized profession, including beauty parlors, barber shops, and
preschool nurseries; provided, that not more than one-half (1/2) of the floor
area of the dwelling is devoted to such accessary use; that not more than one
person not a resident of the premises is employed; that no such use shall
require structural alteration or involve construction not customarily in
dwellings. An unlighted nameplate not more that six (6) square feet in area,
attached flat against the building, is permitted.
Sign. One sign not exceeding thirty six (36) square feet in area referring to
the construction, lease, or sale of a building, premises or subdivision lot.
The sign shall refer to property on which the sign is located and shall be
removed as soon as the premises is sold or leased or construction is completed.
Temporary buildings for use during the construction of a specific permitted use
which, upon completion or abandonment of the construction work, shall be
removed. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5B-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be established in an R-1 Single-Family
Residential District, subject to the securing of a use permit as provided in
Section
10-2-4 of this Title, "Building And Use Permits":
Agricultural uses, including nurseries, gardening, and greenhouses, but not
including commercial feed lots, commercial truck gardening, animal sale and
shipping facilities, animal, fish, and poultry slaughtering and dressing.
Clinics.
Hospitals or nursing homes, that not more than fifty percent (50%) of the site
area may be occupied by buildings, and the buildings shall be set back from all
required yard lines an additional foot for each foot of building height (see
table of yard regulations in Chapter 6 of this Title).
Mobile home parks in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 8 of this Title.
Private clubs, fraternities, sororities, or lodges.
Private recreation facility. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5B-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
In District R-1, all regulations concerning the height of buildings; lot area;
lot width; front yard, side yard and rear yard dimensions shall be as shown in
the schedule in Chapter 6 of this Title. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-
1990)
ARTICLE C. R-2 TWO-FAMILY AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5C-1: Intent
10-5C-2: Permitted Uses
10-5C-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-5C-4: Conditional Uses
10-5C-5: Area Regulations
10-5C-1: INTENT:
The R-2 Two-Family and Multiple-Family Residential District is designed to
allow a high-density residential development designed specifically for duplexes
or single-family dwellings in clusters or groups, commonly referred to as
"rowhouses" or "townhouses". For these reasons, the following regulations of
this Article shall apply. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5C-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure or land shall hereafter be used and no building or
structure shall hereafter be erected, structurally altered or enlarged except
for the following uses:
All uses in the R-1 Single-Family Residential District.
Duplex dwelling units.
Multiple-family dwellings for any number of families or housekeeping units,
including rowhouses; provided, that the minimum width of each individual
dwelling unit in any rowhouse, measured from interior wall to interior wall
along the exterior front wall, shall not be less than eighteen feet (18').
Professional offices and offices of financial, insurance, real estate, civic,
educational, religious, and philanthropic organizations, for single or multiple
occupancy, but excluding any display of merchandise or retail activity, barber
shops, beauty parlors, and schools of any kind with organized classes and
similar activity. All buildings shall be bona fide home office buildings with
the exception that any person may maintain an office or carry on a customary
home occupation in the dwelling used by him as his private residence, provided
such does not involve any outward evidence of such other than an unlighted sign
not over six (6) square feet in area attached flat against the building.
Single-family dwelling groups or clusters that do not collectively exceed the
total area regulations of the zoning district. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd.
11-5-1990)
10-5C-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Uses customarily incident to any of the listed permitted uses may be continued,
specifically the following:
Any accessory use or structure permitted and as regulated in the R-1 District,
and any accessory use or structure customarily incident or accessory to a
principal or conditional use in the R-2 District.
Roomers not to exceed four (4) roomers or boarders by resident family. (Ord.
90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5C-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be established in an R-2 Two-Family and
Multiple-Family Residential District subject to the securing of a use permit as
provided in Section
10-2-4 of this Title, "Building And Use Permits":
Any conditional use or structure permitted and as regulated in the R-
1 District. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5C-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
In District R-2, all regulations concerning the height of buildings; lot area;
lot width; front yard, side yard and rear yard dimensions shall be as shown in
the schedule in Chapter 6 of this Title. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-
1990)
ARTICLE D. HDR-1 HISTORICAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5D-1: Intent; Regulations
10-5D-1: INTENT; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Intent: This District has been determined by the Illinois State
Historical Society to have special historical or architectural significance.
   B.   Regulations: The regulations for this District will be the same as R-
1 Single-Family Residential District, with the exception of mobile home parks
as listed in Section
10-5B-2 of this Title. There will be no mobile homes allowed in this historical
district. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
ARTICLE E. HDB-1 HISTORICAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5E-1: Intent; Regulations
10-5E-1: INTENT; REGULATIONS:
   A.   Intent: This District has been determined by the Illinois State
Historical Society to have special historical or architectural significance.
   B.   Regulations: The regulations for this District will be the same as B-
1 General Business District. No mobile homes shall be allowed in this District.
(Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
ARTICLE F. B-1 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5F-1: Intent
10-5F-2: Permitted Uses
10-5F-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-5F-4: Conditional Uses
10-5F-5: Area Regulations
10-5F-6: Mobile Homes Prohibited
10-5F-1: INTENT:
The B-1 Business District is designed primarily to accommodate business and
retail centers which are not designed according to an overall plan or are not
under a single entity. The B-1 District should provide for a variety of retail
activities and could act as a banking and financial center, as an entertainment
and hotel center, or as a center for professional and business offices. For
these reasons, the following regulations of this article shall apply. (Ord. 90-
3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5F-2: PERMITTED USES:
No buildings, structures, or land shall hereafter be used and no building or
structure shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered or enlarged except
for the following uses:
Banks and savings and loan companies.
Barbershops and beauty parlors.
Bowling alleys.
Brew pub.
Bus terminal facilities.
   Clothing or wearing apparel shops.
Food processing.
Gasoline service stations and repair and service shops for motor vehicles.
   Grocery stores, supermarkets, and drugstores.
   Hotels.
Laundries, dry cleaning establishments and self-service laundries.
   Medical cannabis dispensing organizations.
Microbrewery.
   Offices for public or private use.
   Post offices and government buildings.
   Public and private parking lots.
Residential uses in upper floors of multi-story buildings.
   Restaurants.
   Shoe repair shops.
   Theaters.
   Wholesale and warehousing establishments.
Any other retail uses. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990; amd. Ord. 2014-
4, 7-2-2014; Ord. 2015-05, 8-10-2015)
10-5F-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Uses customarily incident to any of the listed permitted uses may be continued,
specifically the following:
Accessory uses in structures customarily accessory to and incidental to any of
the foregoing permitted B-1 District uses.
Outdoor advertising for service stations or parking lots and other
predominantly open commercial land uses to the extent that one freestanding
identification sign not to exceed twenty feet (20') in height may be included.
Such sign shall be set back not less than twelve feet (12') from any right-of-
way line and shall not project over any such right-of-way. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-
1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5F-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be established in a B-1 Business District,
subject to the securing of a use permit as provided in section
10-2-4, "Building And Use Permits", of this title:
   Building repair and maintenance services.
Commercial art studios, animal hospitals and veterinary clinics.
   Construction companies and yards.
Trade or business schools; provided, that the machinery used for instruction is
not objectionable due to smoke, noise, fumes, odor, or vibrations. (Ord. 90-3,
9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5F-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
In the B-1 District, all regulations concerning height of buildings; lot areas;
lot width; front yard, side yard and rear yard dimensions shall be as shown in
the schedule in chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-
1990)
10-5F-6: MOBILE HOMES PROHIBITED:
There will be no mobile homes allowed in this district. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990
as amd. 11-5-1990)
ARTICLE G. B-2 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5G-1: Intent
10-5G-2: Permitted Uses
10-5G-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-5G-4: Conditional Uses
10-5G-5: Area Regulations
10-5G-1: INTENT:
The B-2 highway business district is designed to encourage the functional
grouping of those commercial enterprises catering primarily to either "local"
or "through" highway travelers and to prevent, therein, location of other uses
incompatible with these. For these reasons, the following regulations of this
article shall apply. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5G-2: PERMITTED USES:
No buildings, structures or land shall hereafter be used and no building or
structure shall hereafter be erected, structurally altered, or enlarged except
for the following uses:
Any permitted use in the B-1 business district, except sign height shall not
exceed seventy feet (70').
   Automobile sales and service.
Farm implements and agricultural sales and service establishments, including
feed, fertilizer, seeds and petroleum products.
   Medical cannabis cultivation centers.
   Medical cannabis dispensing organizations.
Motels, motor-hotels, and other establishments offering commercial lodging.
Restaurants and drive-in eating and drinking establishments.
Stadiums, arenas, dance halls, skating rinks and other places of assembly.
(Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990; amd. 1997 Code; Ord. 2014-4, 7-2-2014)
10-5G-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Uses customarily incident to any of the listed permitted uses may be continued,
specifically the following:
Any accessory use or structure customarily incident and accessory to any of the
foregoing permitted B-2 district uses. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5G-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be established in a B-2 highway business
district, subject to the securing of a use permit as provided in section
10-2-4, "Building And Use Permits", of this title:
Contractors' yards and related builders' supply establishments.
Junkyards and salvage yards. Any junkyard or salvage yard which offers to the
public at retail any new or used merchandise shall provide at least two (2)
parking spaces per one hundred (100) square feet of retail floor space.
Outdoor amusement and recreational enterprises, including, but not limited to,
drive-in theaters, fairgrounds, and auto tracks.
Truck terminals and bus stations. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5G-5: AREA REGULATIONS:
In district B-2, all regulations concerning the height of buildings; lot area;
lot width; front yard, side yard and rear yard dimensions; off street loading
permitted on any lot shall be as shown in the schedule in chapter 6 of this
title unless otherwise stated more restrictively in other chapters or articles
of this title. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
ARTICLE H. I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
SECTION:
10-5H-1: Intent
10-5H-2: Permitted Uses
10-5H-3: Permitted Accessory Uses
10-5H-4: Conditional Uses
10-5H-5: Special Regulations
10-5H-6: Area Regulations
10-5H-1: INTENT:
The I-1 industrial district is established to provide areas for manufacturing,
light industrial, and related commercial operations and the primary use of
land. Such uses may have some adverse effects on surrounding properties and are
not compatible with residential, institutional and retail uses. Heavy truck
traffic, loading and unloading operations are expected to be part of this
district. For these reasons, the following regulations of this article shall
apply. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5H-2: PERMITTED USES:
No building, structure, or land shall be used and no building or structure
shall hereafter be erected, structurally altered or enlarged except for the
following uses:
   Automobile and truck service stations.
   Blacksmith shops, welding shops, and machine shops.
   Industrial research laboratories.
Living quarters for bona fide caretakers and/or watchmen and their families.
All other dwelling or living quarters are expressly prohibited.
   Lumberyards.
   Medical cannabis cultivation centers.
Railroad yards, truck terminals, river port facilities and other facilities
needed for the normal operations of the industrial plants.
Retail commercial establishments which are a necessary convenience to the
industries and their employees.
   Sanitary landfills and rendering plants.
   Stockyards.
Structures and facilities for assembly, baking, blending, bottling, canning,
compounding, crafting, distillation, enameling, finishing, manufacturing,
parking, printing, processing, refining, and storage of materials and products.
(Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990; amd. Ord. 2014-4, 7-2-2014)
10-5H-3: PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES:
Uses customarily incident to any of the listed permitted uses may be continued,
specifically the following:
Accessory uses clearly incident to a permitted use and which would not create a
nuisance or hazard. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5H-4: CONDITIONAL USES:
The following conditional uses may be established in an I-1 industrial district
subject to the securing of a use permit as provided in section
10-2-4, "Building And Use Permits", of this title:
   Forge or foundry works.
   Incinerators.
   Motor vehicle assembly.
   Slag piles.
Steam power plant, except where accessory to a permitted principal use.
Structure and facilities for the manufacture of acid, asbestos, brick pottery,
tile, terra cotta, candles, starch, glucose, disinfectant, insecticide, poison,
sandpaper, jet engines, line or line products, paper and pulp, and excelsior
wood fiber and sawdust products.
Any other use which is determined by the planning commission to be of the same
general character, with respect to the emission of dangerous and offensive
elements, as the uses listed above. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5H-5: SPECIAL REGULATIONS:
   A.   Processing And Storage Within Building: All processing and storage
shall take place within completely enclosed buildings.
   B.   Open Storage; Exception: Storage, auxiliary to the principal use, is
permitted in the open if such storage activities occupy no more than twenty
percent (20%) of the gross lot area.
   C.   Fencing And Screening: Screening shall be provided at lot boundaries
abutting a residential zoning district, and may consist of solid fencing, or
dense hedge or shrubs to a minimum of six feet (6') in height. (Ord. 90-3, 9-
12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
10-5H-6: AREA REGULATIONS:
In district I-1, all regulations concerning the height of buildings; lot areas;
lot width; front yard, side yard, and rear yard dimensions shall be as shown in
the schedule in chapter 6 of this title. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-
1990)
CHAPTER 6
SCHEDULE OF ZONING DISTRICT HEIGHT, LOT SIZES AND YARD REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Schedule Of Regulations
10-6-1: SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS:
 
District Maximum Height Minimum Lot Sizes
                        <Area   Width>
A        N/A            N/A           600 feet
R-1      35 feet        6,000 sq. ft. 60 feet
R-2      40 feet        one family    60 feet
                      7,200 sq. ft.  
                      multi-family  75 feet
                      8,000 sq. ft.  
B-1      60 feet        None          None
B-2      40 feet        None          None
HDR-1    35 feet        6,000 sq. ft. 60 feet
HDB-1    60 feet        None          None
I-1      50 feet        None          None
 
 
District    Minimum Yard Requirements As Measured From Property Line
         <Front*   Side   Rear>
A        50 feet 20 feet 50 feet
R-1      30 feet 10 feet 10 feet
R-2      35 feet 10 feet 45 feet
B-1      None    None    None
B-2      None    None    None
HDR-1    30 feet 10 feet 30 feet
HDB-1    None    None    None
I-1      50 feet 5 feet  50 feet
*If house is on corner lot, the front is considered the street address side
of the dwelling.
 
(Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 7
NONCONFORMING USES
SECTION:
10-7-1: Continuation Of Use; Conditions
10-7-1: CONTINUATION OF USE; CONDITIONS:
The lawful use of land or buildings existing at the time of the adoption of the
Ordinance codified in this Title may continue although such use does not
conform to the regulations specified by this Title for the district in which
such land or building is located, subject to the following conditions and
specifications:
   A.   Time Limit For Conformance: A nonconforming use of land (outside of a
building) shall be made to conform to the provisions of this Zoning Title
within a period of two (2) years after adoption of the Ordinance codified in
this Title.
   B.   Discontinuance Or Abandonment Of Use: Any nonconforming use of land or
building which has ceased by discontinuance or abandonment for a period of one
year shall thereafter conform to the provisions of this Title. (Ord. 90-3, 9-
12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
   C.   Restoration Of Damaged Buildings: Any nonconforming building which has
been destroyed or damaged by fire, explosion, act of God, or by a public enemy
to the extent of fifty percent (50%) or more of its assessed valuation, shall
thereafter conform to the provisions of this Title. Where more than forty
percent (40%) of the assessed value of the building remains after such damage,
such structure may be restored to the same nonconforming use as existed before
such damage. (Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990; 1997 Code)
   D.   Moving To Another Area: No nonconforming use of a building may be moved
to any other part or parcel of land upon which same was conducted at the time
of the adoption of the Ordinance codified in this Title.
   E.   Alteration Or Enlargement: No nonconforming building shall be enlarged
or structurally altered except to make it a conforming building. A
nonconforming use of a building existing at the time of the adoption of the
Ordinance codified in this Title may be extended throughout the building,
provided no structural alterations, except those required by ordinance or law
are made therein, and provided approval is granted by the City Council.
   F.   Change Of Use: The use of a nonconforming building may be changed only
to a use of like or similar character, or to a use conforming to the district
in which the property is located.
   G.   Application Of Provisions: The foregoing provisions shall also apply to
nonconforming uses in districts hereafter changed by amendment to this Title.
(Ord. 90-3, 9-12-1990 as amd. 11-5-1990)
CHAPTER 8
MOBILE HOME PARKS
SECTION:
10-8-1: Definition
10-8-2: Scope
10-8-3: Existing Mobile Homes
10-8-4: Minimum Regulations
10-8-5: Permit Requirements
10-8-6: Environmental, Open Space And Access Requirements
10-8-7: Utilities
10-8-8: Alterations, Anchorage And Occupancy
10-8-9: Exclusions
10-8-10: Annual Inspection
10-8-11: Appeals; Hearings
10-8-12: Penalty
10-8-1: DEFINITION:
As used in this Chapter, the term "mobile home" means a structure designed for
permanent habitation and so constructed as to permit its transport on wheels,
temporarily or permanently attached to its frame, from the place of its
construction to the location, or subsequent locations, at which it is intended
to be a permanent habitation and designed to permit the occupancy thereof as a
dwelling place for one or more persons, but shall not include such structures
which exceed sixteen feet (16') in width and would otherwise fall within this
definition of structures commonly referred to as "modular homes". (Ord. 96-3,
8-5-1996)
10-8-2: SCOPE:
This Chapter shall be considered a conditional use provision, and provides for
the following:
   A.   Defining and regulating mobile home parks;
   B.   Establishing minimum standards governing the construction of mobile
home parks;
   C.   Establishing minimum standards governing the provided utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions of making mobile home parks
safe, sanitary, and fit for human habitation;
   D.   Fixing the responsibilities and duties of owners and operators of
mobile home parks. (Ord. 96-3, 8-5-1996)
10-8-3: EXISTING MOBILE HOMES:
Any mobile home moved into the City limits must be in a mobile home court. Any
existing mobile homes will be grandfathered into the regulations of this
Chapter, as will any existing mobile home lots, as long as ownership of the lot
does not change. When ownership of a lot changes, the mobile home on the lot
may remain on the lot as long as it is kept in good condition. Once that mobile
home is removed, no other mobile home may be placed on that lot. (Ord. 96-3, 8-
5-1996)
10-8-4: MINIMUM REGULATIONS:
Each park to be constructed under the provisions of this Title shall adhere to
the minimum regulations as are required by the Illinois State Department of
Health regulating mobile home park sanitation. The Department of Health
regulations establish health, sanitation and safety standards for all parks in
Illinois. (Ord. 96-3, 8-5-1996)
10-8-5: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Application For Permit: In order to obtain a conditional use permit to
construct a new mobile home park or an addition to an existing mobile home
park, the applicant shall file with the Zoning Administrator a written
application setting forth:
      1.   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants.
      2.   Location and legal description of the tract of land, certified on a
plat of a survey by an approved registered land surveyor drawn to scale of one
inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), or larger.
      3.   The proposed and existing facilities in the park for water supply,
for sewage, for garbage and waste disposal, for fire protection, and for a
sanitary community building which will include a description of toilets,
urinals, sinks, wash basins, slop sinks, showers, drains and laundry
facilities, the proposed alterations therein, and the maintenance thereof.
      4.   The proposed method of lighting the structures and land upon which
the park is to be located.
      5.   The plans of the park drawn on a scale of one inch equals fifty feet
(1" = 50'), containing, among other things, the following:
         a.   The date on which such plot plans were prepared.
         b.   An arrow indicating north direction.
         c.   All mobile home sites shall be properly numbered on the plot
plans.
         d.   Complete information regarding storm sewers.
         e.   Storm water runoff shall be shown on a separate plat.
         f.   Grades of driveway and all ditches shall be shown on a separate
plat.
         g.   Contour lines with intervals of not more than five feet (5')
where the slope is greater than ten percent (10%), and not more than two feet
(2') where the slope is less than ten percent (10%) shall be shown on a
separate plat, and the United States Geological Survey data shall be used for
the preparation of such a plat. (Ord. 96-3, 8-5-1996)
   B.   Application Review:
      1.   Upon receipt of an application for a zoning permit to construct a
park, the Zoning Administrator shall, if the park is or the proposed park will
be in conformity with this Title, issue a permit to construct. If the
application for a permit to construct is declined, the Zoning Administrator
shall give the reasons therefor in writing to the applicant; and if the
objections can be corrected, the applicant may amend his application and re-
submit it for approval.
      2.   No person shall provide or install a mobile home park until the
plans thereof have been submitted to and approved by the State Department of
Health.
      3.   No change in any sanitary facilities, methods of water supply,
sewer, drainage and garbage or waste disposal, and no change in the plot plan
shall be made without first making a written application to the Zoning
Administrator and receiving a permit therefrom.
      4.   Such a permit does not relieve the applicant from securing any other
permit or certificate or from complying with any other ordinances of the City.
      5.   No mobile homes manufactured before 1965 shall be permitted to be
placed in any mobile home park.
   C.   Permit Required; Fee:
      1.   No person shall construct a mobile home park without first obtaining
a zoning permit to do so. Each certificate and permit to construct, and each
certificate or permit to make alterations therein shall be prominently
displayed in the office of the mobile home park for which the same was issued.
      2.   In addition to the application fee provided for herein, the
permittee shall pay to the Zoning Administrator on or before January 1 of each
year an annual license fee which shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
mobile home space in the park.
      3.   Each permit fee shall be paid to the Zoning Administrator by a
separate certified check or United States money order in the amount of the
license fee only, and any license fee or any part thereof once paid to and
accepted by the Zoning Administrator shall not be refunded if the license is
granted. The Zoning Administrator shall deposit all funds received under this
Title with the City Clerk.
   D.   License Transfer: Licenses issued hereunder apply only to the premises
described in the application and in the license issued thereon, and only one
location shall be so described in each license. A license which has been issued
to a person may not be transferred to any other person without written consent
of the Zoning Administrator. However, the Zoning Administrator may not withhold
such consent where the provisions of this Title have been met.
   E.   Permit Revocation: Any license granted hereunder shall be subject to
revocation by the Zoning Administrator. However, the Zoning Administrator shall
first serve or cause to be served upon the permittee a written notice in which
shall be specified the way or ways in which such permittee has failed to comply
with this Title. Said notice shall require the permittee to remove or abate
such nuisance, unsanitary or objectionable condition specified in such notice
within a reasonable time. If the permittee fails to comply with the terms and
conditions of said notice within a reasonable time, the Zoning Administrator
may revoke or suspend such license. (Ord. 96-3, 8-5-1996)
10-8-6: ENVIRONMENTAL, OPEN SPACE AND ACCESS REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Location And Land Specifications: Every park to be constructed under
the provisions of this shall provide for the following in the manner specified:
      1.   No park shall be so located that the drainage of the park area will
endanger any water supply. All such parks shall be well drained and shall be
located in areas free from ponds, swamps, and similar places in which
mosquitoes may breed. No wastewater from mobile homes shall be deposited on the
surface of the ground, except State-approved systems may be used.
      2.   All land proposed for mobile home parks shall be adequately
protected against flooding.
      3.   The tract of land involved shall be an area of not less than one
acre.
      4.   Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of every park shall be paved or
covered with stone screenings or other solid material or protected with a grass
or sod growth that is capable of preventing soil erosion and the emanation of
dust during dry weather.
   B.   Nuisance Conditions Prohibited: All parks shall be maintained free of
nuisances such as excessive heat, glare, vibration, smoke, toxic matter,
radiation and fire or explosive hazards.
   C.   Swimming Pools:
      1.   Fence Enclosures: Swimming pools shall be screened, fenced, or
secured when not in active use to prevent injury. Fencing or other artificial
enclosures shall completely enclose the pool area.
      2.   Construction And Maintenance: Swimming pools shall be constructed
and maintained in accordance with the requirements of the State Department of
Public Health.
   D.   Density And Separation: Required mobile home density and separations
between mobile homes:
      1.   The minimum lot area per mobile home unit site within the mobile
home park shall be not less than seven thousand two hundred (7,200) square
feet.
      2.   The minimum lot width per mobile home unit site within the mobile
home park shall be sixty feet (60'). Each lot shall be clearly defined by a
permanent marker in the ground.
      3.   The minimum distance between neighboring mobile homes shall not be
less than twenty feet (20'), each home to be ten feet (10') from the boundary
line.
   E.   Setbacks And Buffer Strips: Required setbacks, buffer strips, and
screening in mobile home parks:
      1.   All mobile homes shall be located as follows from any park boundary
line abutting upon a public street or highway:
         a.   One hundred foot (100') setback on Federal highways.
         b.   Fifty foot (50') setback on State highways.
         c.   Thirty five foot (35') setback on all County, township, or City
roads, or streets.
         d.   At least ten feet (10') from other park boundary lines.
      2.   All mobile home sites shall provide a front yard of not less than
thirty feet (30') measured from the edge of the pavement.
   F.   Park Street System:
      1.   All parks shall provide safe, continuous and convenient vehicular
access from abutting public streets or roads to each mobile home space. For
purposes of this Chapter, all streets shall hereinafter be referred to as "park
street system" and shall be maintained by the owner/owners, or dedicated to the
City.
      2.   The primary entrance road connecting the park street system with a
public street or road shall have a minimum road pavement width of thirty six
feet (36') where guest parking is permitted at both sides, or a minimum road
pavement width of thirty feet (30') where parking is limited to one side.
      3.   In addition to the required primary entrance road, all parks
containing twenty five (25) acres in total area and/or providing for the
accommodation of two hundred (200) or more mobile homes shall have at least one
secondary entrance road connecting the park street system with a public street
or road. Such secondary road or roads shall have a minimum pavement width of
twenty five feet (25'). Where primary and secondary entrance roads connect to
the same public street or road, there shall be minimum separation of one
hundred fifty feet (150') between such access points. Where this is not
feasible or possible, clearly marked one-way entrance and exit lanes with at
least a fifteen foot (15') wide median strip is acceptable, provided the
pavement width of each one- way road is at least twenty five feet (25').
      4.   The minimum road width of interior one-way streets with parking
permitted on one side shall be at least twenty one feet (21'). The minimum road
width of two-way streets with parking permitted on one side shall be thirty
feet (30'). The minimum width of two-way streets without parking permitted
shall be twenty feet (20'). Dead-end streets shall be limited in length to five
hundred feet (500') and shall be provided at the closed end with a turnaround
having an outside roadway diameter of at least one hundred twenty feet (120').
      5.   All streets shall be improved with an asphaltic concrete surface,
concrete or some comparable all-weather dustless material.
   G.   Required Off-Street Parking: Off-street parking shall be provided in
all parks for the use of park occupants and guests. Such areas shall be
furnished at the rate of at least one off-street parking space for each mobile
home park lot and one additional space for each four (4) such lots to
accommodate guests. A minimum of one hard surfaced, off- street parking space
for each mobile home shall be provided on each mobile home site.
   H.   Existing Mobile Home Parks: Any mobile home park which existed upon the
effective date of the Ordinance codified in this Title shall be regarded as a
nonconforming use and may be continued, except that any change in layout,
expansion, or extension shall be subject to all provisions of this Chapter and
the Illinois Department of Health.
   I.   Restrictions:
      1.   Mobile homes shall only be placed in the R-1 District.
      2.   No mobile homes will be allowed one hundred twenty feet (120') from
the right of way of the following streets:
      Bainbridge Street.
      Decatur Street.
      Main Street.
      Mortimer Street.
      Rodgers Street. (Ord. 96-3, 8-5-1996)
10-8-7: UTILITIES:
   A.   Electric Outlets: An electrical outlet supplying three (3) wire 110-220
volts shall be provided for each mobile home space. Such outlet shall be
equipped with an externally operated fuse switch of not less than one hundred
(100) amperes capacity and a heavy duty outlet receptacle. Each mobile home
space shall be separately grounded.
   B.   Backflow Valve: All buildings and residences must be equipped with a
backflow valve.
   C.   Water Supply System: Each park shall have a water supply system capable
of providing a sufficient supply of potable water under adequate pressure to
all mobile homes, service buildings, fire hydrants, drinking fountains, and
other accessory facilities. Such system shall be designed, constructed and
maintained in accordance with the State standards of Illinois Department of
Health and/or standards currently enforced by local departments.
   D.   Sewage And Waste Disposal System: All sewage and other water-carried
waste shall be disposed of into a common sewage system. All provided sewage
systems shall be constructed in conformity with all laws of the State of
Illinois, regulation of any department, division or board of the State of
Illinois, and any other ordinance of the local governing body relative thereto.
Each trailer or mobile home site shall be provided with a sewer connection for
the combined liquid waste outlet or outlets of each mobile home. It shall be
the duty of the owner or operator of said mobile home park to provide an
approved type of water and odortight connection from the mobile home water
drainage to the sewer connection, and it shall be the duty of said owner or
operator to make such connection and keep all occupied mobile homes connected
to said sewer while located in a mobile home park. Sewer connections on
unoccupied mobile home sites shall be so closed that they will not emit odors
or cause a breeding place for flies. No water or waste shall be allowed to fall
on the ground from a mobile home.
   E.   Garbage Containers: A sufficient number of adequate fly-proof and
watertight containers shall be supplied for the storage of garbage.
      1.   Garbage containers shall be emptied at least once a week and shall
not be filled to overflowing, or allowed to become foul smelling, or a breeding
place for flies.
      2.   Garbage and rubbish shall be disposed of in a manner which creates
neither a nuisance nor a menace to health and which is approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      3.   Adequate insect and rodent control measures shall be employed. All
buildings shall be fly- and rodent-proof and rodent harborages shall not be
permitted to exist in the park. (Ord. 96-3, 8-5-1996)
10-8-8: ALTERATIONS, ANCHORAGE AND OCCUPANCY:
   A.   Compliance With Regulations: All building, plumbing, heating, air-
conditioning, and electrical alterations or repairs in mobile home parks and
individual mobile homes therein shall be made in accordance with applicable
local regulations for R-1.
   B.   Permits Required: No permanent or semi-permanent structures shall be
affixed to any mobile home, nor shall any accessory structure be permitted on
any mobile home lot, except those structures designed for use with a mobile
home, such as: canopy, carport, awning, any expansion unit or other accessory
structure specifically manufactured for mobile homes, unless a permit to do so
is obtained from the Zoning Administrator, as required for the construction of
a new building.
   C.   Concrete Runways: Each mobile home site shall have two (2) reinforced
concrete runways for the mobile home to set upon. Each of said runways shall be
not less than three feet (3') in width. The distance between the center lines
of the two (2) runways, situated on each mobile home site, shall be at least
four and one-half feet (41/2'). The concrete depth of each runway shall be no
less than four inches (4"), and the runway must be no less than equal to the
length of the mobile home.
   D.   Anchoring And Skirting: All mobile homes shall be anchored in an
approved manner at each corner of the structure to gain maximum protection
against high velocity winds. In addition, all mobile home units shall be
installed with approved skirting. Wheels, axles, and tongues of all mobile
homes must be removed.
   E.   Storage Structures: Small storage structures are permissible within ten
feet (10') of mobile homes, provided they are:
      1.   Not larger than eight feet by ten feet (8' x 10') in floor area and
not more than six feet (6') in height.
      2.   Constructed entirely of fireproof materials such as sheet metal.
      3.   Capable of being completely and easily disassembled and are readily
portable.
      4.   Used only for storage purposes.
      5.   Not attached to a mobile home and not used as an auxiliary room, or
otherwise used for dwelling or living purposes.
      6.   So constructed and maintained that a rat harborage is not created.
   F.   Storage Cupboards: Small storage cupboards, if neatly and substantially
constructed, shall also be considered permissible within ten feet (10') of
mobile homes, even when constructed of nonfireproof materials, provided they
are:
      1.   Serviced without walking into the structure.
      2.   Equipped with shelves so arranged as to prevent a person stepping or
walking into the structure.
      3.   Do not create a rat harborage.
      4.   Placed no closer than fifty feet (50') from any street.
   G.   Mobile Home Occupancy: Occupancy of the mobile home shall be limited to
the design capacity of the mobile home. This is established by the number of
sleeping spaces provided in the mobile home.
   H.   Connection To Sewer: No mobile home shall remain in a mobile home park
for a period exceeding fifteen (15) days without connection to the permanent
sanitary sewer system of the park.
   I.   Temporary Parking: Emergency or temporary stopping or parking of a
mobile home shall be permitted on any street, alley or highway for not longer
than eight (8) hours, subject to any other prohibitions, regulations, or
limitations imposed by the traffic and parking regulations or ordinances for
such street, alley or highway. (Ord. 96-3, 8-5-1996)
10-8-9: EXCLUSIONS:
Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed to include the State parks of
Illinois, and the term "mobile home park" shall not be construed to include
buildings, tents, or other structures maintained by any individual or company
on their own premises and used exclusively to house their own farm labor; or
any military establishment of the United States or of this State wherein a
mobile home(s) may be located or harbored; or any park on State or County
fairgrounds for a period during, immediately prior to, and immediately
subsequent to the holding of the fair, not to exceed a total of two (2) weeks
in all; or the area or premises on any farm upon which are harbored mobile
homes occupied by persons employed on such farm for not more than ninety (90)
days in any calendar year in the production, harvesting or processing of
agricultural products produced on such farm. (Ord. 96-3, 8-5-1996)
10-8-10: ANNUAL INSPECTION:
The Zoning Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this Chapter and shall
inspect, at least once each year, each mobile home park and all the
accommodations and facilities therein. The Zoning Administrator is hereby
granted the power and authority to enter upon the premises of such mobile home
park at any time for the purposes herein set forth. (Ord. 96-3, 8-5-1996)
10-8-11: APPEALS; HEARINGS:
Any person refused a license or a permit to construct or alter a mobile home
park, or whose license is suspended or revoked, shall have the right to a
hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall
have full power to conduct each hearing, issue subpoenas, administer oaths and
affirmations and all other powers necessary to such hearing.
   A.   Hearings Open To The Public: All hearings before the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be open to the public.
   B.   Minutes Of Proceedings: The Zoning Board of Appeals shall keep minutes
of the proceedings showing its determination and shall also keep records of its
other official actions.
   C.   Notice Of Hearing: No hearing shall be held before the Zoning Board of
Appeals until notice of the time and place of the hearing have been published
in a newspaper of general circulation in the City at least fifteen (15) days
prior to the hearing date, said notice to contain the particular location of
the mobile home park and a brief statement as to the reason the hearing is
being held. (Ord. 96-3, 8-5-1996)
10-8-12: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. Each day's violation shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 96-3, 8-5-1996; 1997 Code)
CHAPTER 9
SOLAR ENERGY CODE
SECTION:
10-9-1: Purpose
10-9-2: Definitions
10-9-3: Ground Mount And Roof Mount Solar Energy Systems
10-9-4: Building Integrated Solar Energy Systems
10-9-5: Community Solar Gardens
10-9-6: Commercial/Large Scale Solar Farm
10-9-7: Compliance With Building Code
10-9-8: Liability Insurance
10-9-9: Administration And Enforcement
10-9-10: Solar Energy System Building Permit Fees
10-9-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Chapter is to facilitate the construction, installation,
and operation of Solar Energy Systems in the City in a manner that promotes
economic development and ensures the protection of health, safety, and welfare
while also avoiding adverse impacts on adjoining property or on the
environment. It is the intent of this ordinance to encourage the development of
Solar Energy Systems that reduce reliance on foreign and out-of-state energy
resources, bolster local economic development and job creation. This Chapter is
not intended to abridge safety, health or environmental requirements contained
in other applicable codes, standards, or ordinances. (Ord. 3-2023, 3-6-2023)
10-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
                                   As applied to a building, structure, or
                                   use, one which is on the same lot with,
                                   incidental to and subordinate to the
ACCESSORY:                         main or principal structure or use and
                                   which is used for purposes customarily
                                   incidental to the main or principal
                                   structure, or the main or principal use.
                                   A solar energy system that integrates
BUILDING INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY   photovoltaic modules into the building
SYSTEM:                            structure as the roof or facade and
                                   which does not alter the relief of the
                                   roof.
                                   A utility scale commercial facility
                                   (larger than 5 acres) that converts
                                   sunlight to electricity, whether by
                                   photovoltaics, concentrating solar
COMMERCIAL/LARGE SCALE SOLAR FARM: thermal devices, or various experimental
                                   technologies for onsite or offsite use
                                   with the primary purpose of selling
                                   wholesale or retail generated
                                   electricity.
                                   A community solar-electric
                                   (photovoltaic) array, of no more than
                                   five (5) acres in size, that provides
COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDEN:            retail electric power (or financial
                                   proxy for retail power) to multiple
                                   households or businesses residing in or
                                   located off-site from the location of
                                   the solar energy system.
                                   A solar energy system that is directly
GROUND MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM:  installed onto the ground and is not
                                   attached or affixed to an existing
                                   structure.
                                   A solar energy system that produces
                                   electricity by the use of semiconductor
PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM:               devices, called photovoltaic cells, that
                                   generate electricity whenever light
                                   strikes them.
                                   A trained and qualified electrical
                                   professional who has the skills and
                                   knowledge related to the construction
QUALIFIED SOLAR INSTALLER:         and operation of solar electrical
                                   equipment and installations and has
                                   received safety training on the hazards
                                   involved.
                                   A solar energy system in which solar
                                   panels are mounted on top of a building
ROOF MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM:    roof as either a flush mounted system or
                                   as modules fixed to frames which can be
                                   tilted toward the south at an optimal
                                   angle.
                                   A device, structure or part of a device
                                   or structure for which the primary
SOLAR COLLECTOR:                   purpose is to transform solar radiant
                                   energy into thermal, mechanical,
                                   chemical or electrical energy.
                                   Radiant energy received from the sun
SOLAR ENERGY:                      that can be collected in the form of
                                   heat or light by a solar collector.
                                   The components and subsystems required
                                   to convert solar energy into electric or
                                   thermal energy suitable for use. The
                                   area of the system includes all the land
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES):         inside the perimeter of the system,
                                   which extends to any fencing. The term
                                   applies, but is not limited to, solar
                                   photovoltaic systems, solar thermal
                                   systems and solar hot water systems.
                                   A component of a solar energy device
SOLAR STORAGE BATTERY/UNIT:        that is used to store solar generated
                                   electricity or heat for later use.
                                   Solar thermal systems that directly heat
                                   water or other liquid using sunlight.
SOLAR THERMAL SYSTEMS:             The heated liquid is used for such
                                   purposes as space heating and cooling,
                                   domestic hot water and heating pool
                                   water. (Ord. 3-2023, 3-6-2023)
 
10-9-3: GROUND MOUNT AND ROOF MOUNT SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
   A.   Roof Mount Solar Energy Systems designed to serve only the occupants of
the parcel on which they are located and placed on the roof of a principal
structure shall not require a special use. Roof Mount Solar Energy Systems
designed to serve only the occupants of the parcel on which they are located
and placed on the roof of an accessory structure shall require a special use.
Ground Mount Solar Energy Systems shall not be permitted. Such systems are
accessory structures allowed only on zoning lots with a principal structure. An
application shall be submitted to the City Administrator demonstrating
compliance with all applicable provisions of the City Code and with the
following requirements:
      1.   Height:
         a.   Roof mount solar energy systems placed on a principal structure
shall not exceed the height of the principal structure on the zoning lot where
the system is located.
         b.   Roof mount solar energy systems placed on an accessory structure
shall not exceed the height of the accessory structure on the zoning lot where
the system is located.
      2.   Mounting on Pitched Roofs: Roof mount solar energy systems on
pitched roofs shall not be permitted to tilt or rotate at a slope greater or
less than the roof to which it is attached. Such roof mount solar energy
systems cannot extend more than eight inches (8'*) from the roof surface to
which it is attached.
      3.   Mounting on Flat Roofs: Roof mount solar energy systems on flat
roofs on residential or non-residential structures shall not extend more than
two feet (2f) vertically or extend above the building parapet, whichever is
less.
      4.   Setback: The collector surface and mounting devises for roof mount
systems shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which
the system is mounted or built. Exterior piping for solar systems generating
heated water may extend beyond the perimeter of the building on a side yard
exposure.
      5.   Roof Coverage: Roof mount solar energy systems shall not occupy more
than fifty percent (50%) of the aggregate square footage of the roof area. If a
roof mount solar energy system is installed on multiple roofs on the same
structure, the coverage on any one (1) roof side shall not occupy more than
thirty percent (30%) of the total square footage of that particular roof side
on which the roof mount is located and shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of
the aggregate square footage of the roofs on which the roof mounts are located.
The roof shall be considered a part of a building completely covering and
permanently attached to such building and can be flat or pitched. Any roof that
has a pitch of more than 1.5 inches in 12 inches shall be considered a separate
roof side.
      6.   Reflection Angies: Reflection angles for solar collectors shall be
oriented such that they do not project glare onto adjacent properties.
      7.   Visibility: Solar energy systems shall be located in a manner to
reasonably minimize view blockage for surrounding properties and shading of
property to the north while still providing adequate solar access for
collectors. They shall be designed to blend into the architecture of the
building or be screened from routine view from public rights-of-way provided
that the screening shall not affect the operation of the system.
      8.   Color: Roof mount solar energy systems shall match, as closely as
possible, the color of the roof to which it is attached.
      9.   Safety: Roof mount solar energy systems, excluding building
integrated systems, shall allow for adequate roof access for firefighting
purposes to the south facing or flat roof upon which the panels are mounted.
      10.   Approved Solar Components: Electric solar energy system components
shall have a UL listing or approved equivalent and solar hot water systems
shall have an SRCC rating.
      11.   Compliance with Building Codes: All solar energy systems shall meet
approval of any currently adopted International Building Code, National
Electric Code, and Illinois Plumbing Code.
      12.   Utility Notification: All grid-intertie solar energy systems shall
comply with the interconnection requirements of the electric utility. Off-grid
systems are exempt from this requirement.
      13.   Restrictions on Solar Energy Systems Limited: Consistent with 765
ILCS 165, no homeowner's agreements, covenants, common interest community or
other contracts between multiple property owners within a subdivision shall
prohibit or restrict homeowners from installing solar energy systems. (Ord. 3-
2023, 3-6-2023)
10-9-4: BUILDING INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS:
Building Integrated Solar Energy Systems shall be permitted in all Zoning
Districts in the City without a Special Use but shall meet the requirements of
all applicable provisions of the City Code, including the currently adopted
International Building Code. (Ord. 3-2023, 3-6-2023)
10-9-5: COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDENS:
Community Solar Gardens are allowed as a Special Use in all zoning districts
subject to the following requirements:
   A.   Community Solar Gardens may be located on rooftops.
   B.   An interconnection agreement must be completed with the electric
utility in whose service the territory the system is located.
   C.   Dimensional Standards: All solar garden related structures in newly
platted and existing subdivisions shall comply with the principal structure
setback, height, and coverage limitations for the district in which the system
is located.
   D.   Other Standards:
      1.   Ground Mount Systems shall comply with all required standards for
structures in the zoning district in which the system is located.
      2.   All solar gardens shall comply with the currently adopted
International Building Code.
      3.   All solar gardens shall comply with all other State requirements.
(Ord. 3-2023, 3-6-2023)
10-9-6: COMMERCIAL/LARGE SCALE SOLAR FARM:
Commercial/Large Scale Solar Farms shall be permitted in Ag zoned areas in the
City without a Special Use but shall meet the requirements of all applicable
provisions of the City Code. The following information shall also be submitted
as part of an application for a Commercial/Large Scale Solar Farm:
   A.   A site plan with existing conditions showing the following:
      1.   Existing property lines and property lines extending one hundred
(100) feet from the exterior boundaries including the names of adjacent
property owners and the current use of those properties.
      2.   All routes that will be used for the construction and maintenance
purposes shall be identified on the site plan. All routes for either egress or
ingress shall be shown.
      3.   Location and size of any abandoned wells, sewage treatment systems.
      4.   Existing buildings and impervious surfaces.
      5.   A contour map showing topography at two (2) foot intervals. A
contour map of surrounding properties may also be required.
      6.   Existing vegetation (list type and percent of coverage: i.e.
cropland/plowed fields, grassland, wooded areas, etc.)
      7.   Any delineated wetland boundaries.
      8.   A copy of the current FEMA FIRM maps that shows the subject property
including the one hundred (lOO)-year floor elevation and any regulated flood
protection elevation, if available.
      9.   Surface water drainage patterns.
      10.   The location of any subsurface drainage tiles.
      11.   Location and spacing of the solar collector.
      12.   Location of underground and overhead electric lines connecting the
solar farm to a building, substation or other electric load.
      13.   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building or
substations that is to be the connection point for the solar farm.
   B.   A site plan with proposed conditions showing the following:
      1.   Location and spacing of the solar panels.
      2.   Location of access roads.
      3.   Location of underground or overhead electric lines connecting the
solar farm to a building, substation, or other electric load.
      4.   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building or
substation that is to be the connection point for the solar farm.
   C.   Fencing and Weed/Grass Control
      1.   An acceptable weed/grass control plan for property inside and
outside the fenced area for the entire property shall be submitted. The
applicant and any successor shall during the operation of the Solar Farm adhere
to the weed/grass control plan.
      2.   Perimeter fencing shall be installed around the boundary of the
solar farm having a maximum height of eight (8) feet. The fence shall contain
appropriate warning signage that is posted such that it is clearly visible on
the site.
      3.   The applicant shall maintain the fence in good condition.
   D.   Manufacturer's Specifications: The manufacturer's specifications and
recommended installation methods for all major equipment, including solar
panels/collectors, mounting systems, and foundations for poles and racks.
   E.   Connection and Interconnection
      1.   A description of the method of connecting the solar array to a
building or substation.
      2.   Utility interconnection details and a copy of written notification
to the utility company requesting the proposed interconnection.
   F.   Setbacks: A minimum of fifty (50) feet must be maintained from all
property lines. Solar panels shall be kept at least one hundred (100) feet from
a residence that is not part of the parcel on which the facility is located.
   G.   Fire Protection: A fire protection plan for the construction and the
operation of the facility, and emergency access to the site.
   H.   Reflectors: All solar energy systems using a reflector to enhance solar
production shall minimize glare from the reflector affecting adjacent or nearby
properties in accordance with state solar guidelines.
   I.   Road Use Agreements: All routes on City streets that will be used for
the construction and maintenance purposes shall be identified on the site plan.
All routes for either egress or ingress need to be shown. The routing shall be
approved subject to the approval of the City Engineer, The Solar Farm or Garden
Developer shall complete and provide a preconstruction baseline survey to
determine existing road conditions for assessing potential future damage due to
development related traffic. The development shall provide a road repair plan
to ameliorate any and all damage, installation, or replacement of roads that
might be required by the developer. The developer shall provide a letter of
credit or surety bond in an amount and form approved by the City Administrator
when warranted.
   J.   Decommissioning of the Solar Farm or Garden
      1.   The Developer shall provide a decommissioning plan for the
anticipated service life of the facility or in the event the facility is
abandoned or has reached its life expectancy. If the solar farm or garden is
out of service or not producing electrical energy for a period of twelve (12)
months, it will be deemed nonoperational and decommissioning and removal of
that facility shall commence according to the decommissioning plan as provided
and approved, A cost estimate for the decommissioning of the facility shall be
prepared by a professional engineer or contractor who has expertise in the
removal of the solar farm or garden. The decommissioning cost estimate shall
explicitly detail the cost before considering any projected salvage value of
the out of service solar farm. A restoration plan shall also be provided for
the site with the application. The decommissioning plan shall include the
following:
      2.   Removal of the following within six (6) months after the farm became
nonoperational:
         a.   All solar collectors and components, above ground improvements
and outside storage.
         b.   Foundations, pads and underground electrical wires and reclaim
site to a depth of four' (4) feet below the surface of the ground.
         c.   Hazardous material from the property and dispose in accordance
with Federal and State law.
      3.   The decommissioning plan shall also include an agreement between the
applicant and the City that:
         a.   The financial resources for decommissioning shall be secured by a
Surety Bond, or cash deposited in an escrow account with an escrow agent
acceptable to the City Council.
         b.   The agreement shall establish conditions in which the funds will
be disbursed.
         c.   The City shall have access to the security for the purpose of
completing decommissioning if decommissioning is not completed by the owner of
the project within six (6) months of the end of project life or facility
abandonment.
         d.   The City shall have the right to enter the site, pursuant to
reasonable notice to effect or complete decommissioning.
         e.   The City shall have the right to seek injunctive relief to effect
or complete decommissioning, and to seek reimbursement from the owner for
decommissioning costs in excess of the amount deposited in escrow and to file a
Hen against any real estate owned by applicant or applicant's successor, or in
which they have an interest, for the amount of the excess, and to take all
steps allowed by law to enforce said lien. (Ord. 3-2023, 3-6-2023)
10-9-7: COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING CODE:
All solar energy systems shall require a permit from the Code Enforcement
Officer and shall comply with any other applicable provisions of the City Code,
State law, or Federal law. (Ord. 3-2023, 3-6-2023)
10-9-8: LIABILITY INSURANCE:
The owner operator of the solar farm shall maintain a current general liability
policy covering bodily injury and property damage and name the City as an
additional insured with limits of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00)
per occurrence and five million dollars ($5,000,000.00) in the aggregate with a
deductible of no more than five thousand dollars ($5,000.00). (Ord. 3-2023, 3-
6-2023)
10-9-9: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The City Administrator shall enforce the provisions of this chapter through
inspections on such schedule as he deems appropriate. The City Administrator
has the authority to enter upon the premises where a solar energy system is
located at any time by coordinating a reasonable time with the operator/owner
of the facility.
Any person, film or cooperation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects,
refuses to comply with, or resists enforcement of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be subject to the general penalty provisions of the City Code.
(Ord. 3-2023, 3-6-2023)
10-9-10: SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM BUILDING PERMIT FEES:
The fees for processing the applications for solar energy systems shall be as
follows:
 
0-4 kilowatts (kW-de)       $75.00
5-10 kilowatts (kW-de)      $150.00
11-50 kilowatts (kW-de)     $300.00
51-100 kilowatts (kW-de)    $500.00
101-500 kilowatts (kW-de)   $1,000.00
501-1000 kilowatts (kW-de)  $3,000.00
1001-2000 kilowatts (kW-de) $5,000.00
 
(Ord. 3-2023, 3-6-2023)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
PURPOSE AND INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
11-1-1: Title
11-1-2: Intent And Purpose
11-1-3: Geographic Jurisdiction
11-1-4: General Provisions
11-1-5: Interpretation
11-1-1: TITLE:
This title shall be known and may be cited and referred to as the SUBDIVISION
REGULATIONS FOR THE CITY OF BARRY, ILLINOIS. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-1-2: INTENT AND PURPOSE:
This title is adopted for the following purposes:
   A.   To provide one of several means for carrying out the intent of the
evolving comprehensive plan and thus ensure sound, harmonious development and
city growth.
   B.   To provide a procedure for a sound working relationship between the
city and developer and to safeguard the interests of the homeowner, the
subdivider, the investor and the city.
   C.   To ensure that the cost of design and installation of improvements in
new platted subdivision is borne by the developer.
   D.   To secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
waters.
   E.   To improve land records by establishing standards for surveys and
plats. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-1-3: GEOGRAPHIC JURISDICTION:
No person shall subdivide any tract of land which is located within any
unincorporated area of the city that is not in conformity with the provisions
of these regulations, except that incorporated municipalities may adopt
subdivision regulations to control the platting of subdivisions within the
adjacent one and one-half (11/2) mile area of their corporate limits after the
adoption of an official comprehensive plan. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-1-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.   Wherever any subdivision of land shall hereafter be laid out, the
subdivider thereof or his agent shall submit a tentative and final subdivision
plat to the zoning officer. Said plats and plans of proposed improvements and
all procedures relating thereto, shall in all respects be in full compliance
with these regulations.
   B.   Until plats and plans for the subdivision are approved, properly
endorsed and recorded:
      1.   No land shall be subdivided, nor any street laid out, nor any
improvements made to the natural land.
      2.   No lot, tract, or parcel of land within any subdivision shall be
offered for sale nor shall any sale, contract for sale, or option be made or
given.
      3.   No improvements such as sidewalks, water supply, stormwater
drainage, sanitary sewerage facilities, gas service, electric service or
lighting, grading, paving, or surfacing of streets shall hereafter be made by
any owner or owners or his or their agent, or by any public service corporation
at the request of such owner or owners of his or their agent.
   C.   All land offered to the city for use as streets, alleys, schools, parks
and other public uses shall be referred to the zoning officer for review and
recommendation before being accepted by the city or by any other governing
authority.
   D.   No plat will be approved for a subdivision which is subject to periodic
flooding or which contains poor drainage facilities and which would make
adequate drainage of the lots and streets impossible. However, if the
subdivider agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the city
engineer, make the area safe for residential occupancy and provide adequate lot
and street drainage, the preliminary plat of the subdivision may be approved.
All plats shall comply with the state drainage provisions and city of Barry
sewage ordinance and city of Barry floodplain management ordinance.
   E.   In the case of preliminary plats for parts of tracts, an owner will be
required to prepare a street plan of his entire tract based upon proper
topographic surveys before approval of any portion of such plat.
   F.   Connection to city utilities is mandatory within one thousand feet
(1,000') of the existing city utilities.
   G.   The subdivider shall be required to reimburse the city for all
engineering fees, attorney fees and costs incurred with approval of the
subdivision plat. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
   A.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title upon the
use of land are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by any other provision of this title or of any other
official policy, law, ordinance, resolution, rules or regulation of any kind,
the regulations which are more restrictive, or which impose higher standards or
requirements, shall govern.
   B.   If any article, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or
portion of this title is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this title. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Generally
11-2-2: Rules
11-2-3: Definitions
11-2-1: GENERALLY:
The rules and definitions contained in this chapter shall be observed and
applied in the interpretation of this title, except when the context clearly
indicates otherwise. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-2-2: RULES:
   A.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural number, and the plural the
singular.
   B.   The word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
   C.   The word "may" is permissive. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
ALLEY: A strip of land, not less than twenty feet (20') in roadway width and
not more than forty feet (40'), along the side of or in the rear of properties,
intended to provide secondary access to these properties.
BUILDING LINE: A line within a lot so designated on the plat of the proposed
subdivision, between which line and any street line upon which the lot abuts
the erection of a building is prohibited.
CITY: Whenever the word "city" is used in this title, it shall be deemed to
refer to the city of Barry, Illinois.
CROSSWALKWAYS: A strip of land dedicated to public use, which is reserved
across a block to provide pedestrian access to adjacent areas.
CUL-DE-SAC: A street having one open end and being permanently terminated by a
vehicle turnaround.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land by the
general public, a corporation or a certain person or persons for a specific
purpose or purposes.
HIGHWAY: A rural area which primarily serves or is intended to serve as a
vehicular land pedestrian access to abutting lands or to other highways. The
word "highway" refers to the width of the highway right of way or easement,
whether public or private, and shall not be considered as the width of the
roadway or paving or other improvements on the highway right of way.
INTERSECTION, STREET: The area embraced within the prolongation or connection
of the lateral curb lines, or, if none, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways of two (2) highways which join one another at, or approximately at,
right angles, or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different
highways joining at any other angle may come in conflict. Where a highway
includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more apart, then every crossing
of each roadway of such divided highway by an intersecting highway shall be
regarded as a separate intersection. In the event such intersecting highway
also includes two (2) roadways thirty feet (30') or more apart, then every
crossing of two (2) roadways of such highways shall be regarded as a separate
intersection.
LOT: A building site shown on a plat of subdivision recorded with the
appropriate city office and identifiable by reference to said plat of
subdivision rather than by metes and bounds.
PARCEL: Shall refer broadly to a lot, tract or any other piece of land.
PLAT: A map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plans of the
subdivision are presented and which he submits for approval first in
preliminary, then in final form.
PLAT AND/OR ZONING OFFICER: The public works director or a person designated by
the city of Barry to review all deeds and to review all plats and conveyances
prior to said documents being recorded and prior to being submitted to the city
council or designated department.
ROADWAY OR ROAD OR STREET: Wherever the words "road" or "roadway" are used in
this title, it shall be deemed the paved area existing on the street, and not
the street right of way width.
SUBDIVISION: The division of land in two (2) or more parcels for the purpose,
whether immediate or future, of transfer of ownership or building development,
including all public streets, alleys, easements for public service facilities,
parks, playgrounds, school grounds or other public grounds.
The following shall not be considered a subdivision and shall be exempt from
the requirements of this title:
   A.   The division or subdivision of land into parcels or tracts of five (5)
acres or more in size which does not involve any new streets or easements of
access;
   B.   The subdivision of lots or blocks of less than one acre in any recorded
subdivision which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   C.   The sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining and
contiguous land;
   D.   The conveyance of parcels of land or interests therein for use as a
right of way for railroads or other public utility facilities and other
pipelines which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   E.   The conveyance of land owned by a railroad or other public utility
which does not involve any new streets or easements of access;
   F.   The conveyance of land for highway or other public purpose of grants or
conveyances relating to the dedication of land for public use or instruments
relating to the vacation of land impressed with a public use;
   G.   Conveyances made to correct descriptions in prior conveyances;
   H.   The sale or exchange of parcels or tracts of land following the
division into no more than two (2) parts of a particular parcel or tract of
land existing on and not involving any new streets or easements of access;
   I.   The sale of a single lot of less than five (5) acres from a larger
tract when a survey is made by a registered surveyor; provided, however, that
this exemption shall not apply to the sale of any subsequent lots from the same
larger tract of land, as determined by the dimensions and configuration of the
larger tract on October 1, 1973; and provided also, that this exemption does
not invalidate any local requirements applicable to the subdivision of land.
(Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
CHAPTER 3
PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF PLATS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Submission Of Data; Preapplication Conference; Notification
11-3-2: Preapplication Plans And Data
11-3-3: Procedure For Approval Of Final Plat
11-3-4: Plats And Data For Conditional Approval
11-3-5: Plats And Data For Final Approval
11-3-1: SUBMISSION OF DATA; PREAPPLICATION CONFERENCE; NOTIFICATION:
   A.   Submission Of Data: Prior to the filing of an application for approval
of the preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit to the plat officer data
as specified in this chapter. This step does not require formal application,
fee or filing of the plat.
   B.   Preapplication Conference: The purpose of the preapplication conference
is to afford the subdivider an opportunity to avail himself of the advice and
assistance of the plat officer and the city engineer before preparation of the
preliminary plat and before formal application for its approval, in order to
save time and money and to make the most of his opportunities.
   C.   Notification: Within thirty (30) days after submission to the plat
officer of a preliminary plat, the plat officer shall inform the subdivider
that the plans and data as submitted or as modified do or do not meet the
objectives of these regulations. When the plat officer finds the plans and data
do not meet the objectives of these regulations, he shall express in writing to
the subdivider his reasons therefor. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-3-2: PREAPPLICATION PLANS AND DATA:
   A.   General subdivision information should describe or outline the existing
conditions of the site and the proposed development as necessary to supplement
the drawings listed below. This information may include data on existing
covenants, land characteristics and available community facilities and
utilities; and information describing the subdivision proposal such as number
of residential lots, typical lot width and depth, public areas, proposed
protective covenants and proposed utilities and street improvements.
   B.   Sketch plan, on topographic survey, should show in simple sketch form
the proposed layout of streets, lots, and other features in relation to
existing conditions. The sketch plan may be a freehand pencil sketch made
directly on a print of the topographic survey. The sketch plan should include
the existing topographic data listed below:
      1.   Location: tract boundaries, township and north point.
      2.   Existing highways and proposed streets on and adjacent to the tract.
(Several alternatives, if considered.)
      3.   Statement of how sewage disposal and water supply will be provided.
      4.   Utility transmission lines and easements.
      5.   Existing zoning districts.
      6.   Topography (USGS or better).
   C.   Vicinity map shall show the relationship of the proposed subdivision to
existing community facilities which serve or influence it. The vicinity map
shall show:
      1.   Subdivision name, township, tract, and original lot or section
number and north arrow.
      2.   Existing and proposed main traffic arteries.
      3.   Shopping facilities.
      4.   Schools.
      5.   Parks and playgrounds.
      6.   Any other significant city features. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-3-3: PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF FINAL PLAT:
   A.   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved, and, if desired by the subdivider, it may constitute only that
portion of the approved preliminary plat which he proposes to record and
develop at the time, provided, however, that such portion conforms to all
requirements of these regulations.
All items as required by section
11-3-5 of this chapter shall be submitted to the plat officer as follows:
      1.   Two (2) copies of the final plat application.
      2.   Original tracing and two (2) copies of final plat and vicinity map.
      3.   Original tracing and four (4) copies of approved improvement plans,
plus specifications, list of quantities, and engineer's estimate.
      4.   One copy of financial guarantees approved by the state's attorney in
an amount stated by the city engineer.
   B.   The city council or designated department may request additional copies
of any of the above items and any other additional information deemed
necessary. Within thirty (30) working days after the date of submission, the
city council or designated department shall determine if all the items as
required by section
11-3-5 of this chapter have been submitted. If all the required items have not
been submitted, the city council or designated department shall notify the
subdivider of such omissions.
      1.   Within thirty one (31) days following the next regular city council
meeting, the council shall approve or disapprove the final plat. If it
disapproves, it shall set forth its reasons in its own records and provide the
applicant with a copy.
      2.   Upon approval of the city council, the developer shall record the
plat with the county recorder or registrar of titles immediately. If not
recorded, the approval shall be null and void. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-3-4: PLATS AND DATA FOR CONDITIONAL APPROVAL:
   A.   Topographic data required as a basis for the preliminary plat in
subsection B of this section shall include existing conditions as follows
except when otherwise specified by the city council or designated department:
      1.   Boundary lines: Bearing and distances.
      2.   Easements: Location, width and purpose.
      3.   Streets on and adjacent to the tract: Name and right of way width,
elevation of resurfacing, legally established centerline elevations, walks,
curbs, gutters, culverts, etc.
      4.   Utilities on and adjacent to the tract: Location, size and invert
elevation of sanitary, storm and combined sewers; location and size of water
mains; location of gas lines; fire hydrants; electric and telephone lines, and
streetlights, direction and distance to and size of nearest water mains and
sewers adjacent to the tract showing invert elevation of sewers; if no sewers,
a complete description of how sewage will be disposed of. This must be approved
by the city of Barry.
      5.   Coordinates on the outboundary, based on state plane coordinates:
For land that slopes less than one-half percent (1/2%), show one foot (1')
contours; show spot elevations at all breaks in grades; along all drainage
channels or swales, and at selected points not more than one hundred feet
(100') apart in all directions; for land that slopes more than one-half percent
(1/2%), show two foot (2') contours.
      6.   Subsurface conditions on the tract, if required, by the city council
or designated department: Location and results of tests made to certain
subsurface soil, rock and groundwater conditions; depth to groundwater unless
test pits are dry at depth of five feet (5').
      7.   Other conditions on the tract: Watercourses, wetlands, rock outcrop
and wooded areas.
      8.   Other conditions on adjacent land: Approximate direction and
gradient of ground slope, including any embankments or retaining walls;
character and location of buildings, railroads, power lines, towers and other
nearby nonresidential land uses or adverse influences; owners of adjacent
unplatted land; for adjacent platted land refer to subdivision plat by name.
      9.   Zoning on and adjacent to the tract if applicable.
      10.   Proposed public improvements: Highways or other major improvements
planned by public authorities for future construction on or near the tract.
      11.   Titles and certificates: Present tract designation according to
official records in offices of the county recorder; title under which proposed
subdivision is to be recorded, the names and addresses of owners, notation
stating acreage, scale.
      12.   Adjacent landowner definition: Adjacent landowner must have
specifically the book, page number, document number noted as required by state
law.
   B.   Preliminary plat shall be drawn to scale no smaller than one hundred
feet to the inch (100' = 1"). It shall show all existing conditions required in
this section, and shall show all proposals including the following:
      1.   The proposed name of the subdivision.
      2.   Its location by section, township and range and as forming a part of
some larger tract or parcel of land referred to in the indexes of the records
of the city clerk.
      3.   Sufficient information to accurately locate the plat. (Reference to
existing streets, plats, etc., may be used. If there are none within a
reasonable distance of the proposed subdivision, the vicinity map on a small
scale should accompany the preliminary plat.)
      4.   The description and location of all survey monuments erected in the
subdivision shall be shown.
      5.   The names, locations, roadway widths, right of way width,
approximate gradients and other dimensions of streets, alleys, easements, parks
and other open spaces.
      6.   Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches and industry.
      7.   All parcels of land intended to be dedicated for public use or
reserved for the use of all property owners with the purpose indicated.
      8.   Location and size of utilities.
      9.   Block numbers and layout, numbers, dimensions and area of lots.
      10.   Building setback lines, showing dimensions.
      11.   North point and scale and date of preparation.
      12.   Draft of protective covenants, if any, whereby the subdivider
proposes to regulate land use and otherwise protect the proposed development.
(Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-3-5: PLATS AND DATA FOR FINAL APPROVAL:
   A.   Final plat shall be drawn and signed in black ink on permanent plastic
base on sheets not to exceed twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24" x
36") long and shall be at an original scale no smaller than one hundred feet to
one inch (100' = 1"). Where necessary, the plat may be on several sheets
accompanied by an index sheet showing the entire subdivision. Any original
final plat sheet drawn on a sheet size larger than seventeen and one-half
inches by nineteen inches (171/2" x 19") shall be accompanied by a
photostatically reduced copy to this size on transparent permanent plastic base
material for filing in the recorder's plat books. For large subdivisions, final
plats may be submitted for approval in stages. The city council or designated
department may require the developer to submit a development schedule
describing each stage and its proposed dates of construction. The final plat
shall show the following:
      1.   Name of subdivision.
      2.   Location by township, section, town and range, or by other legal
description. Each lot must have an address assigned to it by the PCETSE.
      3.   Scale no smaller than one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100')
(shown graphically).
      4.   Date and north point.
      5.   Boundary of plat, based on an accurate traverse, with angles and
linear dimensions.
      6.   Exact location, width, and name of all streets within and adjoining
the plat, and the exact location and widths of all crosswalks. Streets that are
obviously in alignment with others already existing and named shall bear the
names of existing streets.
      7.   True angles and distances to the nearest established street lines or
official monuments (no less than 3), which shall be accurately described in the
plat.
      8.   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distances and angles.
      9.   Radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and
lengths of all arcs.
      10.   Location, dimensions and purpose for all easements.
      11.   All block and lot numbers and lines, with accurate dimensions in
feet and hundredths.
      12.   Location and description of permanent monument or bench marks.
      13.   Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be
dedicated or reserved for public use with the purposes indicated thereon, and
of any area to be reserved by deed covenant for common uses of all property
owners.
      14.   Building setback lines accurately shown by dimension.
      15.   Protective covenants which meet the approval of the city council or
designated department shall be lettered on the final plat or attached thereto.
      16.   A summary on its face of all restrictions applicable to any part of
said subdivision relating to building restrictions, use restrictions, building
lines or otherwise.
   B.   Accompanying documents shall consist of:
      1.   Certification by a registered surveyor in the form set out in
appendix G, attached to the ordinance codified herein.
      2.   Notarized certifications, by owner or owners and by mortgagor or
lien holder of record, acknowledging the plat and the dedication of streets and
other public areas.
      3.   An agreement executed by the owner and subdivider to make and
install the improvements provided for in chapter 5 of this title in accordance
with the plans and specifications accompanying the final plat.
      4.   A notice from the city council stating that the following have been
filed with and approved by the council:
         a.   A bond which shall:
            (1)   Be in an amount determined by the city engineer and city
attorney sufficient to complete the improvements and installations in
compliance with this title.
            (2)   Be with surety by a company entered and licensed to do
business in the state of Illinois.
            (3)   Specify the time for the completion of the improvements and
installations.
         b.   Evidence of a deposit with the city in escrow in cash or by
maintenance bond equal to fifteen percent (15%) of the estimated cost of
surface improvements to be held by the city for a period of eighteen (18)
months after the final completion of such work as a guarantee against any
defect in the material or workmanship furnished in connection with such
improvement latent in character and not discernible at the time of the final
approval of such improvement, and to guarantee against any damage to such
improvements by reason of settling of the ground base, or foundation, thereof.
After the termination of such eighteen (18) month period, such deposit shall be
refunded to the depositor, if no defects have developed, then the balance of
such deposit after reimbursement to the city for any amounts expended by it in
the curing of such defects.
A certificate from the proper collector thereof that he finds no delinquent
general taxes and that all special assessments constituting a lien on the whole
or any part of the land to be subdivided have been paid.
      5.   A confirmation in writing from the soil and water conservation
district stating that the proposed subdivision is in concert with the natural
resource characteristics of the area to be developed.
      6.   Clearances from all applicable federal and state agencies, i.e.,
corps of engineers, environmental protection agency, etc. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-
2006)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Interpretation Of Provisions
11-4-2: Land Subject To Inundation
11-4-3: Public Sites And Open Spaces
11-4-4: Streets And Alleys
11-4-5: Dimensional Standards
11-4-1: INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS:
In order to promote the best possible development and use of land, the city
engineer shall interpret the standards, provisions, and specifications
contained in this title liberally and in favor of the city's interest.
Exceptions from these standards, provisions and specifications may be granted
when shown conclusively and to the satisfaction of the engineer that such
exceptions will bring about a more logical and desirable result than would be
obtained by strict compliance. When in doubt as to the wisdom of granting such
an exception, the engineer shall request a decision from the city council.
(Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-4-2: LAND SUBJECT TO INUNDATION:
Land subject to flooding and land deemed by the reviewing authorities to be
uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential occupancy, nor for such
other uses as may increase danger to health, life or property, or aggravate
flood hazard, but such land within the plat shall be set aside for such uses as
shall not be endangered by periodic or occasional inundation, or shall not
produce unsatisfactory living conditions. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-4-3: PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES:
All proposed plats submitted for approval under the provisions of this title
may allocate adequate areas for park, school, recreational, and other public
and semipublic sites. The location, shape, extent and orientation of such areas
shall be consistent with existing and proposed topographical and other
conditions, including, but not limited to, the park, school, recreational and
other public and semipublic needs of said proposed subdivision. (Ord. 2006-01,
2-6-2006)
11-4-4: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   A.   Continuation Of Existing Streets: Proposed streets shall, as near as
practicable, provide for the continuation, connection or projection of streets
in surrounding areas.
   B.   Circulation: The street pattern shall provide ease of circulation
within the subdivision, but the local streets therein shall be so laid out that
their use by through traffic will be discouraged. Insofar as practical, the
street arrangement should provide proper access to schools, playgrounds,
transportation and other community features. New street openings shall
generally be prohibited within six hundred feet (600') of any major
intersection or crossing such as those formed by a railroad and a highway, two
(2) or more highways, or from the head of any major bridge, grade separation
structure, or like facilities, as measured along the centerline from the
intersection or from such structures.
   C.   Topographical And Cultural Features: In sloping terrain, streets shall
generally run parallel to the contour of the land or preferably cross at a
slight angle therewith. The general objectives are to avoid steep street
grades; heavy concentrations of storm surface runoff; abnormal differentials in
building elevations at opposite sides of the street; and excessive grading
operations.
   D.   Portion Of Tract: Where the plat to be submitted includes only a part
of the tract owned by the subdivider, the city requires topography and a sketch
layout of the future street system on the unsubdivided tract at a later date.
   E.   Street Intersection: The angle of intersection between minor streets
and major streets should not vary by more than ten degrees (10°) from a right
angle. All other streets should intersect each other as near to a right angle
as possible and no intersection of streets at angles of less than seventy
degrees (70°) shall be permitted.
   F.   Street Jogs: Street jogs shall be avoided whenever possible. However,
where permitted, the minimum centerline offset distance between roads entering
a common right of way from opposite sides will be one hundred fifty feet
(150').
      1.   Half Streets: Half streets shall be prohibited.
      2.   Reserve Strips: Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall
not be permitted.
      3.   Dead End Streets: Dead end or stub end streets (excluding cul-de-
sacs) are prohibited. However, where it is necessary to provide circulation to
undeveloped property adjacent to the boundaries of the proposed subdivision, a
temporary cul-de-sac with not less than an eighty foot (80') turnaround
easement with not less than a sixty foot (60') turnaround pavement with not
less than six inch (6") base course gravel with A-2 treatment shall be provided
within the subdivision and adjacent to its limit for what could otherwise be a
stub end street. Provision will be made by the subdivider that when the right
of way is extended into the adjacent property, that portion of the turnaround
in excess of the right of way width will revert to the adjacent property owner
or owners and curbs and gutters will be provided.
      4.   Cul-De-Sac: Cul-de-sac, designed to be so permanently, shall not be
longer than seven hundred feet (700') and shall be provided at the closed end
with a turnaround having an outside roadway diameter of at least one hundred
feet (100') and a street property line diameter of at least one hundred twenty
feet (120'). No cul-de-sac may intersect with another cul-de-sac.
      5.   Alleys: Alleys in residential developments will be prohibited.
Service roadways will be required in commercial and industrial developments,
except where other provisions for suitable access and off street loading and
unloading is assured. Alleys may be provided at the rear of all lots or tracts
intended for multiple-family building use; however, they will not be
encouraged.
      6.   Right Of Way: In the case of the extension of an existing adjoining
right of way, having a width less than the minimum requirement, the city
council or designated department may approve the extension thereof at the same
width. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-4-5: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS:
   A.   Typical Street Standards: Minimum dimensional standards of all rights
of way, pavements, sidewalks shall conform to the current administrative
policies set forth by the Illinois department of transportation's bureau of
local roads and streets, unless otherwise specified.
      1.   Streets within one and one-half (11/2) miles of a corporate limit
shall be considered urban.
      2.   Major highway (rural): One hundred twenty foot (120') right of way;
twenty four foot (24') pavement with ten foot (10') shoulders.
      3.   Collector street (urban): Sixty foot (60') right of way; with
sufficient width for all necessary cuts and cross section; thirty six foot
(36') pavement, including curb and gutters.
      4.   Collector street (rural): Sixty foot (60') right of way; twenty four
foot (24') pavement with four foot (4') shoulders without curb and gutters or
twenty seven foot (27') pavement with curb and gutters.
      5.   Local street (urban): Sixty foot (60') right of way; twenty seven
foot (27') pavement, including curb and gutter; four foot (4') sidewalks near
property line.
      6.   Local highway (rural): Sixty foot (60') right of way; twenty four
foot (24') pavement, without curb and gutters, provided suitable storm drainage
facilities are installed. In cases where lots are one hundred feet (100') or
more in width and not situated along a major street, sidewalks may not be
provided unless required by the city council.
      7.   Dead end street (cul-de-sac): Sixty foot (60') right of way, twenty
four foot (24') pavement.
      8.   Marginal access streets abutting a major street: Fifty foot (50')
right of way; twenty four foot (24') pavement without curb and gutters or
twenty seven foot (27') pavement with four foot (4') space for utilities.
      9.   Alleys: Where permissible, twenty four foot (24') right of way;
twenty foot (20') pavement with four foot (4') space for utilities.
   B.   Street Grades: No street grades shall be less than one-half (1/2) of
one percent (1%) and shall not exceed the following with the allowances for
reasonable vertical curves:
 
Major streets or industrial streets           5%
Collector street or collector highway         6%
Local street, highways or alleys              8%
Streets shorter than 500 feet and cul-de-sacs 10%
 
   C.   Street Alignment: Horizontal and vertical alignment shall conform to
the current administrative policies set forth by the Illinois department of
transportation's bureau of local roads and streets, unless otherwise specified.
   D.   Intersections: The radii on both pavement edge and right of way is to
be thirty feet (30') minimum at all points of roadway intersection and sixty
feet (60') for industrial or major street or highway intersections. The
approach angle cannot deviate greater than ten degrees (10°) from ninety (90).
   E.   Blocks:
      1.   The lengths, widths, and shapes of blocks shall be determined with
due regard to:
         a.   Provision of adequate building sites suitable to the special
needs of the type of use contemplated.
         b.   Needs for convenient access, circulation, control and safety of
street traffic.
         c.   Limitations and opportunities of topography.
      2.   No block shall be longer than seven hundred feet (700') except in
unusual circumstances. Where a subdivision adjoins a major highway, the greater
dimension on the block shall front along such major highway to minimize the
number of points of ingress or egress.
      3.   The depth and width of properties laid out or reserved for
commercial and industrial purposes shall be adequate to provide for the off
street parking and service facilities required by the type of use and
development contemplated. The permanent reservation of suitable buffer and
easement areas may be required, where deemed essential. Such areas shall
normally be made a part of abutting lots or building sites.
   F.   Lots:
      1.   Size, Shape And Orientation: The lot size, width, depth, shape,
orientation and the minimum building setback lines shall be appropriate for the
location of the subdivision and type of development and use contemplated. A
depth and width ratio of approximately two and one-half to one (21/2:1) is
considered desirable. Lot depth in relation to width shall normally not exceed
a ratio of three to one (3:1).
      2.   Corner Lots: No corner lot shall have a width at the building line
of less than fifty feet (50'). Either of the two (2) sides of a corner lot
fronting on a street may be designated the front of a lot, provided the rear
yard shall always be opposite the frontage so designated. All corner lots, be
they at the intersection of the rights of way of two (2) streets or of an alley
and a street, shall have a curve with a minimum radius of thirty feet (30')
joining the two (2) sidelines of said rights of way.
      3.   Lot Lines: Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to the
street line or substantially so, and along curvilinear street lines side lot
lines so formed shall form a lot having not less than twenty feet (20') of
width at either the front lot line or the rear lot line.
      4.   Double Frontage Lots: All lots shall abut an improved public street.
Double frontage and reverse frontage lots may be required where they are
desirable to provide separation of development from traffic arteries or to
overcome other disadvantages of topography or situation.
      5.   Building Sites: Every lot shall contain a suitable building site.
Lots containing rock foundations, watercourses or other adverse conditions
shall have additional depth or width as required.
   G.   Street Names: Names of new streets shall not duplicate the names of
existing streets of record. New streets which are extensions of or in alignment
with existing streets may bear the name of the existing streets. All names
shall meet with the approval of the county 911 board and final approval of a
proposed subdivision by the city council or designated department and city
council will be withheld until the developer complies with the county 911
ordinance.
   H.   Easements:
      1.   Easements shall be provided for any surface, underground, or
overhead utility service, including stormwater drainage, where necessary. They
shall have a width of ten feet (10') and shall be established along rear lot
lines and along such other lot lines as are required to provide continuity of
alignment throughout the area served.
      2.   When a subdivision is traversed or bounded by a watercourse,
drainageway, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a stormwater easement
or drainage right of way conforming substantially with the lines of such
watercourse, and such further width or construction, or both, as will be
adequate for the purpose. It shall include an additional area of at least
fifteen feet (15') adjoining both edges of the established floodplain area as
certified by the subdivider or his engineer. Minimum floor elevations for
structures may be required in areas which are or may become subject to flooding
by surface water. The developer cannot increase the net runoff rate for the
site as to cause an adverse runoff or adverse impact on adjacent neighbor will
have to comply with IEPA stormwater pollution prevention board. (Ord. 2006-01,
2-6-2006)
CHAPTER 5
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Requirements
11-5-2: Streets
11-5-3: Monuments
11-5-4: Storm Drains
11-5-5: Plumbing And Sewers
11-5-6: Water Supply
11-5-7: Street Signs
11-5-8: Inspection
11-5-9: Building Permit
11-5-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Duties Of Developer And Subdivider: Unless otherwise expressly
indicated, the developer, through his engineer, shall prepare and furnish all
plans, specifications, costs estimates and other essential documents necessary
for the construction and installation of the required improvements. And,
further, the subdivider shall agree at his own cost and expense to do all the
work, furnish all the materials and labor necessary to construct and complete
the required improvement in a good and substantial manner to the satisfaction
of the city engineer and the city council or designated department.
   B.   Standard Specification: Unless otherwise specified, all construction
shall be in accordance with the provisions of the current issue of the
"Standard Specifications For Road And Bridge Construction", latest revision, by
the Illinois department of transportation as the same is amended from time to
time, and hereinafter referred to as the standard specification.
   C.   Specifications, Supervision And Inspection: The specifications adopted
by the city shall in all respects govern all construction work. The work shall
be done under city inspection. The city engineer will not in any way be a
substitute for the subdivider's resident engineer and inspector. It shall be
completed within the time fixed or agreed upon by the city council or
designated department.
   D.   Escrow Account Or Letter Of Credit: Escrow account or letter of credit.
   E.   Inspection Costs: The cost of inspection shall be paid by the
subdivider.
   F.   Recommendation And Approval: It shall be permissible for the city
council or designated department to recommend the final plat of subdivision to
the person or persons making same, to the effect that, whenever the required
improvements are properly made or otherwise secured as hereinafter mentioned,
the city council or designated department will recommend that said plat, if
otherwise conforming to these platting rules and regulations, be approved.
   G.   Bonding And Debarment: Bonding and debarment.
   H.   Time Schedule And Sequence Of Construction: The subdivider shall submit
a statement setting forth a scheduled time not to exceed one year (except in
the case of asphaltic construction, where the maximum shall be 2 years), from
the date of approval of the final plat, within which the improvements required
by these regulations will be completed.
   I.   Extension Of Time: All construction items shall be completed within one
year of the recording of the final plat. Where bituminous construction is
required, a maximum of two (2) years shall be allowed. The city council shall
be authorized to grant one and only one extension, and for a period not to
exceed six (6) months.
   J.   Default: If the improvements are not completed within the specified
time, the city council may exercise the performance bond or any portion thereof
necessary to complete same.
   K.   Policy On Sharing Cost Of Oversize Improvements: Whenever necessary to
conform to an overall plan otherwise to protect or promote the public interest,
oversize improvements shall be installed or constructed by the subdivider,
provided, however, that the cost to the subdivider shall be no greater than
that which would result from the installation or construction of only that size
necessitated by his own development. The excess cost resulting from the
requirement of an oversize improvement shall be borne by the city of Barry.
(Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-5-2: STREETS:
   A.   Improvements Required: All grading, paving, surfacing, drainage
structures or other improvements required or involved in the opening, widening,
or expansion of any street, road, or public way shall be of such size, width,
thickness, character, and type deemed by the city engineer to be suitable and
appropriate to the intended use and development; and consistent with the
standards and specifications set forth in these rules and regulations.
   B.   Curbs And Gutters:
      1.   The requirements of curbs and gutters will vary in accordance with
the character of the area and the density of development involved. In urban
areas, curbs are necessary to control stormwater runoff and to clearly define
driving and parking areas.
      2.   Curbs shall be required on all streets where the proposed net
residential density of the subdivision exceeds four (4) families per acre.
      3.   Where residential lot frontages are less than eighty five feet (85')
in commercial developments or where other similar intensive urban uses exist or
are anticipated, curbs shall be required. The installation of curbs may be
required on major, collector, and local streets, if such construction is deemed
necessary for public safety.
      4.   Where curbs exist on abutting properties, their extension will
ordinarily be required throughout the proposed subdivision.
      5.   Where curbs are not required, adequate gutters shall be graded and
protected by seeding or a hard surface may be required where the grade is such
as may be deemed necessary by the city engineer.
      6.   Concrete curb and gutter, conforming to Illinois department of
transportation specifications, shall be required.
   C.   Pavement: Roadway pavement surface and base course shall meet the
requirements as outlined in the following table, "Minimum Pavement Requirements
By Roadway Classification", for the various acceptable road types.
   MINIMUM PAVEMENT REQUIREMENTS
   BY ROADWAY CLASSIFICATION
 
Types:
 A 3 inch bituminous (1/2" binder, 1/2" surface); (class I) over 8 inches
    aggregate base course, or its equivalent.
    Bituminous surface treatment (class A-3) with 8 inch base course of
 B compacted gravel or crushed stone base, for streets without curb and
    gutters and 8 inch base course of compacted gravel stone base, for streets
    with curb and gutters.
 
Roadway Classification Pavement Type
Roadway Classification  Pavement Type
                        
Major street            A
Collector street        A, B
Local street            A, B
Local highway (rural)1  A, B
Marginal access street1 A, B
Business district       By pavement design
Industrial district     By pavement design
 
Note:
1.   Pavement type B permitted with residential development.
   D.   Sidewalks: If the property subdivided is located adjacent to the
corporate limits of a community, sidewalks may be required by the city council
or designated department if the subdivision is near a school or a commercial
area, where pedestrian traffic would be high, or when an official plan element
intends sidewalks in a given area. In residential districts sidewalks shall be
constructed when required with the near edge of the sidewalk one foot (1') from
the property line. In industrial districts, sidewalks shall be constructed when
required next to the curb. All commercial areas shall include pedestrian
circulation. Sidewalks shall be constructed as follows:
      1.   Residential, commercial and industrial districts: Minimum width,
four feet (4'); minimum thickness, four inches (4") except access driveway
areas where minimum thickness shall be five inches (5").
      2.   Shopping districts: Minimum width, four feet (4'); minimum
thickness, five inches (5").
All sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the standard
specifications and the Americans with disabilities act.
   E.   Alley Pavement: All alleys, where permitted, shall be improved with a
roadway consisting of not less than eight inches (8") of aggregate base course
type A or B when thoroughly compacted, and bituminous surface treatment class
A-2.
      1.   Through apartment district blocks, not less than twenty feet (20').
      2.   Through business and industrial blocks, not less than twenty four
feet (24').
   F.   Street Signs: The subdivision shall be provided with street signs of a
type approved and erected at locations and in the manner prescribed by the
public works director and/or city council and the county 911 commission. (Ord.
2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-5-3: MONUMENTS:
   A.   Permanent monuments shall be placed at minimum of four (4) exterior
corners along boundary of subdivision. Permanent monuments shall be of concrete
with minimum dimensions of four inches by four inches (4" x 4") at top, six
inches by six inches (6" x 6") at bottom, and thirty six inches (36") long,
with iron dowel three-eighths inch (3/8") in diameter, at least two and one-
half inches (21/2") in length, embedded so that the top of the dowel shall be
flush with the surface and at the center of the monument.
   B.   All lot corners not marked by concrete monuments shall be marked by
galvanized or wrought iron pipe or iron or steel bars at least thirty inches
(30") in length and not less than one-half inch (1/2") in diameter. The top of
the pipe or bar is to be set level with the established grade of the ground.
   C.   In addition, a minimum of one permanent bench mark shall be established
for each twenty (20) acres or fraction thereof, subdivided and at a location
designated by the city engineer. This monument shall be a permanent monument as
stated above. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-5-4: STORM DRAINS:
   A.   An adequate system of stormwater drainage designed for a twenty five
(25) year maximum rain shall be constructed and installed consisting of pipes,
tiles, manholes, inlets, catch basins or other necessary facilities that will
adequately drain the subdivision and protect roadway pavements and prevent the
accumulation of stormwater at any place under normal conditions. Such drainage
system shall be subject to approval by the city engineer.
Storm drainage, including drain tile around basements, shall not be permitted
to empty into any sanitary sewer. Where a public stormwater drainage system is
reasonably accessible, as determined by the city engineer, the subdivider shall
connect with such stormwater drainage system and shall do such grading and
provide such drainage structures, including lateral connections, as may be
required by the city engineer. Where a public stormwater system is not
reasonably accessible as determined by the city engineer, but where the plans
for the stormwater drainage system of the district in which the subdivision is
located have been prepared and officially approved, the subdivider shall
install drainage facilities as may be required by the city engineer.
If the subdivision is in an area where a public stormwater system is not
available, the subdivider shall do such grading and provide such drainage
structures as may be required by the city engineer. No diversion of stormwater
shall be permitted.
   B.   Backyard swales may be permitted, subject to the following regulations:
      1.   Maximum and minimum slopes and general design criteria of the
federal housing administration's "minimum property requirements" will be
acceptable, except as herein modified.
      2.   No continuous swale shall have a length exceeding six hundred feet
(600').
      3.   Minimum grade of the flow line shall be four-tenths percent (4/10%).
      4.   At no point in the swale shall the flow line be more than three feet
(3') below the finished grade of the topsoil at the foundation of the house
opposite the swale.
      5.   No change in alignment of a backyard swale shall exceed forty five
degrees (45°). (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-5-5: PLUMBING AND SEWERS:
   A.   Sanitary Sewers: The developer shall provide a system of sanitary sewer
mains and shall provide lateral connections for each lot of potential building
site. Sewers shall be in compliance with all Illinois state codes.
   B.   Fees: Fees will be charged as according to the current fee structure.
Exemption: Developers will be exempt from fees in such case where developers
are making sewer taps or connecting sewers at the same time the collection main
is installed.
   C.   Inspections: The public works director shall make or cause to be made
such inspections as may be necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions
of this chapter.
   D.   Testing: Testing, such as air and/or water testing, of all service
connections will be under the supervision of the public works director.
   E.   Separate Drainage For Buildings: Every building shall be separately and
independently connected with a sewer when there is such in the street abutting
on the lot occupied by such building or within one hundred feet (100') of any
portion of such lot. The entire plumbing and drainage system of every building
shall be entirely separate and independent from that of any other building,
except where there are two (2) buildings on one lot, one in the rear of the
other; then if there is no sewer in the alley to which the rear building can be
connected, the sewer in front of the building may be extended to serve the rear
building. All sewers from the public sewer to every building shall be
constructed either of cast iron soil pipe; schedule 40 polyvinyl chloride (PVC)
or schedule 40 acrylonitrile/butadiene/styrene (ABS).
   F.   Plumbing Code: Except as may otherwise specifically be provided in this
code, any reference in this code to the plumbing code or to plumbing
regulations shall mean the minimum code of standards for plumbing, as
promulgated and as may hereinafter from time to time be amended by the
department of public health of the state of Illinois, as provided in section 35
of the Illinois plumbing license law 1 , which minimum code of standards is
incorporated herein by this reference.
   G.   Penalty: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the
provisions of this title shall, in addition to such other relief as the law may
afford, be punishable as set forth in Illinois Compiled Statutes.
   H.   License Required: No person shall engage in the work or business of a
plumbing contractor on property other than his own, either as a master or
employing plumber or a journeyman plumber, without first having obtained a
certificate from a duly qualified board of examiners of the state of Illinois.
   I.   Sewer Permits: No connection shall be made to the municipal sewer or
water system without first having obtained a permit therefor. Applications for
such permit shall be made to the public works director and shall be accompanied
by a statement showing the purpose of the connection, the premises to be
served, and the specifications of the pipe to be connected and the drain from
the building to the sewer pipe. No permit shall be issued for new connections
outside the corporate limits unless the use of such land and building or
buildings thereon is in compliance with all subdivision and zoning ordinances
of the city of Barry applicable hereto. In addition thereto, the buildings
shall be in compliance with the provisions of the IBC basic building code, and
the plumbing codes. Where a building permit issued by the city of Barry and
permit fees paid at the time said buildings are constructed, there shall exist
a presumption of compliance with all of subject ordinances. Permit fees will be
the same as though property were all in the city. If after passage hereof
buildings are constructed and no building permit is applied for or issued, and
subsequently a sewer or water permit is applied for, the city must cause proper
inspections to be made to determine compliance with the applicable city codes.
If all the applicable codes have been complied with, the city shall issue a
certificate of compliance, provided that a fee shall be paid to the city, which
fee will be equivalent to the fee which would have been charged for a building
permit at the time the buildings were constructed. This fee shall be in
addition to any other fees required by this code.
   J.   Term Of Permit: Sewer connection permits shall be valid only for sixty
(60) days after issuance.
   K.   Extension Of Municipal Sewer System: Persons desiring connection to the
municipal sewer system shall bear all costs incident thereto, including the
cost of any extension of the municipal sewer systems to reach their premises;
provided, however, that any such extension, other than the service connections,
to a single premises, shall become the property of the city upon its
completion. All extension of the municipal sewer system shall be made only at
the locations and in accordance with the specifications set forth in the master
plan for Barry sewer extensions. Such master plan for Barry sewer extensions
shall be available for inspection by any interested person upon request to the
public works director, and shall show the location of all future municipal
sewer extensions and structures appurtenant thereto and general specifications
for sewer construction as the city council or designated department shall from
time to time by resolution determine such extensions, structures and
specifications to be. All plans for such extension shall be prepared by a
registered professional engineer and shall be approved by the public works
director and the Illinois environmental protection agency. Inspection of the
construction of such extension shall be provided by the city but the cost of
such inspection shall be deposited with the city before construction is
commenced by the person desiring to have such system extended. A deposit of the
estimated cost of any work to be performed by the city in connection with such
sewer extension shall be made by the person desiring such extension before such
work is commenced. Adequate insurance, as determined by the public works
director, shall be provided during construction, on protecting the city of
Barry. A surety bond in the sum equal to the estimated cost of construction of
the extension to secure to the city of Barry the actual construction of such
extension in accordance with the applicable ordinances of the city of Barry and
of the plans and specifications therefor, and to hold the city harmless of any
claims whatsoever arising out of the construction of such extension shall be
delivered to the public works director before construction of such extension is
commenced. Easements acceptable to the public works director for constructing
and maintaining requested as well as future extensions of the municipal sewer
system, as shown on the master plan for Barry sewer extensions, shall be
provided and recorded at no expense to the city before any extension of such
system shall be made. Such easements and all rights incident thereto shall
become the property of the city. It is hereby declared to be the policy of the
city of Barry to extend the utmost cooperation permitted by law in the
obtaining of such easements, and upon completion of any extension of the
municipal sewer system and acceptance thereof by the public works director, a
sum equal to the amount collected by the city of Barry for connection fees to
such extension, as provided, shall be paid to the person making such extension,
or his assigns, until the sum so paid equals the cost of extending that portion
of such sewer exactly as it is shown on the master plan for Barry sewer
extensions, as such cost is determined by the public works director. Such
refunds shall be made to persons extending the municipal sewer system in the
inverse order in the period of time in which such extensions were made. No
reimbursement shall be made by the city for costs of interests, bonds,
easements, permits, licenses, insurance or administrative overhead of the
person extending the municipal sewer system. The public works director shall
have the authority to waive much of the requirements of this section as it
shall deem in the best interest of the city for lateral extensions servicing an
area with a potential of less than fifteen (15) service connections.
   L.   Sewage Lift Stations: Cost of construction and operation of permanent
lift stations shall be borne by the person or persons desiring such lift
stations and none shall be constructed except as shown on the master plan for
Barry sewer extensions. Permanent lift stations and pressure lines serving more
than two (2) separately owned properties shall be built only on easements of
the city of Barry and shall be maintained and operated by the city of Barry.
Charges for the maintenance and operation of such lift stations shall be
apportioned and billed as an additional use charge among the users thereof as
the public works director shall determine. Private lift stations or sewage
trash pumps serving not more than two (2) separately owned properties and
temporary lift stations are prohibited except under extreme circumstances as
determined by the city council or designated department and/or public works
director, and all cost of construction and operation of the same shall be borne
by the person constructing the same.
   M.   Sewer Taps And Tapping Fees: There will be no additional tapping fees
after the fee for the main tap is applied.
   N.   Specifications: The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction
of a building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the
pipe, jointing, testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the American Society of Testing Materials, water pollution control
federation manual of practice no. 9, and "Standard Specifications For Water And
Sewer Main Construction In Illinois" shall apply. All work done on any plumbing
system shall be performed in an efficient and workmanlike manner, and materials
used shall be adequate for the purpose, and of standard material as prescribed
by the Illinois state plumbing code.
   O.   Separate Connections: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to connect any sanitary sewer carrying any substance other than
surface water, stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
cooling water and unpolluted industrial process water into any public sewer
constructed primarily for the drainage of rain or storm water.
   P.   Barricades And Restoration: All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 320/35.
11-5-6: WATER SUPPLY:
Every building in which plumbing fixtures are installed and are for human use,
occupancy or habitation, shall be provided with an ample supply of pure and
wholesome water with one inch (1") or larger service copper pipe, type L.
Every building in which plumbing fixtures are installed and are for human use,
occupancy or habitation shall be provided with an ample supply of potable water
with the minimum size of any water service connection to be one inch (1").
Service pipe may be either copper or plastic. Copper pipe shall be of one inch
(1") nominal pipe size. It shall have an outside diameter of not less than
1.125 inches and a wall thickness of not less than 0.065 inch for type K soft
temper conforming to ASTM B-88 and B-251. Plastic pipe shall be of a type
approved by the National Sanitation Foundation (NSF) and be marked according to
the foundation requirements applicable to ASTM and commercial product standards
for the type of material selected and the conditions of service. Plastic piping
shall be rated at one hundred sixty (160) PSI minimum at 73.4°F. (Ord. 2006-01,
2-6-2006)
11-5-7: STREET SIGNS:
The developer shall place on deposit or arrange as a part of the bond
agreement, sufficient funds to cover the cost of purchases, delivery and
installation of all required street name signs. Such signs shall conform to
standards adopted by the city and the county 911 committee. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-
2006)
11-5-8: INSPECTION:
All public improvements to be made under the provisions of this chapter shall
be inspected during the course of construction by the city council or
designated representative as applicable. The compensation for such inspection
and other costs incurred in connection with such inspection shall be paid by
the subdivider to the city in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per
inspection. The city representative will not in any way be a substitute for the
subdivider's resident engineer and inspector. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
11-5-9: BUILDING PERMIT:
No building permit shall be issued providing for the improvement of any lot in
a subdivision until the plat of subdivision and the plans and specifications
for the public improvements have been approved by the city council and all
necessary permits have been obtained by the developer. (Ord. 2006-01, 2-6-2006)
