VILLAGE CODE
of
BEDFORD PARK, ILLINOIS
1965
Code current through:
Ord. 23-1732, passed October 5, 2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
   This code of the Village of Bedford Park, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 23-1732, passed October 5, 2023.
Ordinances of the Village adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions
of this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the Village office in order to ascertain whether any particular
provision of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
American Legal Publishing
Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they have not been incorporated into
the code and they may not show the original ordinances in their entirety.
Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions concerning
the ordinances listed.
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING THE REVISED, CODIFIED AND AMENDED GENERAL ORDINANCES OF
THE VILLAGE OF BEDFORD PARK, COUNTY OF COOK AND STATE OF ILLINOIS
   WHEREAS, numerous changes and additions have been made in the general
ordinances of the village of Bedford Park, county of Cook and state of
Illinois, since the formation of the village; and
   WHEREAS It is deemed necessary that such ordinances be revised, that defects
and omissions in the same be corrected, that amendments and additions thereto
should be enacted, and that they should be enacted in a form codified and
arranged in appropriate titles, chapters, and sections.
   THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
VILLAGE OF BEDFORD PARK, COUNTY OF COOK AND STATE OF ILLINOIS, that the
following ordinance be and the same is hereby adopted as the code of the
general ordinances for the village:
AN ORDINANCE IN REGARD TO THE PUBLICATION OF THE GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE
VILLAGE OF BEDFORD PARK, COUNTY OF COOK AND STATE OF ILLINOIS
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE PRESIDENT AND BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE VILLAGE OF BEDFORD
PARK, COUNTY OF COOK AND STATE OF ILLINOIS:
   SECTION 1: That the general ordinances of the village of Bedford Park, as
codified, revised and consolidated, and as passed by the president and board of
trustees of said village on the 30th day of April, A.D. 1965, be, and the same
are hereby ordered to be printed and published, in a bound volume, to be
entitled "Village Code of Bedford Park, Illinois, 1965".
   SECTION 2: That said village code shall be so printed and published that the
book will show on its face by means of appropriate words on its title page or
otherwise that said code has been so published by authority of the president
and board of trustees.
Passed:   April 30, A.D. 1965
Approved:   April 30, A.D. 1965
President of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Bedford Park, County of
Cook and State of Illinois
ATTEST:
Village Clerk
STATE OF ILLINOIS   )
         )
COUNTY OF COOK   ) SS:
         )
VILLAGE OF BEDFORD PARK   )
   I, Everett C. Larsen, village clerk in and for the village of Bedford Park,
county of Cook and state of Illinois do hereby certify that the foregoing is a
true and correct copy of an ordinance in regard to the publication of the
general ordinances of the village of Bedford Park, adopted and passed by the
president and board of trustees of said village on the 30th day of April, A.D.
1965, and that the same was signed and approved by the president of said
village on the said 30th day of April, A.D. 1965.
   I further certify that said ordinance was deposited and filed by me in the
office of the village clerk of said village on the said 30th day of April, A.D.
1965, all of which appears by the files, papers and records of said village.
   I further certify that I am the keeper of the records, papers and ordinances
of said village of Bedford Park.
   IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand and affixed the corporate
seal of said village, this 30th day of April, A.D. 1965.
               Village Clerk
(SEAL)
TITLE I
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
VILLAGE CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Construction Of Words
1-1-5: Interpretations
1-1-6: Code Of Ethics (Rep. by Ord. 04-1156, 5-6-2004)
1-1-7: Statute References
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the governing body this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official village code of the village of Bedford
Park. Any reference made to the number of any section contained herein shall be
understood to refer to the position of the same under its appropriate chapter
and title heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well
as to the section itself, when reference is made to this code by title in any
legal document. (1965 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This code, hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in all administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the village of general and permanent effect. (1965
Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this code shall set forth the title, chapter and section
number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall constitute a
sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to the
amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for
insertion in its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement
page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy
of the code upon passage of said ordinance or otherwise as deemed necessary by
the village board. (Ord. 95-927, 3-30-1995)
1-1-4: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
Whenever any word in any section of this code importing the plural number is
used in describing or referring to any matters, parties, or persons, any single
matter, party, or person shall be deemed to be included, although distributive
words may not have been used.
When any subject matter, party or person is referred to in this code by words
importing the singular number only, or the masculine gender, several matters,
parties, or persons and females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be
deemed to be included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be
applied to any section of this code which contains any express provision
excluding such construction or where the subject matter or content may be
repugnant thereto. (1965 Code)
1-1-5: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each section of this code the
following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent To Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability Of Employers And Agents: When the provisions of any section
of this code prohibit the commission of an act, not only the person actually
doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the employer
and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said person
shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set forth.
(1965 Code)
1-1-6: CODE OF ETHICS 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 04-1156, 5-6-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 20 of this title.
1-1-7: STATUTE REFERENCES:
   (A)   This code is amended by deleting any reference to an Illinois Revised
Statute and inserting, in lieu thereof, the appropriate section of the Illinois
Compiled Statutes.
   (B)   Village officials are hereby directed and authorized to take the
necessary steps to ensure that subsection (A) of this section is effectuated.
(Ord. 94-910, 10-20-1994)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the village passed prior to the adoption of this code
are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still in
force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to
the saving clauses contained in the following section), from which are excluded
the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed; tax levy ordinances;
appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances establishing, naming or
vacating streets, alleys or other public places; improvement ordinances; bond
ordinances; ordinances relating to elections; ordinances relating to the
transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the village; and all special
ordinances. (1965 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue
of the preceding section, excepting as this code may contain provisions for
such matters, in which case this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect of such provisions only. (1965 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision may be, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this or the preceding section shall be construed as
abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of
the village herein repealed; or as discontinuing, abating, modifying or
altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any
person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the village under any
ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the adoption of this
code. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION:
1-3-1: Meetings
1-3-2: Order Of Business
1-3-3: Duties And Privileges Of The President
1-3-4: Duties And Privileges Of Members
1-3-5: Call To Order
1-3-6: Vote Required
1-3-7: Attendance
1-3-8: Motions And Resolutions
1-3-9: Precedence Of Questions
1-3-10: Adjournment
1-3-11: Previous Questions
1-3-12: To Lay On The Table
1-3-13: Indefinite Postponement
1-3-14: To Refer
1-3-15: To Amend
1-3-16: To Substitute
1-3-17: Reconsideration
1-3-18: Precedence Of Business
1-3-19: Standing Committees
1-3-20: Jurisdiction Of Committees
1-3-21: Reports Of Committees
1-3-22: General Provision
1-3-23: Suspension Of Rules
1-3-24: Censure
1-3-25: Salary
1-3-26: Clerk
1-3-27: Deputy Clerk
1-3-1: MEETINGS:
   (A)   Regular And Special Meetings: The regular meetings of the board of
trustees shall be held on the first and third Thursday in each month at the
hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. at the village boardroom, unless otherwise
ordered by resolution of any regular meeting of the board of trustees; and
special meetings may be held at any time on call for the same by the president
or any three (3) or more trustees; such call shall be in writing, duly signed,
and shall be presented to the clerk, who shall proceed immediately to prepare
notices of the same, and shall cause them to be served on the president and
members of the board of trustees by leaving a copy of such notice at the
residence of each member or personally delivering the same to each of said
members, at least forty eight (48) hours before time of meeting; such notices
shall describe in brief the nature or objects of the call. (Ord. 95-925, 3-30-
1995; amd. Ord. 15-1485, 9-3-2015)
   (B)   Electronic Attendance: Every ordinance or resolution shall be reduced
to writing and presented to the mayor and board of trustees before a vote is to
be taken. Any meeting of the board of trustees at which a quorum of the board
is physically present may be attended by a trustee by means of audio or video
means under the following conditions:
      1.   The trustee cannot physically be present at a village board meeting
due to personal illness, employment or village related matters, or family
emergencies.
      2.   The trustee desiring to attend the village board meeting by audio or
video means must notify the village clerk in advance.
      3.   The trustee's voice, on an audio conference, after being duly
identified, shall be broadcast to the public at the meeting.
      4.   The trustee shall state the reason for not being physically present
at the meeting.
      5.   The village board minutes shall reflect compliance with these rules
and regulations. (Ord. 15-1485, 9-3-2015)
1-3-2: ORDER OF BUSINESS:
The following order of business shall be adhered to in all meetings of the
board unless suspended by the unanimous consent of members present:
First: At the hour selected for the meeting, the clerk, or someone appointed to
fill his place, shall proceed to call the roll of members, mark the absentees
and announce whether a quorum be present. Upon the appearance of a quorum the
board shall be called to order, the president taking the chair if present, and
the board appointing a temporary chairman if he should be absent. If a quorum
does not appear, the Board shall not thereby stand adjourned unless by a vote
of the members present. When a quorum is present the Board shall proceed to the
business before it, which shall be conducted in the following order.
Second: Reading and approval of minutes of former meeting or meetings.
Third: Reading of communications, petitions and reference or disposition
thereof.
Fourth: Reading, considering and disposing of bills and claims against the
Village.
Fifth: Reports of standing committees and officers and action on such reports.
Sixth: Reports of special committees and action thereof.
Seventh: Presentation of resolutions and ordinances and disposition thereof.
Eighth: Unfinished business and passage of ordinances or resolutions previously
considered.
Ninth: New business; fixing time for adjournment.
Tenth: Adjournment.
All questions relating to the priority of business shall be decided by the
Chair without debate, subject to appeal. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940; amd. Ord. 125, 2-
19-1959)
1-3-3: DUTIES AND PRIVILEGES OF THE PRESIDENT:
   (A)   The Chief Executive Officer of the Village shall be a citizen of the
United States, a qualified elector and shall reside within the corporate limits
of the Village. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940; amd. Ord. 125, 2-19-1959)
   (B)   The President shall, before he enters upon the duties of his office,
execute a bond to the Village in the sum of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00)
with sureties to be approved by the Board of Trustees as conditioned by law.
(Ord. 96-988, 12-19-1996)
   (C)   If a vacancy occurs in the Office of the President by reason of
resignation, failure to elect or qualify, death, permanent physical or mental
disability, conviction of a disqualifying crime, abandonment of office, or
removal from office or by removal of his residence from the Village, the most
senior Trustee shall be the Acting President until the election of a new
President as provided by the General Election Law. In the event said senior
Trustee is unable or unwilling to serve in the capacity of Acting President,
then the next senior Trustee will be the Acting President until an election is
held pursuant to the general election law. The Acting President shall perform
the duties and possess all the rights and powers of the President until a
successor has been elected. (Ord. 95-961, 10-5-1995)
   (D)   If the Village President is temporarily absent, but a vacancy in the
office has not been created, the most senior Trustee shall be designated as the
President Pro Tem. The President Pro Tem shall have all the powers and duties
of the office until the return of the Village President but shall not be
entitled to vote as the President Pro Tem and as Trustee. (Ord. 05-1179, 6-27-
2005)
   (E)   If the President, at any time during the term of his office, shall
remove from the limits of the Village so that he is no longer a bona fide
resident and legal voter, his office shall thereby become vacant.
   (F)   The President shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Trustees,
but shall not vote, except in case of a tie, when he shall cast the deciding
vote.
   (G)   The President shall be ex officio member of all standing and appointed
committees and of special committees appointed from time to time, and if
present at such meetings, at his option, he may preside.
   (H)   The President shall exercise within the corporate limits of the
Village the powers conferred upon Sheriffs in the State to suppress disorder
and keep the peace.
   (I)   The President may in his discretion release any person imprisoned for
violation of any provision of this Code and shall report such release, giving
his reasons therefor, to the Board of Trustees at its next regular meeting
thereafter.
   (J)   The President shall have power, when necessary, to call on every male
inhabitant over the age of eighteen (18) years to aid in enforcing the laws, in
suppressing riots and other disorderly conduct or for the purpose of carrying
into effect the laws and, subject to the authority of the Governor of the
State, as Commander in Chief of the militia, the President may call out the
militia to aid in suppressing riots and other disorderly conduct within the
corporate limits of the Village.
   (K)   The President shall sign all commissions and permits granted by the
authority of the Board of Trustees and grant all licenses and may revoke the
said licenses, except as otherwise provided by law, or ordinance, and he shall
perform such other acts as may be required by law or ordinance.
   (L)   He shall supervise the conduct of all officers of the Village, examine
the grounds of all reasonable complaints made against any of them, and cause
all their violations of duty and other neglects to be properly punished or
reported to the proper tribunal for correction.
   (M)   He shall appoint, by and with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, all officers whose appointment is not, by the laws of the State or
the ordinances of the Village, otherwise provided for, and whenever any vacancy
shall occur in any office which by law or ordinance he is empowered to fill, he
shall, within thirty (30) days after the happening of such vacancy, communicate
to said Board the name of this appointee to such office; and pending the
concurrence of the Board of Trustees in such appointment, the President may
appoint some suitable person to discharge the duties of such office.
   (N)   He shall have the right to veto under State law, all ordinances,
resolutions and orders passed by the Board of Trustees; the Trustees, by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of all the members elected, may pass said ordinances,
resolutions or orders over the veto of the President 1 .
   (O)   He shall be and is hereby authorized to sign in behalf of the Village
all instruments necessary to the prompt prosecution or defense of any or all
actions brought by or against said Village, including bonds for injunction.
   (P)   The presiding officer shall preserve order and decorum and may speak
to points of order in preference of other members rising from his seat for that
purpose, and shall decide all questions of order, subject to an appeal to the
Village Board, on which appeal no member shall speak more than once without the
unanimous consent of the Board.
   (Q)   While the presiding officer is putting the question, or while business
is being transacted, no member shall walk across or out of the Village Board
room, except by consent of the Board.
   (R)   Every member, previous to his speaking, making a motion or seconding
the same, shall rise from his seat and address himself to the presiding officer
and say "Mr. President" but shall not proceed with his remarks until recognized
and named by the Chair.
   (S)   When two (2) or more members rise at once, the presiding officer shall
name the one who is first to speak.
   (T)   In case of any disturbance or disorderly conduct, the presiding
officer shall have the power to require the room to be cleared if necessary.
(Ord. 1, 6-20-1940; amd. Ord. 95-961, 10-5-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-11-19.
1-3-4: DUTIES AND PRIVILEGES OF MEMBERS:
   (A)   When a member wishes to present a communication, petition order,
resolution or other original matter, he shall rise in his place and briefly
state its nature before presenting the same.
   (B)   No member, without leave of the Board, shall speak more than once upon
the same subject, until every member desirous of speaking shall have spoken;
and no member shall speak longer than five (5) minutes at any one time except
by consent of the Board. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-5: CALL TO ORDER:
A member called to order by the Chair shall immediately sit down, unless
permitted to explain; if there be no appeal, the decision of the Chair shall be
conclusive, but if the member appeals from the decision of the Chair, the Board
shall decide on the question. While a member is speaking, no member shall hold
any private discourse. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-6: VOTE REQUIRED:
   (A)   Voting; Exceptions: Every member who shall be present when a question
is stated from the Chair shall vote thereon, unless excused by the Board, or
unless he is directly interested in the question, in which case he shall not
vote. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940; amd. Ord. 16-1515, 9-8-2016)
   (B)   Voting By Audio/Video Means: Every ordinance or resolution shall be
reduced to writing and presented to the Mayor and Board of Trustees before a
vote is to be taken. Any meeting of the Board of Trustees at which a quorum of
the Board is physically present may be attended by a Trustee by means of audio
or video means under the following conditions:
      1.   The Trustee cannot physically be present at a Village Board meeting
due to personal illness, employment or Village related matters, or family
emergencies.
      2.   The Trustee desiring to attend the Village Board meeting by audio or
video means must notify the Village Clerk in advance.
      3.   The Trustee's voice, on an audio conference, after being duly
identified, shall be broadcasted to the public at the meeting.
      4.   The Trustee shall state the reason for not being physically present
at the meeting.
      5.   The Village Board minutes shall reflect compliance with these rules
and regulations. (Ord. 16-1515, 9-8-2016)
1-3-7: ATTENDANCE:
No member shall be allowed to leave the Board while in session, unless excused
by the presiding officer. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-8: MOTIONS AND RESOLUTIONS:
   (A)   Any matter before the Board may be set down as a special order of
business at a certain time if two-thirds (2/3) of the Trustees present vote in
the affirmative, but not otherwise.
   (B)   No motion shall be put or debated unless it be seconded. When a motion
is seconded, it shall be stated by the presiding officer before debate, and
every such motion shall be reduced to writing and the proposer of the motion
shall be entitled to the floor.
   (C)   After a motion or resolution is stated by the presiding officer, it
shall be deemed to be in possession of the Board, but may be withdrawn at any
time before decision or amendment by unanimous consent of the Board.
   (D)   If the question under consideration contains several distinct
propositions, any member may have the same divided when the contents permit.
   (E)   In all cases where a resolution or motion is entered on the minutes of
the board, the names of the members moving and seconding the same shall be
entered also.
   (F)   All resolutions and amendments of rules or ordinances before being
presented shall be reduced to writing and handed to the clerk and read by him.
   (G)   If any member requires it, and upon the passage of all ordinances or
upon the proposal to expend any monies or create a liability, the yeas and nays
shall be taken and entered upon the minutes; but the yeas and nays shall not be
taken unless called for previous to any vote on the question and except as
above recited. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-9: PRECEDENCE OF QUESTIONS:
   (A)   When a blank is to be filled and different sums or times proposed, the
question shall be taken first on the lesser sum or the longest time.
   (B)   When a question is under debate, the only motion in order shall be: 1)
to adjourn to a day certain; 2) to adjourn; 3) to lay on the table; 4) the
previous question; 5) to refer; 6) to amend; 7) to substitute; 8) to postpone
indefinitely or to a certain day. Numbers 2, 3, and 4 to be decided without
debate. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-10: ADJOURNMENT:
   (A)   A motion to adjourn the board shall always be in order except:
      1.   When a member is in possession of the floor;
      2.   While the yeas and nays are being called;
      3.   When the members are voting;
      4.   When adjournment was the last preceding motion; and
      5.   When it has been decided that the previous question shall be taken.
   (B)   A motion simply to adjourn cannot be amended or debated, but a motion
to adjourn to a time named may be and is open to debate. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-11: PREVIOUS QUESTIONS:
When the previous question is moved and seconded, it shall be put in this form:
"Shall the main question now be put?" If this is carried, all further
amendments and all further motions and debates shall be excluded and the
question put without delay upon the pending amendments in proper order, and
then upon the main question. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-12: TO LAY ON THE TABLE:
A motion to simply lay a question on the table is not debatable, but a motion
to lay on the table and publish, or any other condition, is subject to
amendment and debate.
A motion to take a subject matter from the table may be proposed at the same
meeting, provided two-thirds (2/3) of the trustees present vote therefor. (Ord.
1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-13: INDEFINITE POSTPONEMENT:
When a motion is postponed indefinitely, it shall not be again taken up at the
same meeting. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-14: TO REFER:
A motion to refer to a standing committee shall take precedence of a similar
motion for a special committee. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-15: TO AMEND:
   (A)   A motion to amend an amendment shall be in order, but one to amend an
amendment to an amendment shall not be entertained.
   (B)   An amendment modifying the intention of a motion shall be in order,
but an amendment relating to a different subject shall not be in order.
   (C)   On an amendment to "strike out and insert", the paragraph to be
amended shall first be read as it stands,then the words proposed to be stricken
out, and then those to be inserted, and finally, the paragraph as it will stand
if so amended shall be read. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-16: TO SUBSTITUTE:
A substitute for an original proposition in debate may be entertained when
further amendment is not admissible, and if accepted by the mover of such
original proposition, or by the board by vote, it shall entirely supersede such
original proposition, and cut off all amendments appertaining thereto. (Ord. 1,
6-20-1940)
1-3-17: RECONSIDERATION:
   (A)   A vote or question may be reconsidered at any time during the same
meeting, or at the first regular meeting held thereafter. A motion for
reconsideration being once made and decided in the negative, shall not be
renewed, nor shall a vote to reconsider be reconsidered.
   (B)   No vote of the board of trustees shall be reconsidered or rescinded at
a special meeting, unless at such special meeting there be present as large a
number of trustees as were present when such vote was taken.
   (C)   A motion to reconsider must be made and seconded by members who voted
in the majority.
Provided, however, that where a motion is lost by reason of not receiving a
two-thirds (2/3) vote required for its passage, a motion to reconsider may be
made and seconded by those voting in the minority. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-18: PRECEDENCE OF BUSINESS:
The board shall at all adjourned regular meetings resume business at the same
order in which it was engaged immediately preceding the last adjournment, with
the exception of orders numbers 1, 2, 3 and 4, which shall be called and
disposed of before resuming business, as herein provided. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-19: STANDING COMMITTEES:
All standing committees shall be appointed by the president at or before the
second regular meeting in each municipal year, or as soon thereafter as may be
practical, and whenever any vacancy shall occur. Special committees shall also
be appointed by the president, unless otherwise ordered by the board.
There shall be seven (7) standing committees, consisting of three (3) members
each, and the president shall be ex officio a member and chairman of each of
the said committees, which are as follows:
   (A)   Committee on finance.
   (B)   Committee on police.
   (C)   Committee on public works.
   (D)   Committee on public relations.
   (E)   Committee on policy.
   (F)   Committee on fire.
   (G)   Committee on water. (Ord. 553, 5-1968; amd. Ord. 07-1237, 7-19-2007)
1-3-20: JURISDICTION OF COMMITTEES:
   (A)   Unless in case of emergency, committee meetings shall be called at
least forty eight (48) hours prior to the time of meeting, and each member
shall attend promptly at the hour stated in the notice, or, if unable so to do,
shall notify the chairman of the committee to that effect.
   (B)   All ordinances, petitions, resolutions, orders and communications to
the board may be referred to appropriate committees to be announced by the
chair, but such ordinances, petitions, resolutions or orders and communications
may be acted on without such reference. (Ord. 95-926, 3-30-1995)
1-3-21: REPORTS OF COMMITTEES:
Standing and special committees to whom references are made shall in all cases
report at least once in each month, unless further time be granted by a vote of
the board, the state or facts with their opinion thereon, signed by the members
concurring therein. Minority reports may be received at the same time with
majority reports.
All reports of committees, if in writing, shall be addressed "to the president
and board of trustees".
They shall briefly describe the matter referred and the conclusion shall be
summed up in the form of an ordinance, order, resolution, recommendation, or
some other distinct proposition. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-22: GENERAL PROVISION:
   (A)   Any ordinance may be finally passed by the board at the same meeting
at which such ordinance is introduced, except objection is made to such action
as specified in the statutes of Illinois, and in such cases of objection said
ordinances shall be laid over until the next regular meeting unless such
objections are withdrawn.
   (B)   The yeas and nays shall be taken upon the passage of all ordinances,
and on all propositions to create any liability against the village, or for the
expenditure or appropriation of any money, and a concurrence of a majority of
all the members elected shall be necessary to the passage of any such ordinance
or proposition. It shall require three-fourths (3/4) of all the members elected
to sell any village property.
   (C)   All bills against the village shall be referred to the proper
committee; such committee shall examine such bills and approve the same in
writing; and the same shall then be ready for payment upon the finance
committee approving the same and the requisite vote of the board, but not
otherwise. This rule shall apply to all bills and expenses incurred by the
village. Any bill or bills adversely reported by the above committee shall be,
on the request of any two (2) trustees, referred to a special committee before
the same is disallowed, and in all cases receipts must be taken for money paid
out, and a proper voucher of bill shall accompany each account presented. (Ord.
1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-23: SUSPENSION OF RULES:
These rules may be temporarily suspended by a vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the
trustees present, but shall not be repealed, altered or amended unless notice
thereof shall have been given in writing, and the alteration or amendment
submitted at least one meeting prior thereto, and two-thirds (2/3) of all the
trustees entitled by law to be elected shall concur therein. (Ord. 1, 6-20-
1940)
1-3-24: CENSURE:
   (A)   Any member acting or appearing in a disgraceful manner, or who uses
opprobrious or insulting language to or about any member of the board of
trustees, or who does not obey the order of the chair, shall be on motion
censured by a majority vote of the members present.
   (B)   No person not a member of the village board shall address the board
without the consent of a majority of the members present.
   (C)   The rules of parliamentary practice comprised in "Robert's Rules Of
Order" shall govern the board in all cases to which they are applicable, and in
which they are not inconsistent with the standing rules of the board.
   (D)   A quorum shall be the presence of at least four (4) members of the
board duly qualified and acting. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
1-3-25: SALARY:
Each member of the board of trustees shall receive as compensation an amount
designated in section
1-16-1 of this title for each meeting of the board of trustees actually
attended by him. (Ord. 125, 2-19-1959)
1-3-26: CLERK:
   (A)   The village clerk shall, before entering upon the duties of his
office, execute to the village a bond in the penal sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the board of trustees, conditioned
as provided by law. (Ord. 125, 2-19-1959)
   (B)   In addition to the duties now imposed upon that officer by law, he
shall affix the corporate seal to all papers which shall require it. He shall
also sign and issue all licenses and permits, as so ordered by the president,
board of trustees or other proper officer of the village, and collect the fees
therefor. He shall sign, seal and number all bonds issued by the village, and
keep a true and correct account of the same.
   (C)   All petitions, remonstrances, bids, bills or other communications,
addressed to the president or board of trustees, shall be received by the clerk
and read by him, at the meeting of the board of trustees next succeeding their
receipt by him, unless otherwise ordered by the board of trustees.
   (D)   He shall without delay deliver to the officers of the village and to
the proper committees of the board of trustees, all resolutions and
communications referred to such officers or committees, by the board of
trustees.
   (E)   He shall without delay deliver to the president, all ordinances or
resolutions under his charge which may require approval or action by the
president, with all the papers relating to same.
   (F)   All applications for licenses to be issued by the village shall be
made to the clerk, who shall have power to hear and grant applications
therefor, and each and every license authorized or required shall be issued by
the clerk upon the proper application therefor and the payment to him of the
amount of the license fee as provided in this code.
   (G)   It shall also be the duty of the clerk to keep strict, accurate and
detailed accounts of all monies and funds of the village, as well as of all the
receipts, expenses, outlays, disbursements and expenditures thereof, the same
to be so systematized and arranged under their proper title or heading, that
each separate fund and account will plainly and clearly show its own particular
debit and credit, as well as to or from whom, when and on what account, the
same was received or paid out.
   (H)   He shall also keep or cause to be kept correct books, showing all
monies by him collected and on what account, the exact conditions or the
particular funds or appropriations of said village, and all unexpended balances
thereof, the indebtedness of said village in detail, whether bonded or
otherwise, and generally the exact financial condition of the village so far as
practicable. The books so kept shall be in such form as the board of trustees
may from time to time prescribe by resolution or ordinance.
   (I)   The clerk shall prepare and keep a record of all ordinances passed by
the village board in a book to be known as "ordinance record", in which shall
be transcribed a correct copy of all ordinances and at the foot of the record
of each ordinance so recorded the clerk shall make a memorandum of the date of
the passage and of the publication or posting of such ordinance, which record
and memorandum or a certified copy thereof shall be prima facie evidence of the
passage and legal publication or posting of such ordinance for all purposes
whatsoever.
   (J)   He shall keep a full record of all licenses granted, transferred or
revoked by authority of the board of trustees, with the date that the same were
granted, transferred or revoked (and if revoked, the cause therefor), with the
number thereof, and full name and residence of the applicants for such
licenses, in a book to be kept by him for that purpose, and, where bonds are
required, the names of the bondsmen or sureties.
   (K)   It shall be the duty of the clerk within five (5) days after the
result of any election is declared or appointment made, to notify all persons
elected or appointed to any village office, or their election or appointment,
and unless such persons shall respectively qualify in ten (10) days after such
notice, the office shall become vacant.
   (L)   He shall attend all meetings of the board of trustees and keep a full
record of all proceedings in the journal; keep all records received, mark and
properly file all papers coming to his office belonging to the village, and
execute such orders as he may receive from the board of trustees. He shall
also, after they are passed, cause all ordinances of the village, imposing any
fine, penalty, imprisonment or forfeiture, or making any appropriation, to be
published or posted as the board of trustees shall designate in accordance with
the state statutes.
   (M)   He shall prepare and deliver all licenses and bonds on receipt of the
required sums of money therefor, countersign all warrants and deliver the same
when called for, taking a proper receipt for the same, and generally do and
perform such other duties as may be required of him by the board of trustees
and the provisions of this code.
   (N)   He shall be the custodian and keeper of the corporate seal and of all
the books, records, ordinances and papers of the village except as otherwise
provided by law or ordinance 1 .
   (O)   It shall be the duty of the clerk, within the time prescribed by law,
in each year, to file with the county clerk of Cook County, Illinois, a
certified copy of an ordinance in which the total amount of appropriations for
all corporate purposes of the village legally made, are levied and assessed.
(Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
   (P)   The clerk's job shall be a full time position, compensable by such sum
or sums per annum as the board of trustees of the village shall appropriate
from time to time to be paid in monthly installments. The clerk shall
faithfully perform all duties imposed upon him by ordinance, statute, or order
of the president and board of trustees in conformance with existing statutes
and duties imposed by this ordinance. (Ord. 87-783, 8-27-1987)
   (Q)   The said clerk shall pay into the treasury of the village all fees
collected by him, and also all fees and compensation paid to him by any person
for his services as such clerk for certified copies of documents or otherwise
or in the discharge of the duties hereinbefore mentioned, and he shall make
such payments to the village treasurer of such fees and all other monies of the
village received or collected by him. The said clerk shall also report to the
board of trustees at each regular meeting, the amount of all monies received
and turned over by him, showing by whom and for what purpose the respective
amounts were paid to him. (Ord. 1, 6-20-1940)
   (R)   The clerk shall be registrar of vital statistics for the municipality.
A report of all births, still births, and deaths shall be made to the local
registrar of vital statistics, which report shall contain all information
required by the "act to provide for the registration of all births, still
births, and deaths in the state of Illinois, and to repeal an act herein
named", approved June 22, 1915 as amended.
   (S)   The local registrar shall keep a record showing all births, still
births, and deaths occurring within the municipality, which record shall
include all information required to be kept by the act hereinabove described.
(Ord. 48, 9-2-1943)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3-10-7.
1-3-27: DEPUTY CLERK:
There is hereby created the office of deputy clerk whose function shall be to
perform all the duties and assume the responsibilities of said village clerk at
such time or times as he may be temporarily incapacitated or while absent from
the place where his office is maintained. Said deputy clerk shall also have the
power and duty to execute all documents required by any law to be executed by
the village clerk, and to affix the seal of the village thereto wherever
required. In signing any document, said deputy clerk shall sign the name of the
village clerk followed by the word "by" and the deputy clerk's own name and the
words "deputy clerk". (Res., 12-17-1964)
CHAPTER 4
OATHS; BONDS
SECTION:
1-4-1: Oath
1-4-2: Officer's Oath Required
1-4-3: Bond Required
1-4-1: OATH:
The oath of office for all elective and appointive officers of the village
shall be in the following form:
I,                   , do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution
of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I
will faithfully discharge the duties of (office) of the Village of Bedford
Park, in the County of Cook and State of Illinois, according to the best of my
ability.
(Ord. 2, 6-20-1940)
1-4-2: OFFICER'S OATH REQUIRED:
All elective and appointive officers shall take and subscribe to said oath
before assuming the duties of their office. (Ord. 2, 6-20-1940)
1-4-3: BOND REQUIRED:
Before entering upon the duties of his or her office or position, each of the
following designated officers and employees of the village shall execute and
post a bond in favor of and running to the village in the sum set forth after
such public office or position, with surety or sureties to be approved by the
president and board of trustees, conditioned upon the faithful and legal
performance of the duties of such officer or employee giving the bond:
Board of trustees                   $50,000.00 commercial crime policy
Deputy village clerk                50,000.00 commercial crime policy
Fire chief                          50,000.00 commercial crime policy
Police chief                        50,000.00 commercial crime policy
Police officers                     50,000.00 commercial crime policy
President of the board of trustees  50,000.00 commercial crime policy
Public works superintendent         50,000.00 commercial crime policy
Village administrator               10,000.00 surety bond
Village clerk                       50,000.00 commercial crime policy
Village treasurer                   50,000.00 public official bond
Water department supervisor         50,000.00 commercial crime policy
 
(Ord. 95-929, 3-30-1995)
CHAPTER 5
TREASURER-COLLECTOR
SECTION:
1-5-1: Qualifications
1-5-2: Bond
1-5-3: Guidance
1-5-4: Receiving And Paying Warrants And Bonds
1-5-5: Account Of Each Fund
1-5-6: Special Assessment Accounts
1-5-7: Transfer Of Money From One Fund To Another
1-5-8: Must Render Account Each Month
1-5-9: Canceled Warrants
1-5-10: Deliver Books And Money To Successor
1-5-11: Keep Books At Village Hall
1-5-12: Balance Books Each Month
1-5-13: Semiannual Interest
1-5-14: Interest Received
1-5-15: Depositories
1-5-16: Keep Clerk's Bond
1-5-17: Duties
1-5-1: QUALIFICATIONS:
The village treasurer shall be appointed by the village president with the
advice and consent of the village board on an annual basis. The treasurer shall
also assume the responsibility of the village collector with no additional
compensation. (Ord. 11-1354, 6-2-2011)
1-5-2: BOND:
The treasurer, before entering upon the duties of his office, shall execute
bond with good and sufficient sureties, to be approved by the board and in such
amount as the board shall determine, in a sum not less than ten percent (10%)
of the highest amount of taxes and special assessments received by him or his
predecessors during any fiscal year in the preceding five (5) fiscal years nor
less than one and one-half (11/2) times the largest amount which the corporate
authorities estimate will be in his custody at any one time. In no event shall
the bond be less than fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) conditioned to the
faithful discharge of the duties of his office, which bond shall be payable to
the village and filed in the office of the clerk. (Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-3: GUIDANCE:
In the performance of his duties as treasurer and collector as herein provided,
he shall in all respects and at all times take cognizance of and be governed by
the statutes of the state of Illinois relating to the duties of treasurer and
collector in cities and villages and the ordinances of the village. (Ord. 5, 6-
20-1940)
1-5-4: RECEIVING AND PAYING WARRANTS AND BONDS:
He shall keep a true and accurate account of all monies paid into the treasury,
and from whom and on what account received; he shall only pay out such sums of
money as may be ordered by the president and board of trustees, and only on
warrants therefor signed by the president and clerk, and bonds and interest
coupons regularly and duly issued by the village. (Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-5: ACCOUNT OF EACH FUND:
The books which must be kept by the treasurer shall at all times show the exact
condition of the monies under his control, of each account and appropriation,
and of all receipts and disbursements, and such books, together with all other
belongings of the village, and in his custody, shall be by him handed over to
his successor. The treasurer shall upon receipt of all monies, enter and
apportion the same to the credit of the several accounts upon which such monies
are paid stating from whom they are received. He shall keep a separate account
with each fund or appropriation, stating at the head of each account the amount
so appropriated, and giving the several debits and credits belonging thereto.
(Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-6: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS:
He shall also keep an account of each special assessment, and each installment
thereof, under its general description and number and said account shall show
at its head the amount assessed for public benefits and also that for special
benefits. All monies received on any special assessment shall be held by the
treasurer as a special fund and placed to the credit of the particular
installment upon which it has been paid and shall be applied to the payment of
bonds or warrants payable out of said installment when collected according to
the terms thereof, and said money shall be used for no other purpose whatever,
provided that when a particular installment of any assessment has been fully
paid and all warrants or bonds, payable out of said installment, have been
canceled and paid according to the tenor thereafter, then, any surplus
remaining in the installment, after the retirement of all bonds and warrants
payable out of said installment, shall be credited pro rata among the remaining
installments of such assessment; and provided further that when all the
installments of such assessment have been collected and all warrants and bonds
payable out of said assessment, or any installment thereof, have been fully
paid and canceled, any surplus remaining shall be rebated pro rata to the
persons assessed for the improvement for which said assessment has been levied,
and it shall be the duty of the treasurer to report said surplus, whenever any
such surplus may exist after retiring and paying all bonds and warrants payable
out of any assessment. (Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-7: TRANSFER OF MONEY FROM ONE FUND TO ANOTHER:
No money shall be paid by the treasurer upon any warrant, bond or coupon,
except from the monies belonging to the particular fund or appropriation upon
which said warrant shall have been drawn, nor shall money be transferred by the
treasurer from one fund to another after it has been received by him; nor
appropriated to any other purpose than that for which it has been collected or
paid, except by authority of the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 5, 6-
20-1940)
1-5-8: MUST RENDER ACCOUNT EACH MONTH:
The treasurer shall, at the end of each and every month, and more often, if
required, render an account to the president and board of trustees under oath,
showing his receipts and disbursements in detail during the month, and the
state and condition of every account not closed in his books, the whole to be a
balance sheet, and a complete abstract of the financial affairs of the village.
He shall also annually, by January 30 of each year make out and file with the
clerk a full and detailed account of all such receipts and expenditures, and of
all his transactions as such treasurer during the preceding fiscal year, and
shall show in such account the state of the treasury at the close of the fiscal
year; and publish the same in a newspaper published in the village, and in case
there is no newspaper published in said village, then by posting a copy thereof
in a conspicuous place in the clerk's office. (Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-9: CANCELED WARRANTS:
The treasurer shall cancel all warrants paid out and redeemed by him, and, upon
the rendition of any monthly report, he shall, when requested, cause the same
to be accompanied by all warrants, duplicate receipts in detail, for all money
received, and such other vouchers as will fully and entirely cover his
transactions during the period of such report. (Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-10: DELIVER BOOKS AND MONEY TO SUCCESSOR:
Whenever his term of office shall expire, whether caused by resignation,
removal from the village or removal from office by the president and board of
trustees, the appointment of a successor, or other cause, it shall be the duty
of such treasurer or person at once to deliver to his successor in office, or
such other person as may be specially designated by resolution of the president
and board of trustees, all monies, property, books and effects of every
description in his possession, belonging to said village or appertaining to his
office, and shall also at once account for any pay over to such successor or
other person so designated all monies that he shall be accountable for and owe
to said village in his capacity as treasurer. Any person who, having acted as
treasurer, shall, on the expiration of his term of office in any of the ways
above mentioned, violate any provisions of this code, shall be liable for all
damages caused thereby and shall further forfeit and pay said village a penalty
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred
dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-11: KEEP BOOKS AT VILLAGE HALL:
He shall keep all books, papers, vouchers, warrants, documents, and other
written instruments appertaining to his office, in the village hall, all of
which shall be open to inspection of the president or board of trustees at any
time. (Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-12: BALANCE BOOKS EACH MONTH:
The books of account herein provided to be kept by such treasurer shall be by
him properly balanced at least once in each month, in such manner that the
same, when so balanced, shall show the true status and condition of each and
every account therein. (Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-13: SEMIANNUAL INTEREST:
The treasurer shall, upon the demand of the legal owner of any final judgment
heretofore rendered or which may hereafter be rendered against the tillage, pay
the legal and statutory interest thereon semiannually in the months of January
and July in each year until such judgment is paid, or until payment thereof is
tendered by the village. (Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-14: INTEREST RECEIVED:
The treasurer shall credit the village with all interest received by him, or
paid to him by any bank or banks, or person or persons having any funds of the
village on deposit, or otherwise. (Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-15: DEPOSITORIES:
Banks and savings and loan associations meeting the requirements set forth in
the criteria are hereby designated as financial institutions in which village
monies may be invested pursuant to Illinois statutes as amended; and that
monies of this village may be deposited or invested therein from time to time,
at the discretion of the treasurer, or intermediary serving as agent of the
treasurer, acting on behalf of this village; and that the treasurer may, from
time to time, acquire guarantees, in addition to federal insurance, for prompt
return of invested and deposited monies; and that a current copy of the
criteria be placed in the minutes of the meeting at which this ordinance was
adopted; and that notice of modifications made to the criteria from time to
time by the treasurer be provided to the board when made. (Ord. 90-823, 7-5-
1990)
1-5-16: KEEP CLERK'S BOND:
The treasurer shall safely keep the official bond of the clerk and deputy
clerk. (Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
1-5-17: DUTIES:
He shall perform all duties required of him by any provision of this code.
(Ord. 5, 6-20-1940)
CHAPTER 6
FISCAL YEAR
SECTION:
1-6-1: Fiscal Year
1-6-1: FISCAL YEAR:
The fiscal year of the village shall begin on January 1 of each year and end on
December 31 of that year. (Ord. 94-901, 2-3-1994)
CHAPTER 7
SEAL
SECTION:
1-7-1: Created
1-7-2: Use Of Seal
1-7-3: Form Of Seal
1-7-1: CREATED:
There shall be and there is hereby created a village seal. (Ord. 3, 6-20-1940)
1-7-2: USE OF SEAL:
The seal shall be used as is prescribed by law for the authentication of all
documents and papers as may be required by the laws of the state and the
provisions of this code. (Ord. 3, 6-20-1940)
1-7-3: FORM OF SEAL:
The outline and form of said seal shall be as follows:
(Ord. 526, 8-5-1966)
CHAPTER 8
ATTORNEY
SECTION:
1-8-1: Office Created
1-8-2: Duties
1-8-3: Reports
1-8-4: Opinions
1-8-5: Books; Records
1-8-6: Bond
1-8-7: Compensation
1-8-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created an office of the village to be known as village
attorney, whose term of office shall be for one year, and he to hold his office
until his successor is appointed and qualified. Such officer shall be appointed
by the president with the advice and consent of the board of trustees and he
may be a nonresident 1 . (Ord. 6, 6-20-1940)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/3.1-30-5.
1-8-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the attorney to give the necessary attention to all
suits or judicial proceedings in which the village is a party or directly
interested. He shall appear as the attorney in behalf of any officer of the
village in any suit, prosecution or other judicial proceeding brought by or
against such officer in his official character, and as the case may require,
shall prosecute or defend to the termination thereof. (Ord. 6, 6-20-1940)
1-8-3: REPORTS:
He shall attend the meetings of the board of trustees, and on or before its
first meeting each year, make a report in writing to the said board, duly
verified by his oath, if required, of all suits, prosecutions or actions
prosecuted or defended by him during the preceding year, of the names of the
parties thereof, of the title of the courts in which they were commenced, of
their progress and final disposition, and other information concerning the
legal interests of the village which he may deem necessary or proper, and
perform such services as may be required of him by the president. (Ord. 6, 6-
20-1940)
1-8-4: OPINIONS:
He shall give his legal opinions in writing to the board of trustees, or
committees thereof, or the president, when requested, on legal questions
arising under or concerning any legal questions and subjects in which the
village shall be legally interested. (Ord. 6, 6-20-1940)
1-8-5: BOOKS; RECORDS:
He shall keep in proper books provided for the purpose a docket of all suits
prosecuted or defended by him in which shall be briefly entered all steps taken
in each case, and such books and records shall be the property of the village.
(Ord. 6, 6-20-1940)
1-8-6: BOND:
He shall execute a bond with sureties satisfactory to the board of trustees in
the sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) for the faithful discharge of his
duties. (Ord. 125, 2-19-1959)
1-8-7: COMPENSATION:
For his compensation his duties shall be to attend meetings, draft general
ordinances for the village and furnish counsel and advice to the president and
board of trustees and the officers of the village as designated in chapter 16
of this title, and he shall be allowed further compensation and reasonable fee
for the trial of any lawsuits in court, where the village or any of its
officers in their official capacity are parties, and also a reasonable
compensation for attendance upon the board of local improvements, and the
making of special assessments, and the conducting of the legal proceedings in
the county, or in other courts of Cook County, to levy assessments, pay the
costs of such improvements and the drafting of contracts, records and
proceedings in and about such special assessments, in addition to such yearly
compensation above specified and which shall be fixed by the president and
board of trustees. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 9
VILLAGE ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-9-1: Creation Of Office
1-9-2: Appointment To Office
1-9-3: Removal From Office
1-9-4: Duties Of Office
1-9-5: Employee Matters
1-9-6: Surety Bond
1-9-7: Compensation
1-9-1: CREATION OF OFFICE:
There is hereby created the office of village administrator for the village.
(Ord. 95-928, 3-30-1995)
1-9-2: APPOINTMENT TO OFFICE:
The village administrator shall be appointed by the president with the advice
and consent of the board of trustees. Said appointment shall be based upon his/
her executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to
actual experience in or knowledge of accepted practice in respect to the duties
of the office of village administrator. (Ord. 00-1045, 2-17-2000)
1-9-3: REMOVAL FROM OFFICE:
The administrator's position shall be reviewed on an annual basis by the
village president and board of trustees. (Ord. 05-1183, 8-17-2005)
1-9-4: DUTIES OF OFFICE:
The administrator's powers and duties shall be determined by the village
president. The administrator shall be responsible to the president and board of
trustees for the proper administration of his/her duties. The village
administrator may be required to do the following: (Ord. 01-1092, 10-4-2001)
   (A)   The administrator shall have the expertise and knowledge to monitor
the operation of each village department and to oversee the daily
administrative affairs of the village including direct supervision of all
departments. However, the administrator shall not have the authority to hire or
terminate any employees without the president's and village board's approval.
(Ord. 05-1183, 8-17-2005)
   (B)   Upon direction by the village president and board of trustees, he or
she shall prepare personnel policies and practices including, but not limited
to, pay schedules, job descriptions, vacation and sick leave policies, leave of
absence policies, and any other personnel related matters.
   (C)   Upon receiving instructions from the village president and board of
trustees, the administrator shall prepare the annual budget with department
supervisors annually and submit it to the village president and board of
trustees, together with a message describing the important features and be
responsible for its administration after the adoption.
   (D)   Cooperate with auditor on annual basis in the preparation of the
appropriation ordinance for the village president's and board of trustees'
review.
   (E)   Submit to the village president and board of trustees, as of the end
of the fiscal year, a complete review on the finances and administrative
activities of the village for the preceding year.
   (F)   Keep the village president and board of trustees fully advised of the
financial condition and future needs of the village, and make such
recommendations as may be deemed desirable.
   (G)   Recommend to the village president and board of trustees, from time to
time, adoption of such measures as the administrator may deem necessary or
expedient for the health, safety or welfare of the community or for the
improvement of administrative services.
   (H)   Attend all regular meetings of the village board unless excused
therefrom. Prepare and submit all departmental reports to the chairmen of the
respective departments. (Ord. 01-1092, 10-4-2001)
   (I)   The village administrator shall be the general purchasing agent of the
village and shall make purchases for all departments except where specific
provisions are contrary to the provisions of the Illinois Compiled Statutes,
village policy, village ordinance or a directive from the village board. The
administrator shall make all purchases of supplies, materials and equipment
authorized by the village board in the manner prescribed for and subject to the
limits as imposed by village policy.
   (J)   Take the necessary steps to ensure that all laws, village ordinances
and policies are duly enforced.
   (K)   Investigate and monitor, with the village president's and board of
trustees' approval, the affairs of any department or division under the
administrator's jurisdiction concerning the administration of the government of
the village and in regard to service maintained by the public utilities in the
village and to ensure that all franchises, permits and privileges granted by
the village are faithfully observed. (Ord. 05-1183, 8-17-2005)
   (L)   Devote his or her entire time to the discharge of the official duties
of the office.
   (M)   Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the village
president and the village board, not inconsistent with the village ordinances.
   (N)   Keep a current inventory showing all real and personal property of the
village and its location and be responsible for the care and custody of all
such property, including equipment, buildings and all other valuable property
which is not by law assigned to some other officer or body for care and
control.
   (O)   Coordinate efforts with the village clerk regarding the publication of
all notices, ordinances and other documents required by law to be published and
prepared or cause to be prepared all reports which the village or any of the
officials thereof are required by law to prepare.
   (P)   Apprise the village president and board of trustees of all requests
and comments dealing with village related matters.
   (Q)   Attend disciplinary, zoning, or public hearings, if required to do so
by the board of trustees.
   (R)   Upon the village president's and board of trustees' directive, the
administrator shall act as a liaison on behalf of the village at hearings,
meetings, social functions or other related matters.
   (S)   Negotiate labor agreements and contracts, be knowledgeable of labor
contracts and assist, when necessary, individual departments with contractual
matters including grievance procedures. (Ord. 01-1092, 10-4-2001)
   (T)   Promote employee relations by meeting with employees and supervisors
as needed to discuss issues, policies, and village board decisions with the
intent to prevent rumors and misinformation. (Ord. 05-1183, 8-17-2005)
1-9-5: EMPLOYEE MATTERS:
Except for the purpose of inquiry, the village board and its members shall deal
with the village employees first through the village administrator. (Ord. 95-
928, 3-30-1995)
1-9-6: SURETY BOND:
The village administrator will cooperate with the village in procuring a surety
bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) to be approved by the
village board, said bond to be conditioned on the faithful performance of the
duties of the office. The premium for the bond shall be paid by the village.
(Ord. 95-928, 3-30-1995)
1-9-7: COMPENSATION:
The village administrator shall receive compensation as the village president
and board of trustees shall deem appropriate and evidenced by the adoption of
an ordinance, resolution or motion. (Ord. 00-1045, 2-17-2000)
CHAPTER 10
DEPOSITORIES
SECTION:
1-10-1: Depository
1-10-2: Deposits
1-10-3: Signatures
1-10-1: DEPOSITORY:
The village treasurer shall consult with and obtain the approval of the
president and board of trustees as to the designation of the village depository
bank/banks. A list of the depository bank/banks shall be maintained in the
office of the village treasurer. Said list shall be reviewed by the village
treasurer and president and board of trustees on an annual basis. (Ord. 00-
1046, 2-17-2000)
1-10-2: DEPOSITS:
The treasurer of the village is hereby directed to deposit from time to time
all monies coming into his possession, control, charge or custody belonging to
the village or in which it has any interest. (1965 Code)
1-10-3: SIGNATURES:
All warrants drawn upon the municipal treasurer must be signed by the president
and countersigned by the clerk, or the treasurer in all instances where all
three (3) of said officers are available, all warrants shall be signed by each
of said officers. The clerk shall be and he is hereby directed and instructed
to advise all depositories of village funds of the requirements in the number
of signatures required on all warrants so drawn against the treasurer, as
aforesaid. Such warrant shall state the particular fund and the appropriation
to which the warrant is chargeable and the person to whom payable. (1965 Code)
CHAPTER 11
OFFICIAL TIME
SECTION:
1-11-1: Official Time
1-11-1: OFFICIAL TIME:
From and after two o'clock (2:00) A.M. June 21, 1940, Central Standard Time
shall be the official time within the village for the transaction of all
business: except that from two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on Sunday, June 23, 1940,
and from two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the last Sunday in April in 1941, and in
each year thereafter, official time for the village shall be advanced one hour,
and at two o'clock (2:00) A.M. on the last Sunday of October in each year such
official time shall be retarded one hour and said official time be returned to
Central Standard Time. All legal or official proceedings of the board of
trustees and all official business of the village shall be regulated as to time
in accordance with the provisions of this section; and when, by ordinance,
resolution or action of any municipal officer or body, an act must be performed
at or within a prescribed time, it shall be performed according to the official
time as herein prescribed. When the words "daylight saving" or "daylight saving
time" are used in any official document or contract it shall be understood to
have reference to the time herein fixed for the period from the last Sunday in
April to the last Sunday in October. (Ord. 10, 7-2-1940)
CHAPTER 12
ELECTIONS
SECTION:
1-12-1: Notice Of Election
1-12-2: Supplies For Election
1-12-3: Ballot Boxes
1-12-4: Booths
1-12-5: Time Polls Open
1-12-6: Contest Of Election
1-12-7: Board To Hear Protest
1-12-8: Method Of Contest
1-12-9: Statement Of Contest
1-12-10: Time And Place Of Hearing
1-12-11: Filing Of Proofs
1-12-12: Testimony On Allegation Only
1-12-13: Determination By Board
1-12-14: Special Election
1-12-15: Inspection Of Ballots
1-12-16: Election To Fill Vacancy
1-12-1: NOTICE OF ELECTION:
Biennially, notice of election shall be published at least once not more than
thirty (30) nor less than fifteen (15) days in advance of the election in one
or more newspapers published in the village, or, if no newspaper is published
therein, then in one or more newspapers with a general circulation within the
village. The board of trustees shall: a) appoint five (5) judges of election at
each balloting place, b) canvass the returns thereof, and c) cause the results
to be entered upon the records of the village. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-2: SUPPLIES FOR ELECTION:
The clerk shall provide, at the expense of the village, proper blanks, poll
books, cards of instruction, ballots and other necessary election blanks for
such voting precinct or district in the village, and cause a suitable number
thereof to be delivered to the judges of election. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-3: BALLOT BOXES:
The clerk, under the direction of the board of trustees, shall provide a
sufficient number of ballot boxes with secure locks and keys, at the expense of
the village, for the several precincts and districts. There shall be an opening
in the lid of each box not larger than is sufficient to admit a single, closed
ballot to be inserted therein at one time, through which all ballots voted
shall be put into the box. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-4: BOOTHS:
The clerk, under the direction of the board of trustees, shall provide for each
polling place a sufficient number of booths furnished with the supplies and
conveniences, and constructed and arranged, as required by law. (Ord. 56, 11-
15-1945)
1-12-5: TIME POLLS OPEN:
At all elections hereafter held in the village, the polls shall be opened at
six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and be closed at seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. of the same
day. (Ord. 95-923, 3-30-1995)
1-12-6: CONTEST OF ELECTION:
The election of any trustee may be contested by any elector of the village
voting at the election contested, and the proceedings shall be in accordance
with the general laws of this state relating to the mode of contesting the
elections of county officers, so far as the same may be applicable and not
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter hereinafter set out. (Ord. 56,
11-15-1945)
1-12-7: BOARD TO HEAR PROTEST:
The president and board of trustees shall be the tribunal before which said
contest shall be heard, and its decision shall be final. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-8: METHOD OF CONTEST:
When any elector shall desire to contest the right of another to hold the
office of trustee, he shall within fifteen (15) days after the election file
with the clerk a statement in writing, briefly setting forth the points on
which he will contest the election, which statement shall be verified by
affidavit, and contest in no other way shall be entertained or considered.
(Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-9: STATEMENT OF CONTEST:
Upon filing such statement said contestant shall also serve a copy thereof upon
the person whose election he intends to contest, and in case such trustee whose
election is sought to be contested is absent from the village, or cannot be
found, then he shall serve the same by leaving a copy of such statement in the
respondent's usual place of residence with a person thereon above the age of
twelve (12) years, and shall make due verified proof of the service of such
copy, and file the same with the clerk, and after the filing of said statement
and proof of service, as aforesaid, the respondent shall have five (5) days
thereafter to demur to or otherwise object to the sufficiency of the grounds
alleged for contest, and the president and board of trustees may allow the
contestant to amend his statement once. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-10: TIME AND PLACE OF HEARING:
Upon the president and board of trustees' finding that said statement of
reasons for contest being sufficient in law to authorize the opening of the
ballots or the taking of the testimony, or of both, it shall be the duty of the
president and board of trustees, upon the application of either party, to fix a
time and place for the taking of the testimony of the witnesses, and each party
shall have the right to proceed and take the testimony of his witnesses, and in
the case either party cannot procure the personal attendance before the
president and board of trustees shall fix a time and place for the taking of
the depositions of such witness or witnesses, and when either party may proceed
to take the testimony of such nonresident witness, the same shall be taken
under the order, as aforesaid, in the manner as provided for the taking of
depositions to be used in cases of chancery before any judge, master in
chancery, justice of the peace, or notary public, to continue such hearing of
the testimony of such witness or witnesses from day to day thereafter until the
same shall have been completed and the testimony taken. The testimony of any
such witness or witnesses not residing within the corporate limits of the said
village and whose attendance cannot be procured must be shown to the president
and board of trustees to be material and the inability to procure the personal
attendance of such witness before any such party shall have the right to have
the testimony by deposition of such witness taken. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-11: FILING OF PROOFS:
In all cases of contested elections where any proofs are taken by deposition,
as aforesaid, the same shall be taken and filed with the clerk, as herein
provided, within thirty (30) days from the day fixed by the president and board
of trustees for the taking of the same; provided that the president and board
of trustees may, from time to time upon sufficient cause, extend the time for
the taking and filing of such proofs. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-12: TESTIMONY ON ALLEGATION ONLY:
No testimony shall be taken or produced on the hearing before the president and
board of trustees except upon the points set forth in the statement required to
be filed with the clerk and served upon the respondent. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-13: DETERMINATION BY BOARD:
When all the evidence shall have been taken and the testimony heard, the
president and board of trustees shall sit and consider the said evidence,
giving reasonable time to each to be heard in argument upon the same, of, by or
through counsel, and then the said president and board of trustees shall decide
according to the right of the matter, and shall declare as elected the person
who shall appear by the evidence to have been elected, and the president and
board of trustees may require all of the testimony not heard by it and all of
the proofs or documents taken and given in evidence to be read in open meeting.
(Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-14: SPECIAL ELECTION:
Whenever it shall appear in any case that the person receiving the highest
number of votes for trustee is ineligible to the office because of any legal
disqualification, it shall for that reason be the duty of the president and
board of trustees to declare such election null and void, and immediately call
a special election to fill said office and the vacancy. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-15: INSPECTION OF BALLOTS:
In all cases of contested election the parties shall have the right to have the
package or packages of ballots which have been returned to the clerk, as
required by law, opened in open session of the president and board of trustees,
and in the presence of the officer having the custody thereof, and to have such
ballots then and there counted by a committee of three (3) persons appointed
for that purpose, provided a good and sufficient statement of the points of
contest have been filed, as hereinbefore specified. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-12-16: ELECTION TO FILL VACANCY:
Whenever a vacancy in the office of president occurs during his term, the
vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term at the next election of
trustees. During the period from the time that the vacancy occurs until a
president is elected, and has qualified, the vacancy may be filled by the
election of an acting president by the board of trustees. Whenever a vacancy in
the office of a trustee occurs during his term, the vacancy shall be filled for
the remainder of the term at the next election of trustees. During the period
from the time that the vacancy occurs until a trustee is elected, and
qualified, the vacancy may be filled by the appointment of a trustee by the
president and remaining trustees, voting jointly 1 . (1965 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/5-2-14, 5/5-2-15.
CHAPTER 13
DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
SECTION:
1-13-1: Department Established
1-13-2: General Supervision And Control
1-13-3: Appointments
1-13-4: Duties Of Department
1-13-5: To Obey Orders
1-13-6: Village Clerk-Deputy Village Clerk
1-13-7: Clerk Typist-Bookkeeper
1-13-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a department of administrative services which shall
consist of village clerk, deputy village clerk, clerk typist-bookkeeper, the
administrative offices of the president and board of trustees, treasurer,
superintendent of public works, building coordinator, water department
superintendent, and such clerical personnel as may from time to time be
appointed. (Ord. 95-924, 3-30-1995)
1-13-2: GENERAL SUPERVISION AND CONTROL:
The president shall have general supervision and control of the department of
administrative services with the assistance of the board of trustees, and shall
see that all employees of the administrative services department are faithful
in the discharge of their duties, and from time to time shall take such
measures as he may deem expedient to provide the type and quality of
performance to the best interest of the village. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-13-3: APPOINTMENTS:
The president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees, shall
appoint all members of the administrative services, who shall hold their office
for the time specified in the appointment, not to extend beyond the termination
of the current municipal year. In case of emergency the president shall have
the full power to appoint such required help as may be necessary on a temporary
basis without the consent of the board of trustees. The president shall have
the power to remove any administrative services employee whenever in his
opinion the interests of the village require such removal, subject to the
approval of the board of trustees. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-13-4: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the function and duty of the department of administrative services
to perform all clerical service functions related to the office of the village
clerk as decreed by law, the offices of the village treasurer, building
coordinator, superintendent of public works, police department, fire
department, water department superintendent, and health department; maintain
personnel records; perform all payroll department functions; and provide the
necessary secretarial and clerical services for the president and board of
trustees in the conduct of village business. The village board, in its sole
discretion, shall have the authority to conduct or direct all appropriate
preemployment testing of applicants seeking employment with the village. (Ord.
95-921, 3-30-1995)
1-13-5: TO OBEY ORDERS:
Any administrative services employee who shall neglect or refuse to perform the
duties assigned them shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
the discipline of the president and board of trustees. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945)
1-13-6: VILLAGE CLERK-DEPUTY VILLAGE CLERK:
The village clerk-deputy village clerk shall have charge of all office
procedures required in performing the duties as outlined in section
1-13-4 of this chapter.
The deputy village clerk shall be subordinate to the village clerk and shall
assist him in the performance of his duties as required or directed.
The village clerk-deputy village clerk shall be responsible for maintaining
personnel records and files on all employees.
The village clerk shall have direct supervision of the clerk typists and such
office personnel as may be assigned from time to time to assist in the conduct
of village business. In the absence of the village clerk, the Deputy village
clerk shall then have the direct supervision of said clerk typists and other
office personnel.
In addition to the above outlined duties, the village clerk- deputy village
clerk may be delegated other related assignments, from time to time, by the
president and board of trustees. (Ord. 95-922, 3-30-1995)
1-13-7: CLERK TYPIST-BOOKKEEPER:
It is the responsibility of the clerk typist-bookkeeper to assist the village
clerk-deputy village clerk in the conduct of village business as outlined in
section
1-13-4 of this chapter.
The clerk typist-bookkeeper shall be subordinate to the village clerk-deputy
village clerk and shall perform assigned duties as directed. (Ord. 95-920, 3-
30-1995)
CHAPTER 14
HEALTH COMMISSIONER
SECTION:
1-14-1: Office Created
1-14-2: Duties
1-14-3: Jurisdiction
1-14-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created an office of the municipal government to be known as
health commissioner whose term of office shall be for one year, and he to hold
his office until his successor is appointed and qualified. Such officer shall
be appointed by the president, with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees, and he may be a nonresident of the village. (Ord. 51, 2-15-1945)
1-14-2: DUTIES:
It shall be the duty of the health commissioner to execute and enforce all
rules, regulations, orders and ordinances relating to nuisances, public health
and sanitation; to investigate into the causes of dangerous, contagious and
infectious diseases and to make all necessary sanitary and health inspections
and investigations within his jurisdiction. He shall have the right to call
upon the police or such other officers, state, county or municipal, as may be
deemed by him to be necessary in the performance of his duties, and to cause
the arrest and prosecution of any offenders violating any of the rules,
regulations, orders or ordinances relating to public health and sanitation.
(Ord. 51, 2-15-1945)
1-14-3: JURISDICTION:
The jurisdiction of the health commissioner shall extend over all the territory
within the limits of the village. Such jurisdiction of the health commissioner
shall also extend over all territory within one-half (1/2) mile of the limits
of the village in all matters pertaining to the health, sanitation and safety
of the inhabitants of the village and in the enforcement of health, quarantine
and sanitary rules or regulations. (Ord. 51, 2-15-1945)
CHAPTER 15
BUILDING SUPERINTENDENT
SECTION:
1-15-1: Office Created
1-15-2: Duties
1-15-3: Appointment
1-15-4: Term
1-15-1: OFFICE CREATED:
There is hereby created the office of building superintendent in and for the
village. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945; amd. Ord. 21-1672, 7-1-2021)
1-15-2: DUTIES:
The essential duties and responsibilities of this office shall include but are
not limited to the following:
   (A)   Essential Functions:
      1.   Provides professional, timely, and thorough customer service to the
Village, contractors, engineers, and all other pertinent constituents.
      2.   Prepares detailed engineering design drawings and exhibits for
infrastructure improvement projects utilizing AutoCAD Civil 3D and ArcGIS
software.
      3.   Prepares bidding and contract documents.
      4.   Prepares and coordinates all project required Local, State, and
Federal permits.
      5.   Administers the bidding process for projects including writing legal
notices, conducting pre-bid meetings, answering inquiries, and reviewing bid
proposals.
      6.   In addition to completing in-house engineering service delivery for
capital improvement projects, retains and manages consultants engaged in the
completion of professional engineering services associated with the planning,
design and construction of capital improvement projects.
      7.   Writes recommendation memos to the Village Board of Trustees in
regards to the award of construction contracts and professional engineering
service agreements.
      8.   Administers pre-construction meetings.
      9.   Provides day-to-day oversight of selected construction projects,
documents construction activities and processes progress payments, construction
change orders and claims.
      10.   Assists the Village Geographic Information System (GIS) consultant
and interns to develop and maintain the Bedford Park GIS including both field
and computer work.
      11.   Maintains an accurate and complete catalog of the Village's
infrastructure and provides information to developers, engineers, and
contractors as requested.
      12.   Assists with the enforcement of ordinances affecting construction
in the Building Department and Public Works operations; provides technical
expertise to Village staff, officials, contractors and the general public.
      13.   Inspect all necessary Village residential and business properties
as required by ordinances.
   (B)   Supervisory Functions:
      1.   Directs, assists and advises contractors and engineers in work
activities; works with these parties to maintain project schedules and correct
deficiencies in a timely manner.
      2.   Enforces and administers all Local, State, and Federal contract,
specification, ordinance and permit requirements.
      3.   Maintain Building Department files and records.
      4.   Reviews and processes engineer, vendor, and contractor payment
requests.
      5.   Interfaces cooperatively with all Village departments to provide
active and effective technical guidance and ordinance compliance.
      6.   Oversees and utilizes potential seasonal engineering interns for
various engineering assignments.
      7.   Schedule and inspect all Building Department permits and
construction projects.
      8.   Oversees all Building Department inspections and inspectors.
      9.   Shall report to the Village President. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945; amd.
Ord. 21-1672, 7-1-2021)
1-15-3: APPOINTMENT:
The office of building superintendent shall be filled by appointment by the
president with the advice and consent of the board of trustees. (Ord. 56, 11-
15-1945; amd. Ord. 21-1672, 7-1-2021)
1-15-4: TERM:
The building superintendent shall hold office for a term of one year and until
his successor shall be appointed and qualified. (Ord. 56, 11-15-1945; amd. Ord.
21-1672, 7-1-2021)
CHAPTER 16
SALARIES
SECTION:
1-16-1: Salaries
1-16-2: Wages Of Laborers For Public Works Construction
1-16-1: SALARIES:
The salaries or compensation of elected and appointed officials and employees
of the village are hereby established at the figures set forth after their
respective titles as follows: (Ord. 98-1019, 10-1-1998)
 
Village president (includes duties of  $17,000.00 per year to be paid on a
local liquor control officer)          monthly basis
(Ord. 04-1166, 8-18-2004, eff. 5-2005)  
Village trustees                       $7,200.00 per year, to be paid on a
                                       monthly basis
 
The salaries of the village president and village trustees shall be reviewed on
an annual basis. (Ord. 98-1019, 10-1-1998)
The foregoing increase in compensation of an elected official of the village
shall not take effect while the elected official presently holds an office
during the term for which he was elected.
Any elected official shall have the option, at his discretion, at any time
during his term of office, to file with the village clerk his voluntary
election to receive any lesser sum of compensation as herein set forth.
There shall be paid into the general corporate fund of the village such sums of
money as may from time to time be determined by the village in connection with
matters arising out of ordinance 610 of the village.
The salaries of all other appointed personnel and independent contractors of
the village shall be established by the president with the advice and consent
of the village board. (Ord. 95-919, 3-30-1995)
1-16-2: WAGES OF LABORERS FOR PUBLIC WORKS CONSTRUCTION 1 :
To the extent and as required by "an act regulating wages of laborers,
mechanics and other workers employed in any public works by state, county, city
or any public body or any political subdivision or by anyone under contract for
public works", approved June 26, 1941, as amended, the general prevailing rate
of wages in this locality for laborers, mechanics and other workers engaged in
construction of public works coming under the jurisdiction of the village is
hereby ascertained to be the same as the prevailing rate of wages for
construction work in the Cook County area as determined by the department of
labor of the state as of June 1990, a copy of that determination being attached
hereto and incorporated herein by reference. As required by said act, any and
all revisions of the prevailing rate of wages by the department of labor of the
state shall supersede the department's June determination and apply to any and
all public works construction undertaken by the village. The definition of any
terms appearing in this chapter which are also used in aforesaid act shall be
the same as in said act.
   (A)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply said general
prevailing rate of wages as herein ascertained to any work or employment except
public works construction of the village to the extent required by the
aforesaid act.
   (B)   The village clerk shall publicly post or keep available for inspection
by any interested party in the main office of the village this determination or
any revisions of such prevailing rate of wages. A copy of this determination or
of the current revised determination of prevailing rate of wages then in effect
shall be attached to all contract specifications.
   (C)   The village clerk shall mail a copy of this determination to an
employer, and to any association of employers and to any person or association
of employees who have filed their names and addresses, requesting copies of any
determination stating the particular rates and the particular class of workers
whose wages will be affected by such rates.
   (D)   The village clerk shall promptly file a certified copy of this
ordinance with both the secretary of state index division and department of
labor of the state of Illinois.
   (E)   The village clerk shall cause to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation within the area a copy of this chapter, and such
publication shall constitute notice that the determination is effective and
that this is the determination of this public body. (Ord. 90-819, 6-21-1990)
 
Notes
1 1. See ordinance 90-819 for Illinois department of labor prevailing wages for
  Cook County effective June 1, 1990.
CHAPTER 17
MUNICIPAL FLAG
SECTION:
1-17-1: Flag Adopted
1-17-2: Specifications
1-17-1: FLAG ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted an official municipal flag in and for the village of
Bedford Park. (Ord. 511, 10-7-1965)
1-17-2: SPECIFICATIONS:
The municipal flag shall be blue, gold and white in color and be outlined in
gold linkage around its border. The center design of said flag shall be a
circle and triangle combination with the outer border of said circle being in
gold. The circle itself shall be blue with the following words and figures
printed in gold over the blue within the circle:
Village of Bedford Park, Illinois ---- 1940.
The inner triangle shall be bordered in gold over a blue background. The words
"Residential – Industrial – Education" shall be printed in blue outside of the
triangle but within the inner circle. (Ord. 511, 10-7-1965)
CHAPTER 18
PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-18-1: Title
1-18-2: Policy
1-18-3: Employees Covered
1-18-4: Job Classification And Wage Evaluation
1-18-5: Appointments And Promotions
1-18-6: Separations
1-18-7: Rules
1-18-8: Organization
1-18-9: Appropriation Of Funds
1-18-10: Reimbursement By Employees
1-18-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known and referred to as the BEDFORD PARK PERSONNEL
ORDINANCE. (Ord. 530, eff. 1-1-1967)
1-18-2: POLICY:
It is hereby the declared personnel policy of the village that: (Ord. 530, eff.
1-1-1967)
   (A)   Employment in the village government shall be based on merit and
fitness, and without regard for political, religious, racial, national origin,
sex, or physical handicap considerations. (Ord. 684, 7-5-1979)
   (B)   Just and equitable incentives and conditions of employment shall be
established and maintained to promote efficiency and economy in the operation
of the village government.
   (C)   Positions having similar duties and responsibilities shall be
classified and compensated on a uniform basis.
   (D)   Appointments, promotions and other actions requiring the application
of the merit principle shall be based on systematic evaluation of the relative
merits of candidates.
   (E)   High morals shall be maintained by fair administration of this chapter
and by every consideration of the rights and interests of employees consistent
with the best interests of the public and the village.
   (F)   Tenure of employees covered by this chapter shall be subject to good
behavior, the satisfactory performance of work, necessity for the performance
of work, and the availability of funds. (Ord. 530, eff. 1-1-1967)
1-18-3: EMPLOYEES COVERED:
   (A)   All offices and positions of the village are divided into classified
service and exempt service.
   (B)   The exempt service shall include the following:
      1.   All elected officials.
      2.   All nonelective officials appointed to serve with or without pay,
including, but not limited to, attorney, treasurer, auditor, building
coordinator, health officer, administrative assistant to the president, and air
pollution coordinator.
      3.   All volunteer personnel and members of commissions and boards
appointed to serve with or without pay.
      4.   Consultants rendering temporary professional service.
      5.   Such positions involving seasonal or part time employment, or
temporary special assignments specifically placed in the exempt class by the
president with the advice and consent of the village board.
   (C)   The classified service shall include all other positions in village
service that are not specifically placed in the exempt service by this chapter,
provided such positions are regular and full time. Probationary employees
having satisfactorily completed their one year probationary period shall
automatically be moved into the classified service.
   (D)   All probationary employees are covered under the provisions of this
chapter except that they shall not have the right of recourse for reasons of
discipline or discharge as prescribed in subsection
1-18-8(D) of this chapter.
   (E)   Upon the effective date hereof, all persons included in the classified
service shall have permanent status.
   (F)   The class and job positions in which each employee shall have
permanent status shall be determined in the manner provided for in the village
of Bedford Park salary administration program. This portion of the chapter
shall not be effective until six (6) months after the adoption thereof.
   (G)   The articles of this chapter shall apply to all offices and positions
of the village except those specifically exempted and except as otherwise
provided for herein. (Ord. 530, eff. 1-1-1967)
1-18-4: JOB CLASSIFICATION AND WAGE EVALUATION:
   (A)   Job Class Description: The village shall maintain a sound, just and
equitable salary administration program whereby:
      1.   Each position in the classified service shall be assigned to a job
class on the basis of an analysis of the kind and level of its required duties
and responsibilities. A job class may contain one or more positions. A job
description shall be maintained on every position in the classified service.
      2.   A pay plan shall be established for all job classes. The position
grade and range assigned to each job class shall be such as to fairly reflect
the differences and responsibilities of every position in each job class.
      3.   A formal performance and appraisal review procedure for every
employee in the classified service is established for merit increase and
promotional purposes.
      4.   The pay plan may be amended from time to time in keeping with the
policies and procedures outlined in the salary administration program.
   (B)   The Salary Administration Program:
      1.   The salary administration program of the village is hereby adopted
in its entirety and is incorporated herein and made a part of this chapter by
reference. (Ord. 530, eff. 1-1-1967)
1-18-5: APPOINTMENTS AND PROMOTIONS:
   (A)   The village president with the advice and consent of the village board
of trustees shall make all appointments to vacancies based on a systematic
evaluation of the relative merits of the candidates.
      1.   The recruitment of all new candidates for position openings shall be
conducted in such manner as will fairly test the abilities and aptitudes of the
candidates, for the duties to be performed. They shall not include any inquiry
into political or religious affiliation, or race of any candidate.
      2.   Vacancies in positions above entrance level shall be filled by
promotion whenever it is in the best interest of the village to do so.
Promotions shall give appropriate consideration to the applicant's
qualifications, record of performance and seniority.
   (B)   Once an employee in the classified service becomes established on a
permanent status basis in his specific position or job class, he shall be
annually appointed to this position by the president with the advice and
consent of the village board of trustees, except:
      1.   Where the employee's work or misconduct warrants dismissal or
demotion.
      2.   Wherever there is a lack of funds or a change in conditions
requiring a reduction in the number of employees in a department or division of
the village government.
      3.   Whenever the appointing authority suspends, demotes or dismisses an
employee in the classified service, he shall file with the employee and the
village, a written notification of the action taken and a statement of the
reasons for such action. (Ord. 530, eff. 1-1-1967)
1-18-6: SEPARATIONS:
   (A)   The tenure of every employee shall be conditioned on good behavior and
the satisfactory performance of duties. Any employee may be temporarily
separated by layoff or suspension, or permanently separated by resignation or
dismissal.
   (B)   Whenever there is a lack of work or lack of funds, requiring reduction
in number of employees in a department or division, by the village government,
the president, policy committee of the village board and the department head,
shall meet to determine the manner in which the reduction in personnel shall be
made. The basis for determining the reduction in forces shall be seniority and
quality of work. It shall also be policy to first lay off the temporary
employees before probationary employees, and all probationary employees before
employees in the classified service. (Ord. 530, eff. 1-1-1967)
   (C)   When, in the judgment of a department head, an employee's work
performance or conduct justifies disciplinary action, the employee may be
suspended without pay by such department head. A suspended employee may not
request a hearing before the employee relations committee unless the suspension
is for a total of more than ten (10) paydays in any one municipal fiscal year.
The ten (10) days as aforesaid are either on a single action or accrual basis.
The employee and the village administrator shall be furnished a written
statement of such suspension and the reasons for same.
   (D)   An employee in the classified service may be demoted or suspended in
excess of ten (10) days whenever, in the judgment of the department supervisor,
the employee's work or misconduct so warrants. When a department supervisor
decides to take such action, he shall file with the employee and the village
administrator a written notification containing a statement for the reasons of
the action so taken. Said notice shall inform the employee of his or her
rights, if any, under the appeals procedure as set forth in subsection
1-18-8(D) of this chapter.
   (E)   In the event a department supervisor deems that a dismissal of an
employee is warranted due to the employee's work record or misconduct, he shall
make such a recommendation to the village administrator and village president.
When such action is so taken, the department supervisor shall file with the
employee a written notification containing a statement for the reasons for the
recommended action. Upon the issuance of said recommendation of dismissal, a
hearing before the employee relations committee shall be scheduled as in
subsection
1-18-8(D)1(b) of this chapter. That until the final adjudication of the
employee's status, he or she will be placed on administrative leave. (Ord. 00-
1058, 6-15-2000)
1-18-7: RULES:
   (A)   The Standard Procedures Manual: The standard procedures manual of the
village covering various elements of employment including, but not limited to,
hours of work, seniority, payment of wages, pensions, disability,
hospitalization, leave of absence, days off, holiday pay, sickness and
accident, and other conditions of employment is hereby adopted in its entirety
and is hereby incorporated into and made a part of this chapter by reference.
   (B)   Amendments: Any and all amendments to the procedures, rules and
regulations covered in the standard procedures manual shall be made pursuant to
the provisions in said manual and shall be effective upon passage and approval
of the board of trustees. (Ord. 92-878, 10-15-1992)
1-18-8: ORGANIZATION:
   (A)   Village President: The village president shall have the basic
responsibility for the effective administration of this chapter.
   (B)   The Policy Committee: The chairman and members of the policy committee
shall have the following powers and responsibilities delegated to them by the
village president to effectively maintain the day to day administration of this
chapter:
      1.   Be responsible for the direct administration and enforcement of this
chapter.
      2.   Perform all lawful and necessary duties essential to the effective
operation of this chapter.
      3.   Recommend revisions and amendments to the village board for its
consideration.
      4.   Be responsible for the administration of the wage evaluation
program.
      5.   Maintain adequate records of all personnel, the examination record
of every candidate, and the employment record of every employee.
      6.   Develop and administer such recruiting and examining programs to
maintain an adequate supply of competent applicants to fit the village needs.
      7.   Develop and coordinate a training and educational program for
development of village employees.
      8.   Maintain a list of qualified candidates for:
         (a)   Reemployment purposes to contain a list of employees in the
classified service in good standing laid off due to lack of work or funds.
         (b)   Promotional lists and original employment lists.
         (c)   Probationary employees laid off due to a lack of work or funds
who desire to be placed on the reemployment list. (Ord. 530, eff. 1-1-1967)
1-18-9: APPROPRIATION OF FUNDS:
The village board shall appropriate such funds as are necessary to carry out
the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 530, eff. 1-1-1967)
1-18-10: REIMBURSEMENT BY EMPLOYEES:
   (A)   Definitions: For the purpose of this section the following words shall
have the meanings given to them:
    EMPLOYEE: Any individual who was employed by the village for a period of
less than twenty four (24) months.
   TERMINATION: Any employee who voluntarily leaves or resigns or is terminated
from his or her employment with the village. (Ord. 98-1016, 9-17-1998; amd.
Ord. 99-1040, 10-21-1999)
   (B)   Reimbursement To Village: Any employee who terminates his or her
employment shall be responsible to reimburse the village for any uniform,
equipment, tuition costs, training expenses or similar items purchased by the
village on behalf of the employee. The employee shall reimburse the village
within thirty (30) days from his last day of employment.
   (C)   Notification To Employee: All employees, upon obtaining employment
with the village, shall be notified in writing as to the requirement of
reimbursement. (Ord. 98-1016, 9-17-1998)
CHAPTER 19
PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS
SECTION:
1-19-1: Purchase Orders And Contracts; Competitive Bids
1-19-2: Contracts Not Requiring Competitive Bids
1-19-3: Emergency Contracts
1-19-4: Advertisement For Bids; Deposits
1-19-5: Collusion Among Bidders And Disclosures; Prohibition
1-19-6: Opening Of Bids
1-19-7: Awarding Of Contracts; Public Inspection
1-19-8: Responsibility Of Bidders; Determination
1-19-9: Rejection Of Bids
1-19-10: Bonds Of Bidders
1-19-11: Assignment Of Contracts
1-19-12: Contracts Executed In Violation Of Chapter; Effect
1-19-1: PURCHASE ORDERS AND CONTRACTS; COMPETITIVE BIDS:
Except as otherwise herein provided, all purchase orders or contracts of
whatever nature, for labor, services or work, the purchase, lease, or sale of
personal property, materials, equipment or supplies, involving amounts in
excess of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), made by or on behalf of the
village, shall be let by free and open competitive bidding after advertisement,
to the lowest responsible bidder, or in the appropriate instance, to the
highest responsible bidder, depending upon whether the village is to expend or
to receive money. All such purchase orders or contracts, as defined above,
which shall involve amounts of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), or less
shall be let in the manner described above whenever practicable, except that
such purchase orders or contracts may be let in the open market in a manner
calculated to ensure the best interests of the public, after solicitations of
bids by mail, telephone, or otherwise. (Ord. 05-1192, 11-17-2005)
1-19-2: CONTRACTS NOT REQUIRING COMPETITIVE BIDS:
Contracts which by their nature are not adapted to award by competitive
bidding, such as, but not limited to, contracts for the services of individuals
possessing a high degree of professional skill where the ability or fitness of
the individual plays an important part, contracts for supplies, materials,
parts or equipment which are available only from a single source, contracts for
the printing or engraving of bonds, water certificates, tax warrants and other
evidence of indebtedness, contracts for utility services such as water, light,
heat, telephone or telegraph, shall not be subject to the competitive bidding
requirements of this chapter. Regular employment contracts in the municipal
service shall not be subject to the provisions of this chapter, nor shall this
chapter be applicable to the granting or issuance pursuant to powers conferred
by laws, ordinances or resolutions, of franchises, licenses, permits or other
authorizations by the corporate authorities of the village, nor to contracts or
transactions, other than the sale or lease of personal property, pursuant to
which the village is the recipient of money. (Ord. 639, 8-20-1975)
1-19-3: EMERGENCY CONTRACTS:
In the case of an emergency affecting the public health or safety, so declared
by the board of trustees of the village at a meeting thereof duly convened,
which declaration shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of all the
members thereof and shall set forth the nature of the danger to the public
health or safety, contracts may be let to the extent necessary to resolve such
emergency without public advertisement. The resolution or ordinance in which
such declaration is embodied shall fix the date upon which such emergency shall
terminate, which date may be extended or abridged by the board of trustees as
in their judgment the circumstances require. A full written account of any such
emergency together with a requisition for the materials, supplies or equipment
required therefor shall be open to public inspection for a period of at least
one year subsequent to the date of such emergency purchase. Except as to
emergency contracts, no undertaking involving amounts in excess of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) shall be split into parts, so as to produce
amounts of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or less, for the purpose of
avoiding the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 05-1192, 11-17-2005)
1-19-4: ADVERTISEMENT FOR BIDS; DEPOSITS:
All proposals to award purchase orders or contracts involving amounts in excess
of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) shall be published once at least ten
(10) days, excluding Sundays and legal holidays, in advance of the date
announced for the receiving of bids, in a secular English language newspaper of
general circulation throughout the village. Advertisements for bids shall
describe the character of the proposed contract or agreement in sufficient
detail to enable the bidders thereon to know what their obligations will be,
either in the advertisement itself, or by reference to detailed plans and
specifications on file at the time of the publication of the first
announcement. Such advertisement shall also state the date, time and place
assigned for the opening of bids, and no bids shall be received at any time
subsequent to the time indicated in the announcement. However, an extension of
time may be granted for the opening of such bids upon publication in a secular
English newspaper of general circulation throughout the village of the date to
which the bid opening has been extended. Cash, cashier's check, or a certified
check, as a deposit of good faith, in a reasonable amount but not in excess of
ten percent (10%) of the contract amount may be required of each bidder on all
bids involving amounts in excess of twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00) and,
if so required, the advertisement for bids shall so specify. (Ord. 05-1192, 11-
17-2005)
1-19-5: COLLUSION AMONG BIDDERS AND DISCLOSURES; PROHIBITION:
Any agreement or collusion among bidders or prospective bidders in restraint of
freedom of competition by agreement to bid a fixed price, or otherwise, shall
render the bids of such bidders void. Any disclosure in advance of the opening
of bids, of the terms of the bids submitted in response to an advertisement,
made or permitted by the purchasing agent shall render the proceedings void and
shall require readvertisement and reaward. (Ord. 639, 8-20-1975)
1-19-6: OPENING OF BIDS:
All sealed bids shall be publicly opened at a duly convened meeting of the
board of trustees or department committee meeting at a time and place so
designated.
All bids shall be awarded at duly convened board meetings of the whole. (Ord.
00-1056, 6-1-2000)
1-19-7: AWARDING OF CONTRACTS; PUBLIC INSPECTION:
The award of any contract involving amounts in excess of twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) shall be made to the lowest or highest responsible bidder
as provided in section
1-19-1 of this chapter. Every contract involving amounts in excess of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) shall be signed by the mayor and attested by the
village clerk. Each bid, with the name of the bidder, shall be entered on a
record which record with the name of the successful bidder indicated thereon,
shall, after award of contract, be open to public inspection in the office of
the village. All purchase orders or contracts involving amounts of twenty
thousand dollars ($20,000.00) or less shall be awarded to the lowest or highest
responsible bidder as provided in section
1-19-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 05-1192, 11-17-2005)
1-19-8: RESPONSIBILITY OF BIDDERS; DETERMINATION:
In determining the responsibility of any bidder the board of trustees may take
into account other factors in addition to financial responsibility, such as
past records of transactions with the bidder, experience, adequacy of
equipment, ability to complete performance within a specified time limit and
other pertinent considerations. (Ord. 639, 8-20-1975)
1-19-9: REJECTION OF BIDS:
Any and all bids received in response to an advertisement may be rejected by
the board of trustees if the bidder is not deemed responsible, or the character
or quality of the services, supplies, materials, equipment or labor does not
conform to requirements or if the public interest may otherwise be served
thereby. (Ord. 639, 8-20-1975)
1-19-10: BONDS OF BIDDERS:
Bonds, with sufficient sureties, in such amount as shall be deemed adequate,
not only to ensure performance of contract in the time and manner prescribed in
the contract, but also to save, indemnify, and keep harmless the village
against all loss, damages, claims, liabilities, judgments, costs, and expenses
which may in anywise result therefrom, may be required of each bidder upon
contracts involving amounts in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
when, in the opinion of the board of trustees, the public interests will be
served thereby. (Ord. 639, 8-20-1975)
1-19-11: ASSIGNMENT OF CONTRACTS:
No contract awarded to the lowest responsible bidder or to the highest
responsible bidder, as the case may be, shall be assignable or sublet by the
successful bidder without the written consent of the board of trustees. In no
event shall a contract or any part thereof be assigned or sublet to a bidder
who has been declared not to be a responsible bidder in the consideration of
bids submitted in response to the advertisement for the particular contract.
(Ord. 639, 8-20-1975)
1-19-12: CONTRACTS EXECUTED IN VIOLATION OF CHAPTER; EFFECT:
Any purchase order or contract executed in violation of this chapter shall be
null and void as to the village and if public funds shall have been expended
thereupon the amount thereof may be recovered in the name of the village in an
appropriate action instituted therefor. (Ord. 639, 8-20-1975)
CHAPTER 20
ETHICS ACT
SECTION:
1-20-1: State Officials And Employees Ethics Act
1-20-1: STATE OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES ETHICS ACT:
   (A)   The regulations of section 5-15 1  and article 10 2  of the state
officials and employees ethics act, 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/1-1 et
seq. (hereinafter referred to as the "act" in this section), are hereby adopted
by reference and made applicable to the officers and employees of the village
of Bedford Park to the extent required by 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-
5.
   (B)   The solicitation or acceptance of gifts prohibited to be solicited or
accepted under the act, by any officer or any employee of the village of
Bedford Park, is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   The offering or making of gifts prohibited to be offered or made to an
officer or employee of the village of Bedford Park under the act, is hereby
prohibited.
   (D)   The participation in political activities prohibited under the act, by
any officer or employee of the village of Bedford Park, is hereby prohibited.
   (E)   For purposes of this section, the terms "officer" and "employee" shall
be defined as set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(c).
   (F)   The penalties for violations of this section shall be the same as
those penalties set forth in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/50-5 for similar
violations of the act.
   (G)   This section does not repeal or otherwise amend or modify any existing
ordinances or policies which regulate the conduct of village of Bedford Park
officers and employees. To the extent that any such existing ordinances or
policies are less restrictive than this section, however, the provisions of
this section shall prevail in accordance with the provisions of 5 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 430/70-5(a).
   (H)   Any amendment to the act that becomes effective after the effective
date of this section shall be incorporated into this section by reference and
shall be applicable to the solicitation, acceptance, offering and making of
gifts and to prohibited political activities. However, any amendment that makes
its provisions optional for adoption by municipalities shall not be
incorporated into this section by reference without formal action by the
corporate authorities of the village of Bedford Park.
   (I)   If the Illinois supreme court declares the act unconstitutional in its
entirety, then this section shall be repealed as of the date that the Illinois
supreme court's decision becomes final and not subject to any further appeals
or rehearings. This section shall be deemed repealed without further action by
the corporate authorities of the village of Bedford Park if the act is found
unconstitutional by the Illinois supreme court.
   (J)   If the Illinois supreme court declares part of the act
unconstitutional but upholds the constitutionality of the remainder of the act,
or does not address the remainder of the act, then the remainder of the act as
adopted by this section shall remain in full force and effect; however, that
part of this section relating to the part of the act found unconstitutional
shall be deemed repealed without further action by the corporate authorities of
the village of Bedford Park. (Ord. 04-1156, 5-6-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/5-15.
2 2. 5 ILCS 430/10-10 – 10-40.
CHAPTER 21
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION OF MUNICIPAL CODE VIOLATIONS
SECTION:
1-21-1: Procedure Adopted; Definition
1-21-2: Procedures Not Exclusive
1-21-3: Code Hearing Units; Powers Of Hearing Officers
1-21-4: Administrative Hearing Proceedings
1-21-5: Rules Of Evidence Shall Not Govern
1-21-6: Judicial Review
1-21-7: Enforcement Of Judgment
1-21-8: Impact On Existing Administrative Adjudication Systems
1-21-1: PROCEDURE ADOPTED; DEFINITION:
The village of Bedford Park hereby adopts the terms and provisions of 65
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2.1-1 et seq., in its current form, and as it
may be amended from time to time, for adjudication of municipal code violations
to the extent permitted by the Illinois constitution. As used in this chapter,
a "system of administrative adjudication" means the adjudication of any
violation of any village of Bedford Park municipal ordinances, except for: a)
proceedings not within the statutory or the home rule authority of
municipalities 1 ; b) any offense under the Illinois vehicle code or a similar
offense that is a traffic regulation 2  governing the movement of vehicles and
except for any reportable offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois vehicle
code 3 . (Ord. 00-1065, 8-16-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
2 2. See also title X, chapter 19 of this code.
3 3. 625 ILCS 5/6-204.
1-21-2: PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE:
The adoption by the village of Bedford Park of a system of administrative
adjudication does not preclude the village from using other methods to enforce
municipal ordinances. (Ord. 00-1065, 8-16-2000)
1-21-3: CODE HEARING UNITS; POWERS OF HEARING OFFICERS:
   (A)   There is hereby established a code hearing unit in the village of
Bedford Park municipal government. The code hearing unit shall have
jurisdiction to adjudicate any violation of any village of Bedford Park
municipal ordinances, including any adoptive codes, (hereinafter referred to
from time to time as "Code Violations") except for: 1) proceedings not within
the statutory or the home rule authority of municipalities 1 ; 2) any offense
under the Illinois vehicle code or a similar offense that is a traffic
regulation governing the movement of vehicles and except for any reportable
offense under section 6-204 of the Illinois vehicle code 2 .
   (B)   Adjudicatory hearings shall be presided over by hearing officers. A
hearing officer must be a licensed Illinois attorney who has at least three (3)
years of practicing in Illinois. His or her power and duties are as follows:
      1.   Hearing testimony and accepting evidence that is relevant to the
existence of the code violation;
      2.   Issuing subpoenas directing witnesses to appear and give relevant
testimony at the hearing, upon he request of the parties or their
representatives;
      3.   Preserving and authenticating the record of the hearing and all
exhibits and evidence introduced at the hearing;
      4.   Issuing a determination, based on the evidence presented at the
hearing, of whether a code violation exists. The determination shall be in
writing and shall include a written finding of fact, decision, and order
including the fine, penalty, or action with which the defendant must comply;
and
      5.   Imposing penalties consistent with applicable code provisions and
assessing costs upon finding a party liable for the charged violation, except,
however, that in no event shall the hearing officer have authority to: a)
impose a penalty of incarceration, or b) impose a fine in excess of fifty
thousand dollars ($50,000.00), or at the option of the village, such other
amount not to exceed the maximum amount established by the mandatory
arbitration system as prescribed by the rules of the Illinois supreme court
from time to time for the judicial circuit in which the village is located. The
maximum monetary fine under this subsection (B)5, shall be exclusive of costs
of enforcement or costs imposed to secure compliance with the village's
ordinances and shall not be applicable to cases to enforce the collection of
any tax imposed and collected by the village.
   (C)   Prior to conducting administrative adjudication proceedings,
administrative hearing officers shall have successfully completed a formal
training program which includes the following:
      1.   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings
which they will conduct;
      2.   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations that they
will adjudicate;
      3.   Observation of administrative hearings; and
      4.   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence
and issuing final orders.
   (D)   A proceeding before a code hearing unit shall be instituted upon the
filing of a written pleading by the building inspector, fire prevention officer
or other authorized agent of the village. (Ord. 00-1065, 8-16-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/6-204.
1-21-4: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEEDINGS:
   (A)   Parties to administrative adjudication shall be afforded due process
of law, including notice and opportunity for hearing. Parties shall be served
with process in a manner reasonably calculated to give them actual notice,
including, as appropriate, personal service of process upon a party or its
employees or agents; service by mail at a party's address; or notice that is
posted upon the property where the code violation is found when the party is
the owner or manager of the property.
   (B)   Parties shall be given notice of an adjudicatory hearing which
includes the type and nature of the code violation to be adjudicated, the date
and location of the adjudicatory hearing, the legal authority and jurisdiction
under which the hearing is to be held, and the penalties for failure to appear
at the hearing.
   (C)   Parties shall be provided with an opportunity for a hearing during
which they may be represented by counsel, present witnesses, and cross examine
opposing witnesses. Parties may request the hearing officer to issue subpoenas
to direct the attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the production
of relevant documents. Hearings shall be scheduled with reasonable promptness,
provided that for hearings scheduled in all nonemergency situations, if
requested, the defendant shall have at least fifteen (15) days after service of
process to prepare for a hearing. For purposes of this subsection,
"nonemergency situation" means any situation that does not reasonably
constitute a threat to the public interest, safety, or welfare. If service is
provided by mail, the fifteen (15) day period shall begin to run on the day
that the notice is deposited in the mail. (Ord. 00-1065, 8-16-2000)
1-21-5: RULES OF EVIDENCE SHALL NOT GOVERN:
The formal and technical rules of evidence do not apply in an adjudicatory
hearing permitted under this chapter. Evidence, including hearsay, may be
admitted only if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
persons in the conduct of their affairs. (Ord. 00-1065, 8-16-2000)
1-21-6: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Any final decision by a code hearing unit that a code violation does or does
not exist shall constitute a final determination for purposes of judicial
review and shall be subject to review under the Illinois administrative review
law. (Ord. 00-1065, 8-16-2000)
1-21-7: ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT:
   (A)   Any fine, other sanction, or costs imposed, or part of any fine, other
sanction, or costs imposed, remaining unpaid after the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust judicial review procedures under the Illinois administrative
review law are a debt due and owing the village of Bedford Park and may be
collected in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   After expiration of the period in which judicial review under the
Illinois administrative review law may be sought for a final determination of a
code violation, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
findings decision, and order of the hearing officer may be enforced in the same
manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In any case in which a defendant has failed to comply with a judgment
ordering a defendant to correct a code violation or imposing any fine or other
sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred by the village
of Bedford Park to enforce the judgment, including, but not limited to,
attorney fees, court costs, and costs related to property demolition or
foreclosure, after they are fixed by a court of competent jurisdiction or a
hearing officer, shall be a debt due and owing the village of Bedford Park and
may be collected in accordance with applicable law. Prior to any expenses being
fixed by a hearing officer pursuant to this subsection, the village of Bedford
Park shall provide notice to the defendant that states that the defendant shall
appear at a hearing before the administrative hearing officer to determine
whether the defendant has failed to comply with the judgment. The notice shall
set the date for such a hearing, which shall not be less than seven (7) days
from the date that notice is served. If notice is served by mail, the seven (7)
day period shall begin to run on the date that the notice was deposited in the
mail.
   (D)   Upon being recorded in the manner required by article XII of the code
of civil procedure or by the uniform commercial code, a lien shall be imposed
on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the defendant in the amount
of any debt due and owing the village of Bedford Park under this section. The
lien may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a
judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   A hearing officer may set aside any judgment entered by default and
set a new hearing date, upon a petition filed within twenty one (21) days after
the issuance of the order of default, if the hearing officer determines that
the petitioner's failure to appear at the hearing was for good cause or at any
time if the petitioner establishes that the village of Bedford Park did not
provide proper service of process. If any judgment is set aside pursuant to
this subsection, the hearing officer shall have authority to enter an order
extinguishing any lien which has been recorded for any debt due and owing the
village of Bedford Park as a result of the vacated default judgment. (Ord. 00-
1065, 8-16-2000)
1-21-8: IMPACT ON EXISTING ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION SYSTEMS:
This chapter shall not affect the validity of systems of administrative
adjudication that were authorized by state law, including the village of
Bedford Park ordinances, and in existence prior to the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 00-1065, 8-16-2000)
CHAPTER 22
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
1-22-1: Title
1-22-2: Scope
1-22-3: Definitions
1-22-4: Notice
1-22-5: Late Payment
1-22-6: Payment
1-22-7: Certain Credits And Refunds
1-22-8: Audit Procedure
1-22-9: Appeal
1-22-10: Hearing
1-22-11: Interest And Penalties
1-22-12: Abatement
1-22-13: Installment Contracts
1-22-14: Statute Of Limitations
1-22-15: Voluntary Disclosure
1-22-16: Publication Of Tax Ordinance
1-22-17: Review Of Lien
1-22-18: Application
1-22-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known as, and may be cited as, the LOCALLY IMPOSED AND
ADMINISTERED TAX RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITY ORDINANCE. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-
2000)
1-22-2: SCOPE:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the village's procedures in
connection with all of the village's locally imposed and administered taxes.
(Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-3: DEFINITIONS:
Certain words or terms herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them as
follows:
ACT: The "local government taxpayers' bill of rights act".
CORPORATE AUTHORITIES: The village's president and board of trustees.
LOCAL TAX ADMINISTRATOR: The village's treasurer is charged with the
administration and collection of the locally imposed and administered taxes,
including staff, employees or agents to the extent they are authorized by the
local tax administrator to act in the local tax administrator's stead. The
local tax administrator shall have the authority to implement the terms of this
chapter to give full effect to this chapter. The exercise of such authority by
the local tax administrator shall not be inconsistent with this chapter and the
act.
LOCALLY IMPOSED AND ADMINISTERED TAX OR TAX: Each tax imposed by the village
that is collected or administered by the village not an agency or department of
the state. It does not include any taxes imposed upon real property under the
property tax code or fees collected by the village other than infrastructure
maintenance fees.
NOTICE: Each audit notice, collection notice or other similar notice or
communication in connection with each of the village's locally imposed and
administered taxes.
TAX ORDINANCE: Each ordinance adopted by the village that imposes any locally
imposed and administered tax.
TAXPAYER: Any person required to pay any locally imposed and administered tax
and generally includes the person upon whom the legal incidence of such tax is
placed and with respect to consumer taxes includes the business or entity
required to collect and pay the locally imposed and administered tax to the
village.
VILLAGE: The village of Bedford Park, Illinois. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-4: NOTICE:
Unless otherwise provided, whenever notice is required to be given, the notice
is to be in writing mailed not less than seven (7) calendar days prior to the
day fixed for any applicable hearing, audit or other scheduled act of the local
tax administrator. The notice shall be sent by the local tax administrator as
follows:
   (A)   First class or express mail, or overnight mail, addressed to the
persons concerned at the persons' last known address, or
   (B)   Personal service or delivery. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-5: LATE PAYMENT:
Any notice, payment, remittance or other filing required to be made to the
village pursuant to any tax ordinance shall be considered late unless it is: a)
physically received by the village on or before the due date, or b) received in
an envelope or other container displaying a valid, readable U.S. postmark dated
on or before the due date, properly addressed to the village, with adequate
postage prepaid. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-6: PAYMENT:
Any payment or remittance received for a tax period shall be applied in the
following order: a) first to the tax due for the applicable period; b) second
to the interest due for the applicable period; and c) third to the penalty for
the applicable period. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-7: CERTAIN CREDITS AND REFUNDS:
   (A)   The village shall not refund or credit any taxes voluntarily paid
without written protest at the time of payment in the event that a locally
imposed and administered tax is declared invalidly enacted or unconstitutional
by a court of competent jurisdiction. However, a taxpayer shall not be deemed
to have paid the tax voluntarily if the taxpayer lacked knowledge of the facts
upon which to protest the taxes at the time of payment or if the taxpayer paid
the taxes under duress.
   (B)   The statute of limitations on a claim for credit or refund shall be
four (4) or less years after the end of the calendar year in which payment in
error was made. The village shall not grant a credit or refund of locally
imposed and administered taxes, interest, or penalties to a person who has not
paid the amounts directly to the village.
   (C)   The procedure for claiming a credit or refund of locally imposed and
administered taxes, interest or penalties paid in error shall be as follows:
      1.   The taxpayer shall submit to the local tax administrator in writing
a claim for credit or refund together with a statement specifying:
         (a)   The name of the locally imposed and administered tax subject to
the claim;
         (b)   The tax period for the locally imposed and administered tax
subject to the claim;
         (c)   The date of the tax payment subject to the claim and the
canceled check or receipt for the payment;
         (d)   The taxpayer's recalculation, accompanied by an amended or
revised tax return, in connection with the claim; and
         (e)   A request for either a refund or a credit in connection with the
claim to be applied to the amount of tax, interest and penalties overpaid, and,
as applicable, related interest on the amount overpaid; provided, however, that
there shall be no refund and only a credit given in the event the taxpayer owes
any monies to the village.
      2.   Within ten (10) days of the receipt by the local tax administrator
of any claim for a refund or credit, the local tax administrator shall either:
         (a)   Grant the claim; or
         (b)   Deny the claim, in whole or in part, together with a statement
as to the reason for the denial or the partial grant and denial.
      3.   In the event the local tax administrator grants, in whole or in
part, a claim for refund or credit, the amount of the grant for refund or
credit shall bear interest at the rate of five percent (5%) per annum, based on
a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days and the number of days elapsed,
from the date of the overpayment to the date of mailing of a refund check or
the grant of a credit. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-8: AUDIT PROCEDURE:
Any request for proposed audit pursuant to any local administered tax shall
comply with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   Each notice of audit shall contain the following information:
      1.   The tax;
      2.   The time period of the audit; and
      3.   A brief description of the books and records to be made available
for the auditor.
   (B)   Any audit shall be conducted during normal business hours and if the
date and time selected by the local tax administrator is not agreeable to the
taxpayer, another date and time may be requested by the taxpayer within thirty
(30) days after the originally designated audit and during normal business
hours.
   (C)   The taxpayer may request an extension of time to have an audit
conducted. The audit shall be conducted not less than seven (7) days nor more
than thirty (30) days from the date the notice is given, unless the taxpayer
and the local tax administrator agreed to some other convenient time. In the
event taxpayer is unable to comply with the audit on the date in question, the
taxpayer may request another date within the thirty (30) days, approved in
writing, that is convenient to the taxpayer and the local tax administrator.
   (D)   Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records of the taxpayer's
business or activities, including original source documents and books of entry
denoting the transactions which had given rise or may have given rise to any
tax liability, exemption or deduction. All books shall be kept in the English
language and shall be subject to and available for inspection by the village.
   (E)   It is the duty and responsibility of every taxpayer to make available
its books and records for inspection by the village. If the taxpayer or tax
collector fails to provide the documents necessary for audit within the time
provided, the local tax administrator may issue a tax determination and
assessment based on the tax administrator's determination of the best estimate
of the taxpayer's tax liability.
   (F)   If an audit determines there has been an overpayment of a locally
imposed and administered tax as a result of the audit, written notice of the
amount of overpayment shall be given to the taxpayer within thirty (30) days of
the village's determination of the amount of overpayment.
   (G)   In the event a tax payment was submitted to the incorrect local
governmental entity, the local tax administrator shall notify the local
governmental entity imposing such tax. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-9: APPEAL:
   (A)   The local tax administrator shall send written notice to a taxpayer
upon the local tax administrator's issuance of a protestable notice of tax due,
a bill, a claim denial, or a notice of claim reduction regarding any tax. The
notice shall include the following information:
      1.   The reason for the assessment;
      2.   The amount of the tax liability proposed;
      3.   The procedure for appealing the assessment; and
      4.   The obligation of the village during the audit, appeal, refund and
collection process.
   (B)   A taxpayer who receives written notice from the local tax
administrator of a determination of tax due or assessment may file with the
local tax administrator a written protest and petition for hearing, setting for
the basis of the taxpayer's request for a hearing. The written protest and
petition for hearing must be filed with the local tax administrator within
forty five (45) days of receipt of the written notice of the tax determination
and assessment.
   (C)   If a timely written notice and petition for hearing is filed, the
local tax administrator shall fix the time and place for hearing and shall give
written notice to the taxpayer. The hearing shall be scheduled for a date
within fourteen (14) days of receipt of the written protest and petition for
hearing, unless the taxpayer requests a later date convenient to all parties.
   (D)   If a written protest and petition for hearing is not filed within the
forty five (45) day period, the tax determination, audit or assessment shall
become a final bill due and owing without further notice.
   (E)   Upon the showing of reasonable cause by the taxpayer and the full
payment of the contested tax liability along with interest accrued as of the
due date of the tax, the local tax administrator may reopen or extend the time
for filing a written protest and petition for hearing. In no event shall the
time for filing a written protest and petition for hearing be reopened or
extended for more than ninety (90) days after the expiration of the forty five
(45) day period. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-10: HEARING:
   (A)   Whenever a taxpayer or a tax collector has filed a timely written
protest and petition for hearing under section
1-22-9 of this chapter, the local tax administrator shall conduct a hearing
regarding any appeal.
   (B)   No continuances shall be granted except in cases where a continuance
is absolutely necessary to protect the rights of the taxpayer. Lack of
preparation shall not be grounds for a continuance. Any continuance granted
shall not exceed fourteen (14) days.
   (C)   At the hearing the local tax administrator shall preside and shall
hear testimony and accept any evidence relevant to the tax determination, audit
or assessment. The strict rules of evidence applicable to judicial proceedings
shall not apply.
   (D)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the local tax administrator shall
make a written determination on the basis of the evidence presented at the
hearing. The taxpayer or tax collector shall be provided with a copy of the
written decision. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-11: INTEREST AND PENALTIES:
In the event a determination has been made that a tax is due and owing, through
audit, assessment or other bill sent, the tax must be paid within the time
frame otherwise indicated.
   (A)   Interest: The village hereby provides for the amount of interest to be
assessed on a late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of the tax, to be five
percent (5%) per annum, based on a year of three hundred sixty five (365) days
and the number of days elapsed.
   (B)   Late Filing And Payment Penalties: If a tax return is not filed within
the time and manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance, a late filing
penalty, of five percent (5%) of the amount of tax required to be shown as due
on a return shall be imposed; and a late payment penalty of five percent (5%)
of the tax due shall be imposed. If no return is filed within the time or
manner provided by the controlling tax ordinance and prior to the village
issuing a notice of tax delinquency or notice of tax liability, then a failure
to file penalty shall be assessed equal to twenty five percent (25%) of the
total tax due for the applicable reporting period for which the return was
required to be filed. A late filing or payment penalty shall not apply if a
failure to file penalty is imposed by the controlling ordinance. (Ord. 00-1077,
12-21-2000)
1-22-12: ABATEMENT:
The local tax administrator shall have the authority to waive or abate any late
filing penalty, late payment penalty or failure to file penalty if the local
tax administrator shall determine reasonable cause exists for delay or failure
to make a filing. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-13: INSTALLMENT CONTRACTS:
The village may enter into an installment contract with the taxpayer for the
payment of taxes under the controlling tax ordinance. The local tax
administrator may not cancel any installment contract so entered unless the
taxpayer fails to pay any amount due and owing. Upon written notice by the
local tax administrator that the payment is thirty (30) days delinquent, the
taxpayer shall have fourteen (14) working days to cure any delinquency. If the
taxpayer fails to cure the delinquency within the fourteen (14) day period or
fails to demonstrate good faith in restructuring the installment contract with
the local administrator, the installment contract shall be canceled without
further notice to the taxpayer. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-14: STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS:
The village, through the local tax administrator, shall review all tax returns
in a prompt and timely manner and inform taxpayers of any amounts due and
owing. The taxpayer shall have forty five (45) days after receiving notice of
the reviewed tax returns to make any request for refund or provide any tax
still due and owing.
   (A)   No determination of tax due and owing may be issued more than four (4)
years after the end of the calendar year for which the return for the
applicable period was filed or for the calendar year in which the return for
the applicable period was due, whichever occurs later.
   (B)   If any tax return is not filed or if during any four (4) year period
for which a notice of tax determination or assessment may be issued by the
village, the tax paid was less than seventy five percent (75%) of the tax due,
the statute of limitations shall be six (6) years maximum after the end of the
calendar year in which return for the applicable period was due or end of the
calendar year in which the return for the applicable period was filed.
   (C)   No statute of limitations shall apply if a fraudulent tax return was
filed by the taxpayer. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-15: VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE:
For any locally imposed and administered tax for which a taxpayer has not
received a written notice of an audit, investigation, or assessment from the
local tax administrator, a taxpayer is entitled to file an application with the
local tax administrator for a voluntary disclosure of the tax due. A taxpayer
filing a voluntary disclosure application must agree to pay the amount of tax
due, along with interest of one percent (1%) per month, for all periods prior
to the filing of the application but not more than four (4) years before the
date of filing the application. A taxpayer filing a valid voluntary disclosure
application may not be liable for any additional tax, interest, or penalty for
any period before the date the application was filed. However, if the taxpayer
incorrectly determined and underpaid the amount of tax due, the taxpayer is
liable for the underpaid tax along with applicable interest on the underpaid
tax, unless the underpayment was the result of fraud on the part of the
taxpayer, in which case the application shall be deemed invalid and void. The
payment of tax and interest must be made by no later than ninety (90) days
after the filing of the voluntary disclosure application or the date agreed to
by the local tax administrator. However, any additional amounts owed as a
result of an underpayment of tax and interest previously paid under this
section must be paid within ninety (90) days after a final determination and
the exhaustion of all appeals of the additional amount owed or the date agreed
to by the local tax administrator, whichever is longer. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-
2000)
1-22-16: PUBLICATION OF TAX ORDINANCE:
Any locally administered tax ordinance shall be published via normal or
standard publishing requirements. The posting of a tax ordinance on the
internet shall satisfy the publication requirements. Copies of all tax
ordinances shall be made available to the public upon request at the village
clerk's office. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-17: REVIEW OF LIEN:
The local tax administrator shall establish an internal review procedure
regarding any liens filed against any taxpayers for unpaid taxes. Upon a
determination by the local tax administrator that the lien is valid, the lien
shall remain in full force and effect. If the lien is determined to be
improper, the local tax administrator shall:
   (A)   Timely remove the lien at the village's expense;
   (B)   Correct the taxpayer's credit record; and
   (C)   Correct any public disclosure of the improperly imposed lien. (Ord.
00-1077, 12-21-2000)
1-22-18: APPLICATION:
This chapter shall be liberally construed and administered to supplement all of
the village's tax ordinances. To the extent that any tax ordinance is in
conflict with or inconsistent with this chapter, this chapter shall be
controlling. (Ord. 00-1077, 12-21-2000)
CHAPTER 23
HIRING OF RESIDENTS; TAX INCENTIVE
SECTION:
1-23-1: Definitions
1-23-2: Employment Of Residents
1-23-3: Term Of Abatement
1-23-4: Amount Of Abatement
1-23-5: Abatement Process
1-23-6: Code Violations
1-23-7: Annual Review
1-23-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall be defined as follows for the purpose of this
chapter:
CORPORATION: Any business, corporation, joint venture, partnership or other
similar entity who is duly registered to do business in Bedford Park and is
operating within the corporate boundaries of Bedford Park.
REAL ESTATE TAX INCENTIVE: The partial abatement of the real estate property
owned by a corporation located within the village corporate boundaries.
RESIDENT: Any person who is lawfully residing within the geographic area of
Bedford Park. (Ord. 09-1312, 12-3-2009)
1-23-2: EMPLOYMENT OF RESIDENTS:
Upon the hiring of a resident on a full time basis, a corporation may be
entitled to a partial real estate tax abatement for the taxes levied against
and collected against its property. The abatement shall only apply to the
village's portion of the real estate tax levy and shall not be effective
against the levy imposed by any other taxing district. (Ord. 09-1312, 12-3-
2009)
1-23-3: TERM OF ABATEMENT:
A corporation shall be entitled to seek the abatement after the resident has
been employed for a period of not less than two (2) years. Subsequent to the
two (2) year time frame, the corporation can file a request seeking a partial
abatement of its real estate tax. If so granted, the abatement shall not exceed
two (2) years in length. (Ord. 09-1312, 12-3-2009)
1-23-4: AMOUNT OF ABATEMENT:
A corporation may be entitled to an abatement of five thousand dollars
($5,000.00) or fifty percent (50%) of the village's real estate tax levy,
whichever is less. (Ord. 09-1312, 12-3-2009)
1-23-5: ABATEMENT PROCESS:
The following documents shall be furnished to the village clerk in order to be
considered for an abatement:
   (A)   Notification of the corporation's intent to employ a resident on a
full time basis;
   (B)   Evidence that the corporation's real estate tax bill has been paid in
full on or before the due date as determined by the Cook County treasurer;
   (C)   Written verification that the resident has been and continues to be
employed by the corporation; and
   (D)   Any other documents that may be necessary as determined by the village
authorities. (Ord. 09-1312, 12-3-2009)
1-23-6: CODE VIOLATIONS:
Any corporation having outstanding monies due the village shall not be entitled
to an abatement. (Ord. 09-1312, 12-3-2009)
1-23-7: ANNUAL REVIEW:
The merits of this tax incentive program shall be evaluated on an annual basis
by the village's elected officials. The provisions of this program may be
modified, altered or repealed in its part or in its entirety. (Ord. 09-1312,
12-3-2009)
CHAPTER 24
COUNCIL OF GOVERNMENTS COORDINATOR
SECTION:
1-24-1: Creation Of Position
1-24-2: Appointment To Position
1-24-3: Removal From Position
1-24-4: Duties Of Coordinator
1-24-5: Compensation
1-24-1: CREATION OF POSITION:
The position of council of governments "COG" coordinator is hereby created
subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein. (Ord. 13-1407, 1-17-2013)
1-24-2: APPOINTMENT TO POSITION:
The COG coordinator shall be appointed by the president with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees. The president and board of trustees shall
seek input from the Southwest Council Of Mayors Organization with respect to
this candidate. The appointment to this position shall be based upon his/her
executive and administrative qualifications and expertise. (Ord. 13-1407, 1-17-
2013)
1-24-3: REMOVAL FROM POSITION:
The COG coordinator's job performance will be evaluated on an annual basis by
the village president and board of trustees. The village president and board of
trustees shall also seek an evaluation of the coordinator's job performance
from the Southwest council of mayors. (Ord. 13-1407, 1-17-2013)
1-24-4: DUTIES OF COORDINATOR:
The coordinator shall report to the village president. The job duties shall
include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Coordinate activities between the village of Bedford Park and the
Southwest council of mayors, IML, CMAP, and Moraine Community College.
   (B)   Coordinate transportation and planning between the village and our
neighboring communities.
   (C)   Assist village president and village board concerning
intergovernmental relations.
   (D)   Make recommendations to village president and village board concerning
the availability of possible county, state and federal grants and help
coordinate such grants.
   (E)   Conduct and monitor village financial accounts including budgeting
under her responsibility.
   (F)   Maintain levels of professionalism and confidentiality in dealing with
staff, employees and patrons.
   (G)   Perform job tasks as requested by the Southwest council of mayors.
(Ord. 13-1407, 1-17-2013)
1-24-5: COMPENSATION:
The coordinator shall be entitled to compensation as approved and recommended
by the village president, board of trustees and Southwest council of mayors.
Said compensation shall include wages, insurance benefits and participation in
the Illinois municipal retirement fund. (Ord. 13-1407, 1-17-2013)
CHAPTER 25
CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER
SECTION:
1-25-1: Creation
1-25-2: Position Qualifications
1-25-3: Position Responsibilities
1-25-4: Compensation
1-25-1: CREATION:
The position of chief administrative officer is hereby created. This position
shall be classified as exempt pursuant to the provisions of this code. (Ord.
15-1495, 12-3-2015)
1-25-2: POSITION QUALIFICATIONS:
The minimum requirements for this position are as follows:
   (A)   B.A. degree in either accounting or business administration;
   (B)   Good working knowledge of Microsoft Word and Excel; and
   (C)   Ability to learn other finance programs. (Ord. 15-1495, 12-3-2015)
1-25-3: POSITION RESPONSIBILITIES:
The responsibilities of this position are as follows:
   (A)   Oversee all the village finances; prepare budgets, participate in
labor negotiations, handle personnel related matters, manage the village tax
increment redevelopment projects, and be responsible for the oversight of the
payment of debt service and administration of the village's bond obligation.
   (B)   Perform village office related duties as assigned by the village
president. (Ord. 15-1495, 12-3-2015)
1-25-4: COMPENSATION:
The salary of the chief administrative officer shall be established on an
annual basis by the mayor and village board and shall be provided for in the
annual budget. (Ord. 15-1495, 12-3-2015)
CHAPTER 26
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION:
1-26-1: Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-26-2: Definition Of Sexual Harassment
1-26-3: Procedure For Reporting An Allegation Of Sexual Harassment
1-26-4: Prohibition On Retaliation For Reporting Sexual Harassment Allegations
1-26-5: Consequences Of A Violation Of The Prohibition On Sexual Harassment
1-26-6: Consequences For Knowingly Making A False Report
1-26-1: PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
It is unlawful to harass a person because of that person's sex. The courts have
determined that sexual harassment is a form of discrimination under title VII
of the U.S. Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended in 1991. All persons have a
right to work in an environment free from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment
is unacceptable misconduct which affects individuals of all genders and sexual
orientations. It is a policy of Village of Bedford Park to prohibit harassment
of any person by any Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or
Municipal agency or office on the basis of sex or gender. All Municipal
officials, Municipal agents, Municipal employees and Municipal agencies or
offices are prohibited from sexually harassing any person, regardless of any
employment relationship or lack thereof. (Ord. 17-1550, 12-7-2017, eff. 12-7-
2017)
1-26-2: DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
This chapter adopts the definition of sexual harassment as stated in the
Illinois Human Rights Act, which currently defines sexual harassment as:
   (A)   Any unwelcome sexual advances or requests for sexual favors or any
conduct of a sexual nature when:
      1.   Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a
term or condition of an individual's employment,
      2.   Submission to or rejection of such conduct by an individual is used
as the basis for employment decisions affecting such individual, or
      3.   Such conduct has the purpose or effect of substantially interfering
with an individual's work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile or
offensive working environment.
   (B)   Conduct which may constitute sexual harassment includes:
      1.   Verbal: Sexual innuendos, suggestive comments, insults, humor, and
jokes about sex, anatomy or gender-specific traits, sexual propositions,
threats, repeated requests for dates, or statements about other employees, even
outside of their presence, of a sexual nature.
      2.   Non-Verbal: Suggestive or insulting sounds (whistling), leering,
obscene gestures, sexually suggestive bodily gestures, "catcalls", "smacking"
or "kissing" noises.
      3.   Visual: Posters, signs, pin-ups or slogans of a sexual nature,
viewing pornographic material or websites.
      4.   Physical: Touching, unwelcome hugging or kissing, pinching, brushing
the body, any coerced sexual act or actual assault.
      5.   Textual/Electronic: "Sexting" (electronically sending messages with
sexual content, including pictures and video), the use of sexually explicit
language, harassment, cyber stalking and threats via all forms of electronic
communication (e-mail, text/picture/video messages, intranet/on-line postings,
blogs, instant messages and social network websites like Facebook and Twitter).
The most severe and overt forms of sexual harassment are easier to determine.
On the other end of the spectrum, some sexual harassment is more subtle and
depends, to some extent, on individual perception and interpretation. The
courts will assess sexual harassment by a standard of what would offend a
"reasonable person". (Ord. 17-1550, 12-7-2017, eff. 12-7-2017)
1-26-3: PROCEDURE FOR REPORTING AN ALLEGATION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
An employee who either observes sexual harassment or believes herself/himself
to be the object of sexual harassment should deal with the incident(s) as
directly and firmly as possible by clearly communicating her/his position to
the offending employee, and her/his immediate supervisor. It is not necessary
for sexual harassment to be directed at the person making the report.
Any employee may report conduct which is believed to be sexual harassment,
including the following:
   (A)   Electronic/Direct Communication: If there is sexual harassing behavior
in the workplace, the harassed employee should directly and clearly express
her/his objection that the conduct is unwelcome and request that the offending
behavior stop. The initial message may be verbal. If subsequent messages are
needed, they should be put in writing in a note or a memo.
   (B)   Contact With Supervisory Personnel: At the same time direct
communication is undertaken, or in the event the employee feels threatened or
intimidated by the situation, the problem must be promptly reported to the
immediate supervisor of the person making the report, a Department Head, a
Director of Human Resources, an Ethics Officer, the City Manager or
Administrator, or the Chief Executive Officer of the Municipality.
The employee experiencing what he or she believes to be sexual harassment must
not assume that the employer is aware of the conduct. If there are no witnesses
and the victim fails to notify a supervisor or other responsible officer, the
Municipality will not be presumed to have knowledge of the harassment.
   (C)   Resolution Outside Municipality: The purpose of this chapter is to
establish prompt, thorough and effective procedures for responding to every
report and incident so that problems can be identified and remedied by the
Municipality. However, all Municipal employees have the right to contact the
Illinois Department of Human Rights (IDHR) or the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) for information regarding filing a formal complaint with
those entities. An IDHR complaint must be filed within one hundred eighty (180)
days of the alleged incident(s) unless it is a continuing offense. A complaint
with the EEOC must be filed within three hundred (300) days.
Documentation of any incident may be submitted with any report (what was said
or done, the date, the time and the place), including, but not limited to,
written records such as letters, notes, memos and telephone messages.
All allegations, including anonymous reports, will be accepted and investigated
regardless of how the matter comes to the attention of the Municipality.
However, because of the serious implications of sexual harassment charges and
the difficulties associated with their investigation and the questions of
credibility involved, the claimant's willing cooperation is a vital component
of an effective inquiry and an appropriate outcome. (Ord. 17-1550, 12-7-2017,
eff. 12-7-2017)
1-26-4: PROHIBITION ON RETALIATION FOR REPORTING SEXUAL HARASSMENT ALLEGATIONS:
No Municipal official, Municipal agent, Municipal employee or Municipal agency
or office shall take any retaliatory action against any Municipal employee due
to a Municipal employee's:
   (A)   Disclosure or threatened disclosure of any violation of this chapter,
   (B)   The provision of information related to or testimony before any public
body conducting an investigation, hearing or inquiry into any violation of this
chapter, or
   (C)   Assistance or participation in a proceeding to enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
For the purposes of this chapter, retaliatory action means the reprimand,
discharge, suspension, demotion, denial of promotion or transfer, or change in
the terms or conditions of employment of any Municipal employee that is taken
in retaliation for a Municipal employee's involvement in protected activity
pursuant to this chapter.
No individual making a report will be retaliated against even if a report made
in good faith is not substantiated. In addition, any witness will be protected
from retaliation.
Similar to the prohibition against retaliation contained herein, the State
Officials and Employees Ethics Act 1  provides whistleblower protection from
retaliatory action such as reprimand, discharge, suspension, demotion, or
denial of promotion or transfer that occurs in retaliation for an employee who
does any of the following:
   (A)   Discloses or threatens to disclose to a supervisor or to a public body
an activity, policy, or practice of any officer, member, State agency, or other
State employee that the State employee reasonably believes is in violation of a
law, rule, or regulation,
   (B)   Provides information to or testifies before any public body conducting
an investigation, hearing, or inquiry into any violation of a law, rule, or
regulation by any officer, member, State agency or other State employee, or
   (C)   Assists or participates in a proceeding to enforce the provisions of
the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act.
Pursuant to the Whistleblower Act 2 , an employer may not retaliate against an
employee who discloses information in a court, an administrative hearing, or
before a legislative commission or committee, or in any other proceeding, where
the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the information discloses a
violation of a State or Federal law, rule, or regulation. In addition, an
employer may not retaliate against an employee for disclosing information to a
government or law enforcement agency, where the employee has reasonable cause
to believe that the information discloses a violation of a State or Federal
law, rule, or regulation 3 .
According to the Illinois Human Rights Act 4 , it is a civil rights violation
for a person, or for two (2) or more people to conspire, to retaliate against a
person because he/she has opposed that which he/she reasonably and in good
faith believes to be sexual harassment in employment, because he/she has made a
charge, filed a complaint, testified, assisted, or participated in an
investigation, proceeding, or hearing under the Illinois Human Rights Act.
An employee who is suddenly transferred to a lower paying job or passed over
for a promotion after filing a complaint with IDHR or EEOC, may file a
retaliation charge - due within one hundred eighty (180) days (IDHR) or three
hundred (300) days (EEOC) of the alleged retaliation. (Ord. 17-1550, 12-7-2017,
eff. 12-7-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. 5 ILCS 430/15-10.
2 2. 740 ILCS 174/15(a).
3 3. 740 ILCS 174/15(b).
4 4. 775 ILCS 5/6-101.
1-26-5: CONSEQUENCES OF A VIOLATION OF THE PROHIBITION ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT:
In addition to any and all other discipline that may be applicable pursuant to
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreement, any person who violates this chapter or the
Prohibition on Sexual Harassment contained in 5 Illinois Compiled Statutes 430/
5-65, may be subject to a fine of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) per
offense, applicable discipline or discharge by the Municipality and any
applicable fines and penalties established pursuant to local ordinance, State
law or Federal law. Each violation may constitute a separate offense. Any
discipline imposed by the Municipality shall be separate and distinct from any
penalty imposed by an ethics commission and any fines or penalties imposed by a
court of law or a State or Federal agency. (Ord. 17-1550, 12-7-2017, eff. 12-7-
2017)
1-26-6: CONSEQUENCES FOR KNOWINGLY MAKING A FALSE REPORT:
A false report is a report of sexual harassment made by an accuser using the
sexual harassment report to accomplish some end other than stopping sexual
harassment or retaliation for reporting sexual harassment. A false report is
not a report made in good faith which cannot be proven. Given the seriousness
of the consequences for the accused, a false or frivolous report is a severe
offense that can itself result in disciplinary action. Any person who
intentionally makes a false report alleging a violation of any provision of
this chapter shall be subject to discipline or discharge pursuant to applicable
Municipal policies, employment agreements, procedures, employee handbooks and/
or collective bargaining agreements.
In addition, any person who intentionally makes a false report alleging a
violation of any provision of the State Officials and Employees Ethics Act to
an ethics commission, an inspector general, the State Police, a State's
Attorney, the Attorney General, or any other law enforcement official is guilty
of a Class A misdemeanor. An ethics commission may levy an administrative fine
of up to five thousand dollars ($5,000.00) against any person who intentionally
makes a false, frivolous or bad faith allegation. (Ord. 17-1550, 12-7-2017,
eff. 12-7-2017)
TITLE II
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
2-1-1: Board Of Local Improvements Created
2-1-2: President
2-1-3: Secretary
2-1-4: Powers And Duties
2-1-1: BOARD OF LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS CREATED:
There is hereby established the board of local improvements which shall consist
of the president, the superintendent of public works, who is hereby made ex
officio superintendent of streets to qualify him as a member, and the following
two (2) members of the board of trustees, the chairman of the finance committee
and the chairman of the public works committee. (Ord. 554, 5-16-1968)
2-1-2: PRESIDENT:
The president shall be the president of the board of local improvements. (Ord.
149, 4-19-1962)
2-1-3: SECRETARY:
The clerk shall be the secretary of the board of local improvements. (Ord. 149,
4-19-1962)
2-1-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The board of local improvements shall have the powers given and perform the
duties assigned to it by the statutes of the state and the directives of the
president and board of trustees. (Ord. 149, 4-19-1962)
CHAPTER 2
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND DISASTER AGENCY
SECTION:
2-2-1: Establishment; Composition
2-2-2: Coordinator
2-2-3: Interpretation Of Chapter
2-2-4: Functions And Duties
2-2-5: Mobile Support Team
2-2-6: Mutual Aid Agreements
2-2-7: Emergency Action
2-2-8: Compensation
2-2-9: Reimbursement By State
2-2-10: Volunteers
2-2-11: Integration Of Village Officers And Employees
2-2-12: Purchases And Expenditures
2-2-13: Oath
2-2-14: Office Space
2-2-15: Appropriations; Levy Of Taxes
2-2-16: Credentials Of Authority
2-2-17: Violations
2-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION:
   (A)   There is hereby established in and for the village an emergency
services and disaster agency (ESDA), to prevent, minimize, repair and alleviate
injury or damage resulting from disaster caused by enemy attack, sabotage or
other hostile action, or from natural or manmade disaster, in accordance with
the Illinois emergency services and disaster act of 1975.
   (B)   The agency shall consist of the coordinator and such additional
members as may be appointed by the village president. (Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-2: COORDINATOR:
   (A)   The coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency of the
village shall be appointed by the village president by and with the advice and
consent of the village board on an annual basis.
   (B)   The coordinator shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, training, operation and supervision of the agency, subject to
the direction and control of the village president and village board, as
provided by statute.
   (C)   The coordinator shall represent the village on all matters pertaining
to emergency services. During periods of emergency, as defined by law for
agency purposes, the coordinator shall coordinate the actions of all village
officers and employees.
   (D)   The coordinator is hereby authorized to require the assistance of any
and all able bodied residences for protection of the public welfare during
periods of emergency.
   (E)   The coordinator is hereby authorized to delegate his or her authority
as he or she deems fit.
   (F)   In the event of the absence, resignation or death of the coordinator
or his or her inability to serve, the village president, or any person
designated by him or her, shall be and act as coordinator until a new
appointment is made as provided in this chapter. (Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-3: INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to be a modification of the
executive authority of the village board under the various provisions of state
law giving the village president certain emergency powers. Rather, it is the
express intent of this chapter to assign such emergency authority that is now
existent or subsequently granted or extended by law or the emergency services
and disaster agency of the village. (Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-4: FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES:
The emergency services and disaster agency of the village shall perform such
functions within the village as are prescribed in and by the state emergency
services and disaster agency plan and program prepared by the governor and in
and by such orders, rules and regulations as may be promulgated by the
governor, and, in addition, shall perform such duties outside the corporate
limits as may be required pursuant to any mutual aid agreement with any other
political subdivision, municipality or quasi-municipality entered into as
provided by the state emergency services and disaster agency act of 1975. (Ord.
86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-5: MOBILE SUPPORT TEAM:
   (A)   Any member of the village emergency services and disaster agency may
be designated as a member of a mobile support team created by the director of
the state emergency services and disaster agency as provided by law.
   (B)   The leader of such mobile support team shall be designated by the
coordinator of the village ESDA.
   (C)   Any member of a mobile support team who is a village employee or
officer shall, while serving on call to duty by the governor or the state
director, receive the compensation and have the powers, duties, rights and
immunities incident to such employment or office. Any such member who is not a
paid officer or employee of the village shall, while so serving, receive, from
the state, reasonable compensation as provided by law. (Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-6: MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS:
The coordinator of the emergency services and disaster agency of the village
may negotiate mutual aid agreements with other villages or political
subdivisions of the state, but no such agreement shall be effective until it
has been approved by the village president and village board and by the state
director of the emergency services and disaster agency. (Ord. 86-777, 10-2-
1986)
2-2-7: EMERGENCY ACTION:
If the governor proclaims that a disaster emergency exists due to actual enemy
attack upon the United States or the occurrence within the state of a major
disaster resulting from enemy sabotage or other hostile action, or a manmade or
natural disaster, the village emergency services and disaster agency shall
cooperate fully with the state emergency services and disaster agency and with
the governor in the exercise of emergency powers as provided by law. (Ord. 86-
777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-8: COMPENSATION:
Members of the emergency services and disaster agency of the village who are
paid employees or officers of the village, if called for training by the state
director of the emergency services and disaster agency, shall receive, for the
time spent in such training, the same rate of pay as is attached to the
position held. Members who are not village employees or officers shall receive
for such training time such compensation as may be established by the village
president and the board of trustees. (Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-9: REIMBURSEMENT BY STATE:
The village treasurer may receive and allocate to the appropriate fund any
reimbursement by the state to the village for expenses incident to training
members of the emergency services and disaster agency of the village as
prescribed by the state director of emergency services and disaster agency,
compensation for services and expenses of members of a mobile support team
while serving outside the village in response to a call by the governor or the
state director of the agency, as provided by law, and any other reimbursement
made by the state incident to agency activities as provided by law. (Ord. 86-
777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-10: VOLUNTEERS:
All persons other than village president appointments and employees of the
village, volunteering for service pursuant to this chapter, shall serve without
compensation. While engaged in such service, they shall have the same
immunities as persons and employees of the village performing similar duties.
(Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-11: INTEGRATION OF VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES:
Appointed officers and employees of the village shall be integrated under such
division of the emergency services and disaster agency of the village as the
village president and the coordinator deem necessary and expedient, and such
officers and employees are hereby directed and authorized to comply with
directives issued under this chapter. (Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-12: PURCHASES AND EXPENDITURES:
   (A)   The village president and village board may, on recommendation of the
coordinator or on their own motion, authorize the coordinator to engage in the
purchase of contracts necessary to place the village in a position to
effectively combat any disaster resulting from the explosion of any nuclear or
other bomb or missile and to protect the public health and safety, protect
property and provide emergency assistance to victims in the case of such a
disaster or in the case of a manmade or natural disaster.
   (B)   In the event of an enemy caused or other disaster, the coordinator is
authorized, on behalf of the village, to procure such services, supplies,
equipment or material as may be necessary for such purposes, in view of the
exigency, without regard to the statutory procedures or formalities normally
prescribed by law pertaining to village contracts or obligations, as authorized
by the state ESDA act of 1975, provided that if the village board meets at such
time, the coordinator shall act subject to the directions and restrictions
imposed by the village board. (Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-13: OATH:
Every person appointed to serve in any capacity in the emergency services and
disaster agency of the village shall, before entering upon his or her duties,
subscribe to the following oath, in writing, which shall be filed with the
coordinator:
I,                      do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and
defend and bear true faith and allegiance to the Constitution of the United
States and the institutions and facilities thereof, both public and private,
against all enemies, foreign and domestic; that I take this obligation freely,
without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion; and that I will well and
faithfully discharge the duties upon which I am about to enter. And I do
further swear (or affirm) that I do not advocate, nor am I now, nor have I ever
been a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence; and that during such time as I am affiliated with the Village of
Bedford Park Emergency Services and Disaster Agency, I will not advocate nor
become a member of any political party or organization that advocates the
overthrow of the government of the United States or of this State by force or
violence.
(Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-14: OFFICE SPACE:
The village president and village board are hereby authorized to designate
space in a village building or elsewhere, as may be provided for by the village
president, for the office of the emergency services and disaster agency of the
village. (Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-15: APPROPRIATIONS; LEVY OF TAXES:
The village president and village board may make an appropriation for emergency
services and disaster agency purposes in the manner provided by law and may
levy, in addition, for agency purposes only, a tax not to exceed five cents
($0.05) per one hundred dollars ($100.00) of the assessed value of all taxable
property in addition to all other taxes, as provided by the state ESDA act of
1975. However, that amount collectible under such levy shall in no event exceed
twenty five cents ($0.25) per capita. (Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
2-2-16: CREDENTIALS OF AUTHORITY:
Credentials of authority in a manner and form to be determined by the
coordinator may be issued to emergency services and disaster agency officers
and personnel. The village president and the village clerk are hereby
authorized to affix the seal of the village on such credentials. (Ord. 86-777,
10-2-1986)
2-2-17: VIOLATIONS:
During an emergency, as determined by law, no person shall:
   (A)   Wilfully obstruct, hinder or delay any member of the emergency
services and disaster agency of the village in any enforcement of any lawful
rule or regulation issued pursuant to this chapter or in the performance of any
duty imposed upon him or her by virtue of this chapter;
   (B)   Do any act prohibited by any lawful rule or regulation issued pursuant
to this chapter if such act is of a kind that will give assistance to the
enemy, imperil the life or property of any inhabitant of the village or
prevent, hinder or delay the defense or protection thereof; or
   (C)   Wear, carry or display without authority any mark or identification
specified by the agency.
Persons violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to general
penalties for violation of this code. (Ord. 86-777, 10-2-1986)
CHAPTER 3
PLAN COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Commission Created
2-3-2: Membership
2-3-3: Terms
2-3-4: Organization
2-3-5: Powers
2-3-6: Village Limits
2-3-7: Records
2-3-1: COMMISSION CREATED:
A plan commission is hereby created under the authority of an act of the
general assembly of the state of Illinois, entitled: "an act in relation to
plan commissions in cities, villages and incorporated towns", approved June 24,
1921, and in force July 1, 1921 1 . (Ord. 18, 7-18-1940)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-13-1.
2-3-2: MEMBERSHIP:
Said plan commission shall consist of members including the president and other
members chosen from the board of trustees, the citizens and property owners of
said village by the president with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees. (Ord. 18, 7-18-1940)
2-3-3: TERMS:
Of the members appointed other than the president of the board of trustees,
four (4) shall be appointed for a term of one year, four (4) for a term of two
(2) years, and four (4) for a term of three (3) years. The terms of all members
of the plan commission thereafter appointed shall be three (3) years. All
vacancies occurring in such plan commission shall be filled by appointment for
the remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as original
appointments. (Ord. 18, 7-18-1940)
2-3-4: ORGANIZATION:
As soon as possible after their appointment the members of said plan commission
shall organize by the election of the chairman, vice chairman, secretary and
such other officers as may in their judgment be necessary. All the members and
officers of said plan commission shall serve as such without compensation,
except that if the board of trustees deem advisable the secretary may receive
such compensation as may be fixed from time to time by the board of trustees
and provided for in the appropriation ordinance. If said plan commission shall
deem it advisable to secure technical advice or service, it may do so upon
authority from the village and appropriation by the board therefor. (Ord. 18,
7-18-1940)
2-3-5: POWERS:
Said plan commission shall have the power:
   (A)   To prepare and recommend to the board of trustees a comprehensive plan
of public improvements looking to the present and future development of the
village, which plan shall be known as the official plan of the village. Such
plan shall include reasonable requirements in reference to streets, alleys and
public grounds in unsubdivided lands within the corporate limits and in
contiguous territory outside of and distant not more than one and one-half (11/
2) miles from such limits, and not included in any municipality. Such
requirements to be effective whenever such lands shall be subdivided after the
adoption of such plan.
   (B)   To prepare and recommend to the board of trustees from time to time
such changes in the plan as may be deemed necessary by the board of trustees or
by the plan commission, provided, however, that such changes shall not affect
the general principles of the plan as adopted.
   (C)   To prepare and recommend to the board of trustees from time to time
plans for specific improvements in pursuance of such official plan.
   (D)   To give aid to the officials of the village charged with the direction
of projects for improvements embraced within the official plan, to further the
making of such improvements, and generally to promote the realization of the
official plan.
   (E)   To exercise such other powers germane to the powers granted by this
chapter, as may be conferred by the board of trustees. (Ord. 18, 7-18-1940)
2-3-6: VILLAGE LIMITS:
No map or plat of any subdivision presented for record, affecting land within
the corporate limits of the village and in contiguous territory outside of and
distant not more than one and one-half (11/2) miles from such limits, and not
included in any city, village or incorporated town, after the adoption of the
official plan, shall be entitled to record or shall be valid unless the
subdivision thereon shown, shall provide for streets, alleys and public grounds
in conformity with any requirements applicable thereto, on such official plan.
(Ord. 18, 7-18-1940)
2-3-7: RECORDS:
The plan commission shall keep written records of its proceedings which shall
be open to inspection by the board of trustees at all times. (Ord. 18, 7-18-
1940)
CHAPTER 4
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD (911)
(Rep. by Ord. 16-1517, 8-15-2016)
CHAPTER 5
FOREIGN FIRE INSURANCE TAX BOARD
SECTION:
2-5-1: Election Of Officers
2-5-2: Terms Of Office
2-5-3: Vacancy
2-5-4: Election Procedure
2-5-5: Powers, Duties And Responsibilities
2-5-6: Quorum; Meetings
2-5-1: ELECTION OF OFFICERS:
The foreign fire insurance tax board shall consist of five (5) elected
officers. The elected officers shall include a chairman, secretary, treasurer
and two (2) trustees. Each elected officer shall be a full time,
nonprobationary, member of the village fire department. (Ord. 97-1004, 12-11-
1997)
2-5-2: TERMS OF OFFICE:
Each member of the board elected to an office on the foreign fire insurance tax
board shall serve a term of two (2) years. (Ord. 97-1004, 12-11-1997)
2-5-3: VACANCY:
A vacancy shall be declared if any of the following events occur:
   (A)   The elected officer resigns from the office;
   (B)   The elected officer retires from the fire department;
   (C)   The elected officer is discharged from employment of the village.
A vacancy on the board shall be filled by election in accordance with section
2-5-1 of this chapter and any election procedures established by the board. The
election of the new officer shall take place no later than thirty (30) days
after the vacancy has occurred. The newly elected member shall assume office
immediately upon completion of the election. (Ord. 97-1004, 12-11-1997)
2-5-4: ELECTION PROCEDURE:
Within thirty (30) days from the adoption of this chapter, an election of
officers for the board shall take place. A list of the newly elected officers
shall be submitted to the village clerk. Upon the election of the initial
officers who are to serve on the board, they shall develop rules and
regulations pertaining to the election of all future boards. All such rules and
regulations with respect to the election process shall be posted throughout the
department at least thirty (30) days prior to any election. In the event of a
conflict between the terms of this chapter and any election procedures adopted
by the board, the terms of this chapter shall prevail. All subsequent elections
shall take place no later than thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of the
board members' terms of office. (Ord. 97-1004, 12-11-1997)
2-5-5: POWERS, DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The initial foreign fire insurance tax board and all subsequent boards shall
adhere to the following duties and responsibilities:
   (A)   The board shall make all needful rules and regulations with respect to
the foreign fire insurance tax board and/or the management of monies
appropriated to the board.
   (B)   The board shall develop and maintain a listing of those items that the
board feels are appropriate expenditures pursuant of 65 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-10-2.
   (C)   The funds of the board shall be annually reviewed as part of the
village audit. The audit shall verify that purchases by the board are for the
maintenance, use and benefit of the village fire department.
   (D)   The treasurer of the board shall give a sufficient bond to the
village. This bond shall be approved by the President. The bond shall be
conditioned upon the faithful performance by the treasurer of his duties under
the state statutes, ordinance, and the rules and regulations adopted by the
board.
   (E)   The treasurer of the board shall receive funds appropriated by the
village and shall pay out money and/or otherwise make expenditures upon the
order of the board. Any expenditures made by the treasurer, pursuant to the
order of the board shall be solely for the maintenance, use and benefit of the
fire department.
   (F)   The board shall establish a list of items and/or services from which
it shall select items and/or services to be purchased for the maintenance, use
and benefit of the fire department. The list shall be furnished to the village
board fire committee. The list shall be updated from time to time as the board
shall determine, but no less than annually on January 1 of each year. The first
such list shall be created or revised by April 1, 1998.
   (G)   Prior to the purchase of any item(s) and/or service from the list
which the board intends to place within any fire station(s), the board shall
submit a written statement to the village board fire committee stating the
descriptions of the items and/or services and the proposed locations within any
fire station(s). The village board fire committee has the right to refuse to
allow any such item(s) and/or service(s) into any fire station(s). If the
village board fire committee decides to allow any such item(s) and/or service
into any fire station, the village board fire committee shall also have the
right to refuse the board's proposed physical location of any such item(s) or
rendering of service in any fire station. In the event the board requests, in
writing, a basis for the village board fire committee's decision, such a
response to the request must be submitted to the board within thirty (30) days
of receipt of the request. Upon the purchase of any approved items, title to
same shall be placed in the name of the village.
   (H)   Any proposed purchase in excess of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00)
shall be let for bid in accordance with section
1-19-1 of this code.
   (I)   The officers of the board shall not be entitled to any compensation of
any kind for their services and/or time.
   (J)   Meetings of the board shall not take place or be scheduled during the
officers' working hours of employment. (Ord. 97-1004, 12-11-1997)
2-5-6: QUORUM; MEETINGS:
The board shall strictly comply with the provisions of the open meetings act.
Minutes of all meetings shall be kept by the secretary and shall be open for
public review. The minutes shall be filed with the village clerk. No meeting
shall be held without a quorum being present. Three (3) members of the board
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. (Ord. 98-1011, 5-7-
1998)
CHAPTER 6
BEAUTIFICATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-6-1: Committee Created
2-6-2: Membership
2-6-3: Guidelines For Operation
2-6-4: Duties
2-6-1: COMMITTEE CREATED:
The beautification advisory committee ("BAC") is hereby created. (Ord. 05-1176,
6-2-2005)
2-6-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   (A)   All appointments to the BAC shall be made by the president with the
advice and consent of the board of trustees.
   (B)   The appointments to the committee shall be for a period of one year
with said appointments being made by the president by March 1 of each
succeeding year.
   (C)   The membership of the committee shall consist of seven (7) residents.
(Ord. 05-1176, 6-2-2005)
2-6-3: GUIDELINES FOR OPERATION:
   (A)   All committee meetings shall be open to the public and subject to the
open meetings act.
   (B)   Regular meetings shall be monthly on a day determined by the majority
vote of the committee members.
   (C)   The chairperson of the committee shall be named by a majority vote of
its committee members.
   (D)   The committee shall have the authority to establish its own rules of
procedure as long as they are not inconsistent with this chapter.
   (E)   All committee members shall serve without compensation.
   (F)   Neither the committee as a whole or a committee member personally
shall incur any expense without prior village board approval. (Ord. 05-1176, 6-
2-2005)
2-6-4: DUTIES:
   (A)   Review, discuss and recommend appropriate action pertaining to the
maintenance, upkeep and preservation of village owned property.
   (B)   Ensure recommendations to promote managed growth in the industrial and
commercial section of the village.
   (C)   Review and advise the corporate authorities as to proposed action
which would enhance the residential district of the village.
   (D)   Any and all recommendations shall be forwarded to the president and
village board for its consideration.
   (E)   Any other duties as prescribed by the village board. (Ord. 05-1176, 6-
2-2005)
CHAPTER 7
WELCOMING COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-7-1: Committee Created
2-7-2: Membership
2-7-3: Guidelines For Operation
2-7-4: Duties
2-7-1: COMMITTEE CREATED:
The welcoming committee is hereby created. (Ord. 05-1177, 6-2-2005)
2-7-2: MEMBERSHIP:
   (A)   All appointments to the welcoming committee shall be made by the
president with the advice and consent of the board of trustees.
   (B)   The appointments to the committee shall be for a period of one year
with said appointments being made by the president by March 1 of each
succeeding year.
   (C)   The membership of the committee shall consist of seven (7) residents.
(Ord. 05-1177, 6-2-2005)
2-7-3: GUIDELINES FOR OPERATION:
   (A)   All committee meetings shall be open to the public and subject to the
open meetings act.
   (B)   Regular meetings shall be monthly on a day determined by the majority
vote of the committee members.
   (C)   The chairperson of the committee shall be named by a majority vote of
its committee members.
   (D)   The committee shall have the authority to establish its own rules of
procedure as long as they are not inconsistent with this chapter.
   (E)   All committee members shall serve without compensation.
   (F)   Neither the committee as a whole or a committee member personally
shall incur any expense without prior village board approval. (Ord. 05-1177, 6-
2-2005)
2-7-4: DUTIES:
The committee shall have the following duties:
   (A)   To act as a liaison on behalf of the village of Bedford Park with
respect to new residents and business owners.
   (B)   To keep the village board apprised of any concerns or issues that need
to be addressed pertaining to new residents and business owners.
   (C)   To issue recommendations to the village board which would open lines
of communication between the corporate officials and new residents and business
owners.
   (D)   Any other duties as prescribed by the village board. (Ord. 05-1177, 6-
2-2005)
CHAPTER 8
SENIOR CITIZENS' COMMITTEE
SECTION:
2-8-1: Senior Citizens' Committee Established
2-8-2: Purpose
2-8-3: Guidelines For Operation
2-8-4: Compensation
2-8-1: SENIOR CITIZENS' COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED:
A senior citizens' committee is hereby established and shall consist of five
(5) residents with one of these residents being appointed as the chairperson.
The appointments to this committee shall be made by the village president with
the advice and consent of the board of trustees. The appointments shall be made
on an annual basis. (Ord. 09-1288, 1-20-2009)
2-8-2: PURPOSE:
The purpose of the committee shall be to act as a liaison between the senior
citizens and the village elected authorities in order to communicate the senior
citizens' opinions, needs, desires and interests. (Ord. 09-1288, 1-20-2009)
2-8-3: GUIDELINES FOR OPERATION:
The committee shall follow the rules and regulations described below:
   (A)   All committee meetings shall be open to the public;
   (B)   All regular meetings shall occur on a quarterly basis;
   (C)   The committee shall make written recommendations to the village
president and board of trustees as to how to continue to serve the needs of the
senior citizens;
   (D)   No committee member shall have the authority to incur any expense
without the approval of the village president and board of trustees; and
   (E)   The committee shall have the authority to establish its own rules of
procedure as long as they are not inconsistent with the terms set forth herein.
(Ord. 09-1288, 1-20-2009)
2-8-4: COMPENSATION:
The chairperson will receive the total sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
per year as compensation. Said payment will be paid in equal monthly
installments. (Ord. 09-1288, 1-20-2009)
TITLE III
PUBLIC WORKS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
(Rep. by Ord. 584, 8-20-1970)
CHAPTER 1A
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
SECTION:
3-1A-1: Department Established
3-1A-2: General Supervision And Control
3-1A-3: Appointments
3-1A-4: Duties Of Department
3-1A-5: To Obey Orders
3-1A-6: Superintendent Of Public Works
3-1A-7: Waterworks Supervisor (Rep. by Ord. 732, 8-18-1983)
3-1A-8: Personnel
3-1A-9: General Labor
3-1A-10: Electrical Inspector
3-1A-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the department of public works, which shall consist
of the superintendent of public works, working foreman and mechanic, general
labor and such other employees as may from time to time be required. (Ord. 732,
8-18-1983)
3-1A-2: GENERAL SUPERVISION AND CONTROL:
The department shall be under the control and supervision of the superintendent
of public works. He shall be responsible to the president of the village for
the efficient operation of the department. (Ord. 706, 1-15-1981)
3-1A-3: APPOINTMENTS:
   (A)   The village president, with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees, shall appoint all employees of the department of public works.
   (B)   The procedure for handling such appointments shall be in conformance
with the provisions set forth in title I, chapter 18, "Personnel", of this
code, which ordinance is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by
reference. (Ord. 706, 1-15-1981)
3-1A-4: DUTIES OF DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the function and duties of the public works department to maintain
all public streets, alleys and sidewalks in the village; be responsible for
inspection of existing public utilities, excepting water facilities, and any
new public utility which may be authorized in the future, and which are located
within the limits of, but not owned by, the village; maintain all public
property and buildings; altogether with all other machinery and equipment
whatsoever used directly or indirectly in the conduct of and owned by the
village; be responsible for street cleaning; and snow and ice removal; be
responsible for engineering, specifications and surveying functions on all new
public improvements, and changes and alterations of present public works
facilities; and maintain garbage removal services for village residents. (Ord.
732, 8-18-1983)
3-1A-5: TO OBEY ORDERS:
Any public works employee who shall neglect or refuse to perform the duties
assigned them shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
the discipline of the president and board of trustees upon review of his case.
(Ord. 706, 1-15-1981)
3-1A-6: SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS:
He shall have general supervision and maintenance of the pavements of streets
and alleys and supervision of sidewalk inspection and supervision and
maintenance of all other public improvements, trees and parkways.
He shall have general supervision of changes in and inspection of existing
public utilities and also new public utilities, excepting water facilities,
which may be authorized in the future and which are located or to be located
within the limits of, but not owned by, the village.
He shall have general supervision of all public property and buildings,
together with all other machinery and equipment of the operation of the public
works department.
He shall have general supervision and direction of the street department
pertaining to repairs, maintenance and cleaning of same and shall handle all
complaints on garbage removal and be responsible for the satisfactory
performance of the contracted scavenger service.
He shall have direct supervision and maintenance of all village owned sewers.
As directed by the president and board of trustees, he shall direct all work
awarded to outside contractors and be responsible for their performance in
keeping with the plans and specifications agreed upon.
He shall, in addition to the above outlined duties, perform such other duties
as may be delegated to him from time to time by the president and board of
trustees of the village.
The superintendent of public works is hereby authorized to establish and
execute all necessary regulations and procedures within the department to
effectively administer his responsibilities regarding members of the
department, dealing with promotions, layoffs, demotions, dismissals, wage
increases and other personnel policies and procedures. This authorization shall
be in conformance to the provisions contained in said personnel ordinance.
(Ord. 755, 1-17-1985)
3-1A-7: WATERWORKS SUPERVISOR:
(Rep. by Ord. 732, 8-18-1983)
3-1A-8: PERSONNEL:
The working foreman and mechanic shall be subordinate to the superintendent of
public works, and shall perform such duties as may be delegated to them from
time to time.
The working foreman shall direct, as required, the work of any general labor,
or special labor assigned him either on a regular or seasonal basis. (Ord. 732,
8-18-1983)
3-1A-9: GENERAL LABOR:
Under direct supervision, general labor shall be held responsible for
performing all duties assigned him in the maintenance, repair and upkeep of
public buildings, grounds, streets, and alleys. (Ord. 706, 1-15-1981)
3-1A-10: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR:
The electrical inspector shall be appointed by the president with the consent
of the board of trustees of the village. He shall be under the direct
supervision of the superintendent of public works and shall be responsible for
certifying and inspecting any electrical equipment in the village which is
either altered or installed at any building or facility in the village. The
electrical inspector shall so certify that the foregoing equipment is in a safe
and operable condition pursuant to the applicable code standards and
specifications adopted by the village. Upon inspection or reinspection of a
building or facility in the village, the electrical inspector shall report his
findings as to the condition of the electrical equipment in said building to
the superintendent of public works at which time the superintendent of public
works shall administer and execute the necessary regulations and procedures
within the department to effectively administer the issuance of permits.
Whenever any electrical equipment has been installed, altered or repaired, no
electrical current shall be supplied to or used on any building or equipment
prior to the inspection of said equipment or building by the electrical
inspector and review by the superintendent of public works. The electrical
inspector shall be compensated for his duties as set forth by the board of
trustees. If the president and board of trustees desire to employ the
electrical inspector in his capacity as an electrician to either work for the
village in said capacity or for an official or employee of the village in his
capacity as an electrical contractor, the village or individual wishing to
employ the electrical inspector may do so; except that any installation or
alteration of electrical equipment to be performed by the electrical inspector
pursuant to the foregoing provisions shall require the approval of the board of
trustees whenever the amount of compensation to be paid to the electrical
inspector for electrical contractor work exceeds the sum of one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00). (Ord. 86-779, 11-6-1986)
CHAPTER 1B
WATER DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
3-1B-1: Department Established
3-1B-2: General Supervision And Control
3-1B-3: Appointments
3-1B-4: Duties Of The Department
3-1B-5: To Obey Orders
3-1B-6: Superintendent Of Water Department
3-1B-7: Water Department Personnel
3-1B-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established the water department, which shall consist of the
water department superintendent, and such other employees as may from time to
time be required. (Ord. 733, 8-18-1983)
3-1B-2: GENERAL SUPERVISION AND CONTROL:
The department shall be under the control and supervision of the water
department superintendent. He shall be responsible to the president of the
village for the efficient operation of the department. (Ord. 733, 8-18-1983)
3-1B-3: APPOINTMENTS:
   (A)   The village president, with the advice and consent of the board of
trustees, shall appoint all employees of the water department.
   (B)   The procedure for handling such appointments shall be in conformance
with the provisions set forth in title I, chapter 18, "Personnel", of this
code, which ordinance is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by
reference. (Ord. 733, 8-18-1983)
3-1B-4: DUTIES OF THE DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the function and duties of the water department to operate and
maintain the water system of the village and to be responsible for inspection
of existing water utilities and any new water utilities which may be authorized
in the future and which are located within the limits of, but not owned by, the
village. (Ord. 733, 8-18-1983)
3-1B-5: TO OBEY ORDERS:
Any water department employee who shall neglect or refuse to perform the duties
assigned him shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to
the discipline of the president and board of trustees upon review of his case
in accordance with proper notice and due process requirements exercised by the
village. (Ord. 733, 8-18-1983)
3-1B-6: SUPERINTENDENT OF WATER DEPARTMENT:
He shall be responsible for the supervision and maintenance of the water supply
and water distribution system, all water equipment related to pumping,
purifying, metering, storing and distributing the water supply, and all
operating personnel.
He shall be responsible for all emergency and regularly planned repairs of the
water system, and supervise the work required in connection with same.
He shall be responsible for maintenance and repair of all water fire lines and
fire hydrants and see that they are in proper working order at all times.
He shall be responsible for all metering of water, repairs of water meters, and
reading and recording of water usage through meters of all customers for proper
billing. Reading and recording of water usage is conducted by supervision and
training of personnel.
He shall have the authority to request additional manpower required for
maintenance and such other services necessary, i.e., daily inspections, grass
cutting, snow removal, painting, etc.
As directed by the president and board of trustees, he shall direct all work
pertaining to the water department awarded to outside contractors and be
responsible for their performance in keeping with the plans and specifications
agreed upon.
He shall, in addition to the above outlined duties, perform such other duties
as may be delegated to him from time to time by the president and board of
trustees of the village. (Ord. 95-917, 3-30-1995)
3-1B-7: WATER DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL:
All employees of the water department shall be subordinate to the water
department superintendent and shall perform such duties as may be delegated to
them from time to time.
All employees of the water department shall be held responsible to the water
department superintendent or any working foreman subsequently appointed, and
shall be held responsible for performing all duties assigned to them in the
maintenance, repair and upkeep of the waterworks facilities of the village.
(Ord. 733, 8-18-1983)
CHAPTER 2
WATER SUPPLY
SECTION:
3-2-1: Limitation Of Water Use
3-2-2: Fire Hydrants
3-2-3: Interference With Hydrants
3-2-4: Excavations
3-2-5: Permit For Excavation
3-2-6: Breaking Of Fire Hydrant
3-2-7: Potable Water Supply
3-2-1: LIMITATION OF WATER USE:
   (A)   Between May 15 through September 15, it shall be unlawful for any
person to use water for the sprinkling or irrigation of lawns or gardens and
for the cleaning of curbs, streets and alleys on any day of the week except
between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M.,
and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. In addition to
the aforesaid provisions, it shall also be unlawful for any person to use water
in any manner so as to cause excessive runoff down any street or curb.
   (B)   When the village has been notified by the city of Chicago that an
emergency water supply condition exists, the village president or water
department superintendent shall impose further restrictions which shall permit
sprinkling or irrigation of lawns and gardens only between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M., and eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. and eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M., on an odd/even basis by street address
and calendar date (i.e., properties with the last digit of the street address
being an odd number may only water on odd number calendar dates; properties
with the last digit of the street address being an even number may only water
on even number calendar dates during the restricted hours cited within this
subsection).
   (C)   Whenever it is deemed essential for the public health and safety that
the consumption of water from the municipal water system be further restricted,
the village president or water department superintendent may impose such
temporary restrictions as deemed necessary on water use including, but not
limited to, partial or total bans on lawn and plant watering, car washing,
swimming pool filling, and other uses of hoses to dispense water.
   (D)   The president and board of trustees may impose additional interim
water use restrictions as deemed necessary to preserve the public water supply.
   (E)   First time violators of such water use restrictions shall be issued a
warning citation. Subsequent violations of this section will subject the person
to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each observed violation. (Ord. 89-807, 7-20-1989)
3-2-2: FIRE HYDRANTS:
All hydrants erected for the purpose of extinguishing fires are hereby declared
public hydrants, and no person other than the members of the fire department,
when in the discharge of their duties as members of the fire department, and
those especially authorized by the president and board of trustees, and then
only for the uses and purposes of said fire department or in the exercise of
the authority so delegated by said president and board of trustees, shall open
any of the hydrants or attempt to draw water from them or in any manner,
interfere with any of said hydrants. (1965 Code)
3-2-3: INTERFERENCE WITH HYDRANTS:
No person shall wilfully or carelessly break, deface, mar, injure, interfere
with or disturb any public or any private hydrants or stopcock box, shutoff
valve, or shutoff valve box, water supply or service pipe or any part thereof,
nor shall any person deposit anything in any stopcock box or shutoff valve box
or commit any act tending to obstruct or impair the intended use of any of the
above mentioned things, without the permission of the president and board of
trustees. (1965 Code)
3-2-4: EXCAVATIONS:
No person except such as may be duly authorized by the president and board of
trustees, shall make any excavation in any of the streets, avenues or other
public places in said village for the purpose of laying water pipe, or tap any
water or service pipe laid down, or make any connection with tap or water
service pipe. (1965 Code)
3-2-5: PERMIT FOR EXCAVATION:
While ground is frozen no person shall make any excavation in any street,
avenue, alley or public place within four and one-half feet (41/2') of any
water pipe, except by special permission from the president and board of
trustees of the village, which permission when granted must be in writing.
(1965 Code)
3-2-6: BREAKING OF FIRE HYDRANT:
In the event that an emergency should arise by reason of the breaking of any
water hydrant, water main or service pipe or accessory thereto and the flow of
water is or will cause damage to village property or the property of others
unless immediate attention is given thereto, the water department
superintendent shall take such immediate steps that will be necessary to stop
said flow of water and damage to property.
He shall, as soon as possible, proceed to repair said break or damaged hydrant,
water main or service pipe or accessory thereto at once in order to conserve
said water supply and to report said action to the water department committee.
(1965 Code)
3-2-7: POTABLE WATER SUPPLY:
   (A)   Definitions:
    PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, limited
liability company, corporation, association, joint stock company, trust,
estate, or any other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agents or
assigns, except for the village of Bedford Park.
   POTABLE WATER: Any water used for human or domestic consumption, including,
but not limited to, water used for drinking, bathing, swimming, washing dishes,
or preparing foods.
   (B)   Groundwater As A Potable Water Supply Prohibited: Except for uses or
methods being used prior to the approval and adoption of this section, the use
or attempted use, by any person, of groundwater from within the corporate
limits of the village as a potable water supply by the installation or drilling
of wells or by any other method, is hereby prohibited.
   (C)   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be subject to a fine of up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
violation.
   (D)   Memorandum Of Understanding 1 : The president of the village is hereby
authorized and directed to enter into a memorandum of understanding with the
Illinois environmental protection agency ("Illinois EPA") in which the village
assumes responsibility for tracking remediated sites, notifying the Illinois
EPA of changes to this section, and taking certain precautions when siting
public potable water supply wells. (Ord. 98-1009, 5-7-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. On file in the office of the village clerk attached to ordinance 98-1009.
CHAPTER 3
WATER METERS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Meter Required
3-3-2: Uniform Metering
3-3-3: Location Of Meters
3-3-4: Shutoff Valves
3-3-5: Consumers' Responsibility
3-3-6: Fire Lines
3-3-7: Use Of Fire Hydrants
3-3-8: Street Openings To Connect
3-3-9: Water Charges During Construction
3-3-10: Water Rates
3-3-11: Billing
3-3-12: Access To Inspect Systems
3-3-13: Repair Or Removal Of Meters
3-3-14: Violations
3-3-15: Penalties
3-3-1: METER REQUIRED:
With the exception of the residential section of the village, each and every
building connected with the water system of the village, or any other
connection involving the use of water supplied by the village, shall have a
water meter of a type and design approved by the president and board of
trustees attached to its water supply pipes and through which water will be
furnished to consumers. No water will be otherwise supplied to customers except
that under unusual circumstances and for temporary purposes the president and
board of trustees may permit water to be used without the necessity of meters
and may fix the charge to be paid therefor by resolution or otherwise. No meter
shall be connected with said water system until it has been tested and a permit
granted therefor by the water department superintendent. The cost and
installation thereof shall be borne by the water user. (Ord. 95-936, 7-6-1995)
3-3-2: UNIFORM METERING:
Only water meters approved by the president and board of trustees shall be used
within the corporate limits of the village. Such meters shall be purchased from
the village and the payment for same shall be made at the time request is made
to the village for the furnishing of said water. In the case of new
construction, application for water and the payment for the meter must be made
before such construction begins. The size of water meters shall be determined
solely by the water department superintendent. (Ord. 95-918, 3-30-1995)
3-3-3: LOCATION OF METERS:
All water meters shall be located in a meter vault of adequate size and of
concrete construction and shall be located immediately adjacent to the water
supply main. In the event it is impossible to locate said meter vault at such
location, then the water meter shall be placed inside the building adjacent to
the building wall closest to the supply main; provided, however, that the
location of said water meter shall at all times be approved by the water
department superintendent prior to its installation. (Ord. 642, 2-5-1976)
3-3-4: SHUTOFF VALVES:
Shutoff valves shall be located on both sides of the water meter. (Ord. 642, 2-
5-1976)
3-3-5: CONSUMERS' RESPONSIBILITY:
The obligation and liability of the village to furnish water to the consumer
shall terminate at the tap-in point of the private line with the supply main.
(Ord. 642, 2-5-1976)
3-3-6: FIRE LINES:
Every fire line shall be equipped with a one and one-half inch (11/2") bypass
meter, and a reading of the same shall be made at the same time as the regular
monthly readings are made. Replacement of meters shall meet this requirement.
(Ord. 642, 2-5-1976)
3-3-7: USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS:
No person (other than members of the fire department or employees of the
village authorized to do so) shall open any fire hydrant or attempt to draw
water from the same; nor shall any person tap a water main, or insert a
stopcock or shutoff valve therein; except under the following circumstances:
   (A)   The individual or construction company seeking to use a fire hydrant
of the Village shall apply for a fire hydrant permit.
   (B)   Upon approval of said permit for use of a Village fire hydrant by the
user of said hydrant, the user shall pay a fee of one hundred twenty five
dollars ($125.00) to the Village.
   (C)   The permit issued to the fire hydrant user shall specify that damage
which accrues to the hydrant during the time of said use shall be repaired by
the Village and billed to the user of said hydrant and it shall be the user's
responsibility to pay for any repair to the hydrant. If court action becomes
necessary to collect a repair bill, the hydrant user shall bear all costs of
suit including attorney fees relating to collection of a repair bill.
   (D)   All hydrant permits issued by the Village shall be effective for a
maximum of thirty (30) days from the day of issuance unless otherwise specified
by the Village Board.
   (E)   The Village Water Department Superintendent shall attach a fire
hydrant meter to any hydrant being used by a private individual or construction
company for the purpose of recording the use of water from said hydrant. The
user shall be solely responsible for payment of any bill incurred for use of
water from the hydrant under the foregoing provisions. (Ord. 769, 10-3-1985)
3-3-8: STREET OPENINGS TO CONNECT:
All street openings and excavations for the purpose of tapping into water
supply lines shall be made by the Village upon written request to the Water
Department Superintendent by the consumer. The cost of such excavation work
shall be borne by the consumer and the payment for same shall be made at the
time said written request is made to tap into said water supply main. (Ord.
642, 2-5-1976)
3-3-9: WATER CHARGES DURING CONSTRUCTION:
The Village shall furnish water to contractors or owners of property during the
process of construction at a flat rate as follows: For any structure costing
one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) or less, the water furnished during the
process of construction shall be furnished at a flat rate of fifty dollars
($50.00). For any structure costing in excess of one million dollars
($1,000,000.00), water furnished during the process of construction shall be
furnished at a flat rate of seventy five dollars ($75.00). The amounts herein
provided for shall be paid by the owner of the premises upon which the building
is to be erected or by the contractor in charge of the construction of such
building. The cost of furnishing such water shall be paid in advance and at the
time request is made to the Village for the furnishing of said water. The
person, firm or corporation making such application for water shall, at the
time of applying for same, file with the Building Coordinator of the Village a
true statement under oath as to the estimated cost of the structure to be
erected. For the purpose of fixing the rate to be charged as provided herein,
the estimated cost, as shown by such statement, shall be considered as the cost
of the construction.
Any additional water other than that used for ordinary construction purposes
shall be billed to the contractor or owner by the Village. Any amount so billed
shall be in the sole discretion of the Water Department Superintendent or the
President and Board of Trustees of the Village based upon observations of any
Village officer or employee as to the additional water use. (Ord. 642, 2-5-
1976)
3-3-10: WATER RATES:
   (A)   Definitions: "Consumer" means any individual, corporation, partnership
or other business entity who purchases water from the Village.
   (B)   Water Rates: Effective June 1, 2023, the following monthly charges
will be assessed to the consumers of each independent premises where said water
is metered and registered by meter:
Gallons   
Gallons                              
0 to 35,000, inclusive               $155.00
35,001 to 100,000, inclusive        $6.81/1,000 gallons
100,001 to 500,000, inclusive       $6.67/1,000 gallons
500,001 to 1,000,000, inclusive     $6.59/1,000 gallons
1,000,001 to 6,000,000, inclusive   $6.46/1,000 gallons
6,000,001 to 25,000,000, inclusive  $6.29/1,000 gallons
25,000,001 and over                 $6.21/1,000 gallons
 
   These water rates shall not be applicable to residential property within the
Village.
   (C)   Future Rate Increases: Any and all future water rate increases
approved by the City of Chicago and which are applicable to the Village shall
be charged by the Village to its consumers and said consumers shall be
responsible for payment of the same.
   (D)   Notification Of Increase: The village clerk shall send written
notification of any increase to all users as soon as practicable. (Ord. 91-860,
12-5-1991; amd. Ord. 17-1539, 4-6-2017; Ord. 19-1598, 3-21-2019; Ord. 20-1628,
3-16-2020; Ord. 21-1663, 3-18-2021; Ord. 22-1696, 4-7-2022; Ord. 23-1716, 4-6-
2023)
3-3-11: BILLING:
All bills for water supplied by the village shall be due and payable on or
before the fifteenth day following the date of billing at the general offices
of the village, or at such other place or places as the president and board of
trustees may, from time to time designate. An additional charge of ten percent
(10%) of a bill shall be imposed for each month or portion thereof that any
such bill remains unpaid. After thirty (30) days of delinquency a notice of
delinquency will be sent to the delinquent consumer and if such bill is not
paid within ten (10) days of said notice, the president and board of trustees
may terminate the supply of water to the delinquent consumer and no liability
or cause of action for damages of any kind shall accrue therefor on or against
the village. (Ord. 715, 1-7-1982)
3-3-12: ACCESS TO INSPECT SYSTEMS:
Authorized representatives of the village shall have free access at all times
between the hours of six o'clock (6:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M. to all
parts of every building in which water is delivered to make inspections,
examine pipes and fixtures and to make meter readings, and if such access is
refused, the supply of water may be cut off without further notice. (Ord. 642,
2-5-1976)
3-3-13: REPAIR OR REMOVAL OF METERS:
The repairing, setting or taking off of water meters shall be done only by the
authorized representatives of the village, and the cost of repairing any meter
shall be borne by the water consumer. (Ord. 642, 2-5-1976)
3-3-14: VIOLATIONS:
For the violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, or such others as
the president and board of trustees of the village may hereafter adopt, for the
government of water takers, the board reserves the right to stop the supply of
water to such users guilty of said violations without any preliminary notice;
nor will water be restored until the board is satisfied that no further
violations will occur and upon the payment by such violators of all expenses
incident to turning off said water and turning the same on again. Provided,
that the president and board of trustees reserve the right, power and authority
to cut off the supply of water at any time without incurring any liability or
cause of action for damages of any kind, any permit, grant or regulation to the
contrary notwithstanding. (Ord. 642, 2-5-1976)
3-3-15: PENALTIES:
Any person that has not paid its current water bill shall be sent a delinquency
notice by the village, by certified mail, thirty (30) days after the initial
current water bill has been posted.
Failure to pay the water bill within fifteen (15) days of receipt of the
delinquency notice shall result in the filing of a lien by the village against
the real estate owned, leased, or otherwise occupied by the delinquent water
user. Upon the filing of the lien, a copy of said lien shall be forwarded, by
certified mail, to the delinquent water user and/or the owner of the real
estate in cases wherein the two (2) persons are not one in the same.
The village will issue a release of lien against the title to the real estate
only upon payment in full of the delinquent water bill.
Any person shall violate any of the other, nonpayment provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more than five
hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 87-786, 9-17-1987)
CHAPTER 3A
WATER; CROSS CONNECTIONS
(Rep. by Ord. 91-831, 4-4-1991)
CHAPTER 3B
CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL PROGRAM
SECTION:
3-3B-1: Definitions
3-3B-2: Cross Connections Prohibited
3-3B-3: Backflow Preventers
3-3B-4: Cross Connection Control Survey
3-3B-5: Testing, Maintenance And Record Keeping
3-3B-6: Penalty For Violations
3-3B-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
AIR GAP: The unobstructed vertical distance through the free atmosphere between
the lowest opening from any pipe or faucet supplying water to a tank, plumbing
fixture or other device and the flood level rim of the receptacle.
APPROVED DEVICE: A cross connection control device approved by the Research
Foundation for Cross Connection Control of the University of Southern
California, American Water Works Association, American Society of Sanitary
Engineering, American National Standards Institute or certified by the National
Sanitation Foundation.
ATMOSPHERIC VACUUM BREAKER: An approved device designed to admit atmospheric
pressure into a piping system whenever a vacuum is caused on the upstream side
of the device.
AUXILIARY SUPPLY: Any water source or system other than the potable public
water supply system that is on or available to a premises. This includes water
that may originally have been supplied by the public water supply system.
BACKFLOW: The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into the
distribution pipes of a potable water supply system from any source other than
the intended source of the potable water supply. Backsiphonage is one type of
backflow.
BACKFLOW PREVENTER: A cross connection control device, method, or type of
construction designed to prevent backflow.
CHECK VALVE: A self-closing cross connection control device that is designed to
permit the flow of fluids in one direction and to close if there is a reversal
of such flow.
CONTAMINATION: Any impairment of the quality of the water through the
introduction of any substance to a degree which could create a health hazard.
CROSS CONNECTION: Any physical connection or arrangement between two (2)
otherwise separate piping systems, one of which contains potable water and the
other containing water of unknown or questionable safety, or steam, gases or
chemicals whereby there may be a flow from one system to the other. A "direct
cross connection" is a cross connection formed when a water system is
physically joined to a source of unknown or unsafe substance. An "indirect
cross connection" means a cross connection formed when an unknown substance can
be forced, drawn by vacuum or otherwise introduced into a safe water system.
CUSTOMER'S WATER SYSTEM: Any water system, including the plumbing system within
a structure, located on the customer's premises.
DOUBLE CHECK VALVE ASSEMBLY: An approved device consisting of an assembly
composed of single, independently acting check valves. A double check valve
assembly must include tight shutoff valves located at each end of the assembly
and suitable connections for testing the watertightness of each check valve.
HEALTH HAZARD: Any conditions, devices or practices in the public water supply
system and its operation which create or, in the judgment of the person in
responsible charge, may create a danger to the health and well being of the
water customer.
IEPA: The Illinois environmental protection agency.
NONPOTABLE WATER: Water that is not safe for human consumption and use or which
does not meet state regulations for potable water.
PLUMBING: The actual installation, repair, maintenance, alteration or extension
of a plumbing system. Plumbing includes the water supply and distribution pipes
and all other fixtures and appliances used to supply water for any purpose.
Plumbing includes all piping from discharge of pumping units to and including
pressure tanks and water supply systems. Plumbing includes all piping and
fixtures for a building drain and any sanitary drainage and related ventilation
of any building from the point of connection of such building drain to the
building sewer or private sewage disposal system five feet (5') beyond the
foundation walls.
POTABLE WATER: Water which is free from contamination in amounts sufficient to
cause harmful effects and which meets the requirements of state regulations
regarding its bacteriological and chemical quality. Water which is safe for
drinking and other use.
PROCESS FLUID: Any fluid or solution which may be chemically, biologically or
otherwise contaminated or polluted in a form or concentration such as would
constitute a health, pollution or system hazard if introduced into the public
or a customer's potable water system. This includes, but is not limited to:
   (A)   Polluted or contaminated waters.
   (B)   Process waters.
   (C)   Used waters originating from the public water supply system which may
have deteriorated in sanitary quality.
   (D)   Cooling waters.
   (E)   Questionable or contaminated natural waters taken from wells, lakes,
streams or irrigation systems.
   (F)   Chemicals in solution or suspension.
   (G)   Oils, gases, acids, alkalis and other liquid and gaseous fluids used
in industrial or other processes, or for firefighting purposes.
REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER: An approved device consisting of
an assembly of two (2) check valves and a differential relief valve including
an automatically opened spillage port to the atmosphere designed to prevent
backflow. The assembly must include tightly closing shutoff valves located at
each end of the device and must be fitted with properly located test cocks.
(Ord. 91-831, 4-4-1991)
3-3B-2: CROSS CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   Connections between potable water systems and other systems or
equipment containing water or other substances of unknown or questionable
quality are prohibited, except when and where approved cross connection control
devices or methods are installed, tested and maintained to ensure proper
operation on a continuing basis.
   (B)   1. No physical connection shall be permitted between the potable
portion of a supply and any other water supply not of equal or better
bacteriological and chemical quality as determined by inspection and analysis
by the IEPA.
      2.   There shall be no arrangement or connection by which an unsafe
substance may enter a supply.
      3.   No person, firm or corporation shall establish or permit to be
established or maintain or permit to be maintained any connection whereby a
private, auxiliary or emergency water supply other than the regular public
water supply of the village enters the supply or distribution system of said
municipality, unless such private, auxiliary or emergency water supply and the
method of connection and use of such supply shall have been approved by the
water supervisor and the IEPA.
   (C)   Complete removal of the cross connection or installation of an
approved cross connection control device is required for control of backflow
and backsiphonage. Only approved devices as defined in this chapter may be
installed in any plumbing system connected to the public water supply. Cross
connection control devices must be installed in accord with the manufacturer's
instructions and must be inspected at least annually by a person approved by
IEPA as a cross connection control device inspector (CCCDI). The inspection of
mechanical devices shall include physical testing in accord with the
manufacturer's instructions. (Ord. 91-831, 4-4-1991)
3-3B-3: BACKFLOW PREVENTERS:
   (A)   If, in accordance with this chapter, the Bedford Park plumbing code,
state regulations or, if in the opinion of the water supervisor, an approved
backflow prevention device is necessary for the safety of the public water
supply system, the water supervisor will give notice to the water customer
requiring the installation of such an approved device immediately. The water
customer or property owner, at no expense to the village, shall install such an
approved device at a location and in a manner in accordance with all applicable
local ordinances and state regulations, and shall have inspections and tests
made of such approved devices upon installation and as required by local
ordinances and state regulations.
   (B)   An approved backflow preventer shall be installed on each service line
to a customer's water system when, in the judgment of the water supervisor,
actual or potential hazards to the public water supply system exist, and when
the following conditions exist:
      1.   Premises having an auxiliary water supply unless such auxiliary
supply is accepted as an additional source by the water commissioner and the
source is approved by the IEPA.
      2.   Premises on which any substance is handled which can create an
actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system. This shall
include premises having sources or systems containing process fluids or waters
originating from the public water supply system which are no longer under the
sanitary control of the village.
      3.   Premises having internal cross connections that, in the judgment of
the water supervisor and the cross connection control device inspector, are not
correctable or premises having intricate plumbing arrangements which make it
impractical to determine whether or not cross connections exist.
      4.   Premises where, because of security requirements or other
prohibitions or restrictions, it is impossible or impractical to make a
complete cross connection survey.
      5.   Premises having a repeated history of cross connections being
established or reestablished.
   (C)   In accord with IEPA regulations (35 Illinois administrative code
section 653.803(c)(4)), water service lines which connect the public water
supply to industrial or commercial establishments shall include either a
reduced pressure principle backflow preventer or a fixed proper air gap with
repumping if those establishments constitute a hazard to the water supply due
to the nature of chemicals or other material handled within the facility. In
addition, an approved backflow prevention device shall be installed on each
service line to a customer's water system serving, but not necessarily limited
to, the following types of facilities unless the water commissioner determines
that no actual or potential hazard to the public water supply system exist:
      1.   Hospitals, mortuaries, clinics, nursing homes.
      2.   Laboratories.
      3.   Piers, docks, waterfront facilities.
      4.   Sewage treatment plants, sewage pumping stations or storm water
pumping stations.
      5.   Food or beverage processing plants.
      6.   Chemical plants.
      7.   Metal plating industries.
      8.   Petroleum processing or storage plants.
      9.   Radioactive material processing plants or nuclear reactors.
      10.   Car washes.
      11.   Pesticide, herbicide or extermination plants and trucks.
      12.   Farm service and fertilizer plants and trucks.
   (D)   In accord with IEPA regulations (35 Illinois administrative code
section 653.805), where a public water supply or an auxiliary water supply is
used for a fire protection system, reduced pressure principle backflow
preventers shall be installed on fire safety systems connected to the public
water supply when:
      1.   The fire safety system contains antifreeze, fire retardant or other
chemicals;
      2.   Water is pumped into the system from another source;
      3.   Water flows by gravity from a nonpotable source; or
      4.   There is a connection whereby another source can be connected to the
fire safety system.
   (E)   Backflow preventers shall not be made inoperative, bypassed, removed
or otherwise made ineffective without specific authorization by the water
commissioner.
   (F)   Where a booster pump has been installed on the service line to or
within any premises, such pump shall be equipped with a low pressure cutoff
device designed to shut off the pump when the pressure in the service line on
the suction side of the pump drops to twenty (20) psi or below. The low
pressure cutoff device shall be inspected at least annually by the customer to
ensure that it works properly. (Ord. 91-831, 4-4-1991)
3-3B-4: CROSS CONNECTION CONTROL SURVEY:
In accord with IEPA regulations (35 Illinois administrative code section
653.801), the water supervisor shall conduct or cause the conducting of a cross
connection control device survey of the distribution system which shall be
conducted at least every two (2) years by the village or an authorized agent of
the village. The survey need not include actual visual inspection of plumbing
systems, but by telephone, mail or other personal contact with the owner,
occupant or manager of property, must attempt to survey and compile an
inventory of cross connection control devices in place on industrial,
commercial and other property connected to the public water supply where
devices are required. Records compiled from such surveys shall be maintained
and available for review for at least five (5) years from the completion of the
survey. The refusal to supply requested survey information shall, within the
discretion of the water supervisor, be deemed evidence of the presence of
improper connections and appropriate action may be taken as prescribed by this
chapter. (Ord. 91-831, 4-4-1991)
3-3B-5: TESTING, MAINTENANCE AND RECORD KEEPING:
   (A)   In accord with IEPA regulations (35 Illinois administrative code
section 653.802(c) and (e)) and this chapter, it is the duty of the customer on
any premises where cross connection control devices are required to cause such
devices to be tested at least annually or more frequently if recommended by the
manufacturer and to keep records of testing results and maintenance performed.
Testing shall be at the customer's expense and shall be performed by a cross
connection control device inspector (CCCDI), or a person otherwise authorized
by IEPA to perform such testing, who shall be selected by the customer.
   (B)   Each device shall have a tag attached listing the date of the most
recent test, name of the tester and the type and date of repairs. Repairs
required for double check valve assemblies shall be performed within fifteen
(15) days and those required for reduced pressure principle backflow preventers
shall be performed within five (5) days of the discovery of their need. Repairs
or replacement shall be at the expense of the customer or property owner.
   (C)   Customers must maintain a maintenance log documenting each device and
including:
      1.   Date of each test or visual inspection;
      2.   Name and approval number of the person performing the test or visual
inspection;
      3.   Test results;
      4.   Repairs or servicing required;
      5.   Repairs and date completed; and
      6.   Servicing performed and date completed.
   (D)   Within seven (7) days of the testing of devices or the completion of
repairs initiated as a result of such testing as required by this chapter, the
customer shall furnish to the water supervisor a record of the test results and
repairs containing, at a minimum, the information specified in subsection (C)
of this section. In addition, on request of the water supervisor or an
authorized representative, the customer shall furnish to the village
maintenance records or other requested information regarding the customer's
plumbing system. The customer shall make the premises available for inspection
at all reasonable times for verification of information supplied to the village
regarding cross connection control device inspection results. Failure to
provide the information or access to the premises as required by this
subsection (D) shall, within the discretion of the water supervisor, be deemed
evidence of the presence of improper connections.
   (E)   Cross connection control devices located in the treatment plant, well
house or booster station of the village public water supply facility shall be
inspected at least annually by either an approved cross connection control
device inspector or by a certified water supply operator trained for testing,
installation, repair and maintenance of cross connection control devices.
Records regarding these devices must be kept by the village in the same fashion
as those required to be kept by customers. (Ord. 91-831, 4-4-1991)
3-3B-6: PENALTY FOR VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   The water supervisor shall take reasonable precautionary measures or
may deny or discontinue, after reasonable notice to the owner or the
representative of the owner and the owner's or customer's failure to correct
the violation, the water service to any property wherein an illegal cross
connection is known to exist; wherein required cross connection control devices
are not being inspected, tested, maintained or repaired as required by this
chapter; or wherein it is found that a device has been bypassed or removed.
Applicable water service connection fees may be reassessed by the village in
situations where service is discontinued under this chapter and then started
again at a later date.
   (B)   Any person responsible for backsiphoned material or contamination
through backflow, if contamination of the potable water supply system occurs
through an illegal cross connection or an improperly installed, maintained or
repaired device, or a device which has been bypassed, must bear the cost of
clean up of the potable water supply system.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter may be
fined up to five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense and a separate
offense shall be deemed to have been committed on each day during which a
violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 91-831, 4-4-1991)
CHAPTER 4
HOUSE NUMBERING
SECTION:
3-4-1: Numbering Required
3-4-2: North-South Numbering
3-4-3: East-West Numbering
3-4-4: Allotment Of Numbers
3-4-5: Odd-Even Numbers
3-4-6: Prefix To Numbers
3-4-7: Assignment Of Numbers
3-4-8: Display Of Numbers
3-4-9: Penalty
3-4-10: Change Of Numbers
3-4-1: NUMBERING REQUIRED:
It is hereby made the duty of the owner, agent or person in possession of every
building to number the same in the manner herein provided. (Ord. 26, 1-2-1941)
3-4-2: NORTH-SOUTH NUMBERING:
All lots or houses located upon north and south streets or on streets running
in a northerly or southerly direction shall be numbered from the northern line
of the village southward, beginning with a number corresponding with the
corresponding east and west street extended west from the streets in the city
of Chicago. (Ord. 26, 1-2-1941)
3-4-3: EAST-WEST NUMBERING:
All lots or houses located upon east and west streets or on streets running in
an easterly or westerly direction shall be numbered from the east line of the
village, being at Cicero Avenue, also known as Forty Eighth Avenue, beginning
with the number 4800 and running westerly. (Ord. 26, 1-2-1941)
3-4-4: ALLOTMENT OF NUMBERS:
There shall be assigned to each mile eight hundred (800) numbers, or one
hundred (100) numbers to each one-eighth (1/8) of a mile, on all streets, and
such numbers shall change from any one hundred (100) to the succeeding one
hundred (100) at the intersecting street nearest the said one-eighth (1/8) of a
mile line. (Ord. 26, 1-2-1941)
3-4-5: ODD-EVEN NUMBERS:
The even numbers on north and south streets, or streets running in a northerly
or southerly direction, shall be on the west side of said streets, the even
numbers on east and west streets, or streets running in an easterly or westerly
direction, shall be on the north side of the streets. (Ord. 26, 1-2-1941)
3-4-6: PREFIX TO NUMBERS:
All north and south streets, or streets running in a northerly or southerly
direction, shall bear the prefix south, and all east and west streets, or
streets running in an easterly or westerly direction, shall bear the prefix
west. (Ord. 26, 1-2-1941)
3-4-7: ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS 1 :
The building inspector shall assign or cause to be assigned to each lot or
house its proper number and shall inform the owner, agent or person in
possession of such premises as to the number thereof at any time upon demand.
(Ord. 26, 1-2-1941)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-18.
3-4-8: DISPLAY OF NUMBERS:
Each of the figures of each such number on any building shall not be less than
three inches (3") in height, being so marked as to be distinctly and easily
read; such numbers shall be placed in a conspicuous place on the side of or
above the front door of the building to which the same are attached. (Ord. 26,
1-2-1941)
3-4-9: PENALTY:
Any person being the owner, agent or person in possession of any building who
shall for thirty (30) days neglect or refuse to number any building owned or
occupied by him, in conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 26, 1-2-1941)
3-4-10: CHANGE OF NUMBERS 1 :
Whenever any house or building shall have been numbered or renumbered in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, such number shall not be
changed or altered without consent of the building inspector.
In all cases where house numbers have been assigned on any street it shall be
the duty of the building inspector to adjust and reassign such numbers as the
same may be required from time to time, and in all cases where there is a
mistake or conflict in numbers, said building inspector shall direct and make
the proper adjustment of the same. (Ord. 26, 1-2-1941)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-11.
CHAPTER 5
STREETS, CURBS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Application; Permit
3-5-2: Issuance Of Permit
3-5-3: Permit Limited
3-5-4: Cash Deposit And Bond Required
3-5-5: Permit Holder Responsible
3-5-6: Obstructing Or Littering Streets And Other Public Places
3-5-7: Driving Across Parkways Or Curbs
3-5-8: Removal Of Snow, Ice And Obstacles Required
3-5-9: Encroachment
3-5-1: APPLICATION; PERMIT 1 :
It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, tear up, dig into or remove any
stone, earth, sand or gravel from any street, alley or public ground, or cause
any curb to be cut, broken or opened for the purpose of providing a runway from
the street to private property without having first obtained a permit therefor
from the commissioner of public works; and when desiring to perform any of the
work mentioned in this section, shall first make written application to the
said commissioner, stating the character and place of work, and it shall be the
duty of said commissioner to grant or refuse such application or limit the use
of same as he shall deem best; and if he shall grant permission, he shall
endorse his assent upon said application, together with such reasonable
restrictions as he may see fit to impose. (Ord. 521, 1-20-1966)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-7.
3-5-2: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Upon the presentation of the application mentioned in section
3-5-1 of this chapter, having the assent of said commissioner thereon as
provided in said section, it shall be the duty of the clerk to issue a written
permit without any charge therefor under the corporate seal of the village,
which permit shall specify the name and address of the person to whom the
permit is granted, the character and location of the work proposed to be done,
the time for which such permit is granted and any restrictions endorsed upon
said application by said commissioner as provided in section
3-5-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 521, 1-20-1966)
3-5-3: PERMIT LIMITED:
The permit mentioned in section
3-5-2 of this chapter shall not be issued for a longer period than three (3)
months, provided, that any such permit may be revoked for good cause at any
time. (Ord. 55, 9-7-1945)
3-5-4: CASH DEPOSIT AND BOND REQUIRED 1 :
Before a permit is granted under the provisions of this chapter, the
commissioner shall make an estimate of the cost of restoring the damaged area
to the condition it was in at the time a permit was granted, plus a fair
additional sum as margin for contingent damages, and shall require the deposit
of the amount of said estimate before delivering a permit. After the completion
of the work to the satisfaction of said commissioner, the surplus remaining
from the amount deposited shall be returned to the applicant.
In addition to the foregoing, no person shall be granted a permit under the
provisions of this chapter until the applicant shall first have executed to the
village a good and sufficient bond in the amount of at least ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) with sureties to be approved by the commissioner,
conditioned to indemnify, save and keep harmless the village from any and all
loss, cost damage, expense or liability of any kind whatsoever, which the
village may suffer, or which the village may be put to, or which may be
recovered from the village, from or on account of the issuance of such permit,
or from or on account of any act or thing done by virtue of the authority given
in such permit. (Ord. 521, 1-20-1966)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-80-11.
3-5-5: PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBLE:
In all cases where any person or persons shall perform any work by virtue of
any such permission issued by said village, such person shall be answerable for
any damage which may be occasioned to persons, animals or property by reason of
carelessness in any manner connected with said work. (Ord. 55, 9-7-1945)
3-5-6: OBSTRUCTING OR LITTERING STREETS AND OTHER PUBLIC PLACES:
No person shall place, deposit or cast or cause to be placed, deposited or cast
upon or in any street, highway, alley, gutter, sidewalk, park, playground,
school ground or other publicly owned, rented or otherwise publicly controlled
land or building within the village, any timber, wood, lumber, ashes, rubbish,
refuse, litter, trash, earth or mud, glass or similar material, nails or
similar material, metal scraps or any substance whatever that may injure or
tend to cause injury to any person, vehicle or animal using the highway,
street, alley, gutter, sidewalk, park, playground, school ground or other
publicly owned, rented or otherwise publicly controlled land or building, or to
render the same unsafe, or which may obstruct any such street highway, alley,
gutter, sidewalk, park, playground, school ground or other publicly owned,
rented or otherwise publicly controlled land or building, or impede or hinder
travel thereon, or which may injure or disfigure the same, or tend to the
injury or disfigurement thereof or to render the same unsafe, unclean or a
nuisance.
Any person using a village street, highway, alley, sidewalk, park, playground,
school ground or other publicly owned, rented or otherwise publicly controlled
land or building for the sale or distribution of circulars, handbills,
newspapers or product that is packaged in immediately disposable wrappers or
containers shall provide receptacles for the disposal of waste materials or
other litter that may be created in the immediate vicinity by such sale or
distribution, shall request that all such waste materials or litter so created
be placed in the receptacle, and shall remove and dispose of the waste
materials or litter and receptacle.
Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon
conviction, be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 550, 1968)
3-5-7: DRIVING ACROSS PARKWAYS OR CURBS:
   (A)   Definitions: The following words and phrases when used in this section
shall, for the purposes thereof, have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them:
    MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and in, upon and by
which any person or property is or may be transported or drawn, and shall
include tractors, trailers and semitrailers.
   PARKWAY: That area between the outer edge of a sidewalk and the curb line of
a semiroadway.
   SIDEWALK: That part of the public way between the curb line and the adjacent
property line intended for pedestrian use.
   (B)   Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or cause to be
driven any motor vehicle on, over or across any sidewalk, parkway or curb in
the village unless the curb shall have first been cut and a driveway
constructed from such curb to the outside edge of the sidewalk in order to
provide access from the street to private property.
   (C)   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor
more than fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 551, 1968)
3-5-8: REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE AND OBSTACLES REQUIRED:
   (A)   The following words when used in this section shall, for the purpose
of this section, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them herein, except
when the context otherwise requires:
    OBSTACLES: Any paper, rubbish, refuse, dirt, debris or other objects,
material or substance which hinders or impedes pedestrian traffic, or which is
capable of causing a person to fall, trip over or be injured by coming in
contact therewith.
   SIDEWALKS: That portion of a street between the curb lines or the lateral
line of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   (B)   Every owner, lessee, tenant occupant or other person having charge of
any building or plot of ground in the village abutting upon any sidewalk shall
keep such sidewalk in front of such building or lot of ground free from snow,
ice and any and all obstacles. (Ord. 566, 2-13-1969)
3-5-9: ENCROACHMENT:
No person shall install, place, maintain or construct any structure, that
encroaches upon the state of Illinois right of way on or along Archer Avenue,
also known as Illinois Route 171, within the limits of the village without
first obtaining written permission from the state of Illinois. (Ord. 90-814, 1-
18-1990)
CHAPTER 6
DUMPING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-6-1: Unlawful To Dump Or Deposit
3-6-2: Dumping Or Depositing Of Clean Ground, Dirt Or Fill Allowed
3-6-3: Bond Required
3-6-4: Established Bench Mark
3-6-5: Nuisance
3-6-6: Permits
3-6-7: Penalty
3-6-8: Revocations
3-6-1: UNLAWFUL TO DUMP OR DEPOSIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or deposit anywhere within the
village any ground, dirt or fill containing offensive matter or substance,
garbage, ashes, miscellaneous waste, manure or other substance that may contain
disease, germs, or be scattered by the wind, or be decomposed, or become
filthy, noxious or unhealthy, or emit any offensive smell or deleterious
exhalation. (Ord. 539, 1967)
3-6-2: DUMPING OR DEPOSITING OF CLEAN GROUND, DIRT OR FILL ALLOWED:
It shall be lawful for a person, firm or corporation to dump or deposit clean
ground, dirt or fill within the village upon first obtaining the written
consent of the owner of the property to be used for such purpose and a permit
obtained from the village to so dump or deposit, as aforesaid, at the location
authorized in said permit. Such written consent from the owner of the property
shall be filed with the village as a condition precedent to the issuance of a
permit by the village. Any permit issued under this section shall be valid for
a period not to exceed one year, in the discretion of the president and board
of trustees. (Ord. 583, 8-6-1970)
3-6-3: BOND REQUIRED:
No permit shall be issued by the village in accordance with section
3-6-2 of this chapter unless and until the applicant executes and delivers a
bond, with good and sufficient sureties, approved by the village, running in
favor of the village, in the penal sum of five thousand dollars ($5,000.00)
conditioned that said applicant will comply with the requirements of this
chapter, and any additional regulations imposed by the village pertaining to
dumping, as aforesaid. (Ord. 583, 8-6-1970)
3-6-4: ESTABLISHED BENCH MARK:
The permit holder shall grade and level any material to the established bench
marks of the village, within fifteen (15) days after dumping at any site. (Ord.
583, 8-6-1970)
3-6-5: NUISANCE:
The violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is hereby declared to be
a nuisance. (Ord. 583, 8-6-1970)
3-6-6: PERMITS:
Permits issued hereunder shall not be transferable. (Ord. 583, 8-6-1970)
3-6-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each offense, and each day's violation of the same shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense. (Ord. 583, 8-6-1970)
3-6-8: REVOCATIONS:
Any permits issued in accordance with this chapter are subject to revocation by
action of the president and board of trustees for good cause shown. (Ord. 583,
8-6-1970)
CHAPTER 7
MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE
SECTION:
3-7-1: Definitions
3-7-2: Registration Of Telecommunications Providers
3-7-3: Municipal Telecommunications Infrastructure Maintenance Fee
3-7-4: Collection, Enforcement, And Administration
3-7-5: Compliance With Other Laws
3-7-6: Existing Franchises And Licenses
3-7-7: Penalties
3-7-8: Enforcement
3-7-9: Severability
3-7-10: Conflict
3-7-11: Waiver And Fee Implementation
3-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
GROSS CHARGES: The amount paid to a telecommunications retailer for the act or
privilege of originating or receiving telecommunications within the village,
and for all services rendered in connection therewith, valued in money whether
paid in money or otherwise, including cash, credits, services, and property of
every kind or nature, and shall be determined without any deduction on account
of the cost of such telecommunications, the cost of the materials used, labor
or service costs, or any other expense whatsoever. In case credit is extended,
the amount thereof shall be included only as and when paid. "Gross charges" for
private line service shall include charges imposed at each channel point within
the village, charges for the channel mileage between each channel point within
the village, and charges for that portion of the interstate interoffice channel
provided within the village. However, "gross charges" shall not include:
   (A)   Any amounts added to a purchaser's bill because of a charge made
under: 1) the fee imposed by this chapter, 2) additional charges added to a
purchaser's bill under section 9-221 or 9-222 of the public utilities act, 3)
amounts collected under section 8-11-17 of the Illinois municipal code, 4) the
tax imposed by the telecommunications excise tax act, 5) 911 surcharges, or 6)
the tax imposed by section 4251 of the internal revenue code;
   (B)   Charges for a sent collect telecommunication received outside the
village;
   (C)   Charges for lease time on equipment or charges for the storage of data
or information or subsequent retrieval or the processing of data or information
intended to change its form or content. Such equipment includes, but is not
limited to, the use of calculators, computers, data processing equipment,
tabulating equipment, or accounting equipment and also includes the usage of
computers under a time- sharing agreement;
   (D)   Charges for customer equipment, including such equipment that is
leased or rented by the customer from any source, wherein such charges are
disaggregated and separately identified from other charges;
   (E)   Charges to business enterprises certified under section 9-222.1 of the
public utilities act to the extent of such exemption and during the period of
time specified by the village;
   (F)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
in connection therewith between a parent corporation and its wholly owned
subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, and only to the extent that
the charges between the parent corporation and wholly owned subsidiaries or
between wholly owned subsidiaries represent expense allocation between the
corporations and not the generation of profit other than a regulatory required
profit for the corporation rendering such services;
   (G)   Bad debts ("bad debt" means any portion of a debt that is related to a
sale at retail for which gross charges are not otherwise deductible or
excludable that has become worthless or uncollectible, as determined under
applicable federal income tax standards; if the portion of the debt deemed to
be bad is subsequently paid, the retailer shall report and pay the tax on that
portion during the reporting period in which the payment is made);
   (H)   Charges paid by inserting coins in coin operated telecommunications
devices; or
   (I)   Charges for telecommunications and all services and equipment provided
to the village.
PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY: Any municipal street, alley, water or public right of way
dedicated or commonly used for utility purposes, including utility easements
wherein the village has acquired the right and authority to locate or permit
the location of utilities consistent with telecommunications facilities.
"Public right of way" shall not include any real or personal village property
that is not specifically described in the previous sentence and shall not
include village buildings and other structures or improvements, regardless of
whether they are situated in the public right of way.
RETAILER MAINTAINING A PLACE OF BUSINESS IN THIS STATE (Or Any Like Term):
Means and includes any retailer having or maintaining within the state of
Illinois, directly or by a subsidiary, an office, distribution facilities,
transmission facilities, sales office, warehouse, or other place of business,
or any agent or other representative operating within this state under the
authority of the retailer or its subsidiary, irrespective of whether such place
of business or agent or other representative is located here permanently or
temporarily, or whether such retailer or subsidiary is licensed to do business
in this state.
SALE OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AT RETAIL: The transmitting, supplying, or
furnishing of telecommunications and all services rendered in connection
therewith for a consideration, other than between a parent corporation and its
wholly owned subsidiaries or between wholly owned subsidiaries, when the gross
charge made by one such corporation to another such corporation is not greater
than the gross charge paid to the retailer for their use or consumption and not
for sale.
SERVICE ADDRESS: The location of telecommunications equipment from which
telecommunications services are originated or at which telecommunications
services are received. If this is not a defined location, as in the case of
wireless telecommunications, paging systems, maritime systems, air to ground
systems, and the like, "service address" shall mean the location of the
customer's primary use of the telecommunications equipment as defined by the
location in Illinois where bills are sent.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes, but is not limited to, messages or information
transmitted through use of local, toll, and wide area telephone service,
channel services, telegraph services, teletypewriter service, computer exchange
services, private line services, specialized mobile radio services, or any
other transmission of messages or information by electronic or similar means,
between or among points by wire, cable, fiber optics, laser, microwave, radio,
satellite, or similar facilities. Unless the context clearly requires
otherwise, "telecommunications" shall also include "wireless
telecommunications" as hereinafter defined. "Telecommunications" shall not
include value added services in which computer processing applications are used
to act on the form, content, code, and protocol of the information for purposes
other than transmission. "Telecommunications" shall not include purchase of
telecommunications by a telecommunications service provider for use as a
component part of the service provided by him or her to the ultimate retail
consumer who originates or terminates the end to end communications. Retailer
access charges, right of access charges, charges for use of intercompany
facilities, and all telecommunications resold in the subsequent provision and
used as a component of, or integrated into, end to end telecommunications
service shall not be included in gross charges as sales for resale.
"Telecommunications" shall not include the provision of cable services through
a cable system as defined in the cable communications act of 1984 (47 USC
section 521 and following) as now or hereafter amended or cable or other
programming services subject to an open video system fee payable to the village
through an open video system as defined in the rules of the federal
communications commission (47 CDF 76.1550 and following) as now or hereafter
amended.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER: (A) Any telecommunications retailer; and
   (B)   Any person that is not a telecommunications retailer that installs,
owns, operates or controls equipment in the public right of way that is used or
designed to be used to transmit telecommunications in any form.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RETAILER OR RETAILER OR CARRIER: Means and includes every
person engaged in the business of making sales of telecommunications at retail
as defined in this section. The village may, in its discretion, upon
application, authorize the collection of the fee hereby imposed by any retailer
not maintaining a place of business within this State, who, to the satisfaction
of the village, furnishes adequate security to ensure collection and payment of
the fee. When so authorized, it shall be the duty of such retailer to pay the
fee upon all of the gross charges for telecommunications in the same manner and
subject to the same requirements as a retailer maintaining a place of business
with the village.
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS: Includes cellular mobile telephone services,
personal wireless services as defined in section 704(C) of the
telecommunications act of 1996 (public law no. 104-104), 42 USC section 332(c)
(7), as now or hereafter amended, including all commercial mobile radio
services, and paging services. (Ord. 97-1002, 11-6-1997)
3-7-2: REGISTRATION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS:
   (A)   Every "telecommunications provider" as defined by this chapter shall
register with the village within thirty (30) days after the effective date of
this chapter or becoming a telecommunications provider, whichever is later, on
a form to be provided by the village, provided, however, that any
telecommunications retailer that has filed a return pursuant to subsection
3-7-4(C) of this chapter shall be deemed to have registered in accordance with
this section.
   (B)   Every telecommunications provider who has registered with the village
pursuant to subsection (A) of this section has an affirmative duty to submit an
amended registration form or current return as required by subsection
3-7-4(C) of this chapter, as the case may be, to the village within thirty (30)
days from the date of the occurrence of any changes in the information provided
by the telecommunications provider in the registration form or most recent
return on file with the village. (Ord. 97-1002, 11-6-1997)
3-7-3: MUNICIPAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE MAINTENANCE FEE:
   (A)   A village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee is hereby
imposed upon all telecommunications retailers in the amount of one percent (1%)
of all gross charges charged by the telecommunications retailer to service
addresses within the village for telecommunications originating or received in
the village.
   (B)   Upon the effective date of the infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized in this chapter, the village infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized hereunder shall be the only fee or compensation for the use of all
public rights of way within the village by telecommunications retailers.
Imposition of the infrastructure maintenance fee provided under this chapter
does not, however, serve as a limitation on the levying of any taxes or
imposition of any fees otherwise authorized by law.
   (C)   The village telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee
authorized by this section shall be collected, enforced, and administered as
set forth in section
3-7-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 97-1002, 11-6-1997)
3-7-4: COLLECTION, ENFORCEMENT, AND ADMINISTRATION:
   (A)   A telecommunications retailer shall charge to and collect from each
customer an additional charge in an amount equal to the village infrastructure
maintenance fee attributable to that customer's service address.
   (B)   Unless otherwise approved by the village board, the infrastructure
maintenance fee shall be remitted by the telecommunications retailer to the
village not later than the last day of the month subsequent to the month in
which a bill is issued to the customer; provided, however, that the
telecommunications retailer may retain an amount not to exceed two percent (2%)
of the village infrastructure maintenance fee collected by it to reimburse
itself for expenses incurred in accounting for and remitting the fee.
   (C)   Remittance of the municipal infrastructure fee to the village shall be
accompanied by a return, in a form to be prescribed by the village board, which
shall contain such information as the village board may reasonably require.
   (D)   Any infrastructure maintenance fee required to be collected pursuant
to this chapter and any such infrastructure maintenance fee collected by such
telecommunications retailer shall constitute a debt owed by the
telecommunications retailer to the village. The charge imposed under subsection
(A) of this section, by the telecommunications retailer pursuant to this
chapter shall constitute a debt of the purchaser to the telecommunications
retailer who provides such services until paid, and, if unpaid, is recoverable
at law in the same manner as the original charge for such services.
   (E)   If it shall appear that an amount of infrastructure maintenance fee
has been paid that was not due under the provisions of this chapter, whether as
a result of a mistake of fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be
credited against any infrastructure maintenance fee due, or to become due,
under this chapter, from the telecommunications retailer who made the erroneous
payment; provided, however, the village board may request, and
telecommunications retailer shall provide, written substantiation for such
credit. However, no claim for such credit may be made more than three (3) years
after the date of the erroneous payment unless: 1) the credit is used only to
offset a claim of underpayment made by the village within the applicable
statutory period of limitations, and 2) the credit derives from an overpayment
made by the same telecommunications retailer during the applicable statutory
period of limitations.
   (F)   Amounts paid under this chapter by telecommunications retailers shall
not be included in the tax base under any of the following acts as described
immediately below:
      1.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the telecommunications excise tax
act;
      2.   "Gross receipts" for purposes of the municipal utility tax as
prescribed in section 8-11-2 of the Illinois municipal code;
      3.   "Gross charges" for purposes of the municipal telecommunications tax
as prescribed in section 8-11-17 of the Illinois municipal code;
      4.   "Gross revenue" for purposes of the tax on annual gross revenue of
public utilities prescribed in section 2-202 of the public utilities act.
   (G)   The village shall have the right, in its discretion, to audit the
books and records of all telecommunications retailers subject to this chapter
to determine whether the telecommunications retailer has properly accounted to
the village for the village infrastructure maintenance fee. Any underpayment of
the amount of the village infrastructure maintenance fee due to the village by
the telecommunications retailer shall be paid to the village plus five percent
(5%) of the total amount of the underpayment determined in an audit, plus any
costs incurred by the village in conducting the audit, in an amount not to
exceed five percent (5%) of the total amount of the underpayment determined in
an audit. Said sum shall be paid to the village within twenty one (21) days
after the date of issuance of an invoice for same.
   (H)   The village, or his or her designee, may promulgate such further or
additional regulations concerning the administration and enforcement of this
chapter, consistent with its provisions, as may be required from time to time
and shall notify all telecommunications retailers that are registered pursuant
to section
3-7-2 of this chapter of such regulations. (Ord. 97-1002, 11-6-1997)
3-7-5: COMPLIANCE WITH OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this chapter shall excuse any person or entity from obligations
imposed under any law, including, but not limited to:
   (A)   Generally applicable taxes; and
   (B)   Standards for construction on, over, under, or within, use of or
repair of the public rights of way, including standards relating to
freestanding towers and other structures upon the public rights of way, as
provided; and
   (C)   Any liability imposed for the failure to comply with such generally
applicable taxes or standards governing construction on, over, under, or
within, use of or repair of the public rights of way; and
   (D)   Compliance with any ordinance or provision of this code concerning
uses or structures not located on, over, or within the rights of way. (Ord. 97-
1002, 11-6-1997)
3-7-6: EXISTING FRANCHISES AND LICENSES:
Any franchise, license, or similar agreements between telecommunications
retailers and the village entered into before the effective date of this
chapter regarding the use of public rights of way shall remain valid according
to and for their stated terms except for any fees, charges or other
compensation to the extend waived. (Ord. 97-1002, 11-6-1997)
3-7-7: PENALTIES:
Any telecommunications provider who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or
refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall be subject
to fine in accordance with the general penalty provisions of this code. (Ord.
97-1002, 11-6-1997)
3-7-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as limiting any additional or
further remedies that the village may have for enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 97-1002, 11-6-1997)
3-7-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions hereof. (Ord. 97-1002, 11-6-1997)
3-7-10: CONFLICT:
This chapter supersedes all chapters or parts of chapters adopted prior hereto
which are in conflict herewith, to the extent of such conflict. (Ord. 97-1002,
11-6-1997)
3-7-11: WAIVER AND FEE IMPLEMENTATION:
   (A)   The village hereby waives all fees, charges, and other compensation
that may accrue, after the effective date of the waiver, to the village by a
telecommunications retailer pursuant to any existing village franchise,
license, or similar agreement with a telecommunications retailer during the
time the village imposes the telecommunications infrastructure maintenance fee.
This waiver shall only be effective during the time the infrastructure
maintenance fee provided for in this chapter is subject to being lawfully
imposed on the telecommunications retailer and collected by the
telecommunications retailer from the customer.
   (B)   The village clerk shall send a notice of the waiver by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to each telecommunications retailer with whom the
village has a franchise.
   (C)   The village infrastructure maintenance fee provided for in this
chapter shall become effective and imposed on the first day of the month not
less than ninety (90) days after the village provides written notice by
certified mail to each telecommunications retailer with whom the village has an
existing franchise, license, or similar agreement that the village waives all
compensation under such existing franchise, license, or similar agreement
during such time as the fee is subject to being lawfully imposed and collected
by the retailer and remitted to the village. The infrastructure maintenance fee
shall apply to gross charges billed on or after the effective date as
established in the preceding sentence. (Ord. 97-1002, 11-6-1997)
CHAPTER 8
SEWER USE
SECTION:
3-8-1: Use Of Public Sewers Required
3-8-2: Building Sewers And Connections
3-8-3: Use Of Public Sewers
3-8-4: Protection Of Sewage Works From Damage
3-8-5: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
3-8-6: Penalties
3-8-7: Definitions
3-8-1: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
Village or in any area under the jurisdiction of said Village any human or
animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
Village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said Village any sewage or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   In all territory within the Village or within one-half (1/2) mile of
the corporate limits thereof, no lot or parcel of land, or any part thereof,
shall be improved with any building for residential, commercial or industrial
purposes, or to which the general public has access, unless such lot or parcel
of land or any part thereof has access and is connected with the public sewers
and water mains of said Village or is provided with the use of a water supply
and sewage and liquid waste disposal system that at least conforms to the
following requirements. (Ord. 21-1656, 2-18-2021)
3-8-2: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
   (A)   All building connections and installations shall conform to the
requirements of Title 7 - Building Regulations. This includes chapter 5 -
Building Code, chapter 7 - Plumbing Code, and chapter 10 - Sewer Installation,
as well as any other applicable chapters.
   (B)   The installation shall be made by a licensed plumber, drain layer or
other person authorized by the Village of Bedford Park.
   (C)   An independent sewer connection shall be provided for each residence
or other main building and its accessory and subsidiary buildings.
   (D)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or
opening into: use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the Village or authorized
personnel.
   (E)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
Village. In absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the
materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the
American Society of Testing Materials and Standard Specifications for Water and
Sewer Main Construction in Illinois shall apply. (Ord. 21-1656, 2-18-2021)
3-8-3: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
   (A)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers,
or to a natural outlet approved by the Village President and Board of Trustees.
Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged on
approval of the Village President and Board of Trustees or authorized
regulatory agencies, to a storm sewer, combined sewer, or natural outlet.
   (C)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:    
      1.   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
      2.   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids,
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant.
      3.   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment, and personnel of the sewage works.
      4.   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of such size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with proper
operation of the sewage works such as, but not limited to, ashes, cinders,
sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood,
unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and
paper dishes, cup, milk containers, etc., either whole or ground by garbage
grinders.
   (D)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged the following
described substances, materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the
opinion of the Village or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge that such wastes can harm either the sewers sewage substances,
materials, waters, or wastes if it appears likely in the opinion of the
approving authorities that such wastes can harm either the sewers sewage will
give consideration to such factors as the quantities of subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, and maximum limits established by regulatory agencies. The substances
prohibited are:
      1.   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F), (65°C).
      2.   Any waters or wastes containing toxic or poisonous materials; or
oils, whether emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred (100) mg/l or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty-two (32°F) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150°F),
(65°C).
      3.   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded. The installation
and operation of any garbage grinder equipped with a motor of three-fourths (3/
4) horsepower (0.76 hp metric) or greater shall be subject to the review and
approval of the Village or authorized regulatory agencies.
      4.   Any waters or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solution whether neutralized or not.
      5.   Any waters or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc, or
similar objectionable or toxic substances; or wastes exerting an excessive
chlorine requirement, to such degree that any such material received in the
composite sewage at the sewage treatment works exceeds the limits established
by the Village or authorized regulatory agencies for such materials.
      6.   Any waters or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor-
producing substances, in such concentrations exceeding limits which may be
established by the Village or authorized regulatory agencies as necessary after
treatment of the composite sewage, to meet the requirements of the State,
Federal, or other public agencies of jurisdiction for such discharge to the
receiving waters.
      7.   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Village or authorized
regulatory agencies in compliance with applicable State or Federal regulations.
      8.   Any wastes or waters having a pH in excess of 9.5.
      9.   Any mercury or any of its compounds in excess of 0.0005 mg/l as Hg
at any time except as permitted by the Village or authorized regulatory
agencies in compliance with applicable State and Federal regulations.
      10.   Any cyanide in excess of 0.025 mg/l at any time except as permitted
by the Village or authorized regulatory agencies in compliance with applicable
State and Federal regulations.
      11.   Materials which exert or cause:
         a.   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as, but
not limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of
dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium
sulfate);
         b.   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         c.   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the sewage treatment
works;
         d.   Unusual volume of flow or concentrations of water constituting
"slugs" as defined herein.
      12.   Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters.
   (E)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in the preceding section, and/or which are in
violation of the standards for pretreatment provided in 40 CFR 403, June 26,
1978, relating to the EPA General Pretreatment Regulations, and any amendments
thereto, and which in the judgment of the Village or authorized regulatory
agencies may have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes,
equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the Village or authorized regulatory agencies
may:
      1.   Reject the wastes;
      2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
      3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges, under the provisions
of subsection (K). If the Village or authorized regulatory agencies permits the
pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the
plants and equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the Village
or authorized regulatory agencies, and subject to the requirements of all
applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (F)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Village or authorized regulatory agencies they are necessary for
the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts, or
any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the Village
or authorized regulatory agencies, and shall be located as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (G)   Where preliminary treatment or flow-equalizing facilities are
provided, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his expense.
   (H)   Each industry shall be required to install a control manhole and, when
required by the Village or authorized regulatory agencies permits the
pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation, the
owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes
shall install a suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters
and other appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be
accessibly and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with
plans approved by the Village or authorized regulatory agencies permits the
pretreatment or equalization of waste flows, the design and installation. The
manhole shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained
by him so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (I)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes shall provide laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of
water and wastes to illustrate compliance with this ordinance and any special
conditions for discharge established by the Village or regulatory agencies
having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number, type, and frequency of
laboratory analyses to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the
Village, but no less than once per year the industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with the Federal, State, and local standards are being met. The
owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the
Village at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the Village. The
owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and reporting
required by the Village. At such times as deemed necessary the Village reserves
the right to take measurements and samples for analyses by an outside
laboratory service.
   (J)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the regulatory agencies with jurisdiction, and shall be
determined at the control manhole provided, or upon suitable samples taken at
said control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required
the control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in
the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the
effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the existence of
hazards to life, limb, and property. The particular analyses involved will
determine whether a twenty-four (24) hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether a grab sample or samples should be taken.
Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids analyses are obtained from
twenty four (24) hour composites of all outfalls, whereas pHs are determined
from periodic grab samples.
   (K)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the Village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the Village for treatment, subject to payment therefore by
the industrial concern.
   (L)   The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District of Greater Chicago
("MWRD") Sewage and Waste Control Ordinance ("SWCO"), per latest edition, the
same may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted and incorporated by
reference by the Village, as authority for administration and enforcement of
the industrial waste pretreatment program within areas of the Village that are
subject to the agreement for sewerage services between the MWRD and the Village
and amendments thereto. (Ord. 21-1656, 2-18-2021)
3-8-4: PROTECTION OF SEWAGE WORKS FROM DAMAGE:
No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment,
which is a part of the sewage works. Any person violating this provision shall
be subject to immediate arrest under charge of disorderly conduct. (Ord. 21-
1656, 2-18-2021)
3-8-5: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
   (A)   The Village or authorized regulatory agencies and other duly
authorized employees of the Village or the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all properties for purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The Village or authorized regulatory agencies or
his representative shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other
industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers or waterway or facilities for waste treatment.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in subsection (A) above, the Village or authorized regulatory agencies or duly
authorized employees of the Village, the Metropolitan Water Reclamation
District of Greater Chicago shall observe all safety rules applicable to the
premises established by the company and the company shall be held harmless for
injury or death to the Village employees and the Village shall indemnify the
company against liability claims and demands for personal injury or property
damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and sampling
operating, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of the company
to maintain conditions as required in subsection
3-8-3(I).
   (C)   The Village or authorized regulatory agencies and other duly
authorized employees of the Village bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all private properties through which
the Village holds a duly negotiated easement for the purposes of, but not
limited to, inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, repair, and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement. All
entry and subsequent work, if any, on said easement, shall be done in full
accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement pertaining to the
private property involved. (Ord. 21-1656, 2-18-2021)
3-8-6: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter except
section
3-8-4 shall be served by the Village with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in
such notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person or persons found to be in continued violation of this
chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more
than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate offense
shall be deemed to be committed for each day that a violation exists. In
addition to the imposition of fines, the person or persons may be directed to
correct and remedy the code violation. Noncompliance with this chapter is also
a basis for the revocation of a business certificate per the terms of this
code. (Ord. 21-1656, 2-18-2021)
3-8-7: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms used
in this chapter shall be as follows:
FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT:
   ADMINISTRATOThe Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.
   FEDERAL ACT:The Federal Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. § 466 et seq.) as amended, (Pub. L. 95-
                  217).
                  The U.S. government participation in the financing of the construction of
   FEDERAL GRANtreatment works as provided for by Title II-Grants for Construction of
                  Treatment Works of the Act and implementing regulations.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT:
   APPROVING   The Village president and board of trustees or authorized regulatory agencies
   AUTHORITY:  having jurisdiction
   CHAPTER:    This chapter.
   VILLAGE:    The Village of Bedford Park.
                  Any permit or equivalent document or requirements issued by the Administrator,
NPDES PERMIT:     or, where appropriated by the Director, after enactment of the Federal Clean
                  Water Act to regulate the discharge of pollutants pursuant to section 402 of
                  the Federal Act.
                  Any and all persons, natural or artificial including any individual, firm,
PERSON:           company, municipal, or private corporation, association, society, institution,
                  enterprise, governmental agency or other entity.
SEWER TYPES AND
APPURTENANCES:
                  That part of the lowest piping of a drainage system which receives the
   BUILDING    discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside the walls of the
DRAIN:            building and conveys it to the building sewer or other approved point of
                  discharge, beginning five feet (5') (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the
                  building wall.
   BUILDING    The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or other place of
SEWER:            disposal.
   COMBINED    A sewer which is designed and intended to receive wastewater, storm, surface
   SEWER:      and groundwater drainage.
   EASEMENT:   An acquired legal right for he specific use of land owned by others.
                  A sewer provided by or subject to the jurisdiction of the Village. It shall
                  also include, sewers within or outside the boundaries of the Village that serve
   PUBLIC SEWERone or more persons and ultimately discharge into the Village sanitary (or
                  combined) sewer system, even though those sewers may not have been constructed
                  with Village funds.
   SANITARY    A sewer that conveys sewage or industrial wastes or a combination of both, and
   SEWER:      into which storm, surface, and ground waters or polluted industrial wastes are
                  not intentionally admitted.
   SEWER:      A pipe or conduit for conveying sewage or any other waste liquids, including
                  storm, surface and groundwater drainage.
   SEWERAGE:   The system of sewers and appurtenances for the collection, transportation and
                  pumping of sewage.
   STORM SEWER:A sewer that carries storm, surface and groundwater drainage but excludes
                  sewage and industrial wastes other than unpolluted cooling water.
   STORMWATER  That portion of the precipitation that is drained into the sewers.
   RUNOFF:
SHALL/MAY:        "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissible.
STATE GOVERNMENT:
   DIRECTOR:   The Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency.
   STATE ACT:  The Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act of 1970.
                  The State of Illinois participation in the financing of the construction of
   STATE GRANT:treatment works as provided for by the Illinois Anti-Pollution Bond Act and for
                  making such grants as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of
                  Illinois.
TREATMENT:
   PRETREATMENTThe treatment of wastewaters from sources before introduction into the
                  wastewater treatment works.
   WASTEWATER  An arrangement of devices and structures for treating wastewater, industrial
   TREATMENT   wastes, and sludge. Sometimes used as synonymous with "waste treatment plant"
   WORKS:      or "wastewater treatment plant" or "pollution control plant".
WASTEWATER:
   BOD         The quantity of oxygen utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter
   (BIOCHEMICALunder standards laboratory procedure in five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius
   OXYGEN      (20°C), expressed in milligrams per liter.
   DEMAND):
   EFFLUENT    Defined in any applicable "NPDES Permit".
   CRITERIA:
                  Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will separate by gravity
   FLOATABLE OIfrom wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility. A wastewater
                  shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is properly pretreated and the
                  wastewater does not interfere with the collection system.
   GARBAGE:    Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking, and
                  dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage and sale of food.
                  Any solid, liquid or gaseous substance discharged, permitted to flow or
   INDUSTRIAL  escaping from any industrial, manufacturing, commercial or business
   WASTE:      establishment or process or from the development, recovery or processing of any
                  natural resource as distinct from sanitary sewage.
                  An industrial user of the publicly owned treatment works that: (a) has a flow
                  of fifty thousand (50,000) gallons or more per average work day; or (b) has a
                  flow greater than ten percent (10%) of the flow carried by the municipal system
   MAJOR       receiving the waste; or (c) has in its waste, a toxic pollutant in toxic
   CONTRIBUTINGamounts as defined in standards issued under section 307(a) of the Federal Act;
   INDUSTRY:   or (d) is found by the permit issuant authority, in connection with the
                  issuance of the NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
                  the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
                  other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
                  effluent from that treatment works.
                  A unit of the concentration of water or wastewater constituent. It is 0.001 g
   MILLIGRAMS Pof the constituent in one thousand (1,000) ml of water. It has replaced the
   LITER:      unit formerly used commonly, parts per million, to which it is approximately
                  equivalent, in reporting the results of water and wastewater analysis.
                  The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the hydrogen-ion concentration
   pH:         expressed by one of the procedures, outlined in the IEPA Division of
                  Laboratories Manual of Laboratory Methods.
                  A term used to evaluate the impact of industrial or other waste on a treatment
   POPULATION  works or stream. One population equivalent is one hundred (100) gallons of
   EQUIVALENT: sewage per day, containing 0.17 pounds of BOD and 0.22 pounds of suspended
                  solids.
   PPM:        Parts per million by weight.
   PROPERLY    The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food that have been
   SHREDDED    shredded to such a degree that all particles will be carried freely under the
   GARBAGE:    flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particle greater
                  than one-half inch (1/2") (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
                  Any discharge of water, sewage or industrial waste which in concentration of
   SLUG:       any given constituent or in quantity of low exceeds for any period of duration
                  longer than fifteen (15) minutes more than five (5) times the average twenty-
                  four (24) hour concentration or flows during normal operation.
                  Solids that either float, on the surface of, or are in suspension in water,
   SUSPENDED   sewage, or industrial waste, and which are removable by a laboratory filtration
   SOLIDS (SS):device. Quantitative determination of suspended solids shall be made in
                  accordance with procedures set forth in the IEPA Division of Laboratories
                  Manual of Laboratory Methods.
                  Water quality equal to or better than the effluent criteria in effect or water
   UNPOLLUTED  that would not cause violation of receiving water quality standards and would
   WATER:      not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary sewers and wastewater treatment
                  facilities provided.
                  The spent water of a community. From this standpoint of course, it may be a
                  combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial
   WASTEWATER: buildings, industrial plants, and institutions, together with any groundwater,
                  surface water, and storm water that may be present. "Sewage" is used
                  interchangeably with "wastewater".
   WATER QUALITDefined in the Water Pollution Regulations of Illinois.
   STANDARDS:
WASTEWATER        The structures, equipment, and processes required to collect, carry away, and
FACILITIES:       treat domestic and industrial wastes and transport effluent to a watercourse.
WATERCOURSE AND
CONNECTIONS:
   NATURAL     Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface or
OUTLET:           groundwater.
   WATERCOURSE:A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously or
                  intermittently. (Ord. 21-1656, 2-18-2021)
 
TITLE IV
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
HEALTH REGULATIONS
SECTION:
4-1-1: Privies, Cesspools Prohibited (Rep. by Ord. 669, 7-7-1978)
4-1-2: Village Requirements
4-1-3: Building Requirements
4-1-1: PRIVIES, CESSPOOLS PROHIBITED:
(Rep. by Ord. 669, 7-7-1978)
4-1-2: VILLAGE REQUIREMENTS:
In all territory within the village or within one-half (1/2) mile of the
corporate limits thereof, no lot or parcel of land, or any part thereof, shall
be improved with any building for residential, commercial or industrial
purposes, or to which the general public has access, unless such lot or parcel
of land or any part thereof has access and is connected with the public sewers
and water mains of said village or is provided with the use of a water supply
and sewage and liquid waste disposal system that at least conforms to the
following requirements. (Ord. 54, 7-5-1945)
4-1-3: BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
In all territory within the village or within one-half (1/2) mile of the
corporate limits thereof, no lot or parcel of land, or any part thereof, shall
be improved with any building for residential, commercial or industrial
purposes, or to which the general public has access, unless the following
requirements, inasmuch as they apply, are conformed with: (Ord. 54, 7-5-1945)
   (A)   through (L): (Rep. by Ord. 669, 7-7-1978)
   (M)   Connections To Public Utilities:
      1.   Water Service Connections:
The installation shall be made by a licensed plumber or other person authorized
by the village of Bedford Park.
All water supply service between street mains and meters shall be of lead pipe
of the weight known as "strong" or of cast iron. All joints in lead pipe shall
be "wiped joints".
The maximum size of water service connections which is permitted for a lot
shall be as follows:
Connection to a four inch (4") main supplying both sides of the street three-
quarter inch (3/4").
Connection to a four inch (4") main supplying one side of the street, one inch
(1").
Connection to a six inch (6") or larger main, one and one- quarter inch (11/
4").
No connection larger than the above shall be allowed for any single lot, unless
the conditions are such as to make a larger supply necessary, and permission of
the village is obtained.
A larger connection may be allowed for a building which occupies a lot more
than fifty feet (50') wide, if permission is obtained from the village.
All water supply service pipes shall be laid in the ground to a depth of not
less than five feet (5'), and in such a manner and having such surplus length
as to prevent breakage by settlement.
Every service pipe smaller than one and one-half inch (11/2") shall be provided
with a stopcock, easily accessible, placed beyond damage by frost and so
located that the water can be conveniently shut off and drained from the pipe.
Stopcock shall be enclosed in and protected by a cast iron box with a cover;
box shall extend from the service pipe to a point above grade and shall be of
proper size to admit a stop key for operating the stopcock. (Ord. 54, 7-5-1945;
amd. Ord. 21-1655, 2-18-2021)
CHAPTER 2
EATING AND DRINKING ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
4-2-1: State Regulations Adopted By Reference
4-2-2: Penalty
4-2-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The issuance, suspension and revocation of permits to operate retail food
establishments; the prohibiting of sale of unsound or mislabeled food or drink;
the enforcement of this chapter; shall be regulated in accordance with chapter
10 compliance procedures of the 1976 and subsequent editions of the food and
drug administration "food service sanitation ordinance". The inspection of food
service establishments shall be regulated in accordance with the current and
subsequent Illinois department of public health "food service sanitation rules
and regulations" on file with the secretary of state. The inspection of retail
food stores shall be regulated in accordance with the Illinois department of
public health "retail food store sanitation rules and regulations" on file with
the secretary of state. Three (3) certified copies of the food and drug
administration "food service sanitation ordinance", Illinois department of
public health "food service sanitation rules and regulations" and the Illinois
department of public health "retail food store sanitation rules and
regulations" shall be on file at the office of the Bedford Park village clerk.
(Ord. 739, 5-3-1984)
4-2-2: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class C misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition thereto, such
persons may be enjoined from continuing such violations. Each day upon which
such a violation occurs constitutes a separate violation. (Ord. 739, 5-3-1984)
CHAPTER 3
AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
SECTION:
4-3-1: Title
4-3-2: Definitions
4-3-3: Air Pollution Control Board
4-3-4: Duties Of Board
4-3-5: Creation Of Office Of Coordinator Of Air Pollution Control
4-3-6: Duties Of Coordinator Of Air Pollution Control
4-3-7: Air Pollution A Violation
4-3-8: Emission Standards For Existing Equipment
4-3-9: Emission Standards For New Equipment
4-3-10: Surfacing Of Automobile And/Or Truck Parking And Sales Lots Or Private
Roadway
4-3-11: Handling Material Susceptible To Becoming Windborne
4-3-12: Noxious Odors (Rep. by Ord., 4-16-1970)
4-3-12-1: Objectionable Odors; Nuisance
4-3-13: Open Fires
4-3-14: Nuisance; Preservation Of Common Law Rights
4-3-15: Permits
4-3-16: Extension Of Time For Compliance, Exemptions Or Variances
4-3-17: Power To Enter Premises For Inspection
4-3-18: Severance Clause
4-3-19: Penalties
4-3-1: TITLE:
This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the BEDFORD PARK AIR
POLLUTION CONTROL CHAPTER. (Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
4-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, whenever any of the following words, terms or
definitions are used herein, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in
this section, unless the context otherwise requires:
ASME: The American Society of Mechanical Engineers.
ASTM: The American Society for Testing Materials.
AGGLOMERATOR: Process equipment used to increase particle size and effect
agglomeration or granulation.
AIR CONTAMINANT: Particulate matter, dust, fumes, gas, mist, smoke or vapor, or
any combination thereof.
AIR CONTAMINANT SOURCE: Any and all sources of emission of air contaminants,
whether privately or publicly owned or operated. Without limiting the
generality of the foregoing, this term includes all types of business,
commercial and industrial plants, works, shops and stores and heating power
plants and stations, building and other structures of all types, including
single- and multiple-family residences, apartments, houses, office buildings,
hotels, restaurants, schools, hospitals, churches and other institutional
buildings, automobiles, trucks, tractors, buses and other motor vehicles,
garages and vending and service locations and stations, railroad locomotives,
ships, boats and other waterborne craft, portable fuel burning equipment,
incinerators of all types, indoor and outdoor, refuse dumps and piles, and all
stack and other chimney outlets from any of the foregoing.
AIR POLLUTION: Presence in the outdoor atmosphere of one or more air
contaminants in sufficient quantities and of such characteristics and duration
as to be injurious to human, plant or animal life or to property, or which
unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life and property.
ANIMAL AND MARINE MATTER: Any product or derivative of animal life.
AUXILIARY FUEL FIRING EQUIPMENT: Equipment to supply additional heat, by the
combustion of an auxiliary fuel, for the purpose of attaining temperatures
sufficiently high: a) to dry and ignite the waste material, b) to maintain
ignition thereof, and c) to promote complete combustion of combustible solids,
vapors and gases.
BACKYARD INCINERATION: The burning of material originating on the premises by
individuals domiciled on the premises, excluding commercial establishments.
BASIC OXYGEN FURNACE (BOF): A furnace in which the melting and refining of iron
are accomplished by the addition at high velocities of large amounts of high
purity oxygen to the atmosphere above the surface of the metal bath. The metal
is held in a tiltable vessel with a basic refractory lining. Such a furnace
includes furnace proper, oxygen lance, scrap and flux charging units, iron
transfer units, gas collecting and cleaning equipment and stacks and any other
auxiliaries pertinent to the process.
BLAST FURNACE: The furnace and equipment used in connection with the smelting
process of reducing metallic ores to molten metal in which primarily oxygen is
removed from the ore and gas is produced as a byproduct. The furnace and
equipment consists of, but is not limited to, the furnace proper, charging
equipment, stoves, bleeders, gas dust catcher, gas cleaning devices and other
auxiliaries pertinent to the process.
BOARD: The air pollution control board of the village of Bedford Park.
BRITISH THERMAL UNIT (Btu): The quantity of heat required to raise one pound of
water from fifty nine degrees Fahrenheit (59°F) to sixty degrees Fahrenheit
(60°F).
BYPRODUCT COKE PLANT: A plant used in connection with the distillation process
to produce coke in which the volatile matter is expelled, collected and
recovered. Such plant consists of, but is not limited to, coal and coke
handling equipment, byproduct chemical plant and other equipment associated
with and attendant to the coking chambers or ovens making up a single battery
operated and controlled as a single unit.
COH/1000 LINEAR FEET (Coefficient Of Haze Per 1,000 Linear Feet): A measure of
the optical density of a filtered deposit of particulate matter as given in
ASTM standard D 1704-61.
coh/1000 linear feet    (area tape ft2) (100,000)   log    100
   (volume of air sample, ft3)      % transmission
CARBONACEOUS FUEL: Any form of combustible matter, solid, liquid, vapor or gas,
consisting primarily of carbon containing compounds in either fixed or volatile
form which are burned primarily for their heat content.
CATALYTIC CRACKING UNIT: A unit composed of a reactor, regenerator and
fractionating tower which is used to convert certain petroleum fractions into
more valuable products by passing the material at elevated temperature through
a bed of catalyst in the reactor. Coke deposits produced on the catalyst during
cracking are removed by burning off in the regenerator.
CHEMICAL FERTILIZER: A compound whose chief ingredients are nitrogen, phosphate
and potash.
COMBUSTION FOR INDIRECT HEATING: The combustion of fuel to produce usable heat
that is to be transferred through a heat conducting materials barrier or by a
heat storage medium to a material to be heated so that material being heated is
not contacted by, and adds no substance to, the products of combustion.
COOLER: Process equipment used to reduce product temperature.
CRITERIA: Information used as guidelines for decisions when establishing air
quality goals, air quality standards and the various air quality alert levels.
In no case are criteria to be confused with air quality standards or goals. In
other words, the term, as used in these regulations, is not interchangeable
with either standards or goals.
DEPARTMENT: The department of public health of the state of Illinois.
DRYER: Process equipment used to remove excess product moisture.
ELECTRIC FURNACE: A furnace in which the melting and refining of metals are
accomplished by means of electric energy.
ENGINEER: The person who designed or is responsible for the design of the
equipment and conceived, developed, executed or is responsible for the design
or preparation of the plan document. He shall be a registered professional
engineer as defined in "Illinois professional engineering act" approved July
20, 1945, as amended.
EQUIPMENT: Fuel burning, combustion or process devices or apparatus including,
but not limited to, fuel burning equipment, refuse burning equipment used for
the burning of fuel or other combustible material from which the products of
combustion are emitted. Also this shall include, but not be limited to,
apparatus which generates heat and may emit products of combustion; and
manufacturing, chemical, metallurgical or mechanical process which may emit
smoke, particulate matter or other air contaminants. Processes are defined as
equipment according to this regulation.
EXCESS AIR: That air supplied in addition to the theoretical quantity necessary
for complete combustion of all fuel and/or combustible waste material present.
FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: For purposes of this regulation, a food service
establishment shall be defined, as follows: Any fixed or mobile restaurant;
coffee shop; cafeteria; short order cafe; luncheonette; grill; tearoom;
sandwich shop; soda fountain; tavern; bar; cocktail lounge; nightclub; roadside
stand; industrial feeding establishment; private, public, or nonprofit
organization or institution routinely serving food; catering kitchen;
commissary or similar place in which food is placed for sale or served on the
premises or elsewhere; and any other eating or drinking establishment or
operation where food is served or provided for the public, with or without
charge.
FOUNDRY CUPOLA: A stack type furnace used for melting of metals consisting of,
but not limited to, furnace proper, tuyeres, fans or blowers, tapping spout,
charging equipment, gas cleaning devices and other auxiliaries.
FOUNDRY OPEN HEARTH: An "open hearth furnace" as defined herein but used in the
foundry industry.
FUME: Fume is fine solid particles dispersed in air or gases which tend to
flocculate and condense and are in the size range beginning at 0.1 micron and
ending at three (3) microns.
GARBAGE: Animal and vegetable matter such as that originating in houses,
kitchens, restaurants and hotels, produce markets, food service and processing
establishments, and greenhouses.
GAS CLEANING DEVICE: Facility designed to remove air contaminants from
equipment exhaust gases.
GOAL: The level of air quality which is expected to be obtained.
HEATING AND REPEATING FURNACE: A furnace in which metal is heated to permit
shaping or forming, or to achieve specific physical properties.
HEATING VALUE: The heat released by combustion of one pound of waste or fuel
measured in Btus on an as received basis. For solid fuels the heating value
shall be determined using ASTM standard D 2015-66.
INCINERATOR: Combustion apparatus designed for high temperature operation in
which solid, semisolid, liquid or gaseous combustible wastes are ignited and
burned efficiently and from which the solid residues contain little or no
combustible material.
LEVEL: A certain specified degree, quality or characteristic.
NEW EQUIPMENT: (A) Equipment, the design of which was less than fifty percent
(50%) completed on April 15, 1967.
(B) Equipment which is altered or modified such that the amount of air
contaminant emissions is increased fifteen percent (15%) or more.
OBJECTIVE: See definition of Goal.
ODOR CONCENTRATION: The number of cubic feet that one cubic foot of sample will
occupy when diluted to the odor threshold. It is a measure of the number of
odor units in one cubic foot of the sample. It is expressed in odor units per
cubic foot.
ODOR UNIT: One cubic foot of air at the odor threshold.
OPEN BURNING: Any burning of combustible materials wherein the products of
combustion are emitted directly into the open air without passing through a
stack or chimney.
OPEN HEARTH FURNACE: A furnace in which the melting and refining of metal is
accomplished by the application of heat to a saucer type or shallow hearth in
an enclosed chamber. Such furnace consists of, but is not limited to, the
furnace proper, checkers, flues and stack and may include a waste heat boiler,
an oxygen lance, and other auxiliaries pertinent to the process.
ppm (Vol) (PARTS PER MILLION (VOLUME)): A volume/volume ratio which expresses
the volumetric concentration of a gaseous air contaminant in a million unit
volumes of gas, such as the number of micro liters of sulfur dioxide per
million micro liters or liter of air would be expressed in ppm (vol).
PARTICULATE MATTER: Any material, except water, that exists in a finely divided
form as a liquid or solid.
PERSON: Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, political subdivision, state
agency, or any other legal entity, or their legal representative, agent or
assigns.
PLAN DOCUMENTS: Reports, proposals, preliminary plans, survey and basis of
design data, general and detail construction plans, profiles, specifications
and all other information pertaining to the equipment.
POLITICAL SUBDIVISION: Any municipality, city, incorporated town, village,
county, township, district or authority, or any portion or combination of two
(2) or more thereof.
PROCESS: Any action, operation, or treatment and the equipment used in
connection therewith, and all methods or forms of manufacturing or processing
that may emit smoke, particulate matter or gaseous matter.
PROCESS WEIGHT: The total weight of all materials introduced into any source
operation. Solid fuels charged will be considered as part of the process weight
but liquid and gaseous fuels and combustion air will not.
PROCESS WEIGHT RATE: (A) For continuous or long run steady state source
operations, the total process weight for the entire period of continuous
operation or for a typical portion thereof, divided by the number of hours of
such period or portion thereof.
   (B)   For a cyclical or batch source operation, the total process weight for
a period that covers a complete operation or an integral number of cycles,
divided by the hours of actual process operation during such a period.
Where the nature of any process or operation or the design of any equipment is
such as to permit more than one interpretation of this definition, the
interpretation that results in the minimum value for allowable emission shall
apply.
REACTOR: As used in these regulations, reactor means fertilizer process
equipment into which all or part of consumed raw materials and all or part of
recycled material are combined to produce desired chemical and physical
changes.
RECYCLE WEIGHT RATE: The total hourly quantity of product which is returned to
the reactor or agglomerator or both for additional processing.
REFUSE: Includes garbage, rubbish and trade wastes.
RENDERING: Any heating process, including cooking, drying, dehydrating,
digesting, evaporating and protein concentrating of animal or marine matter.
RINGELMANN CHART: The chart published and described in the bureau of mines,
U.S. department of interior, information circular 8333 or as revised, and on
which are illustrated graduated shades of gray to black for use in estimating
the apparent density of smoke.
RUBBISH: Solids not considered to be highly flammable or explosive such as, but
not limited to, rags, old clothes, leather, rubber, carpets, wood, excelsior,
paper, ashes, tree branches, yard trimmings, furniture, tin cans, glass
crockery, masonry, and other similar materials.
SALVAGE OPERATIONS: Any business, trade or industry engaged in whole or in part
in salvaging or reclaiming any product or material, such as, but not limited
to, metals, chemicals, shipping containers, or drums.
SINTERING PLANT: The plant used in connection with the process of fusing fine
particles of metallic ores causing agglomeration of such particles. Such plant
consists of, but is not limited to, sintering machines, handling facilities,
wind boxes, stack and other auxiliaries pertinent to the process.
SMOKE: Small gasborne particles resulting from incomplete combustion,
consisting predominantly, but not exclusively, of carbon, ash and other
combustible material, that form a visible plume in the air.
SMOKE MONITOR: A device using a light source and a light detector which can
automatically measure and record the light obscuring power of smoke at a
specific location in the flue or stack of a source. Measuring and recording to
be at intervals of not less than fifteen (15) seconds.
SOURCE OPERATION: The last operation preceding the emission of an air
contaminant, which operation: a) results in the separation of the air
contaminant from the process materials or in the conversion of the process
materials into air contaminants, and b) is not an air pollution abatement
operation.
STACK OR CHIMNEY: A flue, conduit or opening permitting particulate or gaseous
emissions into the open air, or constructed or arranged for such purpose.
STANDARD: That level of air contaminant, either source emission or ambient air,
which is established by authority.
STANDARD CONDITIONS: A gas temperature of seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70°F) and
a gas pressure of 14.7 pounds per square inch absolute (psia).
STANDARD CUBIC FOOT (SCF): The standard cubic foot is a measure of the volume
of one cubic foot of gas at standard conditions.
THEORETICAL AIR: The exact amount of air required to supply the required oxygen
for complete combustion of a given quantity of a specific fuel or waste.
TRADE WASTE: All solid or liquid material or rubbish resulting from
construction, building operations, or the prosecution of any business, trade or
industry such as, but not limited to, plastic products, chemicals, cinders and
other forms of solid or liquid waste materials. (Ord., 4-16-1970; amd. Ord.
522, 5-1-1967)
4-3-3: AIR POLLUTION CONTROL BOARD:
There is hereby established an air pollution control board. The board shall
consist of seven (7) members, and one shall be a registered professional
engineer as defined in the "Illinois professional engineering act" filed July
24, 1941, as amended. Four (4) residents of the village shall be members and
shall be appointed by the village president with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees and they shall serve for a term of, two (2) for one year, and
two (2) for two (2) years, and two (2) years each for those following. Two (2)
more members shall be appointed who are employees of industry within the
village and shall be appointed by the village president with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees and they shall serve for a term of one for one
year and one for two (2) years, and two (2) years for each of those following.
The seventh member shall be appointed by the village president with the advice
and consent of the board of trustees and this member shall be chairman of the
board. The chairman shall serve for a term of three (3) years. Vacancies shall
be filled for the unexpired term of any member whose place has become vacant in
the manner herein provided for the appointment of such member. Members of the
board shall receive such compensation as may be fixed from time to time by the
corporate authorities of the village. (Ord. 727, 2-17-1983)
   (A)   General Policy:
      1.   It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to maintain purity of
the air resources of the village of Bedford Park consistent with the protection
of normal health, general welfare and physical property of the people, maximum
employment and the full industrial development of the village. The board shall
seek the accomplishment of these objectives through the prevention, abatement
and control of air pollution by all practical and economically feasible
methods.
      2.   The policy of the village is further declared to be that through
cooperative effort, the board shall continually strive in collaboration with
representatives of all affected persons to diminish air pollution and promote
sound air pollution control practices.
      3.   In making recommendations, orders and determinations hereunder, the
board shall take into consideration all facts and circumstances bearing upon
the reasonableness of the emissions involved, including, but not limited to:
         (a)   The character and degree of injury to, or interference with the
protection of the health, general welfare and physical property of the people;
         (b)   The social and economic value of the air pollution source;
         (c)   The suitability or unsuitability of the air pollution source to
the area in which it is located, including the question of priority of location
in the area involved;
         (d)   The technical practicability and economic reasonableness of
reducing or eliminating the emissions resulting from such air pollution source.
(Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
4-3-4: DUTIES OF BOARD:
The board shall need an affirmative vote of the majority of the members of the
board as constituted and shall have the following duties:
   (A)   Administer this chapter.
   (B)   Examine lists of emissions and corrective equipment submitted with
applications for permits to erect, construct, or install new plants or
processes within the village, or to reconstruct or alter existing plants or
processes, and make known its decision to the corporate authorities of the
village.
   (C)   Investigate or cause to be investigated such complaints about air
pollution in the village that are filed with the village.
   (D)   Set up procedure for prompt notification of all persons concerning
whom reports of violations of this chapter, or of complaints hereunder have
been received by the village.
   (E)   Arrange for and conduct hearings on the receipt of official reports of
violations of the provisions of this chapter and on receipt of citizens'
complaints or on petitions of any person.
At any public hearing, all testimony taken before the board shall be under oath
and recorded stenographically. The transcript so recorded shall be made
available to any member of the public or to the respondent or party to a
hearing on a complaint upon payment of the usual charges therefor.
In any such hearings, any member of the board may issue in the name of the
board notices of hearings requesting the attendance and testimony of witnesses
and the production of evidence relevant to any matter involved in any such
hearing, and may examine such witnesses.
All hearings shall be had before at least five (5) members of the board.
No information relating to secret processes or methods of manufacture or
production shall be disclosed at any public hearing or otherwise and all such
information shall be kept confidential.
   (F)   Have power to cause legal action in the name of the village to be
taken by the village attorney to abate nuisance or to enjoin owners and
operators of offending plants, equipment and processes from continuing
violations of the provisions of this chapter or perpetrating nuisances.
   (G)   Appoint a secretary of the board to routinely process smoke and
nuisance reports, to record the board proceedings and actions and to maintain
records of the board. (Ord. 727, 2-17-1983)
4-3-5: CREATION OF OFFICE OF COORDINATOR OF AIR POLLUTION CONTROL:
There is hereby created the office of coordinator of air pollution control. He
shall be appointed by the village president with the advice and consent of the
village board. (Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
4-3-6: DUTIES OF COORDINATOR OF AIR POLLUTION CONTROL:
The duties of the coordinator shall be:
   (A)   To supervise the execution of all laws, ordinances, rules and
regulations pertaining to smoke abatement and air pollution control as provided
in this chapter;
   (B)   Responsible to the air pollution control board for the day to day
operation under this chapter;
   (C)   To examine and recommend the plans of fuel burning, combustion or
process equipment or devices, furnaces, and smoke prevention and air pollution
control devices installed, constructed, reconstructed, repaired, or added to,
in any building, location, or on any premises within the village as herein
provided to assure that they are in accordance with the requirements of this
chapter;
   (D)   To make inspections of newly installed, constructed, reconstructed,
repaired or altered fuel burning, combustion or process equipment or devices,
furnaces, and smoke prevention and air pollution control devices, and to make
annual or periodic inspections of fuel burning combustion or process equipment
or devices within the village as herein provided whether compliance is being
had with the provisions of this chapter;
   (E)   To investigate complaints of violations of this chapter and to make
inspections and observations of air pollution conditions;
   (F)   To encourage and conduct studies, investigations and research relating
to the physical, chemical engineering and meteorological aspects of air
pollution, and its causes, prevention, control and abatement as he may deem
advisable and necessary;
   (G)   To develop plans and proposals for joint cooperative investigation and
research with public and private agencies and organizations on methods for
eliminating or reducing air pollution;
   (H)   To enlist voluntary cooperation by the public, municipalities,
counties, communities, and civic, technical, scientific and education
societies;
   (I)   Provide for the training of village employees in the use of the
Ringelmann chart for smoke emission observations and the proper reporting of
such emissions; and in the proper investigations and reporting of complaints
about any atmospheric pollution;
   (J)   Cooperate with adjoining municipalities or communities in efforts to
abate air pollution in the area and cause legal action under article V, section
1, paragraph 83 of the Illinois act to provide for the incorporation of cities
and villages to abate air pollution nuisances originating within one mile of
the incorporated boundaries of the village of Bedford Park, Illinois;
   (K)   Provide such technical, scientific or other services, including the
necessary laboratory and other facilities as may be required for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
4-3-7: AIR POLLUTION A VIOLATION:
The discharge into the outdoor atmosphere of air contaminants so as to cause
air pollution is a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
4-3-8: EMISSION STANDARDS FOR EXISTING EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   Existing Equipment: These regulations shall apply to all existing
equipment located in the village.
   (B)   Compliance: Except as provided under subsection (F) of this section,
the emission standards for new equipment in section
4-3-9 of this chapter shall apply to all existing equipment and if compliance
with this section cannot be reached after the effective date of this chapter,
the person responsible for the existing equipment in the village shall submit
to the board a letter of intent to file an air contaminant emission reduction
program. The filing of this letter of intent shall be within sixty (60) days
after the board makes the request for a letter of intent.
   (C)   Letter Of Intent; Contents: Any letter of intent submitted pursuant to
these regulations shall include information pertaining to each source operation
including, but not limited to:
      1.   Quantity and type of raw materials processed,
      2.   Estimate of quantity and type of emissions to the atmosphere,
      3.   Listing of those source operations which are considered major
sources of air contaminant emissions,
      4.   Listing of existing gas cleaning devices and an estimate of their
efficiency,
      5.   Comments regarding particular problems anticipated in reducing
emissions,
      6.   The date when a detailed air contaminant emission reduction program
pertaining to each source operation will be filed with the air pollution
control board. Such date shall not be later than twelve (12) months after the
effective date of these regulations.
   (D)   Air Contaminant Emission Reduction Program: This program, when filed
with the board, shall schedule over a reasonable period of time either an
installation of gas cleaning devices and/or the replacement and/or alteration
of specified facilities such that emissions of air contaminants are reduced to
the levels required by these regulations.
The board shall review these programs concerning whether or not such programs
are adequate and reasonable. If the board disapproves such program they shall
afford an opportunity for a hearing on such matters. When an emission reduction
program has been approved the person receiving the approval shall not be in
violation of this section provided that the approved program is being
implemented.
The responsible person for an approved program shall make periodic reports to
the board at their request on the progress being made toward completing a
program. The burden of proof that the progress on the emission reduction
program is acceptable will be with the person who submits it.
   (E)   Emission Standards For Specific Processes:
   (F)   Catalytic Cracking Units: The emission standards for new equipment
shall not apply to existing catalytic cracking units in petroleum refineries
which are at present equipped with gas cleaning devices having an overall dust
removal efficiency of not less than 99.7 percent.
   (G)   Blast Furnaces: The emission standards for new equipment shall not
apply to existing blast furnaces.
All existing blast furnaces shall be operated to reduce the particulate matter
in gases discharged to the atmosphere after burning to no more than 0.10 grains
of particulate matter per standard cubic foot.
Excess blast furnace gases being bled to the atmosphere shall contain no more
than 0.25 grains of particulate matter per standard cubic foot and shall be
burned as bled to the atmosphere.
The provisions of this rule shall not apply during irregular movements of the
furnace burden when it is necessary to open relief valves at the top of the
furnace for safe operation.
   (H)   Foundries: The emission standards for new equipment shall not apply to
existing foundry cupolas and foundry open hearths with a process weight rate
less than or equal to twenty thousand (20,000) pounds per hour. Particulate
matter emissions from these units shall be regulated by table II, subsection
(J) of this section.
   (I)   Other Provisions: The emission standards set forth in this section
shall be applicable to existing equipment capable of emitting one or more
contaminants to the atmosphere. These standards should be understood to be
operating or performance standards, not design standards.
The provisions of rules in subsections
4-3-9(C)9, (C)10 and (C)11 of this chapter shall apply to existing equipment.
   (J)   Allowable Emissions From Small Foundry Cupolas And Foundry Open
Hearths:
   TABLE II
Process Weight Rate Pounds/Hour Allowable Emission Pounds/Hour
Process Weight Rate Pounds/Hour Allowable Emission Pounds/Hour
1,000                           3.05
2,000                           4.70
3,000                           6.35
4,000                           8.00
5,000                           9.58
6,000                           11.30
7,000                           12.90
8,000                           14.30
9,000                           15.50
10,000                          16.65
12,000                          18.70
16,000                          21.60
18,000                          23.40
20,000                          25.10
 
(Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
4-3-9: EMISSION STANDARDS FOR NEW EQUIPMENT:
The emission standards set forth in this section shall be applicable to all new
equipment capable of emitting one or more air contaminants to the atmosphere.
These standards should be understood to be operating or performance standards,
not design standards.
   (A)   Specific Contaminants:
      1.   Particulate Matter:
         (a)   Limitations For Processes: Particulate matter emissions from an
process shall be limited by process weight in accordance with table I,
subsection (D) of this section.
         (b)   Limitations For Combustion For Indirect Heating: Emissions of
particulate matter from the combustion of fuel for indirect heating for new
equipment shall be limited by the ASME standard no. APS-1 dated June 15, 1966,
"Recommended Guide For The Control Of Dust Emission - Combustion For Indirect
Heat Exchangers". For purposes of this rule, the allowable emission shall be
calculated from equation (15) in the standard with Comax 2=50 figure 2 in the
standard may be used to estimate allowable emissions. However, irrespective of
stack height, the maximum allowable emission for any stack shall be 0.6 pounds
of particulates per million Btu input.
         (c)   Source Emission Measurement: Measurement of emissions of
particulate matter from a particular source will be made according to the
procedures recommended in the ASME power test code 27 - 1957, or other
procedures approved by the board and generally accepted by persons
knowledgeable in the state of the art. (Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
      2.   Smoke:
         (a)   The Ringelmann chart published and described in the U.S. bureau
of mines information circular 8333 or the Plibrico type smoke guide,
copyrighted by the Plibrico Company, shall be used in grading the shade or
opacity of smoke.
         (b)   The production or emission of dense smoke is prohibited. No
person shall cause, suffer or allow to be emitted into the open air from any
fuel burning equipment, internal combustion engine, premises, open fire, or
stack smoke the appearance, density, or shade of which is no. 2 or darker, of
the Ringelmann chart except as provided in section 9.3.9.
         (c)   The board may require any person whom they believe to be in
violation of this rule to provide a smoke monitor which shall be installed in
such a manner that it continually monitors the density of smoke emissions of
the stack in question. Measurements of the smoke monitor shall be automatically
transmitted to a recording device capable of maintaining a record of the data
which can be made available to the board upon request. (Ord., 4-16-1970)
      3.   Sulfur Dioxide Limitation:
         (a)   No person within the village or within one mile of the corporate
limits thereof shall cause or permit the use, or, if intended for use in the
village or within one mile of the corporate limits thereof, the purchase, sale,
offer for sale, storage or transportation of fuel, which as determined by the
methods of the American Society for Testing and Materials, contains more than
the following percentages of sulfur by weight in the following use
classifications:
            (1)   All new space heating equipment, the plans for which are
fifty percent (50%) or more completed by October 1, 1970, shall be limited to
the use of fuels containing no more than one percent (1.0%) of sulfur by
weight.
            (2)   All existing space heating equipment shall be limited to the
use of fuels containing not more than two percent (2.0%) of sulfur by weight on
and after October 1, 1970, to and including August 31, 1971; shall be limited
to the use of fuels containing no more than one and one-quarter percent (1.25%)
of sulfur by weight on and after September 1, 1971, to and including August 31,
1972; and shall be limited to the use of fuels containing no more than one
percent (1.0%) of sulfur by weight on and after September 1, 1972.
            (3)   All new and existing industrial power plants and process
plants shall be limited to the use of fuels containing no more than two percent
(2.0%) of sulfur by weight from and after October 1, 1970, to and including
October 31, 1970; shall be limited to the use of fuels containing no more than
one and one- half percent (1.5%) of sulfur by weight from and after November 1,
1970, to and including August 31, 1972; and shall be limited to the use of
fuels containing no more than one percent (1.0%) of sulfur by weight on and
after September 1, 1972.
            (4)   All new and existing electric power generating plants shall
be limited to the use of fuels containing no more than one and eight-tenths
percent (1.8%) of sulfur by weight on and after October 1, 1970, to and
including December 31, 1971; and shall be limited to the use of fuels
containing no more than one percent (1.0%) of sulfur by weight on and after
January 1, 1972.
         (b)   Upon the application of any person engaged in the operation of
fuel burning equipment, the board may issue a certificate of operation in
accordance with section
4-3-15 of this chapter in those cases wherein the applicant shall establish
that the fuel burning equipment is operated in such a manner or is equipped
with such control apparatus as to prevent the emission of any sulfur compound
or compounds in amounts greater than those that would be emitted from the
burning (in the same fuel burning equipment without such control apparatus) of
fuel containing any amount of sulfur by weight not in excess of the maximum
amount permitted at the applicable time by this section.
         (c)   On and after October 1, 1970, and until the requirements of
subsection (A)3(a) or (A)3(b) of this section are met, no fuel burning
installation generating electrical power shall burn a fuel or fuels having a
higher average sulfur content than the fuel or fuels used in such installation
during each of the twelve (12) calendar months prior to October 1, 1970, based
on a comparable Btu content. For the purpose of determining compliance with
this provision, the average sulfur content of all fuel or fuels used during
each of the calendar month, on the basis of pounds of sulfur per million Btu's
heating value of the fuel or fuels, which shall not be exceeded in any calendar
month from and after October 1, 1970, when compared with the same calendar
month of the previous year, and determined upon the same averaging basis.
         (d)   The provisions of subsection (A)3(a) of this section shall not
apply to acts performed with respect to fuel owned or under contract for
purchase by a purchaser who uses or intends to use such fuel in any fuel
burning equipment for which a certificate of operation has been issued under
subsection (A)3(b) of this section, or where a variance has been granted
pursuant to the provisions of section
4-3-16 of this chapter. (Ord. 585, 10-1-1970)
   (B)   Specific Processes: It is suggested that all processes included in
this section have provisions in the design of the physical facility to allow
alteration, addition or modification of the control equipment to reduce
emissions from the process beyond the limitations prescribed herein in the
event that the board should require such action to fulfill its responsibilities
pursuant to the Illinois air pollution control act. It is suggested that the
emission limits of subsections (A)1(a), (A)1(b) and (A)2(b) of this section be
used as operational guides in making these design provisions.
Whenever the board shall determine that any one or more of the operations
covered in this section is causing or will cause air pollution in a specific
area of the village, the board may suspend any one or more of said rules and
may require emissions to be limited to subsection (A) of this section.
   (C)   Iron And Steel:
      1.   Blast Furnaces:
         (a)   The provisions of the rules in subsections (A)1(a) and (A)2(b)
of this section shall not apply to blast furnaces.
         (b)   All new blast furnaces shall be equipped with gas cleaning
devices and so operated as to reduce the particulate matter in gases discharged
to the atmosphere after burning to contain no more than 0.05 grains of
particulate matter per standard cubic foot.
         (c)   Excess blast furnace gases being bled to the atmosphere shall
contain no more than 0.10 grains of particulate matter per standard cubic foot
and gases shall be burned as bled to the atmosphere.
         (d)   The provisions of the rule in subsection (C)1(b) of this section
shall not apply during irregular movements of the furnace burden when it is
necessary to open relief valves at the top of the furnace for safe operation.
      2.   Byproduct Coke Plants:
         (a)   The provisions of the rules in subsections (A)1(a) and (A)2(b)
of this section apply to new byproduct coke plants, except as follows: 1) when
charging a battery of coke ovens, smoke shall be permitted from such battery of
an appearance, density or shade darker than no. 2 of the Ringelmann chart for a
period or periods aggregating not more than twenty (20) minutes in any sixty
(60) minute period; 2) when pushing coke from a battery of coke ovens, smoke
shall be permitted from such battery of an appearance, density or shade darker
than no. 2 on the Ringelmann chart for a period or periods aggregating not more
than twenty (20) minutes in any observed sixty (60) minute period.
         (b)   Coke oven doors, frames and ovens shall be so maintained that
smoke or fumes darker than no. 2 of the Ringelmann chart will not escape to the
atmosphere.
      3.   Sintering Plants, Open Hearth Furnaces, Electric Furnaces And Basic
Oxygen Furnaces:
         (a)   The provisions of the rules in subsections (A)1(a) and (A)2(b)
of this section shall not apply to new sintering plants, open hearth furnaces,
electric furnaces and basic oxygen furnaces.
         (b)   All new sintering plants, open hearth furnaces, electric
furnaces, and basic oxygen furnaces shall be equipped with gas cleaning devices
as necessary to reduce the particulate matter in the gas discharged to the
atmosphere so that it does not exceed 0.10 grains per standard cubic foot or
exhaust gas.
         (c)   The provisions of the rule in subsection (C)3(b) of this section
shall not apply to electric furnaces and basic oxygen furnaces when the gas
collection system must be disconnected from the furnace as in charging and
pouring.
      4.   Heating And Reheating Surfaces: The provisions of the rule in
subsection (A)2(b) of this section shall apply to all new heating and reheating
surfaces.
      5.   Cement Kilns:
         (a)   The provisions of the rule in subsection (A)1(a) of this section
shall not apply to cement kilns.
         (b)   All new cement kilns shall be equipped with gas cleaning devices
to reduce the particulate matter in the gas discharged to the atmosphere to
99.7% of the particulate matter entering the gas cleaning device. However,
particulate matter discharged to the atmosphere shall not exceed 0.1 grain per
standard cubic foot regardless of the degree of efficiency required by the gas
cleaning device.
      6.   Incinerators:
         (a)   The provisions of the rule in subsections (A)1(a) and (A)2(b) of
this section shall not apply to new incinerators.
         (b)   All new incinerators shall be equipped with gas cleaning devices
as necessary to meet the following emission standards.
Particulate matter:
            (1)   New incinerators with a rated refuse burning capacity of one
thousand (1,000) or more pounds per hour, shall not emit more than 0.2 grain of
particulate matter per standard cubic foot of exhaust gas adjusted to fifty
percent (50%) excess air.
            (2)   All other new incinerators shall not emit more than 0.35
grain of particulate matter per standard cubic foot of exhaust gas adjusted to
fifty percent (50%) excess air.
Smoke: No new incinerator shall emit or produce smoke the appearance, density
or shade of which is no. 2 or darker on the Ringelmann chart except that during
an operational breakdown or while cleaning air pollution control equipment
smoke may be emitted of an appearance, or density of no. 2 or darker on the
Ringelmann chart for a period or periods aggregating not more than three (3)
minutes in any observed sixty (60) minute period.
      7.   Nonferrous Electric Furnaces: The provisions of the rule in
subsection (A)1(a) of this section shall not apply to nonferrous electric
furnaces during charging and pouring.
      8.   Food And Agriculture And Fertilizer Product Processes:
Dusts:
         (a)   Corn Wet Milling: The provisions of the rule in subsection (A)1
(a) of this section shall not apply to corn wet milling process dusts provided
the following conditions are met:
Any person responsible for a corn wet milling process which cannot meet the
provisions of the rule in subsection (A)1(a) of this section must file with the
board proof of the lack of technical practicability and economic
reasonableness, and shall report to the board annually showing that
satisfactory progress is being made toward complying with the provisions of the
rule in subsection (A)1(a) of this section. This report may be made on behalf
of a number of such persons by a trade association which can speak on behalf of
said persons.
All new high humidity corn wet milling processes, where the exit gases have a
dew point higher than the ambient temperature and the specific gravity of the
material processed is less than 2.0, shall be equipped and so operated that the
particulate matter discharged to the atmosphere shall not exceed 0.75 grain per
standard cubic foot.
      9.   Exceptions Due To Maintenance Or Breakdowns:
         (a)   Maintenance Of Power Or Heating Plant: When building a new fire,
when manually cleaning a fire or when blowing tubes and flues in a power plant,
heating plant or domestic heating plant, smoke may be emitted of an appearance,
density or shade equal to or darker than no. 2 of the Ringelmann chart for a
period or periods aggregating not more than six (6) minutes in any observed
sixty (60) minute period.
         (b)   Cleaning Of Gas Cleaning Equipment: When cleaning gas cleaning
equipment which does not require a shutdown of equipment, particulate matter
may be emitted in excess of the limitations of the rules in subsections (A)1
and (B) of this section for a period or periods aggregating not more than six
(6) minutes in any observed sixty (60) minute period.
         (c)   Exceptions Due To Breakdown Or Scheduled Maintenance:
            (1)   Upset conditions, breakdown or cleaning of gas cleaning
equipment or related operating equipment requiring a shutdown of equipment or
shutdown of such equipment for scheduled maintenance which causes emissions in
excess of the limitations of the rules in subsection (A)1 and (B) of this
section shall not be deemed violations provided the rules in subsections (C)9
(c)(2), (C)9(c)(3) and (C)9(c)(4) of this section are complied with.
            (2)   Such conditions shall be reported annually to the board.
            (3)   The person responsible for such emission shall, with all
practicable speed, initiate and complete appropriate reasonable action to
correct the conditions causing such emissions to exceed said limits; to reduce
the frequency of occurrence of such conditions; to minimize the amount by which
said limits are exceeded; and shall, upon request of the board submit to them a
full report of such occurrence, including a statement of all known causes and
of the scheduling and nature of the actions to be taken pursuant to these
rules.
            (4)   The rule in subsection (C)9(c)(1) of this section shall not
apply to scheduled maintenance of air pollution control equipment except in
those cases where the maximum reasonable effort including off shift labor where
required, has been made to accomplish such maintenance during periods of
shutdown of any related equipment.
      10.   Circumvention Of Rules And Regulations Prohibited: A person shall
not build, erect, install, or use any article, machine, equipment or other
contrivance, the use of which, without resulting in a reduction in the total
release of air contaminants to the atmosphere, reduces or conceals an emission
which would otherwise constitute violation of these rules and regulations.
      11.   Testing: To determine if any new equipment is meeting the emission
standards of this chapter, the board can conduct air contaminant emission tests
to determine if it is in compliance with the regulations.
This section shall apply to all new equipment even if a permit to install was
not issued or is not required.
(D)            TABLE I
      Allowable Rate Of Emission Based On Process
            Weight Rate1
Process Weight Rate Rate Of Emission Process Weight Rate Rate Of Emission Lb/
Lb/Hr Tons/Hr       Lb/Hr            Lb/Hr Tons/Hr       Hr
Process Weight Rate Rate Of Emission Process Weight Rate Rate Of Emission Lb/
Lb/Hr  Tons/Hr      Lb/Hr            Lb/Hr     Tons/Hr   Hr

100    0.05         0.551            16,000    8.00      16.5
200    0.10         0.877            18,000    9.00      17.9
400    0.20         1.40             20,000    10.00     19.2
600    0.30         1.83             30,000    15.00     25.2
800    0.40         2.22             40,000    20.00     30.5
1,000  0.50         2.58             50,000    25.00     35.4
1,500  0.75         3.38             60,000    30.00     40.0
2,000  1.00         4.10             70,000    35.00     41.3
2,500  1.25         4.76             80,000    40.00     42.5
3,000  1.50         5.38             90,000    45.00     43.6
3,500  1.75         5.96             100,000   50.00     44.6
4,000  2.00         6.52             120,000   60.00     46.3
5,000  2.50         7.58             140,000   70.00     47.8
6,000  3.00         8.56             160,000   80.00     49.0
7,000  3.50         9.49             200,000   100.00    51.2
8,000  4.00         10.4             1,000,000 500.00    69.0
9,000  4.50         11.2             2,000,000 1,000.00  77.6
10,000 5.00         12.0             6,000,000 3,000.00  92.7
12,000 6.00         13.6                                
 
1   Interpolation of the data in this table for process weight rates up to
60,000 lb/hr shall be accomplished by use of the equation:
E = 4.10P0.67
and interpolation and extrapolation of the data for process weight rates in
excess of 60,000 lb/hr shall be accomplished by use of the equation:
         E = 55.OP0.11-40
where E = rate of emission in lb/hr and P = process weight rate in ton/hr
(Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
4-3-10: SURFACING OF AUTOMOBILE AND/OR TRUCK PARKING AND SALES LOTS OR PRIVATE
ROADWAY:
No person shall maintain or conduct or cause to be maintained or conducted, any
parking lot or automobile and/or truck sales lot, or use any real property for
a private roadway unless such real property is covered or treated with a
surface or substance or otherwise maintained in such manner as to minimize the
dispersion of dust into the atmosphere. (Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
4-3-11: HANDLING MATERIAL SUSCEPTIBLE TO BECOMING WINDBORNE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit the storage, handling,
transfer or transport of any materials which are likely to be scattered by the
wind, or are susceptible to being windborne, without taking reasonable care and
precautions to minimize their dispersion into the atmosphere. (Ord. 522, 5-1-
1967)
4-3-12: NOXIOUS ODORS:
(Rep. by Ord., 4-16-1970)
4-3-12-1: OBJECTIONABLE ODORS; NUISANCE:
   (A)   An objectionable odor nuisance exists when a trained village
inspector, upon receipt of a complaint from one resident or property owner in
the area affected, shall determine that these odors cause a nuisance as
outlined in subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   An objectionable odor nuisance exists:
On or adjacent to residential, recreational institutional, retail sales, hotel
or educational premises when odor is detectable in the ambient air after it is
diluted with eight (8) volumes of odor free air as measured by the scentometer;
On or adjacent to industrial premises when odor is detectable in the ambient
air after it is diluted with twenty four (24) volumes of odor free air as
measured by the scentometer;
On or adjacent to premises other than those above when odor is detectable in
the ambient air after it is diluted with sixteen (16) volumes of odor free air
as measured by the scentometer;
When concurrent determinations made by three (3) trained inspectors as outlined
above in any given one hour period and at intervals of not less than fifteen
(15) minutes result in two (2) positive determinations in each series of three
(3) determinations; and
Provided that any quantitative odor level measurements taken to arrive at a
determination that an objectionable odor nuisance exists shall be at or beyond
the property line or at or near places where people live or work. (Ord., 4-16-
1970)
4-3-13: OPEN FIRES:
No paper, wood or other combustible refuse, waste, rubbish, garbage or any
other material shall be burned in any open fire except upon application for an
issuance of a permit therefor by the board. Such permit shall be effective for
a period not exceeding one year, unless revoked as hereinafter provided. At
least three (3) hours prior to the time of starting any such fire pursuant to a
permit so issued, the holder of such permit shall notify the fire department of
the village of his intention to start such an open fire at a designated time.
Such permit shall be revoked if there shall, within any ninety (90) day period,
be three (3) violations of the smoke emission maxima contained in this chapter.
Backyard incineration as defined in this chapter is herewith prohibited. (Ord.,
4-16-1970)
4-3-14: NUISANCE; PRESERVATION OF COMMON LAW RIGHTS:
Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any cause of action, or
legal or equitable remedy therefor, of any person or the public, or the village
of Bedford Park for injury or damage arising from the discharge, emission or
release into the atmosphere from any source whatsoever of such quantities of
smoke, soot, fly ash, dust, cinders, dirt, noxious or obnoxious acids, fumes,
oxides, gases, vapors, noxious odors, toxic or radioactive substances, waste,
particulate, liquid or gaseous matter or any other materials in such place,
manner or concentration as to constitute atmospheric pollution or a common law
nuisance. (Ord., 4-16-1970)
4-3-15: PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install, erect, construct, reconstruct,
alter, or add to, or cause to be installed, erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, or added to, any fuel burning, combustion or process
equipment or device, or any equipment pertaining thereto, or any stack or
chimney connected therewith, within the village, excepting domestic heating
plants, locomotives and internal combustion engines, in said village, until
there has been filed in duplicate by the owner, contractor, installer, or other
person, or his agent, with the village, an application for a permit accompanied
by a complete listing of emissions into the atmosphere that result from the
operation of the aforesaid equipment or processes, both as to kind and
quantity; and, in addition thereto a listing of the type and capacity of the
equipment used for the collection, absorption, or suppression of each emission
and an estimate of its efficiency. Said submitted register of pollutants shall
be accompanied by an affidavit of a qualified person stating that it is
complete and correct, and that the proper operation of the plant or process, as
designed, will not result in any violation of this chapter. If, after
considering all factors, the board determines the operation will not cause "air
pollution" as defined in section
4-3-2 of this chapter, and otherwise meets all other requirements set forth
herein, it shall approve such application; otherwise, it shall deny the same.
(Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
Upon completion of any work for which an installation permit was issued, the
board shall be notified by the person or persons responsible therefor, and, if
upon inspection it is found that such work is in conformity with the plans and
specifications, the board shall issue a permit of operation forthwith. (Ord.,
4-16-1970)
4-3-16: EXTENSION OF TIME FOR COMPLIANCE, EXEMPTIONS OR VARIANCES:
The board may grant individual extensions of time for compliance and variances
beyond the limitations prescribed in this chapter, as well as to grant
exemptions from the provisions hereof, whenever it is found upon presentation
of adequate proof, that compliance with any provisions of this chapter, or any
rule or regulation, requirement or order of the board, will result in an
arbitrary and unreasonable taking of property or in the practical closing and
elimination of any lawful business, occupation or activity, in either case
without sufficient corresponding benefit or advantage to the people. Any
extension of time for compliance or variance granted pursuant to the provisions
of this section shall be granted for a period of time, not exceeding one year,
as shall be specified by the board at the time of the grant of such extension
of time or variance. Such extension of time or variance may be extended from
year to year by affirmative action of the board. Any person seeking an
extension of time, variance or exemption shall do so by filing a petition for
such extension of time, variance or exemption with the board.
In determining under what conditions and to what extent an extension of time
variance or exemption from any of said requirements is necessary and will be
permitted, the board shall exercise a wide discretion in weighing the equities
involved and the advantages and disadvantages to the public health, safety and
welfare and to any lawful business, occupation or activity involved, resulting
from requiring compliance with any such requirement or resulting from granting
such extension of time, variance or exemption. (Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
The board shall maintain on file a record of the names, addresses, rates of
emission, reason for granting, conditions, and length of time of all variances
granted by it.
The board shall publish, prior to issuing a variance, notice to all interested
parties in the political subdivision and give them opportunity to be heard
before such variance is granted.
The board shall annually publish for general circulation a list of variances
granted by it during the past year. (Ord., 4-16-1970)
4-3-17: POWER TO ENTER PREMISES FOR INSPECTION:
The board, or anyone authorized to act for it, in the performance of its duties
under this chapter is hereby authorized and empowered to enter into and upon
any premises at all reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting any fuel
burning, combustion or process equipment or device situated therein; and shall
collect and preserve any and all evidence pertaining to any alleged violation
of any provision of this chapter. (Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
   (A)   Sealing Of Equipment: After any person has been previously notified of
three (3) or more violations of this chapter within any consecutive twelve (12)
month period in respect to the emission of smoke, particulate or other matter
by the same piece of equipment in excess of the emission limitations herein
provided or in respect to violations of other requirements provided in this
chapter, such person shall be notified in writing to show cause before the
board on a day certain, not less than twenty (20) days from date of service of
such notice, why the equipment or process causing such violations should not be
sealed. This last notice herein provided for may be given by mail, directed to
the last known address of the person to be notified, or if such person or his
whereabouts is unknown, then by posting a notice on or near the premises at
which the violations shall have occurred. Upon the date specified in the
nhotice, such person may appear at such hearing in person or by a
representative, with or without counsel. If, such person fails to appear at
such hearing or if upon such hearing the board shall find and determine that
the violations are due to defective equipment or equipment which is incapable
of being operated within the maximum emission limitations established by or
under this chapter, or that corrective measures previously ordered by the board
have not been employed to eliminate the causes producing the violations, he may
enter an order revoking any certificate or permit outstanding for such
equipment or process and directing that the same be sealed by an inspector or
other authorized agent of the board.
   (B)   Sealing Of Fuel Burning Combustion And Process Equipment: Upon notice
and hearing, if notice and hearing has not previously been provided, the board
may order that the use of any fuel burning, combustion or process equipment or
device shall be discontinued and may seal such equipment or process:
      1.   When a permit of operation is refused in the case of any original,
annual or subsequent inspection, because the person required to procure such
permit has not complied with the provisions of this chapter;
      2.   In the case of movable equipment or portable boilers, or vehicles,
when immediate correction of a condition causing a violation of this chapter is
not made by the operator of such equipment, portable boiler or vehicle when
ordered to do so by the board.
   (C)   Breaking Seal: Whenever in connection with the enforcement of this
chapter, any fuel burning, combustion or process equipment or device, or any
plant, building, structure, premises, portable boiler or vehicle, has been
sealed at the direction of the board, the seal shall not be broken or removed
except on written order of the board.
The breaking or removal of this seal without such order of the board shall be a
violation of this chapter and each day such seal remains broken or removed
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord., 4-16-1970)
4-3-18: SEVERANCE CLAUSE:
If any provision, clause, sentence, paragraph, section, or part of this
chapter, or application thereof to any person, firm, corporation or
circumstance shall, for any reason, be adjudged by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or invalid, said judgment shall not affect,
impair or invalidate the remainder of this chapter and the application of such
provision to other persons, firms, corporations or circumstances, but shall be
confined in its operation to the provision, clause, sentence, paragraph,
section or part thereof directly involved in the controversy in which such
judgment shall have been rendered and to the person, firm corporation or
circumstance involved. (Ord. 522, 5-1-1967)
4-3-19: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of, or who fails to
perform any duty, imposed by this chapter, or who violates any determination or
order of the board, promulgated pursuant to this chapter, shall be liable to a
penalty of not to exceed the sum of five hundred dollars ($500.00) for said
violation and an additional penalty of not to exceed two hundred dollars
($200.00) for each day during which violation continues, or by imprisonment in
the county jail for a period not to exceed six (6) months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment, and, in addition thereto, such person may be enjoined from
continuing such violation as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The board may institute a civil action in the court for an injunction
against any person violating this chapter or any final order or determination
of the board. In circumstances of extreme emergency creating conditions of
immediate danger to the public health, the board may institute a civil action
for an immediate injunction to halt any emission causing the danger and shall
schedule a hearing on the matter not later than three (3) working days from the
date of injunction.
   (C)   Prosecutions under this chapter shall be instituted by the board and
shall be prosecuted in the name of the village of Bedford Park. (Ord., 4-16-
1970)
CHAPTER 4
MOBILE FOOD DISPENSERS
SECTION:
4-4-1: License Required, Compliance With Provisions
4-4-2: Application For License
4-4-3: Sanitary Conditions
4-4-4: Inspections
4-4-5: Penalties
4-4-1: LICENSE REQUIRED, COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS:
It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any vehicle, including
vehicles propelled by human power, for the storage or carrying of any food or
beverage or any other provisions intended for human consumption, for the
purpose of delivering any such food or beverage for the use and consumption or
for resale unless a license for such vehicles is first secured and the
provisions of this chapter fully complied with.
The license fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) shall be paid on an annual
basis to the village treasurer. (Ord. 90-828, 9-20-1990)
4-4-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
In addition to obtaining a proper health certificate from the village
governmental authorities, each individual company and/or other entity seeking
the aforesaid license must fully complete a license application. All
applications for such licenses shall recite the name and address of the owner
of the vehicle, name and/or names of the persons for whom such deliveries are
made and the nature of the goods carried. (Ord. 90-828, 9-20-1990)
4-4-3: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
   (A)   All such vehicles shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition and
shall be thoroughly cleaned each day they are used. It shall be unlawful to
permit stale food, decaying matter or any other waste or material to accumulate
in or on any such vehicle while it is so used.
   (B)   If unwrapped food and beverages are transported in any vehicle, such
goods shall be carried in a portion or compartment of the vehicle which is
screened and protected against dust and insects.
   (C)   Food contact surfaces of food preparation equipment such as grills,
stoves, and work tables shall be protected from contamination by customers and
dust. Where necessary, effective shields shall be provided by the vendor at its
own cost.
   (D)   Only single service disposable utensils shall be used for the serving
of food and/or beverages.
   (E)   As for the individuals dispensing food and/or beverages, an adequate
supply of water for cleaning and hand washing shall be maintained in the
vehicle. Furthermore, auxiliary heating facilities capable of producing hot
water for said hand washing shall also be provided.
   (F)   Wet storage of packaged food and/or beverages shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 90-828, 9-20-1990)
4-4-4: INSPECTIONS:
The police department of the village shall conduct inspections of said vehicle
to insure compliance with all of the provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 90-828, 9-20-1990)
4-4-5: PENALTIES:
An individual company or other entity convicted of violating any provisions of
this chapter shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 90-828, 9-20-
1990)
CHAPTER 5
EXTRACTION OF MINERALS
SECTION:
4-5-1: State Requirements
4-5-2: Restrictions
4-5-3: Records
4-5-4: Control Of Blasting
4-5-5: Limitations In Airblasts
4-5-6: Waiver
4-5-7: Penalty
4-5-1: STATE REQUIREMENTS:
All blasting and use of explosives for the purpose of the extraction of
minerals, including stone, shall be conducted in conformity with the provisions
of the surface mined land conservation and reclamation act and all rules and
regulations issued thereunder including, but not limited to, 62 Illinois
administrative code, part 300, subpart B (title 62: mining; chapter 1:
department of natural resources, part 300, surface mined land conservation and
reclamation act, subpart B: use of explosives in noncoal mineral extraction
operations) as may be amended from time to time. The definitions in the above
rules and regulations are incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 00-1044, 2-
17-2000)
4-5-2: RESTRICTIONS:
Blasting shall only be permitted between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M.
to four o'clock (4:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday. No blasting shall be
permitted on any Sunday and/or holiday. The maximum depth of a blasting hole
shall be fifty three feet (53'). The maximum diameter of a blasting hole shall
be 4.5 inches. The maximum number of blasting holes which can be used as part
one blasting operation is thirty (30). The maximum amount of explosive that can
be used is one hundred fifty (150) pounds per delay. (Ord. 00-1044, 2-17-2000)
4-5-3: RECORDS:
   (A)   Records Required: The mining or blasting operator shall be required to
deliver weekly blasting records to the village clerk regarding the blasting
activities which occurred the prior Monday through and including Saturday.
   (B)   Form Of Records: All blasting records shall be in the form as required
by the Illinois department of natural resources and shall contain all such
information as required by such department. (Ord. 00-1044, 2-17-2000)
4-5-4: CONTROL OF BLASTING:
It shall be unlawful to conduct any type of blasting which causes injury to
persons or causes damage to property outside the blasting zone. (Ord. 00-1044,
2-17-2000)
4-5-5: LIMITATIONS IN AIRBLASTS:
The blasting operator shall comply with the following limitations:
   (A)   Airblast Limits:
      1.   Airblast shall be controlled so that it does not exceed the values
specified below at any protected structure, unless such structure is owned by
the person who conducts the surface mining.
 
Lower Frequency Lime Of Measuring System, Hz +3dB Maximum Level In dB
0.1 Hz or lower - flat response                   134 peak
2.0 Hz or lower - flat response                   133 peak
6.0 Hz or lower - flat response                   129 peak
 
      2.   The measuring systems used shall have a flat frequency response of
at least 200 Hz at the upper end.
      3.   The person who conducts blasting may satisfy the provisions of this
subsection (A) by meeting any of the three (3) specifications in the chart in
subsection (A)1 of this section.
      4.   To ensure compliance with the limits contained in this section, the
village may require an airblast measurement of any or all blasts, and may
specify the location of such measurements.
   (B)   Flyrock: Flyrock, including blasted material traveling in the air or
along the ground, but excluding dust and detonation byproducts, shall not be
cast beyond the blasting zone.
   (C)   Seismograph Recording: In all blasting operations, except as otherwise
authorized in this section, the maximum peak particle velocity shall not exceed
one inch (1") per second at the location of any protected structure. When the
scaled distance has a value less than sixty five (65) at the nearest protected
structure, a seismograph recording shall be made at or near that structure. To
ensure compliance with the limits contained in this section, the village may
require a seismograph recording of any or all blasts and may specify the
location at which such recordings are made.
The blasting records shall be in the form required by the Illinois department
of natural resources and shall contain all such information required by such
department. (Ord. 00-1044, 2-17-2000)
4-5-6: WAIVER:
In the event an emergency situation exists wherein the public health and/or
safety is jeopardized, the blasting operator can apply to the village for a
waiver of said provisions. Said application must be filed at least seventy two
(72) hours prior to the commencement of the proposed blasting and shall state
the reason therefor. The request shall be deemed denied unless granted in
writing and signed by the village president or another authorized village
official. (Ord. 00-1044, 2-17-2000)
4-5-7: PENALTY:
Any violation of the aforesaid provisions shall be considered a nuisance and
the village shall be entitled to pursue its remedies as set forth in sections
9-3-2 through
9-3-4, inclusive, of this code. (Ord. 00-1052, 4-20-2000)
CHAPTER 6
SMOKING IN PUBLIC PLACES
SECTION:
4-6-1: Interpretation With Other Laws
4-6-2: Definitions
4-6-3: Prohibited
4-6-4: Reasonable Distance
4-6-5: Exemptions
4-6-6: Declaration Of Establishment As Nonsmoking
4-6-7: Posting Of Signs
4-6-8: Nonretaliation
4-6-9: Enforcement
4-6-10: Violations And Penalties
4-6-11: Public Education
4-6-12: Other Applicable Laws
4-6-1: INTERPRETATION WITH OTHER LAWS:
Nothing in this chapter supersedes any existing elimination of smoking that is
already covered by fire code restrictions. (Ord. 06-1198, 4-6-2006, eff. 6-1-
2006)
4-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and phrases, wherein used in this chapter, shall have the
following meanings:
ARCADE: A place of amusement which contains four (4) or more automatic
amusement devices and is not licensed to serve alcoholic liquor.
BAR/TAVERN: An establishment that is devoted to the serving of alcoholic
beverages for consumption by guests and patrons on the premises and does not
have an on site kitchen to prepare food. Food service is limited to providing
snack items or commercially prepared or wrapped foods that require no
preparation.
BUSINESS: Any sole proprietorship, partnership, joint venture, corporation,
limited liability company or other business entity formed for profitmaking
purposes, including, without limitation, retail establishment where goods or
services are sold as well as professional corporations or other entities where
legal, medical, dental, engineering, architectural, or other professional
services are delivered.
EMPLOYEE: Any person who is employed by an employer in consideration for direct
or indirect monetary wages or profit and a person who volunteers his or her
services for a nonprofit entity.
EMPLOYER: Any person, business, partnership, association, corporation,
including, without limitation, a municipal corporation, trust, or nonprofit
entity that employs the services of one or more individual persons.
ENCLOSED AREA: All space between a floor and ceiling that is enclosed or
semienclosed with: a) solid walls or windows (exclusive of doorways), which
extend from the floor to the ceiling, or b) solid walls with half wall
petitions and no windows (exclusive of doorways) without limitation to lobbies
and corridors.
ENCLOSED OR SEMIENCLOSED SPORTS ARENA OR RECREATIONAL AREA: Any sports
pavilion, stadium, gymnasium, health spa, boxing arena, swimming pool, roller
and ice rink, bowling alley and other similar places where members of the
general public assemble either to engage in physical exercise, or participate
in athletic competition or recreational activity, to witness sports, cultural,
recreational or other events.
HEALTHCARE FACILITY: Any office or institution providing medical care or
treatment of diseases, whether physical, mental, or emotional, or other
medical, physiological, or psychological conditions, including, without
limitation, hospitals, clinics, homes for the aging or chronically ill,
laboratories, and offices of surgeons, chiropractors, physical therapists,
physicians, dentists and all specialists within these professions. This
definition shall include all waiting rooms, hallways, private rooms,
semiprivate rooms and wards within healthcare facilities.
PLACE OF EMPLOYMENT: Any enclosed area under the control of a public or private
employer that employees frequent during the course of employment, including,
without limitation, work areas, employee lounges, restrooms, conference rooms,
classrooms, employee cafeterias, hallways and vehicles. A private residence is
not a "place of employment" unless it is used as a childcare, adult daycare,
healthcare facility, or home based business of any kind open to the public.
PRIVATE FUNCTION: A gathering of persons for the purpose of deliberation,
education, instruction, entertainment, amusement or dining where membership or
specific invitation is a prerequisite to entry and where the event is not
intended to be open to the public.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in which the
public is permitted, including, without limitation, banks, educational
facilities, government buildings, healthcare facilities, laundromats, museums,
public transportation facilities, reception areas, restaurants, bars/taverns,
retail food production and marketing establishments, retail service
establishments, retail stores, shopping malls, sports arenas, theaters, and
waiting rooms. A private residence is not a "public place" unless it is used as
a childcare, adult daycare, healthcare facility, or home based business of any
kind open to the public.
RESTAURANT: An eating establishment, including, without limitation, coffee
shops, cafeterias, nightclubs, lounges, cabarets, sandwich shops, and private
and public school cafeterias that gives or offers for sale, food to the public,
guests or employees, as well as kitchens and catering facilities in which food
is prepared on the premises for serving elsewhere. The term "restaurant" shall
include, if applicable, a restaurant bar area.
RESTAURANT BAR AREA: An area of a restaurant that is primarily devoted to the
serving of alcoholic liquor.
RETAIL TOBACCO STORE: Any retail store utilized primarily for the sale of
tobacco products and accessories and in which the sale of other products is
merely incidental and where no one under eighteen (18) is permitted.
SECONDHAND SMOKE OR INVOLUNTARY SMOKING: A mixture of the smoke given off by
the burning ends of a cigarette, pipe, cigar, bidi, or kretek (sidestream
smoke) and the smoke emitted at the mouthpiece and exhaled from the lungs of
smokers (mainstream smoke).
SERVICE LINE: Any indoor line at which one or more persons are waiting for or
receiving services of any kind, whether or not the service involves the
exchange of money.
SHOPPING MALL: Any enclosed walkway or hall area that serves to connect retail
or professional establishments.
SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted cigar, cigarette,
pipe, weed, hookah, or other lighted tobacco product in any manner or in any
form. (Ord. 06-1198, 4-6-2006, eff. 6-1-2006)
4-6-3: PROHIBITED:
Smoking shall be prohibited in all enclosed public places and places of
employment within Bedford Park, including, without limitation, the following
places:
Aquariums, galleries, libraries and museums.
Arcades.
Bars/taverns.
Bingo facilities.
Bowling alleys.
Convention facilities.
Daycare centers, nursery schools, elementary schools, high schools, community
colleges, technical training establishments, specialty schools, colleges and
universities.
Facilities primarily used for exhibiting a motion picture, stage, drama,
lecture, musical recital or other similar performance.
Gaming facilities.
Grocery stores.
Gymnasiums.
Healthcare facilities and adult daycare facilities.
Lobbies, hallways and other common areas in apartment buildings, condominiums
and enclosed common areas in trailer parks.
Polling places.
Public and private school buildings.
Public elevators and all retail stores where merchandise is displayed and
offered for sale.
Public meetings.
Public transportation under the authority of government agencies, including,
without limitation, buses, trains, taxicabs, limousines and ticket boarding and
waiting areas of public transit stations.
Restaurants, including, if applicable, a restaurant bar area, nightclub/lounge.
Restrooms, lobbies, reception areas, hallways and other enclosed common use
areas.
Rooms, chambers, places of meeting or public assembly, including, without
limitation, school buildings, under the control of an agency, board,
commission, committee or council or a political subdivision of the state, to
the extent the place is subject to the jurisdiction of the county.
Service lines.
Shopping malls.
Sports arenas or recreational areas, including, without limitation, enclosed
places in outdoor areas. (Ord. 06-1198, 4-6-2006, eff. 6-1-2006)
4-6-4: REASONABLE DISTANCE:
Smoking is prohibited within fifteen feet (15') of any entrance to an enclosed
area in which smoking is prohibited. (Ord. 06-1198, 4-6-2006, eff. 6-1-2006)
4-6-5: EXEMPTIONS:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this code to the contrary, the following
areas shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter, provided, smoking is
not limited in such areas under the Illinois clean indoor air act:
Hotel and motel sleeping rooms that are rented to guests and are designated as
smoking rooms; provided, however, that not more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the rooms rented to guests in a hotel or motel may be so designated.
Private and semiprivate rooms in nursing homes and long term care facilities
that are occupied by one or more persons, all of whom are smokers and have
requested in writing to be placed or to remain, as the case may be, in a room
where smoking is permitted.
Private residences, except when used as a licensed childcare, adult daycare
facility, healthcare facility or a home based business of any kind open to the
public. (Ord. 06-1198, 4-6-2006, eff. 6-1-2006)
4-6-6: DECLARATION OF ESTABLISHMENT AS NONSMOKING:
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an owner, operator,
manager, or other person in control of an establishment, facility or outdoor
area may declare that entire establishment, facility or outdoor area as a
nonsmoking place.
Smoking shall be prohibited in any place in which a sign conforming to the
requirements of this chapter is posted. (Ord. 06-1198, 4-6-2006, eff. 6-1-2006)
4-6-7: POSTING OF SIGNS:
   (A)   Every public place and place of employment where smoking is prohibited
by this chapter shall have posted at every entrance a conspicuous sign clearly
stating that smoking is prohibited.
   (B)   The operator, manager or other person having control of an area where
smoking is prohibited by this chapter shall remove all ashtrays and other
smoking paraphernalia intended for use where smoking is prohibited. (Ord. 06-
1198, 4-6-2006, eff. 6-1-2006)
4-6-8: NONRETALIATION:
No person or employer shall discharge, refuse to hire or in any manner
retaliate against an employee, applicant for employment or customer because
that employee, applicant or customer exercises any right afforded by this
chapter or reports or attempts to prosecute a violation of this chapter. (Ord.
06-1198, 4-6-2006, eff. 6-1-2006)
4-6-9: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Bedford Park
fire, police or building department or the Stickney or Lyons public health
department.
   (B)   Any citizen who desires to register a complaint under this chapter may
file a complaint with the village clerk or representative of the Stickney or
Lyons public health department.
   (C)   The Bedford Park fire, police or building department or Stickney or
Lyons public health department shall, while an establishment is undergoing
otherwise mandated inspections, inspect for compliance with this chapter.
   (D)   Any owner, manager, operator or employee of an establishment covered
under this chapter shall inform persons violating the provisions set forth
herein.
   (E)   In addition to the remedies provided by the provisions of this
chapter, the village or its designee or the appropriate public health
department or any person aggrieved by the failure of an owner, operator,
manager or other person in control of a public place or a place of employment
to comply with the provisions of this chapter, may apply for injunctive relief
to enforce those provisions in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 06-
1198, 4-6-2006, eff. 6-1-2006)
4-6-10: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   A person who smokes in an area where smoking is prohibited by this
chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by a fine not more than
one hundred dollars ($100.00).
   (B)   A person who owns, manages, operates, or otherwise controls a public
place or place of employment and who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of an infraction, punishable by:
      1.   A fine not exceeding one hundred dollars ($100.00) for the first
violation.
      2.   A fine not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for the second
violation within one year of the first violation.
      3.   A fine not more than two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)
for each additional violation within one year and a sixty (60) day suspension
or revocation of any permit or license issued to the person for the premises on
which the violation occurred.
   (C)   Each day on which a violation of this chapter occurs shall be
considered a separate and distinct violation. (Ord. 06-1198, 4-6-2006, eff. 6-
1-2006)
4-6-11: PUBLIC EDUCATION:
The Stickney or Lyons public health department or the village's designee shall
engage in a continuing program to explain and clarify the purposes and
requirements of this chapter to citizens affected by it, and to guide owners,
operators, and managers in their compliance with it. Within their
jurisdictions, local health departments certified by the Illinois department of
public health are authorized to provide the same continuing programs. (Ord. 06-
1198, 4-6-2006, eff. 6-1-2006)
4-6-12: OTHER APPLICABLE LAWS:
This chapter shall not be interpreted or be construed to permit smoking where
it is otherwise restricted by other applicable laws. (Ord. 06-1198, 4-6-2006,
eff. 6-1-2006)
CHAPTER 7
NOISE REGULATIONS 1
SECTION:
4-7-1: Definitions
4-7-2: Noise, Amplified Sound
4-7-3: Power Landscape Equipment
4-7-4: Construction Noise
4-7-5: Mechanical Equipment Noise
4-7-6: Excessive Noise Prohibited
4-7-7: Enforcement
4-7-8: Abatement Of Noise Source
4-7-9: Penalties
 
Notes
1 1. See also title IX, chapter 18 of this code.
4-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
NOISE OR SOUND LEVEL: The weighted sound pressure level obtained by the use of
a sound level meter and frequency weighting network "A" as specified in
American National Standards Institute specifications for sound level meters
(ANSI SI.4-1971, or the latest approved revision thereof), using a sound level
meter meeting ANSI standards for type 1 or type 2 sound level meters or an
instrument and associated recording the analyzing equipment that will provide
equivalent data to measure compliance.
Sound level measurements using sound meters may be administered by members of
the police department or any other authorized employees of the village, all of
whom shall have received specific training in the application, department
guidelines and procedures, and operation of the approved sound meter for the
measurement of sound that conforms to the standards and recommended practices
established by the American National Standards Institute.
QUIET HOURS: Quiet hours shall be from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. until seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. the following day, unless the following day is a Saturday,
Sunday or nationally recognized holiday, in which case quiet hours shall be
from eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. until nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. the following
day.
QUIET HOURS SOUND LIMITS: (A) Sound emitting from any single-unit property
shall not be plainly audible at any point beyond the lot line of that property.
   (B)   Sound emitting from inside any dwelling unit of a multi-unit structure
shall not be plainly audible beyond the walls of that dwelling unit.
   (C)   Sound emitting from elsewhere within, or outdoors upon the property of
a multi-unit structure shall not be plainly audible inside any dwelling unit of
that structure, nor at any point beyond the lot lines of that property.
   (D)   Sound emitting from any other location shall not be plainly audible at
any point more than thirty feet (30') in any direction from the sound source.
SOUND LIMITS IN DECIBELS (dB) DURING TIMES OTHER THAN QUIET HOURS: (A) Sound
emitting from any single-unit property shall not exceed sixty five (65) dB at
any one point beyond the lot line of that property.
   (B)   Sound emitting from inside any dwelling unit of a multi-unit structure
shall not exceed fifty five (55) dB beyond the walls of that dwelling unit.
   (C)   Sound emitting from elsewhere within or outdoors upon the property of
a multi-unit structure shall not exceed fifty five (55) dB inside any dwelling
unit of that structure, nor sixty five (65) dB beyond the lot lines of the
structure's property.
   (D)   Sound emitting from any other location shall not exceed sixty five
(65) dBa at any one point more than thirty feet (30') in any direction from the
sound source. (Ord. 07-1218, 2-1-2007)
4-7-2: NOISE, AMPLIFIED SOUND:
   (A)   During Quiet Hours: During the quiet hours, no person shall cause or
permit the sound of persons talking, yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing or the sound of any television, radio, stereo set, musical instrument,
phonograph, amplifier, loudspeaker or other similar device for the production
or amplification of sound to exceed the limits defined herein.
   (B)   Sound Limits At Times Other Than Quiet Hours: No person shall cause or
permit sounds of the types defined in subsection (A) of this section to exceed
the limits defined in section
4-7-1 of this chapter, if such sounds disturb the comfort or repose of
reasonable persons of normal sensibilities within the area of audibility. (Ord.
07-1218, 2-1-2007)
4-7-3: POWER LANDSCAPE EQUIPMENT:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to operate or use any power landscape equipment
in a manner that is plainly audible beyond the boundaries of the premises upon
which such equipment is operated or used; provided, however, the use or
operation of power lawn equipment shall be lawful:
      1.   Between seven thirty o'clock (7:30) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
P.M. on Mondays through Fridays, inclusive, and between nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. on Saturdays, Sundays and nationally
recognized holidays;
      2.   On golf courses at any time; and
      3.   On park district owned or maintained property at any time.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, "power landscape equipment" shall
mean all landscape equipment powered by any source other than manual power that
is used for landscaping or lawn maintenance activities including, without
limitation, mowers, tractors, trimmers, vacuums, blowers, tillers or hedge
clippers. (Ord. 07-1218, 2-1-2007)
4-7-4: CONSTRUCTION NOISE:
   (A)   No person shall cause or permit construction/demolition noise which is
plainly audible beyond the boundaries of the property from which it emanates,
other than between the hours of seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:
00) P.M. Monday through Friday, and between nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and five
o'clock (5:00) P.M. Saturday, and not at all on Sunday or nationally recognized
holidays, except in cases of urgent necessity in the interest of public health
and safety.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, "construction/demolition noise" is
defined as sound emissions associated with the construction or demolition of
any building or structure, to include, without limitation, activities such as:
grading, excavation, demolition, alteration or repair; and loading, unloading,
starting, moving or preparation of any materials, supplies equipment or
personnel; or the idling of engines on motor vehicles exceeding eight thousand
(8,000) pounds gross vehicle weight, while such vehicles are standing upon or
adjacent to job sites.
   (C)   Construction activities performed not for compensation, by a person
upon his own property where he resides, shall be exempt from the prohibitions
of this chapter seven (7) days per week, provided, however, that noise
emissions associated with such work shall not be plainly audible beyond the
boundaries of the property from which it emanates between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. (Ord. 07-1218, 2-1-2007)
4-7-5: MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT NOISE:
   (A)   Except temporarily in the case of urgent necessity to protect public
health or safety, no person shall cause or permit the operation of any blower,
fan, pump, or compressor, or engine or motor in connection therewith including,
without limitation, stationary motor vehicle engines, fixed or vehicle mounted
heating, ventilation, refrigeration or cooling systems, pool filtration
systems, generators or other such mechanical equipment, which emits noise of a
continuous or penetrating nature that disturbs the comfort or repose of any
reasonable person of ordinary sensibilities occupying residential property
within the area of audibility, if the sound level of such noise exceeds the
residential noise level standards.
   (B)   Noise defined in subsection (A) of this section, emitted from any
property shall not exceed the average sound levels set forth in this subsection
upon any portion of any other property if such other property is zoned for
residential use:
      1.   Between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.:
Sixty three (63) decibels (dB).
      2.   Between seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.:
Sixty eight (68) decibels (dB). (Ord. 07-1218, 2-1-2007)
4-7-6: EXCESSIVE NOISE PROHIBITED:
It is hereby unlawful for any person or corporation to commit or cause to
commit any excessive sound and/or noise as indicated in sections
4-7-1,
4-7-2,
4-7-3,
4-7-4, and
4-7-5 of this chapter. (Ord. 07-1218, 2-1-2007)
4-7-7: ENFORCEMENT:
The Bedford Park code enforcement officer shall have the authority to enforce
the provisions of this chapter and direct the immediate termination of any
noise source determined to be excessive. (Ord. 07-1218, 2-1-2007)
4-7-8: ABATEMENT OF NOISE SOURCE:
Upon finding of a violation of the standards herein, the person or corporation
causing or permitting the noise to continue shall be advised of the violation
and given an opportunity to abate the noise level. (Ord. 07-1218, 2-1-2007)
4-7-9: PENALTIES:
Any person or corporation found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with the provisions of this chapter shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to be
committed for each day that a violation exists. In addition to the imposition
of fines, the person or corporation may be directed to correct, repair or
remedy the code violation at its sole cost and expense. Noncompliance with the
provisions of this chapter is a basis for the revocation of a business
certificate. (Ord. 07-1218, 2-1-2007)
CHAPTER 8
DISCHARGE OF WASTE INTO SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
4-8-1: Prohibition
4-8-2: Sources Of Illicit Discharges
4-8-3: Exempt Discharges
4-8-4: Construction Site Runoff
4-8-5: Postconstruction Runoff
4-8-6: Penalties
4-8-1: PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful and prohibited for any individual, partnership, company or
other business entity to allow or permit or cause to allow or permit the
illicit discharges of waste and wastewater from nonstormwater sources. (Ord.
09-1294, 5-7-2009)
4-8-2: SOURCES OF ILLICIT DISCHARGES:
The following list is to be considered sources of illicit discharges:
   (A)   Sanitary wastewater.
   (B)   Effluent from septic tanks.
   (C)   Car wash wastewaters.
   (D)   Improper oil disposal.
   (E)   Radiator flushing disposal.
   (F)   Laundry wastewaters.
   (G)   Spills from roadway accidents.
   (H)   Improper disposal of auto and household toxins. (Ord. 09-1294, 5-7-
2009)
4-8-3: EXEMPT DISCHARGES:
The following list is to be considered exempt discharges:
   (A)   Water line flushing.
   (B)   Landscape irrigation.
   (C)   Diverted stream flows.
   (D)   Rising groundwaters.
   (E)   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration.
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater.
   (G)   Discharges from potable water.
   (H)   Foundation drains.
   (I)   Air conditioning condensation.
   (J)   Irrigation water.
   (K)   Springs.
   (L)   Water from crawl space pumps.
   (M)   Footing drains.
   (N)   Lawn watering.
   (O)   Individual residential car washing.
   (P)   Dechlorinated swimming pool discharges.
   (Q)   Street wash water. (Ord. 09-1294, 5-7-2009)
4-8-4: CONSTRUCTION SITE RUNOFF:
Any contractor of any kind doing business within the village of Bedford Park
must utilize the best management practice at a construction site to prevent
runoff. (Ord. 09-1294, 5-7-2009)
4-8-5: POSTCONSTRUCTION RUNOFF:
Subsequent to the completion of a construction project, any contractor of any
kind shall adhere to the best management practice in order to eliminate
postconstruction runoff. The best management practices shall include the
following procedures:
   (A)   Storage practices:
      1.   Wet ponds.
      2.   Dry basins.
      3.   Multichamber catch basins.
   (B)   Infiltration practices:
      1.   Infiltration basins/trenches.
      2.   Dry wells.
      3.   Porous pavement.
   (C)   Vegetative practices:
      1.   Grassy swales.
      2.   Filter strips.
      3.   Artificial wetlands.
      4.   Rain gardens. (Ord. 09-1294, 5-7-2009)
4-8-6: PENALTIES:
Any person, firm or corporation who is found to be in violation of this chapter
shall be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues
to exist. (Ord. 09-1294, 5-7-2009)
TITLE V
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE INSURANCE TAX
SECTION:
5-1-1: Compliance Required
5-1-2: Amount Of Tax
5-1-3: Premium Report
5-1-4: Liability For Tax
5-1-5: Agent's Responsibility
5-1-1: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any corporation or association, not incorporated under
the laws of the state of Illinois, to transact any business of fire insurance
in the village, while in default by not fully complying with any of the
requirements of this chapter, and until such requirements shall have been fully
complied with; but this provision shall not relieve any company, corporation or
association from the payment of any risk that may be undertaken in violation of
this chapter. (Ord. 35, 7-19-1941)
5-1-2: AMOUNT OF TAX:
Any such corporation, company or association not incorporated under the laws of
the state of Illinois, which is engaged in the village in effecting fire
insurance, shall pay the treasurer, for the maintenance, use and benefit of the
fire department, a sum of money equal in amount to two percent (2%) per annum
of the gross receipts received as premiums upon fire insurance policies by any
and all agents of such corporation, company or association, during the year
ending on July 1 in each year, for any insurance effected, or agreed to be
effected on property located in the village, by or with such corporation,
company or association during such year. (Ord. 35, 7-19-1941)
5-1-3: PREMIUM REPORT:
Every person acting as agent, for or on behalf of any such corporation, company
or association, shall, on or before July 15 of each and every year, render the
clerk a full, true and just account verified by his oath, of all premiums upon
fire insurance policies which, during the year ending July 1 preceding such
report, shall have been received by him, or by some other person for him, in
his behalf of any such corporation, company or association on property located
in the village. Such agent shall also at the time of rendering the aforesaid
report, pay to the village treasurer the sum of money for which company,
corporation or association, represented by him is chargeable, by virtue of the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 35, 7-19-1941)
5-1-4: LIABILITY FOR TAX:
The sum of money for which such company, corporation or association is so
chargeable may be recovered of it, or its agents or agent, by an action in the
name of and for the use of the village as for money had and received. Nothing
in this section shall be held to exempt any person, corporation, company or
association from indictment and conviction under the provisions of an act
entitled "an act to enable cities, towns and villages, organized under any
general or special law, to levy and collect a tax or license fee from foreign
insurance companies for the benefit of organized fire departments", in force
July 1, 1895. (Ord. 35, 7-19-1941)
5-1-5: AGENT'S RESPONSIBILITY:
No insurance agent in the village shall have any insurance business or dealings
with any company, association or corporation not incorporated under the laws of
this state, which shall be in default for not reporting or making payments as
hereinbefore provided, until it shall have complied with all the requirements
of this chapter. (Ord. 35, 7-19-1941)
CHAPTER 2
TAXICABS
SECTION:
5-2-1: Definitions
5-2-2: Scope; Jurisdiction; Number Of Licenses Issued
5-2-3: Taxicab Service
5-2-4: Licenses Required
5-2-5: Taxicab Company Licenses
5-2-6: Insurance Requirements
5-2-7: Taxicab Vehicle License
5-2-8: Vehicle Inspections
5-2-9: Vehicle Requirements
5-2-10: Rates Of Fare
5-2-11: Taxicab Driver's License
5-2-12: Driver Qualifications
5-2-13: Application; Term; Renewal; Late Penalty
5-2-14: Record Of Licenses
5-2-15: Taxicab Driver's License Suspension Or Revocation
5-2-16: Conduct And Appearance Of Taxicab Drivers
5-2-17: Mandatory Operations; Abandonment Of Service
5-2-18: Register Of Licensed Vehicles
5-2-19: Condition Of Vehicle; License Suspension Or Revocation
5-2-20: Violation; Penalty
5-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise expressly stated, whenever used in this chapter, the following
terms shall respectively be deemed to mean:
DRIVER: Any person driving a taxicab.
OPERATOR: Any person engaging in the business of the operation of a taxicab and
having control of the operation and maintenance of a taxicab or of the
collection of revenue from its operation.
TAXICAB: All public vehicles driven by mechanical power used to transport
passengers for hire, except those vehicles commonly known as buses.
TAXICAB COMPANY: Every individual, trustee, partnership, association, firm or
corporation engaged in business as a proprietor, franchisor or dispatcher of
one or more taxicabs.
TAXIMETER: A mechanical instrument or device by which the charge for hire of a
taxicab is mechanically calculated, either for distance traveled or for waiting
time, or for both, and upon which such charge shall be indicated by means of
figures. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-2: SCOPE; JURISDICTION; NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED:
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit any public
passenger vehicle from coming into the village to discharge passengers accepted
for transportation outside the village.
   (B)   The village clerk shall be responsible for licensing all taxicabs and
owner/operators operating taxicabs within the village.
   (C)   The village clerk shall issue a total of thirty (30) taxicab vehicle
licenses on an annual basis, which shall be issued on a first come, first
served basis. A taxicab company shall not be entitled to more than ten (10)
such vehicle licenses. Applications must be complete at the time of submission
with the village clerk's office. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-3: TAXICAB SERVICE:
Every owner and driver is required to furnish reasonably safe and adequate
service at just and reasonable rates within the village as may reasonably be
required to ensure adequate accommodations to the public in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-4: LICENSES REQUIRED:
   (A)   Taxicab Company License: No taxicab company shall engage in business
unless there shall first have been obtained therefor licenses from the village
clerk.
   (B)   Taxicab Vehicle License: No person shall operate a taxicab without
first having obtained a valid taxicab vehicle license in the manner set forth
in this chapter and unless the license is in full force and effect.
   (C)   Taxicab Driver's License: No person shall operate a taxicab as the
driver thereof without first having obtained a valid taxicab driver's license
in the manner set forth in this chapter and unless the license is in full force
and effect. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-5: TAXICAB COMPANY LICENSES:
All taxicab companies must be licensed as set forth below:
   (A)   Applications: Applications for taxicab company licenses shall be made
in writing to the village clerk on forms as reasonably required and approved by
the village administrator. Such application shall contain the following:
      1.   The address of the company's principal place of business;
      2.   The full name and address of the owner or operator;
      3.   The financial status of the applicant, including the amounts of all
unpaid judgments that arise from operation within the village against the
applicant and the nature of the transaction or acts giving rise to such
judgments;
      4.   The number of vehicles to be operated or controlled by the applicant
and the location of proposed depots and terminals;
      5.   The color scheme or insignia to be used to designate the vehicle or
vehicles of the applicant;
      6.   A rate sheet to be in effect for the period the taxicab company
license shall be in effect;
      7.   Any facts which the applicant believes tend to prove that public
convenience and necessity require the granting of a license;
      8.   Such further information as the village clerk may require.
   (B)   Color Similarity: All taxicabs owned or operated by or on behalf of a
taxicab business licensee shall be identically painted so that they are readily
identifiable. However, no coloring scheme or name shall be similar to that of
any other taxicab company which has previously been issued a taxicab license by
the village.
   (C)   License Fee: Each applicant for a taxicab company license shall submit
to the village clerk at the time of filing its application, a license fee of
three hundred dollars ($300.00). This license fee shall be nonrefundable.
   (D)   Renewal: Each licensee shall annually pay the license fee in full for
each taxicab company license before November 1 of each year.
   (E)   Penalty: If licensee does not renew his/her license and pay the annual
license fee, the licensee will incur a penalty of one hundred percent (100%) of
the annual license fee, in addition to the annual license fee.
   (F)   Change Of Address: If a licensee holding a taxicab company license
under this chapter changes its principal place of business, it shall notify the
village clerk in writing. Upon receipt, the village clerk shall make the
necessary alteration to the village's records. No fee shall be required for a
change in address.
   (G)   Change Of Ownership: If ownership of a cab company licensed under this
chapter is conveyed to a new owner, said new owner shall apply for a new
license in its name in accordance with this chapter. There shall be no transfer
of a license from one owner of a business to another. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-6: INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Each taxicab company must comply with the following insurance requirements:
   (A)   Every licensee shall carry public liability and property damage
insurance and, where applicable, workers' compensation insurance for his
employees with solvent and responsible insurers approved by the village
attorney, licensed by and authorized to do business in the state of Illinois,
and qualified under the laws of Illinois to assume the risk in the amount
hereinafter set forth, to secure payment by the licensee, his agents, employees
or lessees of any final judgment or settlement of any claim against them
resulting from any occurrence caused by or arising out of the operation or use
of any of the licensee's public passenger vehicles. All insurance policies
shall name the village, its officers, and agents as additional insured.
   (B)   Every insurance policy or contract for such insurance shall provide
that suit may be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction upon such
policy or contract by any person for the payment and satisfaction of any final
judgment rendered against the licensee or person insured arising from the
operation or use of such vehicle.
   (C)   Every public liability insurance policy must meet the requirements of
state law, governing coverage for damages from owners or operators of uninsured
motor vehicles, hit and run motor vehicles, and underinsured motorists.
   (D)   Each public liability insurance policy shall provide for coverage in
an amount as required by state law, as may be amended from time to time 1 .
   (E)   The insurance policy shall contain a description of each public
passenger vehicle insured, manufacturer's name and number, the state license
number and the public passenger vehicle license number.
   (F)   All insurance policies or contracts as required by this section, or
copies thereof certified by the insurers or sureties shall be filed with the
village clerk. The policy shall be further endorsed to provide thirty (30) day
advance notice of any cancellation thereof to the village clerk. If any
insurance policy is canceled or permitted to lapse for any reason, the village
shall suspend the license for the vehicle affected for a period not to exceed
ten (10) days to permit another insurance policy to be supplied in compliance
with the provisions of this section. If such other insurance policy is not
supplied within the period of suspension of the license, the village shall
revoke the license for such vehicle. In the event that such insurance is
supplied, the commissioner shall nevertheless suspend the license for each
vehicle affected for an additional period of five (5) days for every day of
noncompliance, except by reason of the insolvency of the insurer without
advance written notice to the licensee, for the first such violation of
insurance requirements, and a period of ten (10) days for every day of
noncompliance for the second such violation within any three (3) year period.
The third violation of this insurance requirement within any three (3) year
period shall result in revocation of the licenses of the affected vehicles.
(Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/8-109.
5-2-7: TAXICAB VEHICLE LICENSE:
No taxicab vehicle may be operated in the village unless the person who owns
and operates or drives the taxicab shall have first obtained a taxicab vehicle
license issued in accordance with this chapter. Every such owner shall comply
with the following licensing requirements:
   (A)   Contents Of Application: Each taxicab vehicle license applicant shall
submit in writing to the clerk an application that includes the following
information:
      1.   A full description of the motor vehicle for which the license is
desired, including the make, model and vehicle identification number and the
state license number;
      2.   The length of time the vehicle has been in use, the number of
persons it is capable of carrying;
      3.   Any other information that the mayor or the village clerk may
require.
   (B)   License Fees: Each applicant shall submit the annual fee of three
hundred dollars ($300.00) to the village clerk at the time of submitting the
application. This annual license fee shall be paid for each and every taxicab
which shall operate upon the streets of the village. Such license fee shall be
in lieu of the regular annual vehicle sticker fees charged by the village for
motor vehicles housed in the village as heretofore established.
   (C)   Renewal: Each licensee shall annually pay the license fee in full for
each taxicab vehicle license before November 1 of each year.
   (D)   Penalty: If licensee does not renew his/her license and pay the annual
license fee before November 1 the licensee will incur a penalty of one hundred
percent (100%) of the annual license fee, in addition to the annual license
fee.
   (E)   Verification Of State Registration: Such application shall thereupon
be referred by the village clerk to the chief of police who shall verify that
the taxicab is properly registered with the state of Illinois. Upon approval of
the chief of police of the application, he shall so endorse the application and
file same with the village clerk, who shall, upon payment of the required fee,
issue the license.
   (F)   Issuance Of License: Upon approval of the chief of police, payment of
the fee, and verification that the applicant has complied with all requirements
of this chapter, the village clerk shall issue the license.
   (G)   Term Of License: Such licenses shall be issued annually on November 1
in each and every year and shall be valid for one year to and including October
31 next succeeding year unless sooner suspended or revoked. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-
2010)
5-2-8: VEHICLE INSPECTIONS:
All vehicles are subject to the following inspections:
   (A)   All licenses under this chapter must be accompanied by a satisfactory
completed vehicle inspection report stating that the vehicle is in a good and
safe mechanical condition. Said safety test shall be conducted by a duly
licensed state mechanic. The passing of the safety test shall not be a bar at
any time to prosecution for operating or causing to be operated a taxicab not
in good and safe condition. Charges for all safety inspections are to be paid
by the owner/operator of the taxicab.
   (B)   Any member of the police department designated by the chief of police
shall inspect the outward appearance of all taxicabs to assure compliance with
similar colors, signage, lighted dome light, taximeter placement and lighted
dial and general condition of the vehicle before licensing by the village
clerk.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the owner of each taxicab to submit to the
chief of police each taxicab for inspection prior to the issuance of a license.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be issued a license until it has been thoroughly
inspected and examined and found to be in a thoroughly safe condition for the
transportation of passengers, clean, fit, of good appearance and well painted.
   (E)   The chief of police or his designated inspector(s) may inspect any
taxicab from time to time that he may feel is in a condition not fit for public
use in compliance with this chapter as written and Illinois state law, or on
the complaint of any person or persons. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-9: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
All taxicab vehicles shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Size: Licenses may be issued for vehicles to operate as taxicabs only
if the vehicle has a capacity for no more than six (6) passengers, excluding
the driver. No vehicle shall be licensed unless it has two (2) doors on each
side, and is a "full size" vehicle or larger. Exceptions shall be made for
specialty vehicles or hybrid vehicles.
   (B)   Name And Phone Number: Every taxicab licensed as provided in this
chapter shall bear on the outside of the vehicle, in a conspicuous place, the
name and phone number of the operator thereof, in letters not less than two
inches (2") high, which letters shall be of a contrasting color to the color of
the vehicle, and shall be properly proportioned and legible.
   (C)   Lighted Dome: The cab shall also have a lighted dome light on the roof
of the vehicle noting that the vehicle is a taxicab.
   (D)   License Decal: The taxicab vehicle license to be issued by the village
clerk as hereinabove provided shall be in the form of a decal. Said decal shall
be affixed to the bottom left rear window of the taxicab.
   (E)   Taximeter: Every taxicab operated by a taxicab company and licensed by
the village shall be equipped with a taximeter, in good working order,
connected with and operating from the transmission of the taxicab.
      1.   Visibility: No taxicab vehicle license shall be issued unless and
until said taximeter functions as follows:
During the period between sunset and sunrise, be equipped with a light which
shall be so reflected upon the dial of the taximeter as to enable the passenger
or passengers engaging and using such taxicab to read the figures thereon.
Every taximeter hereafter placed on a taxicab shall be so arranged that the
dial thereof is in plain view of the passenger while riding in such taxicab, or
upon alighting from the same.
      2.   Inspection: No license shall be issued for a taxicab until the
taximeter attached thereto shall have been inspected by the inspector of
weights and measures as provided herein and proof thereof provided to the
village clerk.
      3.   Testing: No person owning or operating any taxicab shall offer or
let the same for hire or reward anywhere within the village unless the
taximeter placed, attached or installed thereon has been inspected and tested
by said inspector.
      4.   Transfer Of Meters: No person shall detach any certified or
inspected taximeter from any taxicab and attach the same to any other taxicab,
the front wheels of which are of a different diameter than those with reference
to which said taximeter was originally tested, unless a new inspection or
certification is made on such taximeter.
      5.   Unapproved Meters: No person shall drive a vehicle to which is
attached a taximeter that has not been duly inspected and approved.
      6.   Credit Card Payments: Each vehicle shall be equipped to process
credit card payments by passengers.
      7.   No Smoking: It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke any tobacco
at any time in any taxicab.
      8.   Cellular Telephone: Taxicab operators may not use cellular
telephones while transporting passengers.
      9.   Insurance: The application for a taxicab vehicle license shall be
accompanied by evidence of the liability insurance as required in section
5-2-6 of this chapter.
      10.   Nontransferable: It shall be unlawful to transfer any taxicab
vehicle license from one vehicle to another. Transferring any taxicab vehicle
license shall be grounds for revocation of all licenses issued pursuant to this
chapter to both the owner of the license and the vehicle to which the license
is transferred. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-10: RATES OF FARE:
Taxicab maximum rates shall be as follows:
   (A)   Two dollars twenty five cents ($2.25) upon hire for the first
passenger and one dollar ($1.00) for each additional passenger above the age of
twelve (12), provided that there shall be no more than four (4) passengers,
including passengers over the age of twelve (12), permitted in a taxicab which
is an automobile or more than seven (7) passengers, including passengers over
the age of twelve (12), in a taxicab which is a minivan;
   (B)   An additional twenty two cents ($0.22) for each one-tenth (1/10) mile
or fraction thereof that is traveled in the taxicab. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-11: TAXICAB DRIVER'S LICENSE:
Every person driving a taxicab must be licensed as such and carry said license
on his person while operating a taxicab in the village. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-
2010)
5-2-12: DRIVER QUALIFICATIONS:
Each driver who shall drive any taxicab in the village shall at all times meet
the following qualifications:
   (A)   Possess a valid state of Illinois driver's license of a classification
required by state law for the transport of persons for hire;
   (B)   Be twenty one (21) years of age or older;
   (C)   Be in good physical condition and shall not have any nervous, organic,
or functional condition or disease which is likely to interfere with the safe
performance of his or her duties as a driver;
   (D)   Be able to read, write and speak the English language, as determined
by a test administered by the village clerk or her designee;
   (E)   Have a secretary of state's court purposes driving abstract showing no
convictions for any of the following offenses:
      1.   Driving under the influence of a controlled substance, cannabis or
an intoxicating compound or similar provision of a local ordinance or any like
offense of another state or country within the past five (5) years; and
      2.   Reckless driving or a similar provision of a local ordinance or any
like offense of another state or country, within the past five (5) years; and
      3.   Any offense originally charged as listed in this subsection and
later reduced to any negotiated lesser offense within the past five (5) years;
and (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
   (F)   Shall not have been convicted of any felony or crime involving moral
turpitude. (Ord. 11-1349, 2-3-2011)
5-2-13: APPLICATION; TERM; RENEWAL; LATE PENALTY:
Any person desiring to secure a license as driver of any public vehicle
licensed hereunder and used for the carrying of passengers for hire or reward
shall make application in writing therefor to the village clerk. Such
application shall include the following information:
   (A)   Personal Information: The name of the applicant, his residence and
occupation.
   (B)   Investigation/Approval: Said application shall be referred by the
village clerk to the chief of police who shall then verify that the driver is
properly licensed by the state of Illinois. Upon the chief of police's approval
of the application, he shall so endorse the application and return same to the
village clerk who shall, upon payment of the fee prescribed herein, issue the
license.
   (C)   License Fee: The annual fee for taxicab driver's licenses shall be ten
dollars ($10.00).
   (D)   Term: Taxicab driver's licenses shall be issued as of November 1 in
each and every year and shall be valid to and including October 31 of the next
succeeding year.
   (E)   Renewal: Each licensee shall annually pay the license fee in full for
each taxicab driver's license before November 1 of each year.
   (F)   Penalty: If licensee does not renew his/her license and pay the annual
license fee before November 1, the licensee will incur a penalty of one hundred
percent (100%) of the annual license fee, in addition to the annual license
fee. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-14: RECORD OF LICENSES:
There shall be kept in the office of the village clerk a complete record of
each taxicab driver's license and of all renewals, suspensions or revocations
thereof. The village clerk's record shall be kept on file with the original
application. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-15: TAXICAB DRIVER'S LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
A taxicab driver's license may be suspended or revoked at any time by the mayor
for cause. Any such suspension shall be noted on the license, together with a
statement of the reason therefor, and the village shall deprive the driver of
his license. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-16: CONDUCT AND APPEARANCE OF TAXICAB DRIVERS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any driver to conduct himself in a
disrespectful or contemptuous manner toward any person or to use abusive or
profane language while so occupied or in charge of such vehicle.
   (B)   Every driver of a taxicab shall maintain a reasonable degree of
personal hygiene and be dressed in clean clothing. Taxicab drivers are
prohibited from wearing the following articles of clothing as outer garments:
underwear, tank tops, swimwear, jogging suits, body shirts, shorts, cutoffs,
trunks or similar attire, or sandals without socks. Bermuda or post office type
shorts may be worn between May 1 and September 30. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-17: MANDATORY OPERATIONS; ABANDONMENT OF SERVICE:
The applicant shall regularly and daily operate his or its licensed taxicab
during each day of the licensed year to the extent reasonably necessary to meet
the public demand for such taxicab service. Upon complete abandonment of
taxicab service for the period of ten (10) consecutive days by the owner or
operator of such taxicab service, the chief of police, upon hearing, shall
after five (5) days' notice to said owner or operator, thereupon recommend to
the mayor that the license of such owner or operator shall be revoked covering
such taxicabs of the said owner or operator. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-18: REGISTER OF LICENSED VEHICLES:
The village clerk shall keep a register of the name and address of each taxicab
company owning or operating a taxicab licensed under this chapter, together
with a list of each licensed driver and each licensed vehicle, with the license
number and the description, make and necessary dimensions of such vehicle, and
with the date and complete record of inspections made of it. Such records shall
be open to the inspection of the public at all reasonable times and shall be
public records. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-19: CONDITION OF VEHICLE; LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   (A)   Licenses granted hereunder are subject to revocation at any time by
the mayor for good cause shown or if it shall have been determined that said
vehicle is not in good condition for operation. Licenses, when so revoked or
suspended shall not be reissued until the cause of such revocation shall have
been removed to the satisfaction of the mayor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any taxicab not licensed by the village to
come into the village to pick up a passenger unless that passenger is to return
to that community in which the taxicab is licensed, and then only when such
transportation has been arranged for in advance either by writing or by
telephone. While said vehicle is in the village, no roof light shall be used to
indicate that the vehicle is vacant or subject to hire, but a white card
bearing the words, "Not For Hire", printed in black letters not less than two
inches (2") in height shall be displayed on the windshield of said vehicle. No
person shall be solicited or accepted in said vehicle for transportation from
any place within the village unless prearranged as indicated above. Any person
in control or possession of said vehicle who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be subject to the penalties as herein provided in this
chapter. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
5-2-20: VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provisions of this chapter shall be ticketed and
fined the sum of two hundred dollars ($200.00). If after fourteen (14) days the
ticket is not paid, the fine shall increase to three hundred fifty dollars
($350.00). If the fine is not received within thirty (30) days after issuance,
the ticket will be set up for an adjudication hearing in accordance with the
administrative adjudication of traffic and other violations provisions
contained in this code. In addition to such fine that may be imposed, any
license issued pursuant to this chapter may be suspended or revoked as provided
herein. (Ord. 10-1337, 9-2-2010)
CHAPTER 3
GROSS RECEIPTS TAX
SECTION:
5-3-1: Tax Imposed
5-3-2: Report Required
5-3-3: Tax Payment
5-3-1: TAX IMPOSED 1 :
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of selling
tangible personal property at retail at the rate of one-half of one percent
(0.05%) of the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such
business, in accordance with the provisions of section 23-111 of the revised
cities and villages act. (Ord. 96, 8-18-1955)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/11-54-1.
5-3-2: REPORT REQUIRED:
Every such person engaged in such business shall file on or before the
fifteenth day of each calendar month the report to the state department of
revenue required by section 3 of "an act in relation to a tax upon persons
engaged in the business of selling tangible personal property to purchasers for
use or consumption", approved June 28, 1933, as amended. (Ord. 96, 8-18-1955;
amd. Ord. 98)
5-3-3: TAX PAYMENT:
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state department
of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed on account of the receipts from
sales of tangible personal property during the preceding month. (Ord. 96, 8-18-
1955)
CHAPTER 4
AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND TAX
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: License Required
5-4-3: Application For License
5-4-4: License Fees
5-4-5: Amusement Tax
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them:
AMUSEMENT DEVICE: Any mechanically operated device, the operation of which is
governed or controlled by the deposit of coins or tokens, and which is played
solely for the amusement or pleasure of the operator.
JUKEBOX: Any mechanical machine or device, the operation of which is governed
or controlled by the deposit of coins or tokens, capable of producing or
reproducing any vocal or instrumental sound. (Ord. 121, 12-18-1958)
5-4-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall install, maintain, operate or make available for use in a
public place any amusement device or jukebox without first having obtained a
license for each of the same as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 121, 12-18-1958)
5-4-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Any person desiring to install, maintain, operate or make available for use in
a public place any amusement device or jukebox shall make application for a
license for that purpose to the clerk. Such application shall set forth the
name and address of the applicant, the number of amusement devices or jukeboxes
for which applicant desires licenses, and the addresses where said amusement
devices or jukeboxes will be located. If the applicant is found to be of good
character and reputation, the clerk shall cause a license to be issued such
applicant upon the payment of the license fees hereinafter set forth, which
license shall be valid for a period of one year. The annual license shall be
effective from July 1 to June 30 on an annual basis. (Ord. 121, 12-18-1958;
amd. Ord. 21-1652, 2-4-2021)
5-4-4: LICENSE FEES:
Said applicant shall pay an initial fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) for each
amusement device installed, maintained, operated or made available for use in a
public place. Each applicant shall thereafter pay an annual fee of fifty
dollars ($50.00) for each amusement device installed, maintained, operated or
made available for use in a public place. (Ord. 90-815, 2-1-1990; amd. Ord. 20-
1623, 2-6-2020)
5-4-5: AMUSEMENT TAX:
   (A)   Definition:
 
           Any theatrical, dramatic, musical, or spectacular performance;
           motion picture show; trade show, convention, any athletic contest,
AMUSEMENT: sport, game or similar exhibition for public entertainment
           including, without being limited to, boxing, wrestling, dancing,
           baseball, basketball, volleyball, hockey, track and field games,
           bowling, billiards and pool.
 
   (B)   Tax Imposed. A tax is imposed upon all amusements within the Village
of an amount equal to five percent (5%) of the gross receipts from admission
fees or other charges, exclusive of Federal or State taxes, to witness or to
participate in such amusements. No person shall produce, present or conduct any
amusements, for gain or profit, without payment of the tax.
   (C)   Tax Returns. On or before the tenth day of each month following the
quarter, each person liable for the tax herein imposed shall make a report in
writing and file it with the Village Treasurer stating the total amount
collected during the preceding quarter for admission fees or charges to each
amusement operated by him exclusive of any tax imposed on such admission fees
by the United States of America or the State.
   (D)   Inspection of Books and Records. The Village Treasurer, either
personally or through his authorized agents, shall have the right at all
reasonable times to inspect and check the books and records of any amusement or
person liable for such tax insofar as they pertain to admissions.
   (E)   Tax Due.
      1.   The tax herein imposed shall be due and payable on the tenth day of
each month for the preceding quarter of March, June, September, and December;
provided, however, that the tax herein imposed on amusements other than
theatrical performances and motion picture shows shall be due on the day
following the day of holding the event. Such tax shall be paid to and collected
by the Treasurer.
      2.   If, for any reason, any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the
rate of one percent (1%) per thirty (30) day period, or portion thereof, from
the day of delinquency shall be added and collected.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, upon
conviction thereof, shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) and not more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each
offense, and each day such violation shall continue shall be regarded as a
separate offense. (Ord. 21-1671, 7-1-2021)
CHAPTER 5
VENDING MACHINES
SECTION:
5-5-1: License Required
5-5-2: License Application
5-5-3: License Fees And Placement Of Machines
5-5-4: Inspections
5-5-5: Permit, License; Defined
5-5-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall install, keep, maintain or operate any automatic vending
machine for the sale of any merchandise, nor sell or offer for sale any such
merchandise by means of an automatic vending machine without first having
obtained a license for each of said automatic vending machines as hereinafter
provided.
It shall further be unlawful for any person to permit the installation,
keeping, maintenance or use upon his premises of any automatic vending machine
owned or operated by a person who has not first obtained a license for each of
said automatic vending machines as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 535, 1-5-1967)
5-5-2: LICENSE APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to sell any merchandise by means of automatic vending
machines shall make application for a license for that purpose to the village
clerk. Such application shall set forth the name and address of the applicant,
the retailers' occupation tax registration number assigned to applicant by the
Illinois department of revenue, the number of vending machines for which
applicant desires licenses, the locations where said vending machines will be
located, and the merchandise being offered for sale by means of said automatic
vending machines. If the applicant is found to possess such registration number
and to be of good character and reputation, the village clerk shall cause a
license or licenses to be issued such applicant upon the payment of the license
fees hereinafter set forth, which license shall be valid for a period of one
year. Such period for which each annual license is issued shall be from July 1
to June 30 of the following year. No such license shall be issued, however,
where an applicant does not have such registration number. (Ord., 6-17-1965;
amd. Ord. 21-1653, 2-4-2021)
5-5-3: LICENSE FEES AND PLACEMENT OF MACHINES:
   (A)   Any person desiring to sell any merchandise by means of an automatic
vending machine shall pay an annual license fee of thirty dollars ($30.00) per
machine, other than amusement device machines, that is installed, maintained,
operated or made available for public use located in the village.
   (B)   Upon proper application being made to the village clerk, a license
shall be issued to said applicant for the operation of such vending machine
which shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon each machine so licensed.
   (C)   No person shall alter or deface any license sticker issued by the
village clerk.
   (D)   A license is issued to the applicant to operate a newspaper vending
machine said machine shall not be attached to any light pole or other property
owned by the village. (Ord. 91-842, 6-6-1991)
   (E)   Said applicant shall pay an initial fee of five hundred dollars
($500.00) for each amusement device installed, maintained, operated or made
available for use in a public place. Each applicant shall thereafter pay an
annual fee of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each amusement device
installed, maintained, operated or made available for use in a public place.
Applicants shall continue to pay a fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) per year for
each jukebox installed, maintained, operated or made available for use in a
public place. (Ord. 90-815, 2-1-1990)
Any person who violates this section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense and every
such person shall be deemed guilty of a separate offense for every day during
which the violation continues. (Ord. 91-842, 6-6-1991)
5-5-4: INSPECTIONS:
The public heath commissioner or the supervisor of public works are hereby
authorized and empowered to inspect and examine all merchandise being offered
for sale by means of automatic vending machines for the purpose of ascertaining
whether such merchandise so offered for sale is fresh, clean and wholesome. All
owners of said vending machines shall, on the request of either of said village
representatives, furnish keys for said machines so that the contents of same
may be inspected in company with the owner of the machine or his agent. (Ord.
122, 12-18-1958)
5-5-5: PERMIT, LICENSE; DEFINED:
Whenever the word "license" or "permit" is used in this chapter, they shall
mean the same. (Ord. 122, 12-18-1958)
CHAPTER 6
ROOMING HOUSES
SECTION:
5-6-1: Definition
5-6-2: Prohibition
5-6-3: Application For Permit
5-6-4: Intent
5-6-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, a "rooming house" shall mean and include every
dwelling house, furnished rooming house, and every other similarly occupied
building or structure, or portion thereof, kept, held or used where sleeping or
lodging is provided, or which is equipped to provide lodging by prearrangement,
for a definite period, for compensation, for three (3) or more persons, in
contradistinction to hotels or motels open and catering to transients. (Ord.
132, 10-1-1959)
5-6-2: PROHIBITION:
No house or building shall be used or occupied as or leased for a rooming
house; and it shall therefore be unlawful for any person to maintain, keep,
manage, conduct or operate a rooming house, or cause a rooming house to be
maintained, kept, managed, conducted or operated. (Ord. 132, 10-1-1959)
5-6-3: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
In all instances where less than three (3) roomers or lodgers are permitted,
the following conforming practices and requirements shall be met before any
house or building may be used for such purposes:
   (A)   Written application shall first be made to the president and board of
trustees on blanks furnished by the clerk for permission to allow catering to
not more than two (2) roomers or lodgers. The application shall state the full
name and address of the applicant seeking such permission, the name and address
of the owner of the building, the address of the building itself, the number of
roomers or lodgers to be accommodated, and the number of roomers or lodgers in
each room.
   (B)   Such written application for permission to house not more than two (2)
roomers or lodgers shall be made annually on or before January 15 of each year.
   (C)   The original application for such permission shall be accompanied by a
plan of each floor showing all entrances and exits, halls, size of all windows,
and the location and size of each room to be used and occupied by roomers or
lodgers. The applicant shall not be required to submit such plan upon
application for renewal of such permission, provided no physical changes or
alterations have been made to the structure accommodating such roomers or
lodgers since the filing of the original plan. If changes or alterations have
been made since the filing of the original application for such permission, new
plans shall be filed showing such changes or alterations.
   (D)   Upon receipt of such application, or renewal thereof, the village
shall cause an inspection to be made of the premises to determine whether such
premises are safe and habitable, whether the same are provided with adequate
heating, lighting and ventilating facilities, whether the premises contain
adequate and sufficient fire extinguishing facilities, and whether the premises
have good and proper sanitary facilities. Should such inspection disclose a
compliance with all the requirements of this chapter and all other applicable
provisions of this code, a permit shall be granted by the village to the
applicant to cater to roomers or lodgers.
   (E)   The permit holder shall maintain a proper registration of each roomer
or lodger, which registration shall include the name, permanent address and
period of stay of each such roomer or lodger. Such registration shall be made
available to the village upon request.
   (F)   No attic or basement, or any part thereof, shall be used as habitable
rooms.
   (G)   No cooking or preparation of food or meals, or the storage of
foodstuff or so called light housekeeping shall be permitted in any sleeping
room. (Ord. 132, 10-1-1959)
5-6-4: INTENT:
It is the intent of section
5-6-3 of this chapter that the provisions contained therein shall be the
minimum requirements with respect to houses catering to roomers or lodgers for
the promotion of public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general
welfare. (Ord. 132, 10-1-1959)
CHAPTER 7
BUSINESS REGULATION CERTIFICATE PROVISIONS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Title
5-7-2: Definitions
5-7-3: Certificate Required
5-7-4: Application
5-7-5: Term Of Certificate
5-7-6: Fee
5-7-7: Amount Of Fee
5-7-8: Computation
5-7-9: Records And Certificate
5-7-10: Investigations
5-7-11: Location
5-7-12: Administration And Enforcement
5-7-13: Suspension, Revocation Of Certificate
5-7-14: Appeal
5-7-15: Certificate To Be Posted
5-7-15-1: Duty Of Owner Of Real Estate
5-7-16: Penalty
5-7-17: Accessory Use Permits
5-7-18: Conflict
5-7-19: Invalidity
5-7-1: TITLE:
This chapter may be cited and referred to as the BUSINESS REGULATION
CERTIFICATE PROVISIONS. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976)
5-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms whenever they occur in this chapter shall be
construed as herein defined:
ACCESSORY USE: The use subordinate to the principal use of a building including
any temporary public sale or other public gathering for commercial purpose
which is not a part of the regular daily function of the business
establishment.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building fully or partially below the ground
surface.
BULK STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES: The method of containing, holding or storing any
liquid having a flash point below two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (200°F) and
having a vapor pressure not exceeding forty (40) pounds per square inch
(absolute) at one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F).
FLOOR AREA: The total horizontal area of all building floors measured in square
feet from the outside walls and shall include basement floors and all motor
vehicle or tractor parking space when such space is used in conjunction with
retail and wholesale establishments or when such space is used for the parking
of motor vehicles or trailers for their repair or storage; all outside area
used in conjunction with filling stations and all floor space used for
mechanical equipment whether open or closed including such equipment as may be
located on the roof, porches or verandas.
INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENT: A place of business the principal use of which is
manufacturing, assembly or fabrication.
LOADING DOCKS OR DOORS: The openings or platforms for the loading or unloading
of materials.
MOTOR FREIGHT OR TRUCK TERMINAL: A building or premises in which freight
transported by motor truck is assembled, sorted or stored.
RETAIL OR WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT: A building or premises the principal use of
which is for the sale or distribution of any commodity by a seller to a
consumer.
SERVICE OR OFFICE ESTABLISHMENT: A building or premises the principal use of
which is for the rendering of personal or material services.
TANKS: Any receptacles for storing or holding liquids of more than one thousand
(1,000) gallon capacity.
TRUCK AND TRAILER REPAIR, LEASING OR STORAGE ESTABLISHMENTS: A building or
premises, including the parking or storage area in connection therewith, the
principal use of which is for the repair or rental or storage of motor trucks
or trailers.
WAREHOUSE ESTABLISHMENT: A building or premises and the outside area used in
conjunction therewith for the storage of goods, wares, merchandise or
commodities. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976; amd. Ord. 713, 11-5-1981)
5-7-3: CERTIFICATE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in, manage, operate or conduct
any trade, industry or business without first having obtained a business
regulation certificate therefor. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976)
5-7-4: APPLICATION:
All applications for such certificates shall be made in writing to the Village
Clerk on forms to be furnished by the Village Clerk. In addition to all other
information contained in such application, the same shall state therein the
name of the applicant, the address of the property intended to be used for any
trade, industry or business, and the nature of the trade, product to be
manufactured or assembled, or business to be conducted on such premises, the
fee to be paid, and the floor area of the building and outside areas as
applicable in square feet and the number of docks or doors as applicable and
the number of tanks as applicable or such other and further information
requested from time to time by the Village Clerk. If the applicant is a
partnership, the names of the partners, together with their residence addresses
shall be included. If the applicant is a corporation, the names and residence
addresses of the president, secretary and registered agent shall be furnished.
In all instances, the name, residence address and home telephone number of the
sole owner, partner, officer or employee in charge of any trade, industry or
business so situated in the Village shall also be included in order to provide
for any emergency which may arise when no such owner, partner, officer or
employee is on the premises. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976)
5-7-5: TERM OF CERTIFICATE:
Subject to the terms and provisions of this chapter, the Village Clerk shall
cause to be issued the certificate subject to investigations by various Village
departments, to permit the operation of the establishment in the Village for a
period of one year which shall begin on July 1 of the year for which such
document is issued and shall terminate on June 30 of the following year. No
certificate shall be issued at the yearly rate of fees except for the full
regulatory year. (Ord. 16-1508, 6-2-2016)
5-7-6: FEE:
The required fee for each certificate issued shall be collected upon
application. In no event shall any rebate or refund be made of any regulatory
fee, or part thereof, by reason of death or by any reason of nonuse of the
certificate or discontinuance of the operation of the establishment. In the
event a commercial establishment moves its place of operation from one location
in the Village to another location in the Village, a new regulatory certificate
shall be charged for the new location in accordance with the terms and
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976)
5-7-7: AMOUNT OF FEE:
   (A)   For retail, wholesale, warehouse or industrial establishments,
including motor freight/truck terminals, truck and trailer repair, leasing or
storage establishments, and service/office establishments:
 
0 to 10,000 square feet floor area            $ 50.00
Over 10,000 to 50,000 square feet floor area  $100.00
Over 50,000 to 200,000 square feet floor area $200.00
Over 200,000 square feet floor area           $300.00
 
   (B)   For bulk storage of flammable establishments:
 
1 to 20 tanks  $ 50.00
21 to 30 tanks $100.00
31 to 50 tanks $200.00
Over 50 tanks  $300.00
 
   (C)   Miscellaneous, including cell towers and billboards:
 
Flat fee $ 50.00
 
(Ord. 650, 8-5-1976; amd. Ord. 21-1654, 2-4-2021)
5-7-8: COMPUTATION:
Total floor area applicable for the determination of the yearly regulatory fee
shall include all measurements as set forth in the definition of "floor area"
in section
5-7-2, "Definitions", of this chapter, even though any such floor area may be
temporarily vacant or not in use. All measured area shall be expressed in
square feet to the nearest integral square foot. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976)
5-7-9: RECORDS AND CERTIFICATE:
Forms for all business regulation certificates and applications therefor shall
be prepared and kept on file by the village clerk together with all supporting
documents subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this chapter; and
upon full payment of the prescribed fees, the village clerk shall issue a
certificate bearing the signature or facsimile of the village president and
village clerk. The certificate shall be displayed by the owner of the business
establishment in a conspicuous place on the premises. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976)
5-7-10: INVESTIGATIONS:
   (A)   Upon the receipt of an application for a business regulation
certificate, where an investigation or inspection is required by ordinance
before the issuance of such permit or license, or where an inspection or
investigation shall be deemed reasonably necessary or appropriate, the village
clerk, within forty eight (48) hours of such receipt, shall refer the
application to the appropriate officials for the making of such investigation
or inspection.
   (B)   The officials to whom the application has been referred shall make a
report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving
such application or a copy thereof.
   (C)   Upon receipt of all related investigative reports, the village clerk
shall forward such reports, together with the application, to the village
president and board of trustees for evaluation and determination.
   (D)   If it shall appear to the corporate authorities that the matters and
circumstances relating to an application require further information before a
proper determination can be made, such application shall be returned to the
village clerk for the inclusion of such additional information as may be
specified necessary and appropriate.
   (E)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the matters concerning the application are unsatisfactory,
they may disapprove such application, indicating the reasons therefor.
Thereupon, the village clerk shall be directed to promptly notify the applicant
that his application is disapproved, and that no business regulation
certificate will be issued.
   (F)   If, after due consideration of the information contained within the
application and the related investigative reports, the corporate authorities
shall determine that the application is satisfactory, they shall approve the
application. Thereupon, the village clerk shall be directed to promptly notify
the applicant that his application is approved, and the certificate may be
issued. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976)
5-7-11: LOCATION:
No license for the operation of a business or establishment in the village
shall be construed to permit the operation of a licensed business or
establishment in more than one location in the village; a separate license
shall be required for each location of a licensed establishment. For the
purposes of this chapter, the existence of a single location shall be evidenced
by the fact that all buildings containing the principal or accessory uses shall
be connected or shall be located on the same lot or parcel, shall be operated
and managed by the same person or owner, and shall be an establishment with the
same classification. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976)
5-7-12: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the duty of the village clerk to administer and enforce, or cause
to be enforced by an appropriate officer of the village, the terms and
provisions of this chapter and to cause to be made such inspections of the
buildings or premises as may be necessary to accomplish such administration or
enforcement. (Ord. 709, 4-2-1981)
5-7-13: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION OF CERTIFICATE:
   (A)   When the conduct or operation of any business or establishment,
whether or not a certificate has been issued, shall constitute a nuisance in
fact and a clear and present danger to the public health, safety or general
welfare, the village president shall be authorized to summarily order the
cessation of business, the closing of the premises and the suspension of any
certificate for a period not to exceed ten (10) days.
   (B)   Within eight (8) days after he has so acted, the village president
shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not the
certificate should be revoked.
   (C)   Certificate issued under the ordinances of the village, unless
otherwise provided, may be revoked by the village president after notice and
hearing as provided in subsections (D) and (E) of this section for any of the
following causes:
      1.   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for the certificate;
      2.   Any violation of ordinance provisions relating to the certificate,
the subject matter of the certificate, or the premises occupied;
      3.   Conviction of the holder of the certificate of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude;
      4.   Failure of the holder of the certificate to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the village;
      5.   Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling, or any interference
with a duly authorized village officer or employee while in the performance of
his duties in making such inspections.
Such revocation, if ordered, shall not preclude prosecution and imposition of
any of the penalties provided for the violation of other applicable ordinances
of the village. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976)
      6.   The fire prevention bureau for the village of Bedford Park shall
periodically inspect all businesses and establishments during the term of the
certificate. Violations of the Bedford Park fire prevention code not corrected
shall be reason for revocation, suspension or lack of reissuance of the
certificate; (Ord. 668, 7-7-1978)
      7.   Denial, suspension, or revocation by any other municipality or by
the state or any regulatory body of the state of a comparable license or
permit;
      8.   Failure to comply with BOCA and the village building safety codes;
or
      9.   Excessive consumer complaints regarding the business or the owners
or managers of the business or a related business. (Ord. 10-1324A, 6-3-2010)
   (D)   Notice of the hearing for revocation of a certificate shall be given
in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be sent by certified mail, return
receipt requested, to the holder of the certificate at his last known address
at least five (5) days prior to the date set for the hearing. (Ord. 650, 8-5-
1976)
   (E)   At the hearing, the village prosecutor shall present the complaint.
The village attorney shall represent and advise the village president and board
during the hearing. The certificate holder shall be permitted counsel and shall
have the right to submit evidence and cross examine witnesses. The village
president shall preside and shall render the decision. (Ord. 01-1089, 8-15-
2001)
5-7-14: APPEAL:
Any person aggrieved by the decision of the village president in regard to the
denial of an application for a certificate, as provided in section
5-7-10 of this chapter, or in connection with the revocation of a license or
permit, as provided in section
5-7-13 of this chapter, shall have the right to appeal to the board of
trustees. Such appeal shall be taken by filing with the village clerk, within
ten (10) days after notice of a denial of an application or a revocation of a
certificate, a written statement under oath setting forth specifically the
grounds for appeal. The board of trustees shall thereupon set the time and
place for a hearing on such appeal, and notice of such hearing shall be given
to the applicant or holder of the certificate in the same manner as provided in
section
5-7-13 of this chapter. The decision of the board of trustees on such appeal
shall be final. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976)
5-7-15: CERTIFICATE TO BE POSTED:
It shall be the duty of every person conducting a business in the village to
keep his certificate posted in a prominent place on the premises used for such
business at all times. (Ord. 650, 8-5-1976)
5-7-15-1: DUTY OF OWNER OF REAL ESTATE:
Notwithstanding any provision hereof, it shall be the duty and responsibility
of the owner of any real estate upon which a business regulations certificate
is required, to require that the tenant who occupies or uses said real estate
shall conform with all the provisions of this chapter as heretofore or
hereafter enacted. (Ord. 692, 1-3-1980)
5-7-16: PENALTY:
Any person who shall be convicted of violating any provision of this chapter
shall be fined not less than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each such
offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on
which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord. 695, 2-21-1980)
5-7-17: ACCESSORY USE PERMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any business establishment to engage in any accessory
use without first having obtained an accessory use permit therefor.
   (A)   Application for such permit shall be made in writing to the village
clerk on forms to be furnished by the village clerk. Prior to issuance of the
permit, the applicant must contact the police chief and fire chief who will
determine the necessary fire and police personnel required to protect the
public health and safety. The required police and fire personnel must be in
attendance at all times the establishment is open to the public during the term
of the accessory use.
   (B)   Village employees will be on duty for the municipality and
remuneration for the village personnel required shall be made by the applicant
directly to the village at an hourly rate equal to the employee's regular
calculated hourly pay rate.
   (C)   A deposit of one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) will be paid to the
village upon application for issuance of a permit. Said deposit will be
refunded to the applicant should the village deny the issuance of the permit.
Upon approval of any permit, the fee shall be credited to the total
remuneration due and owing from the permit holder to the village, relative to
this section.
   (D)   On completion of the term of the accessory use permit, the village
will invoice the permit holder for the total amount due for the time expended
by the village personnel, and any additional workers' compensation premium,
unemployment compensation and withholding taxes incurred. (Ord. 713, 11-5-1981)
5-7-18: CONFLICT:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with any of the terms or
provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed. All ordinances or parts of
ordinances in respect to the regulating of activities not described or defined
in this chapter shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 713, 11-5-1981)
5-7-19: INVALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion of this
chapter is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision; and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portion thereof. (Ord. 713, 11-5-1981)
CHAPTER 8
WHEEL TAX LICENSE
SECTION:
5-8-1: License Required
5-8-2: License Application
5-8-3: License Fees
5-8-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person residing or operating a business within the
village to use, operate or park or cause or permit any of his agents or
employees to use or operate or park any motor passenger vehicle, motor bicycle
or motor truck and/or trailer upon the streets, avenues or alleys of the
village unless such vehicle is licensed as hereinafter provided. (Ord. 602, 8-
17-1972)
It shall be the duty of the licensee to attach the license/sticker in a
conspicuous place on the front of such vehicle where the same can be plainly
seen. In the case of automobiles or trucks, the licensee shall attach the
license/sticker to the lower right hand corner of windshield in such a manner
as to be easily read from the outside. In the case of motorcycles, the license/
sticker shall be placed on the rear license plate. Any person carrying a
license plate or sticker on his vehicle shall keep the same clear of dust and
mud so that the same can be plainly seen at all times. (Ord. 97-1000, 8-20-
1997)
5-8-2: LICENSE APPLICATION:
   (A)   Contents Of Application; License Issuance: Any person requiring such
license for any motor passenger vehicle, motor bicycle or motor truck and/or
trailer shall file an application with the clerk upon a form provided by him,
setting forth the name and address of the applicant, the description of the
vehicle for which such license is required and such other information as may,
from time to time, be prescribed. Said application shall also be accompanied by
the certificate of registration issued by the secretary of state covering said
vehicle as proof that the applicant is residing in the village, or a village
business license showing the operation of a business in the village, which
certificate of registration or village business license shall be returned to
the applicant upon the issuance of a vehicle license therefor. Upon the payment
of the license fee hereinafter provided, the clerk shall issue or cause to be
issued a license authorizing the use of such vehicle within the village until
the expiration of such license. Any vehicle which bears the name and/or an
address of a person within the corporate limits of the village, shall be
considered to be used, operated or parked upon the streets, avenues or alleys
of the village and shall be required to purchase such license. Any resident of
the village who is assigned a passenger car, a sport utility vehicle (SUV), a
van, or pick-up truck by their employer can be issued a village vehicle license
for such vehicle provided that the vehicle does not require an Illinois
registration plate greater than Class B (greater than 8,000 pounds). An
application for a village vehicle license for an employer-owned vehicle shall
include a copy of an Illinois driver's license proving village residency and
proof that the resident is an employee of such company. All signs, decals,
lettering, logos, and placards displaying the company's name shall be removed
from the vehicle when parking the vehicle overnight on village streets.
   (B)   Exemption: All vehicles registered under section 3-402.1 of the
Illinois vehicle code 1  shall be exempt from the licensing requirements. (Ord.
92-879, 11-5-1992; amd. Ord. 20-1625, 3-2-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/3-402.1.
5-8-3: LICENSE FEES:
The license fees to be paid annually to the treasurer shall be as follows:
 
All motor passenger vehicles (with passenger plates) and motor  $ 5.00
bicycles.
 
Motor homes, recreational vehicles (with
RV plates) campers and buses.   
 
3,000 pounds or less         20.00
3,001 pounds – 8,000 pounds30.00
8,001 pounds – 10,000 pound40.00
10,001 pounds and over       50.00
 
 
Motor trucks having a gross weight not exceeding
8,000 pounds, up to a maximum weight of 12,000
pounds, both inclusive, including vehicle and    30.00
maximum load, and requiring state of Illinois B
through D license plates.
Motor trucks having a gross weight from 12,001
pounds up to a maximum weight of 40,000 pounds,
both inclusive, including vehicle and maximum    50.00
load, and requiring state of Illinois F through
N license plates.
Motor trucks having a gross weight of 40,001
pounds up to a maximum weight of 54,500 pounds,
both inclusive, including vehicle and maximum    60.00
load, and requiring state of Illinois P, Q,
and/or R license plates.
Motor trucks having a gross weight from 54,001
pounds up to a maximum weight of 80,000 pounds,
both inclusive, including vehicle and maximum    75.00
load, and requiring state of Illinois S, T, V,
X, and/or Z license plates.
 
All village residents sixty five (65) years or older shall be exempt from
payment of the foregoing fees. (Ord. 86-775, 9-18-1986)
All motor passenger vehicle and motor bicycle licenses shall expire on December
31, following the date of issue. All motor truck licenses shall expire on June
30, following the date of issue, except for the period from January 1, 1969, to
June 30, 1969, for which six (6) month period the license fee to be paid shall
be one-half (1/2) the annual rate fixed herein. In all other instances where a
license is issued for a period of less than one year, the fee to be paid for
the unexpired license period shall be the proportionate part of the annual rate
fixed herein, provided, however, that no fee shall be less than one-fourth (1/
4) the annual rate.
Unless a vehicle license for motor passenger vehicles or motor bicycles is
purchased prior to March 1, or unless a motor truck vehicle license is
purchased prior to September 1, a fifty percent (50%) penalty shall be added to
the normal fee of each class of vehicles hereinabove described; provided,
however, that this provision shall not apply to motor passenger vehicles or
motor bicycles purchased, transferred or relocated in the village after March 1
of the year, or motor trucks purchased, transferred or relocated in the village
after September 1 of the year. (Ord. 570, 8-21-1969)
CHAPTER 9
SALES AND RENTAL TAX
SECTION:
5-9-1: Service Occupation Tax
5-9-2: Rental Tax (Rep. by Ord. 04-1162, 7-15-2004)
5-9-3: Retailers' Occupation Tax
5-9-4: Storage Facilities Tax
5-9-5: Mineral Product Extraction Fee
5-9-1: SERVICE OCCUPATION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in this municipality in the
business of making sales of service at the rate of one percent (1%) of the cost
price of all tangible personal property transferred by said servicemen either
in the form of tangible personal property or in the form of real estate as an
incident to a sale of service, in accordance with the provisions of section 8-
11-5 of the Illinois municipal code.
Every supplier or serviceman required to account for municipal service
occupation tax for the benefit of this municipality shall file, on or before
the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department of
revenue required by section nine of the "service occupation tax act", approved
July 10, 1961, as amended.
At the time such report is filed, there shall be paid to the state department
of revenue the amount of tax hereby imposed. (Ord. 569, 9-18-1969, eff. 9-18-
1969)
5-9-2: RENTAL TAX 1 :
(Rep. by Ord. 04-1162, 7-15-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 24 of this title.
5-9-3: RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX:
   (A)   Imposition of Tax: A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in
the business of selling tangible personal property, other than an item of
tangible personal property titled or registered with any agency of this state's
government, at retail in this municipality at the rate of one percent (1%) of
the gross receipts from such sales made in the course of such business while
this section is in effect; and a tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged
in this municipality in the business of making sales of service, at the rate of
one percent (1%) of the selling price of all tangible personal property
transferred by such serviceman as an incident to a sale of service. Such “home
rule municipal retailers' occupation tax” and the “home rule municipal service
occupation tax” shall not be applicable to the sales of food for human
consumption which is to be consumed off the premises where it is sold (other
than alcoholic beverages, soft drinks and food that has been prepared for
immediate consumption) and prescription and nonprescription medicines, drugs,
medical appliances and insulin, urine testing materials, syringes and needles
used by diabetics.
The imposition of these home rule taxes is in accordance with the provisions of
sections 8-11-1 and 8-11-5, respectively, of the "Illinois municipal code" 1 .
   (B)   Collection Of Tax: The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties
that may be assessed as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by
the department of revenue of the state of Illinois in accordance with the
provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/8-11-1 and 5/8-11-5. The
department of revenue shall have full power to administer and enforce the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   Submission Of Ordinance To Illinois Department Of Revenue: The village
clerk is hereby directed to file a certified copy of the ordinance codified
herein with the Illinois department of revenue before April 1, 2002, whereupon
the department of revenue shall proceed to administer and enforce this section.
(Ord. 02-1111, 3-7-2002; amd. Ord. 19-1611, 8-1-2019)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-1, 5/8-11-5.
5-9-4: STORAGE FACILITIES TAX:
   (A)   A rental tax be and is hereby enacted in the amount of three percent
(3%) of the gross income that each and every facility derives from the leasing
of storage units in said facility operating within the geographical limits of
the village. The tax assessed is charged against the unit as a privilege for
the use and occupancy of said unit.
   (B)   Taxes collected by the village from this rental tax may be used by the
village for its general corporate purposes.
   (C)   The village shall handle the collection and administration of this tax
in the following manner:
      1.   On March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15 of each and every
year, the storage facility shall remit to the Village Treasurer, P.O. Box 128,
6701 S. Archer Road, Bedford Park, Illinois 60501, a complete written summary
indicating the number of storage units leased, the length of each lease, and
the rate charged for each lease agreement during that quarter of the year. In
addition to the aforesaid written summary, the storage facility shall submit by
certified check the amount of rental tax that is due and owing the village via
the written summary.
      2.   Each and every check shall be made payable directly to the village.
      3.   The village, by and through its treasurer or auditor, or other
designated representative, may, upon written notice to the payor, examine the
written records being kept by the payor to ascertain that the appropriate
monies are being paid to the village.
   (D)   The village may, from time to time, modify, vary or alter the terms of
this section by written agreement with the storage facility. Absent a written
agreement varying the terms of this section or any portion thereof, this
section shall control in all respects. (Ord. 89-810, 9-21-1989)
5-9-5: MINERAL PRODUCT EXTRACTION FEE:
   (A)   Definitions: Whenever used in this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings as described below:
EXTRACTOR: Any person engaged, operating or in the business of extracting,
mining or removing any mineral product within the village for use, consumption
or for retail purposes.
MINERAL PRODUCT: Any substance such as rock, sand, gravel, stone, limestone or
dolomite, which is the result of processing, fragmenting, crushing, grinding,
conveying, or treating any ore mined or extracted from the earth, but does not
include coal, oil, or gas.
MINERAL PRODUCT EXTRACTION LICENSE FEE: Any mineral product as described in
this section extracted, mined or removed by any means within the corporate
limits of the village of Bedford Park.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, trust, estate, partnership, association,
corporation, limited liability company, joint venture, joint stock company,
receiver, trustee, conservator, legal representative, or other legally
recognized entity.
   (B)   Mineral Product Extraction License Fee: A mineral product extraction
license fee (fee) is hereby imposed at the rate of twelve cents ($0.12) per ton
for any mineral product extracted, removed or mined by an extractor within the
village corporate boundaries. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
impose an occupation tax.
   (C)   Responsibility Of Payment: The extractor of any and all mineral
products shall be responsible and liable for the payment of the mineral
extraction fee. Said fee shall be in addition to any other taxes which may be
due and owing in connection with the sale of the mineral product.
   (D)   Registration: Every extractor shall register with the village clerk
within ten (10) days of the passage of the ordinance codified herein. Every
person becoming an extractor thereafter shall register with the village clerk
within ten (10) days after the commencement of such business. Every extractor
shall file each month with the village clerk a remittance return containing a
report of mineral product extracted, removed or mined occurring in the prior
month. The return shall be filed on or before the last day of the month
following the month for which the report is due. Each such return shall be
accompanied by a remittance of the appropriate amount of fee applicable to the
volume of mineral product extracted, removed or mined.
   (E)   Collection Procedures: The extractor of any mineral product shall
submit the fees to the village clerk on a monthly basis. The remittance of the
fee shall be accompanied by a form prescribed by the village clerk.
   (F)   Failure To Remit Fee: It shall be a violation of this section for an
extractor to fail to submit the fee imposed herein. In the event the extractor
fails to submit the appropriate fee, the extractor shall be responsible for the
following:
      1.   Any fee not paid or remitted when due shall bear interest at the
rate of two percent (2%) per month, or fraction thereof, until the fee is paid
or remitted;
      2.   In addition to any interest charged, any person who fails to pay or
to remit the fee when due shall be subject to a late penalty of ten percent
(10%) of such fee;
      3.   In addition to any interest or penalty charged above, any person who
fails to file a remittance return when due shall be subject to a late filing
penalty of ten percent (10%) of the total fee liability due for the reporting
period.
Where the failure to pay or to remit the fee or to file the remittance return,
in a timely manner is due to reasonable cause beyond the control of the person
charged with filing and paying the fee, the penalties described in subsections
(F)2 and (F)3 of this section may be waived by the village clerk.
   (G)   Maintenance Of Records: The extractor required to collect and remit
the fee imposed herein shall keep accurate and complete books and records,
including the maintenance of all invoices and other source documents. All books
and records shall be subject to inspection by the village clerk or duly
authorized agents, at all times during regular business hours.
   (H)   Authorization: The village clerk is hereby authorized to prepare the
necessary remittance forms and publish rules and regulations in furtherance of
the purpose of this section.
   (I)   Penalty Clause:
      1.   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, neglecting or
refusing to comply with or resisting or opposing the enforcement of any
provision of this section, upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) per each offense. A separate offense shall be regarded as committed
each day upon which said person shall continue any such violation or permit
such violation to exist after notification thereof.
      2.   Whenever any person shall fail to pay fee due hereunder, the village
attorney shall, upon the request of the president of the village, bring or
cause to be brought an action to enforce the payment of said fee on behalf of
the village in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 03-1145, 8-7-2003)
CHAPTER 10
TAG DAYS
SECTION:
5-10-1: Definition
5-10-2: Permit Required
5-10-1: DEFINITION:
The term "tag days" is hereby defined to mean those days on which it shall be
lawful for charitable organizations to solicit funds for charitable purposes.
(Ord. 152, 10-4-1962)
5-10-2: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct tag days without first having
obtained approval from the president and board of trustees and a permit from
the clerk pursuant to such approval. Said tag days may only be conducted during
such periods of time and under such conditions as the president and board of
trustees may, from time to time, prescribe. (Ord. 152, 10-4-1962)
CHAPTER 11
CANVASSERS AND SOLICITORS
SECTION:
5-11-1: Definition
5-11-2: Registration Required
5-11-3: Fee
5-11-4: Certificate
5-11-5: Exceptions
5-11-6: Revocation
5-11-1: DEFINITION:
The words "canvassers" and "solicitors" are hereby defined to mean any
individual who calls at the residences, commercial establishments or industrial
plants, without the previous consent of the occupants thereof, for the purpose
of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions, business or donations of any kind.
(Ord. 153, 10-4-1962)
5-11-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a canvasser or
solicitor, calling at the residences, commercial establishments or industrial
plants, without the previous consent of the occupants thereof, for the purpose
of soliciting orders, sales, subscriptions, business or donations of any kind,
without first having registered in the office of the clerk. The registrant
shall furnish to the clerk his complete identification, his signature, the name
of his employer, the name of the products or service in which he is interested,
the names of the manufacturers of such products, the organization which he is
representing, and the proposed method of operation. (Ord. 153, 10-4-1962)
5-11-3: FEE:
No charge shall be made by the village for such registration. (Ord. 153, 10-4-
1962)
5-11-4: CERTIFICATE:
Each applicant who shows evidence of good character and otherwise complies with
the provisions of this chapter, shall be furnished a certificate by the clerk
indicating that he or she has registered and showing the dates covered by such
registration. Each such registrant shall at all times while soliciting or
canvassing carry the registration certificate upon his person, and the same
shall be exhibited by such registrant whenever he is required so to do by any
police officer or by any person solicited. (Ord. 153, 10-4-1962)
5-11-5: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to officers or employees of the
village, county, state or federal government, or any subdivision thereof, when
on official business. (Ord. 153, 10-4-1962)
5-11-6: REVOCATION:
Any such registration may be revoked by the president of the board of trustees
or the police marshal because of any violation by the registrant of this
chapter or of any other provision of this code, or of any state or federal law,
or whenever the registrant shall cease to possess the qualifications and
character required in this chapter for the original registration. (Ord. 153,
10-4-1962)
CHAPTER 12
PEDDLERS
SECTION:
5-12-1: Definition
5-12-2: Registration Required
5-12-3: Fee
5-12-4: Certificate
5-12-5: Revocation
5-12-1: DEFINITION:
The word "peddler' is hereby defined to mean any individual who, going from
place to place, shall offer for sale, sell and deliver, barter or exchange any
goods, wares, merchandise produce, article or thing from a vehicle or
otherwise. (Ord. 154, 10-4-1962)
5-12-2: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of peddler of any
goods, wares, merchandise, produce, article or thing or to ply his vocation on
any street, sidewalk, park, parkway or any other public place without first
having registered in the office of the clerk. The registrant shall give his
complete identification, his signature, the name of his employer, if any, the
nature of the products in which he is interested and the names of the
manufacturers of such products, if any. (Ord. 154, 10-4-1962)
5-12-3: FEE:
No charge shall be made by the village for such registration. (Ord. 154, 10-4-
1962)
5-12-4: CERTIFICATE:
Each applicant who shows evidence of good character and otherwise complies with
the provisions of this chapter, shall be furnished a certificate by the clerk
indicating that he or she has registered and showing the dates covered by such
registration. Each such registrant shall at all times while so peddling, carry
the registration certificate upon his person, and the same shall be exhibited
by such registrant whenever he is required so to do by any police officer or by
any person solicited. (Ord. 154, 10-4-1962)
5-12-5: REVOCATION:
Any such registration may be revoked by the president of the board of trustees
or the police marshal because of any violation by the registrant of this
chapter or of any other provision of this code, or of any state or federal law,
or whenever the registrant shall cease to possess the qualifications and
character required in this chapter for the original registration. (Ord. 154,
10-4-1962)
CHAPTER 13
TRAILER CAMPS
SECTION:
5-13-1: Definitions
5-13-2: Prohibition
5-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter:
HOUSE CAR TRAILER: Any structure for, or used for, living or sleeping purposes,
mounted upon wheels and capable of being transported from place to place by its
own power or by some vehicle attached to it.
TRAILER CAMP: Any plot of ground where the owner or person in control thereof,
as a business and for compensation, permits any house car trailer or house car
trailers to be located thereon or used for living or sleeping quarters. (Ord.
107, 3-13-1957)
5-13-2: PROHIBITION:
No person shall use, maintain or operate any plot of ground as a trailer camp
for human habitation within the village. (Ord. 107, 3-13-1957)
CHAPTER 14
PARKING LOTS
SECTION:
5-14-1: Definitions
5-14-2: Grading; Surfacing Required
5-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever in this chapter the following words or terms are used, they shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
BLACKTOPPING: A mixture of aggregates, mineral filler and asphalt cement,
commonly known as asphalt or bituminous concrete.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is propelled otherwise than by muscular power,
including, but not limited to, automobiles, motorcycles, motor driven trailers,
special mobile equipment, specially constructed vehicles, trucks and truck
tractors.
PARKING LOT: Any open area or vacant property where motor vehicles are housed,
stored or parked in condition ready for use, and maintained, kept or used for
the accommodation of the owners, tenants, occupants, patrons or employees of
industrial plants, public utilities or business establishments, but excluding
any area or vacant property where any raw materials or products manufactured or
serviced on the premises of such owner, tenant or occupant are housed, stored
or parked, or where any product which is taken in on trade by such owner,
tenant or occupant is housed, stored or parked. (Ord., 6-17-1965; amd. Ord.
518, 12-16-1965)
5-14-2: GRADING; SURFACING REQUIRED:
In order to minimize atmospheric pollution and to reduce the amount of dirt,
mud, debris or other substances, whether liquid or solid, from being deposited
upon the streets and public ways in the village, it shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or corporation to maintain, keep or conduct, or cause to be
maintained, kept or conducted, any parking lot within the village unless the
entire surface thereof is graded and is covered with either blacktopping or
concrete. Such blacktopping or concrete shall be in accordance with the
specifications thereof prescribed by the commissioner of public works of the
village. (Ord., 6-17-1965)
CHAPTER 15
POLICE PROTECTION TAX
SECTION:
5-15-1: Police Protection Tax
5-15-1: POLICE PROTECTION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of police protection in this village at
the rate of five-hundredths percent (0.05%) of the value, as equalized or
assessed by the department of revenue of all taxable property therein for the
first year in which this tax is levied, and at a rate of seventy five
thousandths percent (0.075%) of the value as equalized or assessed by the
department of revenue for all taxable property therein, in all succeeding
years, all in accordance with the provisions of section
11-1-3 of the Illinois municipal code. (Ord. 577, 2-19-1970)
CHAPTER 16
FIRE PROTECTION TAX
SECTION:
5-16-1: Fire Protection Tax
5-16-1: FIRE PROTECTION TAX:
A tax is hereby imposed for the purpose of fire protection in this village at
the rate of five-hundredths percent (0.05%) of the value, as equalized or
assessed by the department of revenue, of all the taxable property therein for
the first year in which this tax is levied, and at a rate of seventy five
thousandths percent (0.075%) of the value as equalized or assessed by the
department of revenue for all taxable property therein, in all succeeding
years, all in accordance with the provisions of section 11-7-1 of the Illinois
municipal code. (Ord. 578, 2-19-1970)
CHAPTER 17
GASOLINE SERVICE STATIONS
SECTION:
5-17-1: License Required
5-17-2: Definition
5-17-3: Nonbusiness Filling Stations
5-17-4: Bulk Sales Prohibited
5-17-5: Regulation Of Self-Service Stations
5-17-6: Additional Regulations
5-17-7: Penalty
5-17-8: Invalidity
5-17-9: Conflict
5-17-10: Supersedes State Law
5-17-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to conduct or operate a service station in the village
without first having obtained a business regulation certificate therefor. The
annual fee for such certificate shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) per pump.
No such certificate shall be issued unless the location and equipment to be
used fully complies with the ordinances of the village. (Ord. 662, 1-19-1978)
5-17-2: DEFINITION:
A "service station" is a place of business where gasoline, or any highly
volatile fuels for motor vehicles or internal combustion engines, are sold or
offered for sale at retail and dispensed into the fuel tanks of such motor
vehicles.
   (A)   This definition shall include also a private storage tank and
dispensing of such products for the same purposes as those served by a service
station, whether the storage is maintained for the use or benefit of the owner,
lessee, agents or employees of either, or of any others.
   (B)   The requirements covering service stations shall also govern
underground storage maintained at general storage plants and places other than
service stations, so far as applicable. (Ord. 662, 1-19-1978)
5-17-3: NONBUSINESS FILLING STATIONS:
Any person, firm or corporation maintaining or operating any storage tank for
gasoline for the use of automobiles for the owner, lessees, employees or agents
of such person, firm or corporation shall comply with all the provisions of
this chapter other than the requirement for the payment of a fee. (Ord. 662, 1-
19-1978)
5-17-4: BULK SALES PROHIBITED:
No motor fuel shall be dispensed at any service station except into the fuel
tank of motor vehicles, when such tanks are connected with the carburetion
system of such vehicles; provided, however that individual sales up to six (6)
gallons may be made in receptacles approved by the state of Illinois, division
of fire prevention when painted red and labeled, such individual sales to be
limited to six (6) gallons to any one person. (Ord. 662, 1-19-1978)
5-17-5: REGULATION OF SELF-SERVICE STATIONS:
   (A)   "Self-service station" shall mean that portion of property where
flammable and combustible liquids used as motor fuels are stored and
subsequently dispensed from fixed approved dispensing equipment into the fuel
tanks of motor vehicles by persons other than the service station attendant.
No gasoline service station shall be completely self- service. At least one
island shall be devoted to full service.
   (B)   Approved "self-service" dispensing devices are permitted at service
stations available and open to the public, provided that all dispensing of
motor fuels, except LPG, by a person other than the service station attendant
is under the supervision and control of a qualified attendant and the
dispensing nozzle is a listed automatic closing type without a latch open
device.
   (C)   "Person" means any individual, corporation, company, firm,
partnership, association or group, trust or beneficiary thereof.
   (D)   The following rules shall be followed and observed at all self-service
stations:
      1.   It shall be unlawful to provide for or use live-in facilities or
accommodations for the benefit of any owner, operator or employee of a self-
service station on the premises of such station.
      2.   All self-service stations shall have at least one attendant of the
age of eighteen (18) years or older on duty while the station is open to the
public. The attendant's primary function shall be to supervise, observe and
control the dispensing of flammable liquids while said liquids are actually
being dispensed. This shall not be interpreted as prohibiting split island type
of operation.
      3.   The dispensing area shall at all times be in clear view of the
attendant and the placing or allowing of any obstacle to come between the
dispensing area and the attendant control area shall be prohibited. The
attendant shall at all times be able to communicate with persons in the
dispensing area.
      4.   The attendant shall have immediate access to emergency cutoff
switches provided at a location remote from the dispensing devices, which
location shall be subject to approval by the department of public safety.
      5.   The attendant shall supervise the dispensing of motor fuels. The
attendant shall refuse service to any person who is smoking or who appears, for
any reason, to be unable to dispense the motor fuel safely and shall shut off
the dispensing unit if a patron fails to follow instructions in compliance with
this section.
      6.   All attendants and other employees shall be thoroughly instructed in
the operation and use of the communication system, the control station, the
fire extinguishing equipment, the operation of the dispensing units and safety
regulations for the dispensing of motor fuels.
      7.   No individual under the age of sixteen (16) years shall be permitted
to operate self-service pumps and a sign shall be prominently displayed
indicating this prohibition.
      8.   For minimum safety standards for the location and operation of self-
service dispensing units, dispensing pumps shall be located a minimum of twelve
feet (12') inside station property lines and a maximum of ten feet (10') from
any building opening.
      9.   Gasoline dispensing nozzles shall not be of the "latch open" type.
      10.   At least one type ABC fire extinguisher, with a capacity of ten
(10) pounds, shall be at the attendant's control station.
      11.   Conspicuous and legible signs, prohibiting smoking and directing
customers to turn off ignitions while dispensing motor fuel shall be posted and
maintained. The lettering on such signs shall be red on white background and
not less than four inches (4") in height. The signs shall be made of an all
weather rigid material. The wording, lettering, size, design, material,
mounting and location of such signs shall be subject to the approval of the
various designated committees of the village board of trustees.
      12.   Dispensing units shall be mounted either on a concrete island or
protected against collision damage by suitable means in a manner approved by
the village board of trustees.
      13.   No portable containers of more than six (6) gallons shall be filled
with gasoline, except as dispensed directly into the fuel tanks attached to a
motor vehicle. All portable receptacles for gasoline shall be red and shall be
labeled in letters of a contrasting color and a height of not less than one-
half inch (1/2"), and it shall be unlawful to put any other liquids or oils
except gasoline in such receptacles theretofore used for gasoline so long as
such receptacles are so painted red and labeled "gasoline". In all
circumstances, the container shall be of material approved by the state of
Illinois, division of fire protection. (Ord. 662, 1-19-1978)
5-17-6: ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall be in addition to any rules and
regulations relating to the operation, storage, transportation, sale and uses
of gasoline and volatile oils promulgated by the state of Illinois, department
of law enforcement, which are now or may be hereafter placed in effect. (Ord.
662, 1-19-1978)
5-17-7: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this chapter shall be
fined in a sum not exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for any one
offense. (Ord. 662, 1-19-1978)
5-17-8: INVALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this chapter
is for any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent
provision; and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
portion thereof. (Ord. 662, 1-19-1978)
5-17-9: CONFLICT:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with any of the terms or
provisions of this chapter are hereby repealed. All ordinances or parts of
ordinances in respect to the regulating of activities not described or defined
in this chapter shall remain in full force and effect. (Ord. 662, 1-19-1978)
5-17-10: SUPERSEDES STATE LAW:
This chapter and each of its terms shall be the effective legislative act of a
home rule municipality without regard to whether such chapter should: a)
contain terms contrary to the provisions of current or subsequent nonpreemptive
state law; b) legislate in a manner or regarding a matter not delegated to
municipalities by state law. It is the intent of the corporate authorities that
to the extent that the terms of this chapter should be inconsistent with a
nonpreemptive state law, that this chapter shall supersede state law in that
regard within its jurisdiction. (Ord. 662, 1-19-1978)
CHAPTER 18
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR REGULATIONS
SECTION:
5-18-1: Definitions
5-18-2: License Required
5-18-3: Application For License
5-18-4: Restriction On Licenses
5-18-5: Term Of License; Prorating Fees
5-18-6: Classification; Fees
5-18-7: Disposition Of Fees
5-18-8: License Record To Be Kept
5-18-9: Transfer Of License
5-18-10: Change Of Location
5-18-11: Sanitary Conditions
5-18-12: Closing Hours
5-18-13: Revocation Of License
5-18-14: Sales To Persons Under Twenty One, Habitual Drunkards, Spendthrifts
And Mental Incompetents
5-18-15: Purchase Or Acceptance Of Gift Of Liquor By Persons Of Nonage;
Identification Cards; Rules And Regulations; Penalty
5-18-16: Local Liquor Control Commissioner
5-18-17: Consumption And Transportation Of Alcoholic Liquor
5-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise indicated, the following terms, as used in this chapter, shall
have the following meanings:
ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR: Any spirits, wine, beer, ale or other liquid containing more
than one-half (1/2) of one percent (1%) of alcohol by volume which is fit for
beverage purposes.
ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS: Any facility, including restaurants, whose
primary function is to provide food, meals, alcoholic liquor or entertainment
to the public.
PATRON: A customer of an entertainment establishment.
RETAIL SALE: The sale for use or consumption, and not for resale. (Ord. 687, 9-
6-1979; amd. Ord. 05-1172, 1-6-2005)
5-18-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to sell or offer for sale at retail in the village any
alcoholic liquor without having a retail liquor dealer's license or in
violation of the terms of such license. (Ord. 687, 9-6-1979)
5-18-3: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Applications for licenses shall be made to the president in writing, signed by
the applicant, if an individual, or by a duly authorized agent thereof, if a
club or corporation, verified by oath, or affidavit, and shall contain the
following information and statements:
   (A)   The name, age, and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; in the case of a copartnership, the persons entitled to share in
the profits thereof, and in the case of a corporation, for profit, or a club,
the date of incorporation, the objects for which it was organized, the names
and addresses of the officers and directors, and if a majority in interest of
the stock of such corporation is owned by one person or his nominees, the name
and address of the person.
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicant, his place of birth and if a
naturalized citizen, the time and place of his naturalization.
   (C)   The character of business of the applicant; and in the case of a
corporation, the objects for which it was formed.
   (D)   The length of time that the applicant has been in business of that
character, or in the case of a corporation, the date on which its charter was
issued.
   (E)   The amount of goods, wares and merchandise on hand at the time
application is made.
   (F)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under the license.
   (G)   A statement whether applicant has made similar application for similar
license on premises other than described in this application, and the
disposition of the application.
   (H)   A statement that the applicant has never been convicted of a felony
and is not disqualified to receive a license by reason of any matter or thing
contained in this chapter, laws of this state, or applicable provisions of this
code.
   (I)   Whether a previous license by any state or subdivision thereof, or by
the federal government has been revoked, and the reasons therefor.
   (J)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any of the laws of the
state or of the United States, or any provisions of this code in the conduct of
his place of business. (Ord. 687, 9-6-1979)
5-18-4: RESTRICTION ON LICENSES:
No license shall be issued to:
   (A)   A person who is not of good character and reputation in the community
in which he resides.
   (B)   A person who is not a citizen of the United States.
   (C)   A person who has been convicted of a felony of any federal or state
law, if the commissioner determines after investigation that such person has
not been sufficiently rehabilitated to warrant the public trust.
   (D)   A person who has been convicted of being the keeper or is keeping a
house of ill fame.
   (E)   A person who has been convicted of pandering or other crime or
misdemeanor opposed to decency and morality.
   (F)   A person whose license issued under this chapter has been revoked for
cause.
   (G)   A person who, at the time of application for renewal of any license
issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license upon a first
application.
   (H)   A copartnership, unless all of the members of the copartnership shall
be qualified to obtain a license.
   (I)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or any
stockholder or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than five percent (5%)
of the stock of the corporation, would not be eligible to receive a license
hereunder for any reason other than citizenship and residence within the
political subdivision.
      1.   A corporation unless it is incorporated in Illinois, or unless it is
a foreign corporation which is qualified under the Illinois business
corporation act to transact business in Illinois.
   (J)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or agent
unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications required of the
licensee.
   (K)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or state
law concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of alcoholic liquor,
subsequent to the passage of this chapter, or shall have forfeited his bond to
appear in court to answer charges for any such violation.
   (L)   A person who does not beneficially own the premises for which a
license is sought or does not have a license thereon for the full period for
which the license is to be issued.
   (M)   Any law enforcing public official, any mayor, alderman, or member of a
city council or commission and president of a village board of trustees, or any
president or member of a county board; and no such official shall be interested
in any way, either directly or indirectly, in the manufacture, sale or
distribution of alcoholic liquor.
   (N)   Any person not eligible for a state retail liquor dealer's license.
   (O)   A person who is not a beneficial owner of the business to be operated
by the licensee.
   (P)   A person who has been convicted of a gambling offense.
   (Q)   A person to whom a federal gaming device stamp or a federal wagering
stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax period.
   (R)   A copartnership to which a federal gaming device stamp or a federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the federal government for the current tax
period, or if any of the partners have been issued a Federal gaming device
stamp or Federal wagering stamp by the Federal government for the current tax
period.
   (S)   A corporation, if any officer, manager, or director thereof, or any
stockholder owning in the aggregate more than twenty percent (20%) of the stock
of such corporation has been issued a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal
wagering stamp for the current tax period.
   (T)   Any premises for which a Federal gaming device stamp or a Federal
wagering stamp has been issued by the Federal government for the current tax
period. (Ord. 687, 9-6-1979)
5-18-5: TERM OF LICENSE; PRORATING FEES:
Each license shall terminate on April 30 next following its issuance. The fee
to be paid shall be reduced in proportion to the full calendar months which
have expired in the year prior to the issuance of the license. (Ord. 687, 9-6-
1979)
5-18-6: CLASSIFICATION; FEES:
The following are the categories of liquor licenses that can be issued within
the Village:
   (A)   Class A Licenses:
      1.   Description: Authorizes the sale on the premises of alcoholic liquor
only for on site consumption within the walls of an establishment in which food
is being prepared, served and consumed.
      2.   Annual Fee: Six hundred dollars ($600.00). (Ord. 15-1475, 4-16-2015)
      3.   Number Allowed: Maximum number authorized at any one time: Fourteen
(14). (Ord. 18-1555, 1-11-2018; amd. Ord. 20-1640, 10-1-2020)
   (B)   Class B Licenses:
      1.   Description: Authorizes the sale, by catering businesses only, of
alcoholic beverages or packaged quantities of alcohol for use in conjunction
with catered food and beverage events, either within the Village or outside the
Village.
      2.   Annual Fee: Three hundred dollars ($300.00).
      3.   Number Allowed: Maximum number authorized at any one time: Three
(3).
   (C)   Class C Licenses:
      1.   Description: Authorizes the retail sale by retail businesses of
alcoholic beverages to the general public; however, no consumption of alcoholic
beverages will be permitted at said businesses.
      2.   Annual Fee: Six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      3.   Number Allowed: Maximum number authorized at any one time: Seven
(7).
   (D)   Class D Licenses:
      1.   Description: Authorizes the sale of alcoholic beverages for on site
consumption to the guests and patrons of a hotel who are utilizing the meeting
rooms or guestrooms within the Midway/Bedford Park Hotel Conference Center.
      2.   Annual Fee: Six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      3.   Number Allowed: Maximum number of such licenses which may be issued:
Three (3).
   (E)   Class E Licenses:
      1.   Description: Authorizes the sale on the premises of alcoholic liquor
only for on site consumption within the walls of an adult use facility in which
food is being prepared, served and consumed.
      2.   Annual Fee: Six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      3.   Number Allowed: Maximum number authorized at any one time: One.
   (F)   Class F Licenses:
      1.   Description: Authorizes the manufacturing and distribution of a
craft beer as defined by the Illinois Liquor Control Commission. The
consumption and retail sale of the craft beer shall be permitted on the
premises.
      2.   Annual Fee: Six hundred dollars ($600.00).
      3.   Number Allowed: Maximum number allowed at any one time: Two. (Ord.
15-1475, 4-16-2015; amd. Ord. 19-1614, 11-7-2019)
5-18-7: DISPOSITION OF FEES:
All fees shall be paid to the President at the time application is made, and
shall be forthwith turned over to the Treasurer. In the event the license
applied for is denied, the fee shall be returned to the applicant; if the
license is granted, then the fee shall be deposited in the General Corporate
Fund or in such other fund as shall have been designated by the Board of
Trustees, by proper action. (Ord. 687, 9-6-1979)
5-18-8: LICENSE RECORD TO BE KEPT:
The President shall keep or cause to be kept a complete record of all such
licenses issued by him; and shall furnish the Clerk, and Chief of Police each
with a copy thereof upon the issuance of any new license, or the revocation of
any old license, the President shall give written notice of such action to each
of these officers within forty eight (48) hours of such action. (Ord. 687, 9-6-
1979)
5-18-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A license shall be purely a personal privilege, good for not to exceed one year
after issuance unless sooner revoked as in this chapter provided, and shall not
constitute property, nor shall it be subject to attachment, garnishment or
execution, nor shall it be alienable or transferable, voluntarily, or
involuntarily, or subject to being encumbered or hypothecated. Such license
shall not descend by the laws of testate or intestate devolution, but it shall
cease upon the death of the licensee; provided, that executors or
administrators of the estate of any deceased licensee, and the trustee of any
insolvent or bankrupt licensee, when such estate consists in part of alcoholic
liquor, may continue the business of the sale or manufacture of alcoholic
liquor under order of the appropriate court, and may exercise the privileges of
the deceased or insolvent or bankrupt licensee after the death of the decedent,
or such insolvency or bankruptcy until the expiration of the license but not
longer than six (6) months after the death, bankruptcy or insolvency of the
licensee. A refund shall be made of that portion of the license fees paid for
any period in which the licensee shall be prevented from operating under the
license in accordance with the provisions of this section.
Any licensee may renew his license at the expiration thereof; provided, he is
then qualified to receive a license and the premises for which the renewal
license is sought is suitable for such purpose. (Ord. 687, 9-6-1979)
5-18-10: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
A retail liquor dealer's license shall permit the sale of alcoholic liquor only
in the premises described in the application and license. The location may be
changed only upon the written permit to make such change issued by the
President. No change of location shall be permitted unless the proposed new
location is a proper one for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor under the laws
of this State and the provisions of this Code. (Ord. 687, 9-6-1979)
5-18-11: SANITARY CONDITIONS:
All premises used for the retail sale of alcoholic liquor, or for the storage
of liquor for such sale shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition, and
shall be kept in full compliance with the provisions of this Code regulating
the condition of premises used for the storage or sale of goods for human
consumption. (Ord. 687, 9-6-1979)
5-18-12: CLOSING HOURS:
   (A)   1. It shall be unlawful for any holder of a Class A liquor license to
sell or offer for sale, or to serve or permit the consumption of any alcoholic
liquor in the Village in all areas during the following hours:
         (a)   Between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays; and
         (b)   Between the hours of three o'clock (3:00) A.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. on Fridays and Saturdays; and
         (c)   Between the hours of three o'clock (3:00) A.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. on Sundays.
      2.   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a Class B, C, D liquor
license to sell or offer for sale, or to serve or permit the consumption of any
alcoholic liquor in the Village in all areas during the following hours:
         (a)   Between the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays; and
         (b)   Between the hours of three o'clock (3:00) A.M. and seven o'clock
(7:00) A.M. on Fridays and Saturdays; and
         (c)   Between the hours of three o'clock (3:00) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon on Sundays.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a Class E liquor license to
sell or offer for sale or to serve or permit the consumption of any alcoholic
liquor in the Village in all areas during the following hours:
      1.   Between the hours of two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. and eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. on Sundays to Thursdays; and
      2.   Between the hours of three thirty o'clock (3:30) A.M. and eleven
o'clock (11:00) A.M. on Fridays and Saturdays.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any holder of a class F liquor license to
sell or offer for sale or to serve or permit the consumption of any alcoholic
liquor in the village in all areas during the following hours:
      1.   Between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) P.M. to twelve o'clock
(12:00) noon on Mondays through Saturdays. No sales of any kind are permitted
on Sundays.
   (D)   That upon the adoption of this chapter, it shall be prohibited to
issue any liquor license of any class that permits the sale, serving or
consumption of alcoholic liquor beyond two o'clock (2:00) A.M. Any and all
sales, serving or consumption of alcohol must cease by two o'clock (2:00) A.M.
daily. This provision will not be effective for any liquor licenses issued
prior to the adoption of this chapter. (Ord. 15-1478, 5-7-2015; amd. Ord. 17-
1535, 2-2-2017; Ord. 18-1567, 5-17-2018; 22-1697, 4-7-2022)
5-18-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   The president shall hold hearings as provided by the state statutes
and further, may hold hearings after any disturbances which take place:
      1.   In a licensed establishment,
      2.   Outside a licensed establishment,
      3.   As a result of anyone drinking in a licensed establishment.
A "disturbance" is any event wherein the police are called or wherein the
police make an investigation or someone is injured or property is damaged.
   (B)   At said hearing the owner must appear as well as all employees of the
licensed establishment which were working the day of the disturbance. (Ord.
687, 9-6-1979; amd. Ord. 00-1069, 10-19-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
   (C)   Within five (5) business days following a hearing, the village
president shall enter an order setting forth his findings. The village
president shall have the right to impose the following penalties for the
violation of any state, federal or village law or ordinance relative to the
sale of alcoholic liquor, or for any material facts set forth in the liquor
license application or for any violation of this chapter:
      1.   Suspension of liquor license;
      2.   Revocation of liquor license;
      3.   Issuance of a fine of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for a first
violation, one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00) for a second violation
and two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for a third violation all
within a twelve (12) month period of time. The maximum annual amount of fines
that may be imposed is fifteen thousand dollars ($15,000.00). (Ord. 00-1069,
10-19-2000, eff. 1-1-2001)
5-18-14: SALES TO PERSONS UNDER TWENTY ONE, HABITUAL DRUNKARDS, SPENDTHRIFTS
AND MENTAL INCOMPETENTS:
   (A)   No licensee nor any officer, associate, member, representative, agent
or employee of such licensee shall sell, give or deliver alcoholic liquor to
any person under the age of twenty one (21), or to any intoxicated person or to
any person known by him to be an habitual drunkard, spendthrift, insane,
mentally ill, mentally deficient or in need of mental treatment. No person,
after purchasing or otherwise obtaining alcoholic liquor, shall sell, give or
deliver such alcoholic liquor to another person under the age of twenty one
(21) years except in the performance of a religious ceremony or service. (Ord.
687, 9-6-1979)
5-18-15: PURCHASE OR ACCEPTANCE OF GIFT OF LIQUOR BY PERSONS OF NONAGE;
IDENTIFICATION CARDS; RULES AND REGULATIONS; PENALTY:
Any person to whom the sale, gift or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited
because of age shall not purchase, or accept a gift of alcoholic liquor or have
alcoholic liquor in his possession.
If a licensee or his agents or employees believes or has reason to believe that
a sale or delivery of alcoholic liquor is prohibited because of the nonage of
the prospective recipient he shall, before making such sale or delivery demand
presentation of some form of positive identification, containing proof of age,
issued by a public officer in the performance of his official duties.
No person shall transfer, alter or deface an identification card; use the
identification card of another; carry or use a false or forged identification
card; or obtain an identification card by means of false information. No person
shall purchase, accept delivery or have possession of alcoholic liquor in
violation of this section. The consumption of alcoholic liquor by any person
under twenty one (21) years of age is forbidden.
The possession and dispensing, or consumption by a minor of alcoholic liquor in
the performance of religious service or ceremony, or the consumption by a minor
under the direct supervision and approval of the parents of such minor in the
privacy of a home, is not prohibited by this act.
Every liquor store in the village where alcoholic liquor is sold for beverage
purposes shall display at all times, in a prominent place, a printed card which
shall be issued by the clerk and which shall read substantially as follows:
   WARNING TO THOSE UNDER 21
YOU ARE SUBJECT TO A FINE UP TO FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS UNDER THE ORDINANCES OF
THE VILLAGE OF BEDFORD PARK IF YOU PURCHASE ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS, OR MISREPRESENT
YOUR AGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR OBTAINING LIQUOR.
Nothing contained in this chapter shall excuse or relieve the owner,
proprietor, or person in charge of any liquor store in the village where
alcoholic liquor is sold, from the restrictions and requirements of any other
applicable provisions of this code or of the statutes of the state.
Any holder of a retail liquor dealer's license, or any agent or employee of the
licensee, who shall violate the provisions of this section shall, upon
conviction, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the general
penalty regulations of this code, or to the revocation of his retail liquor
license, or to both such penalty and revocation of license.
Any parent or guardian who shall knowingly suffer or permit anyone under age
twenty one (21) of which he may be the parent or guardian, to violate any
provision of this section shall, upon conviction, be subject to the general
penalty provisions of this code. (Ord. 687, 9-6-1979)
5-18-16: LOCAL LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSIONER:
The president of the board of trustees of the village, shall be the local
liquor control commissioner and shall be charged with the administration of the
appropriate provisions of this chapter and such ordinances or resolutions as
may be hereinafter enacted. His salary as such commissioner shall be the sum of
two hundred dollars ($200.00) per annum in addition to his salary as president.
(Ord. 687, 9-6-1979)
5-18-17: CONSUMPTION AND TRANSPORTATION OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR:
   (A)   Public Ways, Parking Lots:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to drink, consume,
transport, carry or possess any alcoholic liquor, except in the original
package and with the seal unbroken, on a public street, sidewalk, parkway,
public parking lot or semipublic parking lot. The term "semipublic parking lot"
shall include any area wherein motor vehicles are parked by the public in
conjunction with any business, enterprise, or commercial establishment.
      2.   Penalties: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues. (Ord. 89-813, 11-16-1989; amd. Ord. 05-1172, 1-6-2005)
   (B)   Entertainment Establishments:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to transport or
carry an alcoholic liquor beverage to an entertainment establishment for the
purpose of consumption by said person on the premises.
      2.   Posting Of Signs: Every owner or operator of an entertainment
establishment shall post a warning sign in plain view informing patrons of this
subsection (B).
      3.   Penalties: Any person violating the provisions of this subsection
(B) shall be fined not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than
one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense and a separate offense shall
be deemed committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs.
Any owner or operator of an entertainment establishment should also be fined
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for every offense in which a patron has been found to be in
violation of this subsection (B). (Ord. 05-1172, 1-6-2005)
CHAPTER 19
HOTEL/MOTEL ROOM TAX
SECTION:
5-19-1: Tax Enacted
5-19-2: Use Of Tax
5-19-3: File Tax Return; Payment Of Tax
5-19-4: Failure To Pay Taxes; Action Taken
5-19-5: Patrons
5-19-6: Chapter Review
5-19-1: TAX ENACTED:
A Hotel/Motel Room Tax has been enacted in the amount of ten and one-half
percent (10.50%) of the one-night room charge for the use and privilege of a
room at any hotel, motel or other similar lodging facility operating within the
corporate geographical limits of the Village. Provided, however, any patron who
uses and occupies an extended stay hotel facility, as defined herein, shall be
exempt for payment of the Room Tax after the thirty first (31) consecutive day
of use and occupancy. This exemption shall not apply to the initial thirty (30)
day use and occupancy wherein the Hotel Tax of ten and one-half percent
(10.50%) shall remain in full force and effect. An extended stay facility shall
be defined as a hotel that has rooms specifically designed for extended stays
for patrons improved with the customary sleeping and bathroom areas and
dedicated kitchen areas with cooking appliances, refrigerator and sink.
The charge shall be effective on each night that a room is reserved, occupied,
or otherwise used in a hotel, motel or other lodging facility within the
Village. The tax assessed is charged against the room as a privilege for the
use of said room. The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said
tax is to be borne by the person or persons who seek the privilege of occupying
the hotel or motel room. Said tax shall be applicable to all on-line travel
agencies (an "OTA"). (Ord. 18-1581, 10-4-2018)
5-19-2: USE OF TAX:
Taxes collected by the Village from the Hotel/Motel Tax may be used by the
Village for its general corporate purposes. (Ord. 88-802, 10-6-1988)
5-19-3: FILE TAX RETURN; PAYMENT OF TAX:
The person or persons who own a hotel or motel room within the Village shall
collect the tax from the person or persons who seek the privilege of occupying
the hotel or motel room. The tax shall be paid to such person and/or OTA
required to collect it as trustee for and on account of the Village. The person
or persons who own a hotel or motel room within the Village shall file tax
returns, in a form to be provided or approved by the Village, reflecting tax
receipts received with respect to each separate hotel or motel during each
month. Remittance of the tax shall be made to the Village Treasurer by
certified or cashier's check on or before the twenty fifth day of the month for
which the tax was due.
Notwithstanding the above provision, the first taxing period for the purpose of
this chapter shall commence on September 1, 1990. All subsequent reporting
periods shall be full calendar months. At the time of filing said tax returns,
the persons required to collect the tax shall remit to the Village Treasurer
all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the rate of one
and one-half percent (11/2%) per thirty (30) day period, or portion thereof,
from the date of delinquency shall be added and collected.
The Village, by its Treasurer, Auditor, or other designated representative may,
upon forty eight (48) hour written notice to the collector of said tax, examine
the written records being kept by such person or perform whatever functions it
deems necessary to verify the collection of the tax or any amounts associated
therewith. (Ord. 18-1581, 10-4-2018)
5-19-4: FAILURE TO PAY TAXES; ACTION TAKEN:
The tax herein imposed shall be in addition to all other taxes imposed by the
Village, or by any Municipal corporation or political subdivision thereof.
Whenever any person shall fail to remit any tax as herein provided, the Village
Attorney shall, upon request of the President of the Village, bring or cause to
be brought an action to enforce the remittance of said tax on behalf of the
Village in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 00-1072, 11-30-2000)
5-19-5: PATRONS:
Any patron or guest who uses and occupies an extended stay hotel facility shall
not be considered a resident of the Village of Bedford Park and shall be
required to reexecute a written hotel occupancy agreement every thirty (30)
days. (Ord. 09-1291, 3-5-2009)
5-19-6: CHAPTER REVIEW:
The terms and provisions of this chapter shall be reviewed by the Municipal
authorities on an annual basis. The Village shall have the right to amend,
alter or modify the terms and conditions as deemed appropriate and reasonable.
(Ord. 09-1291, 3-5-2009)
CHAPTER 20
EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM (911)
SECTION:
5-20-1: Surcharge
5-20-2: Referendum
5-20-3: Surcharge Rate, Collection
5-20-4: Definitions
5-20-5: Exemption From Surcharge
5-20-6: When Surcharge Imposed
5-20-7: Accounting And Collection Charges
5-20-8: Payment Of Surcharge
5-20-9: Surcharge Return Required
5-20-10: Surcharge Payments, Credit
5-20-11: Recovery Of Surcharge, Time Limit
5-20-12: Emergency Telephone System Board Established
5-20-1: SURCHARGE:
A surcharge is hereby imposed, subject to the provisions of section
5-20-2 of this chapter, upon all telephone subscribers passed through
telecommunication carriers engaged in the business of transmitting messages by
means of electricity originating within the corporate limits of the village and
terminating within the state of Illinois for funding of a "911" emergency
telephone system. (Ord. 91-850, 9-3-1991)
5-20-2: REFERENDUM:
A referendum shall be placed by the village clerk on the November 5, 1991,
ballot for all legal voters residing in the village to vote upon the following
question:
Shall the Village of Bedford Park impose a surcharge not to exceed seventy five
cents ($0.75) per month per network connection, which surcharge will be added
to the monthly bill you receive for telephone or telecommunications charges for
the purposes of installing a 911 emergency system?
                Yes                 No
(Ord. 91-850, 9-3-1991)
5-20-3: SURCHARGE RATE, COLLECTION:
If a majority of the votes cast upon the question are in favor thereof, a
surcharge is hereby imposed at a rate not to exceed seventy five cents ($0.75)
per month per in-service network connection, as hereinafter defined. A network
connection shall not be deemed to be in service where a subscriber's account is
uncollectible. (Ord. 91-850, 9-3-1991)
5-20-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:
NETWORK CONNECTION: The number of voice grade communication channels directly
between a subscriber and a telecommunications carrier's public switched network
without the intervention of any other telecommunications carriers switched
network which would be required to carry the subscriber's interpremises
traffic.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIER: Any natural individual, firm, trust, estate,
partnership, association, joint stock company, joint adventure, corporation,
municipal corporation or political subdivision of this state, or a receiver,
trustee, conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court
engaged in the business of transmitting messages by means of electricity.
For the purposes of this chapter, "telecommunication carrier" does not include
a cellular or other mobile communication carrier.
TRANSMITTING MESSAGES: The meaning ascribed to the term in section 8-11-2 of
the Illinois municipal code 1 . (Ord. 91-850, 9-3-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/8-11-2.
5-20-5: EXEMPTION FROM SURCHARGE:
The village clerk shall provide any telecommunication carrier subject to the
surcharge with a certified list of those network connections assigned to the
village to be exempt from imposition of the surcharge. The certified list may
be revised by the Village on sixty (60) days prior written notice provided to
the telecommunication carriers. (Ord. 91-850, 9-3-1991)
5-20-6: WHEN SURCHARGE IMPOSED:
The surcharge shall be imposed on the first day of the month following the
expiration of ninety (90) days from the date the Village Clerk certifies to the
individual telecommunication carriers subject to the surcharge that the
referendum referred to in section
5-20-2 of this chapter has passed. (Ord. 91-850, 9-3-1991)
5-20-7: ACCOUNTING AND COLLECTION CHARGES:
In lieu of the telecommunication carriers imposing a three percent (3%)
accounting and collection charge on its subscribers as permitted under the Act
1 , each telecommunications carrier is hereby authorized and instructed to
recover said accounting and collection charge by deducting three percent (3%)
from the gross amount of surcharge collected otherwise due and owing the
Village prior to remittance under section
5-20-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 91-850, 9-3-1991)
 
Notes
1 1. 50 ILCS 750/0.01.
5-20-8: PAYMENT OF SURCHARGE:
The amount of surcharge collected by the telecommunications carrier shall be
paid to the particular municipality not later than thirty (30) days after the
surcharge is collected, net of any network or other 911 or sophisticated 911
system charges then due the particular telecommunication carrier, as shown on
an itemized bill and the three percent (3%) accounting and collection charge
described in section
5-20-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 91-850, 9-3-1991)
5-20-9: SURCHARGE RETURN REQUIRED:
Simultaneously with the remittance described in section
5-20-8 of this chapter, each telecommunication carrier shall make a return to
the Village Treasurer for the period to which the remittance applies stating as
follows:
   (A)   The name of the telecommunication carrier.
   (B)   The telecommunication carrier's principal place of business.
   (C)   The number of network connections to which the surcharge applies.
   (D)   The amount of surcharge due.
   (E)   Such other reasonable and related information as the Corporate
Authorities may require. (Ord. 91-850, 9-3-1991)
5-20-10: SURCHARGE PAYMENTS, CREDIT:
If it shall appear that an amount of surcharge has been paid which was not due
under the provisions of this chapter, whether as the result of a mistake of
fact or an error of law, then such amount shall be credited against any
surcharge due, or to become due, under this chapter from the telecommunication
carrier who made the erroneous payments; provided that no amounts erroneously
paid more than three (3) years prior to the filing of a claim therefore shall
be so credited. Ninety (90) days prior notice shall be given to the Emergency
Telephone System Board on any credit against a surcharge due. (Ord. 91-850, 9-
3-1991)
5-20-11: RECOVERY OF SURCHARGE, TIME LIMIT:
No action to recover any amount of surcharge due under the provisions of this
chapter shall be commenced more than three (3) years after the due date of such
amount. (Ord. 91-850, 9-3-1991)
5-20-12: EMERGENCY TELEPHONE SYSTEM BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There shall be established, by ordinance of the Village, an Emergency Telephone
System Board (ETSB), to administer the 911 Program in accordance with the
statutory provisions and rules relating thereto. (Ord. 91-850, 9-3-1991)
CHAPTER 21
REAL ESTATE TRANSFER TAX
SECTION:
5-21-1: Definitions
5-21-2: Transfer Of Title By Deed
5-21-3: Transfer Of Beneficial Interest
5-21-4: General Provisions
5-21-5: Penalties
5-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words shall have the meanings
hereinafter ascribed to them:
BENEFICIAL INTEREST: Any interest, regardless of how small or minimal such
interest may be, in a land trust, held by a trustee for the benefit of
beneficiaries of such land trust.
PERSON: Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, assignee, joint
stock company, joint venture, public or private corporation, domestic or
foreign corporation, profit or not for profit corporation, trust, or a
receiver, administrator, executor, trustee, conservator, or other
representative appointed by order of any court.
REAL ESTATE: Any residential, industrial, commercial property located within
the village boundaries whether improved or unimproved.
RECORDATION: The recording of deeds by the recorder of deeds of Cook County,
Illinois. (Ord. 96-977, 3-21-1996)
5-21-2: TRANSFER OF TITLE BY DEED:
   (A)   Imposition Of Transfer Tax: A real estate transfer tax of fifty
dollars ($50.00) is hereby imposed upon the transfer of title to any real
estate within the corporate limits of the village. This tax levied shall be in
addition to any and all other taxes which may be due and owing.
   (B)   Liability For Tax: The grantor shall be responsible and liable for the
tax imposed herein.
   (C)   Purchase Of Stamps: The tax imposed herein shall be paid via the
purchase of a transfer tax stamp. The transfer tax stamp shall be placed on the
deed prior to recording. The stamps shall be purchased by the grantor, his
attorney or designated agent from the village clerk. Any transfer of title
which may occur without the transfer tax stamp will be in violation of this
code.
   (D)   Exemption: The following deeds shall be exempt from the tax levied
herein:
      1.   Deeds to property acquired by any governmental body or from any
governmental body or deeds to property between governmental bodies, or by or
from any corporation, society, association, foundation or institution organized
and operated exclusively for charitable, religious or educational purposes;
      2.   Deeds which secure debt or other obligation;
      3.   Deeds where the actual consideration is less than one hundred
dollars ($100.00);
      4.   Tax deed;
      5.   Deeds of release of property which is security for a debt or other
obligations;
      6.   Deeds of partition;
      7.   Deeds made pursuant to mergers, consolidations, or transfers or
sales of substantially all of the assets of corporations pursuant to plans of
reorganization;
      8.   Deeds made by a subsidiary corporation to its parent corporation for
no consideration other than the cancellation or surrender of the subsidiary's
stock;
      9.   Deeds wherein there is an actual exchange of real estate except that
money difference or money's worth paid from one to the other shall not be
exempt from the tax;
      10.   Deeds representing transfers subject to the imposition of a
documentary stamp tax imposed by the government of the United States, except
that such deeds shall not be exempt from filing the declaration.
Every deed which is tax exempt pursuant to this section shall be presented to
the village clerk so as to be appropriately marked by said village clerk as an
exempt deed eligible for recordation without the payment of tax. At such time
as a deed is presented to the comptroller pursuant to this section, there shall
be filed with the village clerk a certificate setting forth the facts which
justify the exemption of the deed presented. The certificate shall be executed
on behalf of either the grantor or grantee, and shall be on a form provided by
the village clerk. (Ord. 96-977, 3-21-1996)
5-21-3: TRANSFER OF BENEFICIAL INTEREST:
   (A)   Imposition Of Transfer Tax: A real estate transfer tax of fifty
dollars ($50.00) is hereby imposed upon the transfer of any beneficial interest
in any real estate within the corporate limits of the village. This tax levied
shall be in addition to any and all other taxes which may be due and owing.
   (B)   Liability For Tax: The grantor or assignor of any instrument conveying
the beneficial interest in the real estate within the corporate limits shall be
responsible and liable for the tax imposed herein.
   (C)   Purchase Of Stamps: The tax imposed herein shall be paid via the
purchase of a transfer tax stamp. The transfer tax stamp shall be placed on the
deed prior to recording. The stamp shall be purchased by the grantor, his
attorney or designated agent from the village clerk. Any transfer of title
which may occur without the transfer tax stamp will be in violation of this
code.
   (D)   Filing Of Declaration: At such time as the tax levied by this section
is paid, there shall be filed with the village clerk a declaration of actual
consideration paid for the transfer of beneficial interest, which declaration
shall be on a form provided by the village clerk and executed by the person
liable for the tax.
   (E)   Real Estate Transfer Tax Stamps: The tax herein levied and imposed
shall be collected by the village clerk through the sale of real estate
transfer tax stamps.
   (F)   Duty Of Trustee: No trustee of real estate shall accept an assignment
of beneficial interest in real estate located in the village unless tax stamps
in the required amount, as set forth in this section, have been affixed to the
assignment. (Ord. 96-977, 3-21-1996)
5-21-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Notification To Village Building Coordinator: At the time an
application is made for the purchase of tax stamps, the village clerk shall
notify the building coordinator so that an inspection of the subject real
estate can be scheduled. The building coordinator shall notify the seller of
any village code violations and said violations shall be properly rectified
prior to any sale of the real estate.
   (B)   Notification To Water Department: At the time an application is made
for the purchase of tax stamps, the village clerk shall notify the
superintendent of water who shall determine if there are any outstanding water
charges due the village. If there is an outstanding balance due the village,
the same shall be paid prior to the sale of the real estate.
   (C)   Proceeds Of Tax: All proceeds from the collection of this real estate
transfer tax shall be paid into the general corporate fund. (Ord. 96-977, 3-21-
1996)
5-21-5: PENALTIES:
The following penalties shall be imposed upon any person who fails to comply
with the conditions of this chapter:
   (A)   In the event of failure by any person to pay the village clerk the tax
required hereunder when the same is due, said person shall be liable to the
village for such tax together with any fines which may be imposed as set forth
in subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   Any person found guilty in a court of competent jurisdiction of
violating, omitting, or refusing to comply with any of the terms of this
chapter, shall be punished by a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00)
nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each offense. (Ord. 96-977,
3-21-1996)
CHAPTER 22
ALARM SYSTEMS
SECTION:
5-22-1: Definitions
5-22-2: Application For Alarm Systems Authorization; Alarm Licenses
5-22-3: Permits
5-22-4: Revocation Of Permit
5-22-5: False Alarms; Service Charges
5-22-6: Local Alarms
5-22-7: Installation Of Fire Alarms
5-22-8: Special Alarm Provisions
5-22-9: Liability
5-22-10: Penalty
5-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
ALARM BUSINESS: A business by any individual, partnership, corporation, or
other entity selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering,
replacing, moving or installing any alarm system or causing any of the above to
occur in or on any building, structure or facility.
ALARM RECEIPT POINT: That facility whose purpose is to monitor incoming alarm
signals twenty four (24) hours a day and relay the signal information to the
appropriate authorities.
ALARM SYSTEM: Any assembly of equipment, mechanical or electrical, arranged to
signal the occurrence of a fire, medical or police emergency such as illegal
entry or other activity or condition requiring urgent attention and to which
the fire and/or police departments are expected to respond; however, this does
not include audible alarms or fire detectors affixed to automobiles, or other
motor vehicles, nor does it include audible alarm signals which may be heard
only within a building, such as a smoke detector.
ALARM USER: Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or other
organization of any kind in control of any building, structure, or facility
where an alarm system is maintained or activated within the municipality,
except for alarm systems on motor vehicles. Also included are those systems
which employ an audible signal emitting sounds, or a flashing light or beacon
designed to alert or signal persons outside the premises of an alarm
activation.
AUTOMATIC RECORDED VOICE DEVICE: Any electrically operated instrument composed
of sensory apparatus and related hardware which automatically sends over
regular telephone lines (dialer), by direct connection or otherwise, a
prerecorded voice alarm on receipt of a stimulus from the sensory apparatus
that has detected a physical force or condition inherently characteristic of a
fire or unauthorized intrusion. Also included are devices which are stimulated
by direct action by the alarm user or his employees.
EMERGENCY ALARMS: An alarm signal indicating an emergency requiring immediate
action is received when sprinkler system water flow, automatic fire detection,
manual fire alarm box, or other emergency device functions; a supervisory
signal, which is a signal that is produced when a monitored device such as
control valve position, pressure, water level, or fire pump running switch
functions or varies from normal; a trouble signal which indicates a malfunction
in the signaling system circuitry or power failure.
FALSE ALARM: Any emergency alarm signal, either audible outside or delivered to
an alarm receipt point (including the police communications center), or
delivered from an alarm receipt point that requires a response by emergency
equipment where a "no emergency" exists, as a result of equipment malfunction,
improper installation or human error. Failure to follow village ordinances and
directives shall be treated as a false alarm. The initial classification of
alarms as false shall be the responsibility of the fire department or police
department as deemed appropriate. Provisions of other codes, standards and
ordinances shall apply.
FIRE CHIEF: The chief of the fire department of the village of Bedford Park,
Illinois, or his authorized representative.
LICENSE DIVISION: The village clerk's office of the village of Bedford Park
which will be authorized to issue permits and collect the fees as set forth in
this chapter.
LOCAL ALARM: Any signaling system which, when activated, causes an audible
signaling device to be activated in or on the premises within which the system
is installed.
POLICE CHIEF: The chief of police of the village of Bedford Park or his
authorized representative.
PRIMARY TRUNK LINE: A telephone line leading directly into the village of
Bedford Park for the purpose of handling emergency calls on a person to person
basis, or which is identified by a specific number in the telephone direction.
(Ord. 00-1051, 4-20-2000)
5-22-2: APPLICATION FOR ALARM SYSTEMS AUTHORIZATION; ALARM LICENSES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, association,
corporation or other organization, either directly or indirectly to conduct any
business or not for profit enterprise that installs, connects, repairs or
otherwise does any work on emergency alarms without first obtaining a license
to do business as required by the state of Illinois.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, firm or other entity
to install or have installed any emergency alarm designed to protect any
residential, commercial or business premises, or any other building either by
local alarm or by any system that connects to an alarm receipt point without
first obtaining a permit to install and operate said system as required
hereunder.
   (C)   Application for permits shall be made in writing to the village clerk
on or before June 1, unless the permit holder submits a permit application
accompanied by the renewal fee of twenty dollars ($20.00).
   (D)   All permits issued shall be renewed at the end of each permit year.
(Ord. 00-1051, 4-20-2000)
5-22-3: PERMITS:
   (A)   Permit Required: Every alarm user located within the village of
Bedford Park, Illinois, shall apply to the village clerk of Bedford Park for an
alarm user permit for each and every alarm system that is being used. In the
event an alarm system is already in use prior to the effective date hereof, an
application for a permit must be filed within thirty (30) days from the
effective date hereof and if said application is not filed within the thirty
(30) days, the use of that alarm system shall be unlawful until such time that
the permit has been secured.
   (B)   Permit Application; Fee: The application for the permit shall be
accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of twenty dollars ($20.00) for each
application that is filed with the village clerk. The application shall include
the following information:
      1.   Name and address of the residence or business or businesses in or on
which the alarm system has been or will be installed;
      2.   Telephone number of applicant;
      3.   Type of alarm system to be installed;
      4.   Name, address and telephone number of the company responsible for
the installation and maintenance of the alarm system.
   (C)   Confidentiality: The information contained in an application shall be
maintained and restricted to inspection only by the chief of police, fire
chief, or other municipal employees who are assigned the responsibility of
processing said application.
   (D)   Annual Renewal Permit: Each alarm user shall obtain an annual renewal
permit from the village clerk on or before June 1 of each year. The renewal fee
shall be twenty dollars ($20.00). In the event the renewal application is not
made by May 1, the village clerk shall notify the permit holder by certified
mail that revocation shall take place on June 1, unless the permit holder
submits a permit application accompanied by the renewal fee of twenty dollars
($20.00).
   (E)   Inspection: The police chief or his delegate, may inspect burglary
alarm systems and the fire chief or his delegate may inspect all fire alarm
systems located within the village of Bedford Park, both prior to and
subsequent to the issuance of a permit. (Ord. 00-1051, 4-20-2000)
5-22-4: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   (A)   The police chief and/or fire chief may revoke any permit issued
pursuant to the terms and provisions of this chapter upon finding any one or
more of the following violations:
      1.   False information submitted in the alarm permit application;
      2.   Failure to comply with any provision of this chapter;
      3.   Failure to pay any fine charged herein;
      4.   Failure to adhere to any order of the police and/or fire chief;
      5.   Excessive false alarms, (13 or more), within a one year period of
time.
   (B)   Prior to revocation of a permit, the village clerk shall first give
written notice to the alarm user describing the violation and warning them of
said revocation unless the following steps are implemented:
      1.   The alarm user shall have not more than seven (7) days to correct
the violation; or
      2.   The alarm user shall provide to the police chief and/or fire chief
any information or documentation to prove that the violation should be excused.
   (C)   Any alarm user may appeal a decision made either by the police chief
and/or fire chief by filing a written appeal within ten (10) days after the
said decision. The appeal shall be heard either by the fire committee or police
committee at a time designated by it. The committee, in its sole discretion,
may hold a public hearing pertaining to the appeal. The committee shall review
the action of the police chief and/or fire chief and any information provided
by the alarm user and thereafter shall either affirm, affirm with modification
or revise the decision of the police chief and/or fire chief. (Ord. 00-1051, 4-
20-2000)
5-22-5: FALSE ALARMS; SERVICE CHARGES:
   (A)   Warning; Notice: When seven (7) or more false alarms are received
within a twelve (12) month period commencing on July 1 of each year, by the
village clerk, who shall cause a written warning to be sent via first class
mail to the alarm user notifying him of the number and dates of the false
alarms. If further false alarms are received by the police or fire departments,
after the initial seven (7) false alarms, a service charge for those false
alarms received by and responded to by the police or fire departments within
that twelve (12) month period shall be made to the alarm user based upon the
rates set forth in this section. The billing for the twelve (12) month period
shall be renewed on July 1 of each year.
   (B)   Department Response: The police department shall respond to the
activation of a burglary alarm within the limits of the village of Bedford Park
while the fire department shall respond to fire alarms that occur within the
village of Bedford Park.
   (C)   Determination Of Cause: There shall be no penalty for a false alarm
when, upon investigation by the police department or fire department, it is
determined that the false alarm was caused by an uncontrollable extraordinary
circumstance or by a legitimate use of the system.
   (D)   Appeal Investigation: An alarm user may appeal to the chief of police
or the fire chief to set aside any false alarm service charge, if the alarm
user presents written documentation to the chief of police or fire chief that
he has taken repair action to discover and eliminate the cause or causes of any
false alarm. The appeal must be made within fifteen (15) days after receipt of
any correspondence from the police department or fire department documenting a
recorded false alarm. If however, the alarm user, by reason of absence from the
municipality or on any other reasonable basis requests an extension of time to
file this written report, the chief of police or fire chief shall extend the
fifteen (15) day period for a reasonable period. If the alarm user fails to
submit a report within fifteen (15) days or within any extended period, a
service charge shall be made by the alarm user based upon the rates listed in
this section.
   (E)   Service Charge Rates: False alarm service charge rates shall be as
follows:
 
Number of False Alarms Service Charge Per Each False Alarm Per Annum
0 through 6            No charge
7 through 9            $ 25.00 (police) per each response
                       100.00 (fire) per each response
10 or more             75.00 (police) per each response
                       500.00 (fire) per each response
 
   (F)   Permission Required For Testing: No alarm system designed to transmit
emergency message directly to the police department or fire department shall be
tested or demonstrated without first obtaining permission from the police
department communication center. Permission is not required to test or
demonstrate alarm devices not transmitting emergency messages directly to the
police department, unless the messages are to be relayed to the police
department.
   (G)   Failure To Notify Communication Center: Failure to notify the police
department communication center prior to the testing of an alarm system shall
constitute a false alarm.
   (H)   Improper Alarms: The transmission of an alarm signal for a nonfire or
police emergency (i.e., boiler, power, etc., supervision) shall be subject to
the following service charges:
      1.   Police: One hundred dollars ($100.00) per unit.
      2.   Fire: Five hundred dollars ($500.00) per company. (Ord. 00-1051, 4-
20-2000)
5-22-6: LOCAL ALARMS:
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall be allowed to have or install a
local alarm on or in any building, place, or premises within the village of
Bedford Park without first obtaining an alarm permit pursuant to the provisions
set forth in section
5-22-3 of this chapter.
   (B)   All local alarms shall not resemble the sound of any emergency signal
or civil defense alarm or siren. All local alarms shall be equipped with either
an automatic shutoff device which will deactivate within fifteen (15) minutes
of the initial alarm or have the capacity to reset itself within fifteen (15)
minutes.
   (C)   It shall be the sole and exclusive responsibility of the persons,
firms, or corporations owning or operating a local alarm to maintain the system
at the sole expense of the owner/operator. (Ord. 00-1051, 4-20-2000)
5-22-7: INSTALLATION OF FIRE ALARMS:
All fire alarm systems installed in any building shall be required to have the
following devices:
   (A)   Manual pull stations where there are exit discharges to the exterior
of the building. Alarm notification devices, audio visual, visual, or audio are
to be installed in all new construction projects that exceed two thousand
(2,000) square feet in all areas of the building. Every four hundred feet
(400') on center or no greater than two hundred feet (200') of travel. All
installation is to be NFPA 72 compliant;
   (B)   Audio and visual devices in conformance with the Americans with
disabilities act;
   (C)   Alarm systems with digital communication shall have an approved radio
or cellular backup system.
   (D)   Alarm systems shall be continually monitored at an approved UL listed
control station;
   (E)   Strobe units and/or visual devices shall be installed on the exterior
building wall above the fire department connection with a minimum height of ten
feet (10'). Buildings not equipped with a fire department connection shall have
the strobe device/visual device installed at the front entrance of the building
or by the location of the main fire panel.
   (F)   Knox box units shall be installed in all buildings and shall be wired
to the trouble side of the fire alarm system.
   (G)   The location and installation method of all knox boxes shall be
coordinated with the fire prevention bureau. (Ord. 00-1051, 4-20-2000; amd.
Ord. 21-1651, 1-7-2021)
5-22-8: SPECIAL ALARM PROVISIONS:
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall use or cause to be used any
automatic dialing service that selects a primary trunk line of the fire
department or police department of the village of Bedford Park and then
reproduces any prerecorded message to report any robbery, burglary, fire or
other type of emergency.
   (B)   Within sixty (60) days from the effective date hereof, all automatic
protection devices that were keyed to the primary trunk line of either the fire
department or police department shall be disconnected therefrom. (Ord. 00-1051,
4-20-2000)
5-22-9: LIABILITY:
The village of Bedford Park shall not be liable for any defects in the
operation of any alarm system, for any failure or neglect of any person in
connection with the installation and operation of equipment and in the relay of
signals and messages. Furthermore, in the event the village of Bedford Park
deems it necessary to disconnect a defective signaling device, or a local alarm
sounding an alarm in excess of fifteen (15) minutes, the village of Bedford
Park shall incur no liability by such action and the alarm user and alarm
equipment provider shall hold the village of Bedford Park completely free and
harmless from any and all cost, expense and/or claim incurred or may be
incurred by the village of Bedford Park including, but not limited to, attorney
fees and court costs. (Ord. 00-1051, 4-20-2000)
5-22-10: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall, on conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each
offense. (Ord. 00-1051, 4-20-2000)
CHAPTER 23
TOBACCO PRODUCTS
SECTION:
5-23-1: Definitions
5-23-2: Self-Service Sales Prohibited
5-23-3: Exemptions
5-23-4: Minimum Age To Sell Tobacco Products
5-23-5: Penalty
5-23-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words shall have the following
meanings:
TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance containing tobacco leaf, including, but not
limited to, cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, chewing tobacco or dipping
tobacco.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic self- service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
tobacco products. (Ord. 02-1126, 10-18-2002)
5-23-2: SELF-SERVICE SALES PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful to sell, offer to sell, give away or display tobacco
products for sale at any location where the consumer can acquire, purchase or
obtain said products through a self-service vending machine. All such tobacco
products shall be displayed from behind a sales/service counter so that no
consumer can access tobacco products without assistance by an employee or agent
of the owner or lessee of the premises. (Ord. 03-1147, 10-3-2003)
5-23-3: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter shall not apply to taverns subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   All tobacco product vending machines must be placed at a distance of a
minimum of twenty five feet (25') from the entrance of the premises; and
   (B)   All tobacco product vending machines must be directly visible by the
owner/lessee of the premises or his or her employee or agent during the
operation of such machine. (Ord. 02-1126, 10-18-2002)
5-23-4: MINIMUM AGE TO SELL TOBACCO PRODUCTS:
It shall be unlawful for any licensee of a business or cigarette vending
machine to engage, employ or permit any person under eighteen (18) years of age
to sell, deliver or accept payment for tobacco products. (Ord. 02-1126, 10-18-
2002)
5-23-5: PENALTY:
Any owner or person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) per offense. Every day that a violation exists shall be considered a
separate offense. (Ord. 03-1147, 10-3-2003)
CHAPTER 24
PARKING LOT/GARAGE; CAR RENTAL TAX
SECTION:
5-24-1: Definitions
5-24-2: Imposition Of Tax
5-24-3: Payment And Collection Of Tax
5-24-4: Administration Of Tax
5-24-5: Right Of Entry; Books And Records Required
5-24-6: Tickets, Claim Checks, Or Stickers Required
5-24-7: Suit For Collection; Revocation Of License
5-24-8: Interest; Penalties
5-24-9: Disposition Of Proceeds Of Tax
5-24-10: Car Rental Use Tax
5-24-11: Car Rental Occupation Tax
5-24-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
MOTOR VEHICLE: Any vehicle which is self-propelled.
OPERATOR: Any person conducting the operation of a "parking lot or garage", as
defined by this section, or receiving the consideration for parking or storage
of motor vehicles at such parking place.
PARKING LOT OR GARAGE: (A) Any building, structure, premises, enclosure or
other place, whether enclosed or not, except a public way, within the village,
where:
      1.   Two (2) or more motor vehicles are stored, housed or parked for
hire, charge, fee or other valuable consideration in a condition ready for use;
or
      2.   Rent or compensation is paid to the owner, manager or lessee of the
premises for the housing, storing, sheltering, keeping or maintaining of such
motor vehicles; or
      3.   Motor vehicles are stored so as to be available for renting or
leasing.
   (B)   Parking lot or garage shall not include residential parking provided
for single-family homes or multiple-family dwelling units when:
      1.   An arrangement for such parking is provided on a rental basis to
meet the terms of the zoning ordinance for off street parking; and
      2.   The consideration therefor is set forth in the house or apartment
lease or in a separate writing between the landlord and tenant, whether the
parking charge is payable to the landlord or to the operator of the parking lot
or garage.
PERSON: Any natural person, trustee, court appointed representative, syndicate,
association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business trust,
institution, agency, governmental corporation, municipal corporation, district
or other political subdivision, contractor, supplier, vendor, vendee, operator,
user or owner, or any officers, agents, employees, or other representative,
acting either for himself or for any other person in any capacity, or any other
entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and duties. (Ord. 08-1277A,
9-29-2008)
5-24-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
   (A)   1. Parking/Garage Lot Operators: There is hereby levied and imposed
upon the use and privilege of parking a motor vehicle in or upon any "parking
lot or garage", as defined in this chapter, in the village a tax of one dollar
fifty cents ($1.50) for each such motor vehicle parked in or on each parking
lot or garage for every twenty four (24) hour period or any fraction thereof.
      2.   Vehicle Leasing Operators: There is hereby levied and imposed upon
the leasing of motor vehicles in or upon any "parking lot or garage", as
defined in this chapter, in the village a tax of one percent (1%) of revenue as
calculated by the IDR automobile renting and use tax return (ART-1). (Ord. 14-
1435, 2-13-2014)
   (B)   The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax is to
be borne by the person who seeks the privilege of occupying space within said
parking lot or garage, said person hereinafter referred to as "recipient".
   (C)   The tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply to residential off
street parking of house or apartment tenants required by the zoning ordinance,
wherein an arrangement for such tenant parking is provided in the house or
apartment or other lease, or in a separate writing between the landlord and
tenant, whether the parking charge is payable to the landlord or to the
operator of the parking lot, garage, or individual storage space.
   (D)   The treasurer/village administration shall make and publish in
pamphlet form, for distribution to the public, rules and regulations
appropriate to and in furtherance of the purpose of this chapter. (Ord. 08-
1277A, 9-29-2008)
5-24-3: PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF TAX:
   (A)   The tax herein levied shall be paid in addition to any and all other
taxes. It shall be the duty of the operator of every parking lot or garage to
secure said tax from the recipient of the parking privilege and to pay over to
the collector said tax under procedures prescribed by the collector, and as
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Every person required to collect the tax levied by this chapter shall
secure said tax from the recipient at the time he collects the price, charge,
or rent to which it applies. If the recipient is given any invoice, receipt, or
other statement or memorandum of said price, charge, or rent paid or payable,
the tax shall be stated, charged and shown separately on said documents. (Ord.
08-1277A, 9-29-2008)
5-24-4: ADMINISTRATION OF TAX:
   (A)   The village treasurer or his designated agent is designated as the
administration and enforcement officer of the tax hereby imposed on behalf of
the village. (Ord. 04-1162, 7-15-2004)
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility and duty of the village treasurer or
his designated agent to collect all amounts due the village from the operators
of parking lots or garages in the village. (Ord. 04-1162, 7-15-2004; amd. Ord.
08-1277A, 9-29-2008)
   (C)   Every person operating or conducting a parking lot or garage shall
file on or before the last day of each month a tax return showing tax receipts
with respect to each parking place during the immediately preceding month.
(Ord. 08-1277A, 9-29-2008)
5-24-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY; BOOKS AND RECORDS REQUIRED:
   (A)   Right Of Entry: The treasurer/village administration, or any person
certified by him as his deputy or representative, may enter the premises of any
parking lot or garage for inspection and examination of books and records for
the proper administration of this chapter and enforcement of the collection of
the tax imposed. It is unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder or interfere
with the treasurer/village administration or his duly authorized deputy or
representative in the discharge of his duties in the enforcement of this
chapter.
   (B)   Books And Records Required: It shall be the duty of every person
operating a parking lot or garage in the village to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the treasurer/village administration shall at all
times have full access. These books and records shall include all cash register
receipts, all tickets and voided stickers required by section
5-24-6 of this chapter, and a daily sheet showing:
      1.   The number of motor vehicles parked in or on each lot or garage,
segregated on a daily, weekly, monthly or other basis; and
      2.   The actual parking lot or garage tax receipts collected from all
parking transactions.
   (C)   Retention Of Records: All books and records required by this section
shall be retained for at least four (4) years after the end of the calendar
year in which they are created. (Ord. 08-1277A, 9-29-2008)
5-24-6: TICKETS, CLAIM CHECKS, OR STICKERS REQUIRED:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person operating a parking lot or garage
in the village to issue to all persons who seek the privilege of parking a
motor vehicle a distinctive ticket or sticker in the form and manner provided
by this section. Tickets and stickers shall be kept in numerical sequence.
   (B)   Unless the parking lot or garage is equipped with an automated ticket
dispenser which triggers the opening of a gate that otherwise prevents access
to the parking lot or garage by motor vehicles, tickets shall consist of three
(3) parts, one of which shall be issued by the operator to each recipient; the
second part shall be retained by the operator, who shall indicate on the back
thereof the time of arrival and departure of the motor vehicle; and the third
part shall be attached to the vehicle parked for the purpose of identification.
All three (3) part tickets shall contain identical serial numbers on each part
of the ticket. Every ticket issued by an operator shall contain the name of the
operator of the parking lot or garage and the address of the parking lot or
garage upon or in which the motor vehicle is parked and shall state whether the
parking service rendered is on a daily, weekly or monthly basis. The operator
shall retain all tickets for the same length of time as other books and
records.
   (C)   Every person who operates a parking lot or garage in the village, in
addition to issuing tickets as required by this section, shall require a
sticker to be affixed upon each motor vehicle that is permitted to park on a
weekly or monthly basis, or other basis longer than one day. Each sticker shall
show the name of the operator and address of the parking lot or garage upon or
in which the motor vehicle is parked; an identification number in sequence to
be placed on motor vehicles so to be parked; the number of the license plate of
the motor vehicle and the issuing state; and an identification as to whether
parking is on a weekly or monthly or other basis longer than one day,
indicating starting and ending dates of the week, month or other period.
   (D)   The operator shall keep a book record of all stickers issued, showing
the date of issuance, the identification number of the sticker and the total
parking charge imposed. The operator shall remove or cause to be removed and
voided all stickers at the end of the week, month, or other applicable period
and shall cause a new sticker to be affixed upon the motor vehicle at the
beginning of each new period, with recordation thereof also placed in the
operator's book. The operator shall retain all voided stickers for the same
length of time as other books and records. (Ord. 08-1277A, 9-29-2008)
5-24-7: SUIT FOR COLLECTION; REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Suit For Collection: Whenever any person shall fail to pay any taxes
herein provided, or when any operator of a parking lot or garage in the village
shall fail to collect the tax hereby imposed from any person who has the
ultimate liability for payment of the same, the village attorney shall, upon
request of the village, bring or cause to be brought an action to enforce the
payment of said tax on behalf of the village in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Revocation Of License: If the village president, after a hearing held
by or for him, shall find that any parking lot or garage operator has wilfully
evaded his responsibility to collect the tax imposed by this chapter, he may
suspend or revoke all village licenses, including, but not limited to, any
liquor license issued to and held by such person. Said person shall have an
opportunity to be heard at such hearing, to be held not less than five (5) days
after notice is given of the time and place thereof, addressed to him at his
last known place of business. Pending notice, hearing, and finding, any license
of which such person may possess may be temporarily suspended by the village
president. Any suspension or conviction resulting from such hearing shall not
relieve or discharge any civil liability for nonpayment of the tax due. (Ord.
04-1162, 7-15-2004; amd. Ord. 08-1277A, 9-29-2008)
5-24-8: INTEREST; PENALTIES:
   (A)   In the event of failure by any parking lot or garage operator to
collect and pay to the village treasurer, the tax required under this chapter
within ten (10) days after the same shall be due, a penalty shall be assessed
and interest shall become due.
   (B)   Interest shall accumulate and be due upon said tax and penalty amount
at the rate of one percent (1%) per month, commencing as of the first day of
the month following the month for which the tax was to have been collected
until the tax, penalty, and interest are paid by any parking lot or garage
operator who failed to collect and remit the tax imposed by this chapter on a
timely basis. (Ord. 04-1162, 7-15-2004; amd. Ord. 08-1277A, 9-29-2008)
5-24-9: DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS OF TAX:
All proceeds resulting from the imposition of the tax under this chapter,
including penalties and interest, shall be paid into the treasury of the
village and shall be credited to and deposited in the general corporate fund of
the village. (Ord. 08-1277A, 9-29-2008)
5-24-10: CAR RENTAL USE TAX:
   (A)   A tax is imposed upon the privilege of using an automobile in the
village which is rented from a renter outside the state and which is titled or
registered with an agency of this state's government in the village at the rate
of one percent (1%) of the rental price of the automobile while this section is
in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-11-8.
   (B)   The tax provided for in this section shall be collected from the
persons whose state address for titling or registration purposes is given as
being in the village.
   (C)   The tax imposed by this section shall be collected by the state
department of revenue on behalf of the village. (Ord. 04-1162, 7-15-2004)
5-24-11: CAR RENTAL OCCUPATION TAX:
   (A)   A tax is imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of renting
automobiles in the village at the rate of one percent (1%) of the gross
receipts from rentals made in the course of that business while this section is
in effect, in accordance with the provisions of 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/8-11-7.
   (B)   Every person engaged in this business in the village shall file on or
before the last day of each calendar month, the report to the state department
of revenue required by law.
   (C)   At the time the report is filed, there shall be paid to the state
department of revenue the amount of tax imposed on account of the renting of
automobiles during the preceding month, which amount shall, in turn, be
distributed by the department to the village in the manner and time provided
for by law. (Ord. 04-1162, 7-15-2004)
CHAPTER 25
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
SECTION:
5-25-1: Definitions
5-25-2: Site Plan Review
5-25-3: Exterior Display
5-25-4: License Required
5-25-5: Issuance Of License
5-25-6: Fees
5-25-7: Inspection
5-25-8: Expiration Of License
5-25-9: Suspension
5-25-10: Revocation
5-25-11: Transfer Of License
5-25-12: Business Record
5-25-13: Restrictions
5-25-14: Hours Of Operation
5-25-15: Penalties
5-25-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall be defined as follows:
ADULT BOOKSTORE AND/OR VIDEO STORE: An establishment having as a significant or
substantial portion of its stock in trade books, magazines, periodicals or
other printed matter, and/or photographs, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides, tapes, records or other forms of visual or audio
representations which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
ADULT CARD, GIFT, OR NOVELTY STORE: An establishment having as a significant or
substantial portion of its stock in trade items, such as cards, games, articles
of clothing and novelties which are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS: The operation of a business, or any use thereof,
of which any portion involves an activity distinguished or characterized by its
emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, including, but not limited to, the
operation of an adult card, gift or novelty store, an adult bookstore and/or
video store, adult mini-motion picture theater, adult motel, adult restaurants,
adult motion picture arcade, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, massage parlor, nude or seminude model studio, or sexual
encounter establishment.
ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building or any portion or
portions thereof having a capacity from six (6) to fifty (50) persons, where,
for any form of consideration (including a coin or token inserted into a coin
or token operated projector, video screen, or other image producing device)
patrons may view films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or similar
photographic electronic reproductions in which a significant or substantial
portion of the total presentation time is devoted to the showing of materials
that are distinguished by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT MOTEL: A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment which: a)
offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration, provides
patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or other electronic or photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, and has a sign visible from the
public right of way which advertises the availability of such transmissions,
films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides or other photographic
reproductions; or b) offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that
is less than eight (8) hours; or c) allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping
room to subrent the room for a period of time that is less than eight (8)
hours. "Rent" and "subrent" when used in reference to an adult motel, shall
mean the act of permitting a sleeping room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE: An establishment in which electronic, electrical,
or mechanical still or slide projectors, motion picture projectors, video
screens, closed circuit television transmissions or other image producing
devices operable by insertion of a coin or token or for other consideration are
maintained for presentation of images to five (5) or fewer persons at a single
time per such device and where the images presented are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: An enclosed building with a capacity of fifty
(50) or more persons where, for any form of consideration, patrons may view
closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion pictures,
videocassettes, slides or similar electronic or photographic reproductions in
which a significant or substantial portion of the total presentation time is
devoted to the showing of materials that are distinguished by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
ADULT THEATER: A public or private establishment which: a) features topless
dancers, strippers, "go-go" dancers, male or female impersonators, lingerie or
bathing suit fashion shows; b) not infrequently features entertainers who
display "specified anatomic areas"; or c) features entertainers who by reason
of their appearance or conduct perform in a manner which is designed primarily
to appeal to the prurient interest of the patron or features entertainers who
engage in, or are engaged in, explicit simulation of "specified sexual
activities".
ESCORT: A person who, for any form of consideration, agrees or offers to act as
a companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
ESCORT AGENCY: A person or business association who furnished, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
MASSAGE PARLORS: Any place where, for any form of consideration or gratuity,
massage, alcohol rub, administration of fomentations, electric or magnetic
treatments, or any other treatment, manipulation of the human body occurs as
part of or in connection with "specified sexual activities" or where any person
providing such treatment, manipulation or service related thereto, exposes his
or her "specified anatomical areas" or massages the "specified anatomical
areas" of the customer unless prescribed by a physician or registered physical
and massage therapist. The definition of "adult entertainment business" shall
not include the practice of massage in any licensed hospital nor by a licensed
physician, surgeon, chiropractor or osteopath, nor by any nurse or technician
working under the supervision of a licensed physician, surgeon, chiropractor or
osteopath, nor by trainers for any amateur, semiprofessional or professional
athlete or athletic team or school athletic program.
NUDE, SEMINUDE MODEL STUDIO: Any place where a person, who regularly appears in
a state of nudity or seminudity, is provided for money or any form of
consideration to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured,
photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons.
SEXUAL ENCOUNTER ESTABLISHMENT: A business or commercial establishment that, as
one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration, a
place where two (2) or more persons may congregate, associate, or consort for
the purpose of "specified sexual activities" when one or more of the persons is
nude or seminude. The definition of "sexually oriented businesses" shall not
include an establishment where a medical practitioner, psychologist,
psychiatrist, or similar professional person licensed by the state engages in
medically approved and recognized sexual therapy.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: (A) Less than completely or opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus or female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and
   (B)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if completely
or opaquely covered.
SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY: (A) Prostitution or promotion of prostitution;
dissemination of obscenity; sale, distribution or display of harmful material
to a minor; sexual performance by a minor; possession or distribution of child
pornography; public lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child;
engaged in organized criminal activity; sexual assault; molestation of a child;
gambling or distribution of a controlled substance; or any similar offenses to
those described above under the criminal or penal code of other states or
countries;
   (B)   For which: 1) less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense; 2)
less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of conviction or the date
of release from confinement for conviction whichever is the later date, if the
conviction is a felony offense; or 3) less than five (5) years have elapsed
since the date of the last conviction or the date of release from confinement
from the last conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are
of two (2) or more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses
occurred within any twenty four (24) month period;
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: (A) Human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation or arousal;
   (B)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, fellatio or sodomy;
   (C)   Fondling, kissing or other erotic touching of specified anatomical
areas;
   (D)   Flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual relationship;
   (E)   Masochism, erotic or sexually oriented torture, beating or the
infliction of pain;
   (F)   Erotic touching, fondling or other such contact with an animal by a
human being. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-2: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
Prior to the issuance of any permit for the construction or occupancy of an
adult use, the applicant for said permit(s) must first proceed through the site
development and plan review procedure set forth in the zoning ordinance.
However, site plan review for an adult use shall be considered by the planning
and zoning commission within sixty (60) days of filing. After consideration by
the planning and zoning commission, findings shall be forwarded to the village
board and considered within sixty (60) days of the planning and zoning
commission's consideration. The planning and zoning commission and the village
board may place conditions on the development and operation of the adult use
related to site plan, floor plan, construction materials, lighting, parking and
circulation, ingress and egress, landscaping and screening, and signage in
order to assure that the design and operation of the adult use is in
conformance with all village ordinances and is compatible with surrounding
uses. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-3: EXTERIOR DISPLAY:
No adult entertainment business shall be conducted in any manner that permits
the observation of any material depicting, describing or relating to "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" from any public way or from
any property not registered as an adult use. This provision shall apply to any
display, decoration, sign, show window or other opening. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-
2004)
5-25-4: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an adult entertainment
business without a valid adult entertainment business license issued by the
village pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   An application for a license shall be made on a form provided by the
village.
   (C)   All applicants must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter. The application may request and the applicant shall provide such
information (including fingerprints) as are needed to enable the village to
determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications established in this
chapter.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate an adult use is an individual, the
person must sign the application for a license as applicant. If a person who
wishes to operate an adult entertainment business is other than an individual,
each individual who has a twenty percent (20%) or greater interest in the
business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each applicant
must be qualified under the following section and each applicant shall be
considered a licensee if the license is granted.
   (E)   The completed application for an adult entertainment business license
shall contain the following information:
      1.   If the applicant is an individual, the individual shall state his/
her legal name and any aliases and submit proof that he/she is eighteen (18)
years of age;
      2.   If a partnership, the partnership shall state its complete name and
the names of all partners, whether the partnership is general or limited, and a
copy of the partnership agreement, if any;
      3.   If a corporation, the corporation shall state its complete name, the
date of incorporation, evidence that the corporation is in good standing under
the laws of its state of incorporation, the names and capacity of all officers,
directors and principal shareholders, and the name and address of the
registered corporate agent.
   (F)   If the applicant intends to operate the adult entertainment business
under a name other than that of the applicant, he/she must state: 1) the
business' fictitious name, and 2) submit any required registration documents.
   (G)   Whether the applicant has been convicted of any "specified criminal
activity" as defined in this chapter, and, if so, the specified criminal
activity involved, the date, place and jurisdiction of each.
   (H)   Whether the applicant has had a previous license under this chapter or
similar ordinances from another city or county denied, suspended or revoked,
including the name and location of the business which the permit was denied,
suspended or revoked as well as the date of the denial, suspension or
revocation. If the applicant has been a partner in a partnership or similar
ordinance in another jurisdiction or an officer, director or principal
stockholder of a corporation that is or was licensed under this chapter and a
license has previously been denied, suspended or revoked, include the name and
location of the business for which the permit was denied, suspended or revoked
as well as the date of denial, suspension or revocation.
   (I)   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses under this chapter or
other similar ordinance from another city or county and if so, the names and
locations of such other licensed businesses.
   (J)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises
including statement of total floor area occupied by the business. The sketch or
diagram need not be professionally prepared, but it must be drawn to a
designated scale or drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the
premises. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-5: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Within ninety (90) days after receipt of a completed adult use
business license application, the village shall approve or deny the issuance of
a license to an applicant. The village shall approve the issuance of a license
unless it determines by a preponderance of the evidence by one or more of the
following:
      1.   The applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age;
      2.   The applicant is overdue in payment to the village of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed against or imposed upon him/her in relation to
business;
      3.   The applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for the issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request
for information on the application form;
      4.   The applicant has been denied a license by the village to operate an
adult entertainment business within the preceding twelve (12) months or whose
license to operate an adult use business has been revoked within the preceding
twelve (12) months;
      5.   The applicant has been convicted of a "specified criminal activity"
defined in this chapter;
      6.   The premises to be used for the adult use business has not been
approved by the fire and building departments as being in compliance with
applicable laws and ordinances;
      7.   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid;
      8.   The applicant of the proposed establishment is in violation of or is
not in compliance with any of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face, the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address
of the adult use business. All licenses shall be posted in a conspicuous place
at or near the entrance to the business so that they may be easily read at any
time.
   (C)   No adult use business license shall be issued unless the premises at
which the adult use will operate is in conformance with the restrictions set
forth in the zoning ordinance. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-6: FEES:
Every application for an adult use business license (whether a new license or
for renewal of an existing license) shall be accompanied by a two hundred fifty
dollar ($250.00) nonrefundable application and investigation fee. The annual
fee for an adult entertainment business permit is one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-7: INSPECTION:
   (A)   An applicant or licensee shall permit representatives of the police
department, fire and building departments or other village, or village
designated, departments or agencies to inspect the premises of the adult
entertainment business for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law at
any time it is occupied or open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates an adult entertainment business, or his agent or
employee, violates this chapter if he/she refuses to permit such lawful
inspection of the premises at any time it is occupied or open for business.
(Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-8: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   Each license shall expire on January 1 after it was issued and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in section
5-25-4 of this chapter. Application for renewal shall be made at least thirty
(30) days before the expiration date and when made less than thirty (30) days
before the expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be affected.
   (B)   If the village denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the village finds that the basis for denial of the license has been
corrected or abated, the applicant must be granted a license. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-
5-2004)
5-25-9: SUSPENSION:
The village may suspend a license for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days
if, after a hearing, it determines that a licensee or an employee of a
licensee: a) violated or is not in compliance with any section of this chapter;
b) refused to allow an inspection of the adult entertainment business premises
as authorized by this chapter; or c) knowingly permitted gambling by any person
on the adult entertainment business premises.
If the licensee or an employee of the licensee has been found guilty in a court
of law of a violation of this chapter, no hearing is necessary prior to
suspension of the license. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-10: REVOCATION:
   (A)   The village shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in section
5-25-9 of this chapter occurs and the license has been suspended within the
preceding twelve (12) months or if the licensee is convicted of any specified
criminal activity.
   (B)   The village shall revoke a license if it determines, after a hearing
that:
      1.   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process;
      2.   A licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use or sale of alcohol
or controlled substances on the premises;
      3.   A licensee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the premises;
      4.   A licensee knowingly operated the adult entertainment business
during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      5.   A licensee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation or other sex act to occur in or on the
licensee's premises;
      6.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the village, county or state
for any taxes or fees past due;
      7.   A licensee has knowingly or intentionally facilitated another
commission of the offense of public indecency.
   (C)   If the village revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year and the licensee shall not be issued an adult entertainment business
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective. If
subsequent to revocation, the village finds that the factual basis for the
revocation did not occur, the applicant may be granted a license.
   (D)   After denial of an application, or denial of a renewal of an
application, or suspension or a revocation of any license, the applicant or
licensee may seek prompt judicial review of such action in any court of
competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-11: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer his/her license to another nor shall a licensee
operate an adult entertainment business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address on the license. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-12: BUSINESS RECORD:
All adult uses shall file a verified report with the village showing the
licensee's gross receipts and amounts paid to employees during the preceding
calendar year. In addition, all adult entertainment businesses shall maintain
and retain for a period of two (2) years the names, addresses and alias of all
persons employed, including independent contractors, by the licensee. (Ord. 04-
1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-13: RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Adult Theater: At adult theaters all dancing and other performances
shall occur on a stage intended for that purpose which is raised at least two
feet (2') from the level of the floor. No dancing or other performances shall
occur closer than ten feet (10') to any patron. In addition, no performer shall
fondle, caress, or otherwise touch any patron and no patron shall fondle,
caress or otherwise touch any performer. No patron shall directly pay or give
any gratuity to any performer and no performer shall solicit any pay or
gratuity from any patron. Gratuities may be indirectly given to performers by
placing the gratuity on the stage.
   (B)   Adult Motion Picture Arcade: At adult motion picture arcades no
booths, stalls or partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms used for
the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of entertainment shall have
doors, curtains or portal partitions, but all such booths, stalls or
partitioned portions of a room or individual rooms so used shall have at least
one side open to an adjacent public room so that the area inside is visible to
persons in the adjacent public room. All such described areas shall be lighted
in such a manner that the persons in the areas used for viewing motion pictures
or other forms of entertainment are visible from the adjacent public rooms, but
such lighting shall not be of such intensity as to prevent the viewing of the
motion pictures or other offered entertainment. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-14: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No adult use shall be open prior to eleven o'clock (11:00) A.M. or after eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
5-25-15: PENALTIES:
   (A)   In addition to whatever penalties are applicable under the Illinois
criminal code, if a person fails or refuses to obey or comply with or violates
any provision of this chapter, such person, upon conviction of such offense,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) or by imprisonment not to exceed six (6)
months or both. Each violation or noncompliance shall be considered a separate
offense. Each day of continued violation or noncompliance shall be considered
as a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful actions in any court of competent jurisdiction as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation or noncompliance. Such actions may include an
equitable action for injunctive relief or an action at law for damages.
   (C)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the village. (Ord. 04-1163, 8-5-2004)
ARTICLE A. LINGERIE DISPLAYS
SECTION:
5-25A-1: Lingerie Defined
5-25A-2: Restrictions
5-25A-3: Penalty
5-25A-1: LINGERIE DEFINED:
Lingerie is a term for women's fashion undergarments. It derives from the
French word "lin" for linen. It applies to those women's undergarments designed
to be visually appealing or erotic, typically incorporating materials such as
Lycra, nylon (nylon tricot), polyester, satin, lace and/or silk, and not
applied to functional cotton undergarments. (Ord. 07-1238, 8-2-2007)
5-25A-2: RESTRICTIONS:
Except for businesses located within the adult use zoning district, it shall be
prohibited for any business to conduct any type of lingerie show or promotion.
This restriction shall not apply to a business which primarily sells lingerie
products or materials. (Ord. 07-1238, 8-2-2007)
5-25A-3: PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person found to be in violation of this article shall be subject
to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per offense. Each day of a continued violation
or noncompliance shall be considered as a separate offense.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the village from taking such
other lawful actions in any court of competent jurisdiction as is necessary to
prevent or remedy any violation or noncompliance. Such actions may include an
equitable action for injunctive relief or an action at law for damages.
   (C)   All remedies and penalties provided for in this section shall be
cumulative and independently available to the village. (Ord. 07-1238, 8-2-2007)
CHAPTER 26
VIDEO GAMING
SECTION:
5-26-1: Definitions
5-26-2: License Fee
5-26-3: Operation Of Terminal
5-26-4: Non-Transferable
5-26-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words shall have the meanings ascribed to them by this section:
LICENSED VIDEO GAMING LOCATION: A licensed establishment, licensed fraternal
establishment, licensed veterans establishment, or licensed truck stop
establishment.
TERMINAL OPERATOR: An individual, partnership, corporation or limited liability
company licensed to own, service, and maintain video gaming terminals for
placement in licensed establishments, licensed truck stop establishments,
licensed fraternal establishments, or licensed veterans establishments.
VIDEO GAMING TERMINAL (VGT): An electronic video gaming machine that plays or
simulates the play of a video game authorized by the board upon the insertion
of cash. Authorized video games include, but are not limited to, video poker,
line up, and blackjack. The VGT must utilize a video display and
microprocessors in which the player may receive free games or credits that can
be redeemed for cash. VGT does not include a terminal that directly dispenses
coins, cash, or tokens or is for amusement purposes only. (Ord. 12-1397, 11-15-
2012)
5-26-2: LICENSE FEE:
   (A)   An annual license fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00) shall be paid
to the village by the terminal operator for each video gaming terminal located
in a licensed location. Said fees are nonrefundable. Each licensed terminal
location shall have no more than six (6) video gaming terminals.
   (B)   A licensed large truck stop establishment, as defined by the Video
Gaming Act, may operate up to ten (10) video gaming terminals on its premises
at any one time. (Ord. 12-1397, 11-15-2012; amd. Ord. 19-1613, 11-7-2019; amd.
Ord. 21-1660, 3-18-2021)
5-26-3: OPERATION OF TERMINAL:
Operators of all video gaming terminals shall comply with all local, state, and
federal regulations along with the following rules:
   (A)   No license issued hereunder shall permit the operation of a video
gaming terminal in a manner which will disturb the peace of persons otherwise
properly within the premises where the terminal is located. No license issued
hereunder shall permit the operation of such terminal in such a manner as to
constitute a nuisance in fact.
   (B)   No video gaming terminal may be played unless all state and Village
licenses and registrations required herein, including but not limited to, all
state and Village licenses required by the Act and any amendments thereto, and
any Village business licenses or occupancy certificates are current and valid.
   (C)   No video gaming terminal may be played except during the legal hours
of operation allowed for the consumption of alcoholic beverages at the licensed
video gaming establishment. This restriction does not apply to licensed truck
stops as defined by the Illinois Gaming Act.
   (D)   No licensee shall cause or permit any person under the age of twenty-
one (21) years to use or play a video gaming terminal.
   (E)   Licensees shall comply with all rules of the Illinois Gaming Board and
the Village of Bedford Park.
   (F)   Licensees shall comply with any order of ruling of the Village Board
or its officers pertaining to the operation of the video gaming terminals.
   (G)   Licensees shall not allow or cause to allow any actions or conduct
which is injurious to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare of
the people of the Village of Bedford Park.
   (H)   Licensee shall prohibit any individual who is visibly intoxicated from
entering or remaining in the gaming area.
   (I)   The gaming area shall be physically monitored during hours of
operation by an employee over the age of twenty-one (21).
   (J)    All gaming establishments shall clearly display a valid Village
business license.
A violation of any of the provisions herein may result in the issuance of a
fine as determined by the Village Code and/or suspension or revocation of the
Video Gaming Operators License. (Ord. 19-1613, 11-7-2019)
5-26-4: NON TRANSFERABLE:
No license issued herein shall be transferable or assignable without Village
Board approval. (Ord. 19-1613, 11-7-2019)
CHAPTER 27
MINIMUM WAGE AND PAID SICK LEAVE OPT OUT
SECTION:
5-27-1: Minimum Wage Opt Out
5-27-2: Paid Sick Leave Opt Out
5-27-1: MINIMUM WAGE OPT OUT:
The Village of Bedford Park hereby exercises its right to "opt out" of the
newly enacted Cook County minimum wage ordinance which is to become effective
July 1, 2017. The Village Clerk is hereby authorized to notify any and all
appropriate Cook County governmental officials as to the adoption of this
section. (Ord. 16-1522A, 11-17-2016)
5-27-2: PAID SICK LEAVE OPT OUT:
The Village of Bedford Park hereby elects to opt out of the Cook County earned
sick leave ordinance (file no. 16-4229) and the provisions contained in said
ordinance shall not be effective against a business located in Bedford Park.
(Ord. 17-1533, 1-12-2017)
CHAPTER 28
VEHICLE FUEL TAX
SECTION:
5-28-1: Definitions
5-28-2: Imposition Of Tax
5-28-3: Liability For Payment
5-28-4: Collection Of Tax
5-28-5: Remittal Of Tax; Filing Of Return
5-28-6: Penalties
5-28-7: Exemptions
5-28-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, whenever any of the following words, terms or
definitions are used herein, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in
this section.
DEALER: Every person engaged in the business of selling motor fuel, and who has
an established place of business for such purposes within the corporate limits
of the Village of Bedford Park.
MOTOR FUEL: All volatile and inflammable liquids produced, blended or
compounded for the purpose of, or which are suitable or practicable for,
operating motor vehicles.
PERSON: Any natural person, receiver, administrator, executor, conservator,
assignee, trust in perpetuity, trust, estate, firm, copartnership, joint
venture, club, company, business trust, domestic or foreign corporation,
association, syndicate, society or any group of individuals acting as a unit,
whether mutual, cooperative fraternal, nonprofit, or otherwise. Whenever the
term "person" is used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the
term as applied to associations shall mean the owners or part owners thereof,
and as applied to corporations, the officers thereof.
RETAIL: The sale for any good and valuable consideration to a person for use as
a consumer. (Ord. 18-1574, 6-7-2018)
5-28-2: IMPOSITION OF TAX:
There is hereby imposed and shall immediately accrue and be collected a tax
upon the privilege of purchasing motor fuel at retail in the Village of Bedford
Park at the rate of four cents ($0.04) per gallon. In the event motor fuel is
dispensed by a unit of measure other than the U.S. gallon, then the tax shall
be imposed at the same ratio of four cents ($0.04) as the unit of measure is to
the U.S. gallon. (Ord. 18-1574, 6-7-2018; amd. Ord. 21-1658, 3-4-2021)
5-28-3: LIABILITY FOR PAYMENT:
The ultimate incidence of and liability for payment of said tax shall be borne
by the retail purchaser. The tax herein levied shall be in addition to any and
all other taxes. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impose the tax
upon the occupation of selling motor fuel. It shall be the duty of every dealer
or motor fuel retailer to secure said tax from each retail purchaser and remit
to the Village of Bedford Park said tax under rules and regulations prescribed
by the Village and as otherwise provided by this chapter. (Ord. 18-1574, 6-7-
2018)
5-28-4: COLLECTION OF TAX:
Every dealer or motor fuel retailer in the Village of Bedford Park shall have
the duty to collect the Motor Fuel Tax from each retail purchaser at the time
the dealer collects payment for the motor fuel. (Ord. 18-1574, 6-7-2018)
5-28-5: REMITTAL OF TAX; FILING OF RETURN:
On the 30th day of the month, every dealer or motor fuel retailer in the
Village of Bedford Park shall file a report of sale of motor fuel in the
previous month to the Village's Finance Director on such forms and in such
manner as prescribed by the Village together with the appropriate tax payment.
Every taxpayer shall keep accurate books and records, including original source
documents. All such books and records shall at all times during business hours
be subject to and available for inspection by the Village of Bedford Park. The
Village of Bedford Park shall have the right to audit the bookkeeping journal
of any dealer or motor fuel retailer and shall have the right to review the
records. (Ord. 18-1574, 6-7-2018)
5-28-6: PENALTIES:
   (A)   If for any reason any tax return is not filed when due, a penalty
equal to ten percent (10%) of the tax which would be due shall be assessed.
   (B)   If for any reason any tax is not paid when due, a penalty equal to ten
percent (10%) of the tax which is due shall be assessed.
   (C)   Interest of one percent (1%) per month or fraction thereof will also
be assessed on the unpaid tax.
   (D)   The Village may bring an action to enforce this chapter and collect
any unpaid tax or penalty and interest in any court of competent jurisdiction.
Each failure to collect the tax imposed hereby and each failure to pay such tax
over to the Village shall constitute a separate violation. (Ord. 18-1574, 6-7-
2018)
5-28-7: EXEMPTIONS:
The tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply to school districts or units of
local government within the corporate limits of the Village of Bedford Park.
(Ord. 18-1574, 6-7-2018)
CHAPTER 29
MUNICIPAL CANNABIS RETAILERS' OCCUPATION TAX ON GROSS RETAIL SALES OF ADULT-USE
RECREATIONAL CANNABIS
SECTION:
5-29-1: Tax Imposed; Rate
5-29-2: Collection Of Tax By Retailers
5-29-1: TAX IMPOSED; RATE:
   (A)   A tax is hereby imposed upon all persons engaged in the business of
selling cannabis, other than cannabis purchased under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Pilot Program Act, at retail in the Village at the rate of
three percent (3%) of the gross receipts from these sales made in the course of
any such business.
   (B)   The imposition of this tax is in accordance with the provisions of
Section 8-11-22, of the Illinois Municipal Code (65 ILCS 5/8-11-22). (Ord. 19-
1612, 9-26-2019)
5-29-2: COLLECTION OF TAX BY RETAILERS;
   (A)   The tax imposed by this chapter shall be remitted by such retailer to
the Illinois Department of Revenue (Department). Any tax required to be
collected pursuant to or as authorized by this ordinance and any such tax
collected by such retailer and required to be remitted to the Department shall
constitute a debt owed by the retailer to the State. Retailers may reimburse
themselves for their seller's tax liability hereunder by separately stating
that tax as an additional charge, which charge may be stated in combination, in
a single amount, with any State tax that sellers are required to collect.
   (B)   The taxes hereby imposed, and all civil penalties that may be assessed
as an incident thereto, shall be collected and enforced by the Department. The
Department shall have full power to administer and enforce the provisions of
this section. (Ord. 19-1612, 9-26-2019)
CHAPTER 30
EATING ESTABLISHMENT TAX
SECTION:
5-30-1: Definitions
5-30-2: Tax Imposed; Rate, Payment, Collection, And Exemptions
5-30-3: Contents And Inspections Of Books And Records
5-30-4: Transmittal Of Tax Return And Revenue By Owner; Delinquency
5-30-5: Enforcement Of Payment
5-30-6: Suspension or Revocation of Licenses; Hearing
5-30-7: Violations; Penalties
5-30-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall apply to this chapter as written unless context
indicates or requires a different meaning:
 
                   The consideration received, valued in money, whether
                   received in money or otherwise, including cash, credits,
                   property, and services at a place for eating for food and
                   beverages furnished at the place for eating which are
GROSS RECEIPTS:    consumed at the place for eating. "Gross receipts" do not
                   include amounts paid for Federal, State and local taxes,
                   including the tax levied by this chapter, and do not include
                   amounts paid as gratuities for the employees of the place
                   for eating.
OWNER:             Any person having any ownership interest in or conducting
                   the operation of a place for eating.
                   Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association,
                   joint stock company, joint venture, public or private
PERSON:            corporation, club, fraternal organization, or a receiver,
                   executor, trustee, conservator or other representative
                   appointed by order of any court.
                   All premises located within the corporate limits of the
                   Village of Bedford Park where food and/or beverages are sold
                   at retail and are intended to be, or are permitted to be,
                   consumed on the premises. "Places for eating" include, but
                   are not limited to restaurants, cocktail lounges, taverns,
PLACES FOR EATING: banquet facilities, hotel/motel room service, mobile food or
                   beverage vehicle, coffee shop, prepared food service area
                   within a grocery or convenience store, and food courts or
                   kiosks in an indoor shopping mall which provide food/
                   beverages that are ready to eat. Beverages include non-
                   alcoholic and alcoholic liquor, including beer, wine and
                   spirits. (Ord. 21-1668, 5-20-2021)
 
5-30-2: TAX IMPOSED; RATE; PAYMENT, COLLECTION AND EXEMPTIONS:
   (A)   There is hereby levied and imposed upon owners of places for eating a
tax at the rate of one percent (1%) of gross receipts received for food and
beverages furnished by the owner on or after August 1, 2021.
   (B)   The owner of a place for eating may collect an amount from persons who
purchase food and beverages at the place for eating which shall reimburse the
owner for the tax imposed on the owner by this chapter.
   (C)   The tax levied by this chapter shall be paid in addition to any and
all other taxes and changes.
   (D)   In the event that there is a sale of food and beverages on credit, an
owner shall not be liable for payment of the tax imposed by this chapter on
such a sale until he receives payment for the sale. (Ord. 21-1668, 5-20-2021)
5-30-3: CONTENTS AND INSPECTIONS OF BOOKS AND RECORDS:
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every owner to keep accurate and complete
books and records to which the Village Treasurer, or their deputies or
representatives, shall at all times have full access, which records shall
include a daily sheet showing the amount of gross receipts received during the
day.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer or any person certified by either of them as
their deputy or representative, may enter the premises of any place for eating
for inspection and examination of books and records in order to effectuate the
proper administration of this chapter and to assure the enforcement of the
collection of the tax imposed.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, hinder, or interfere
with the Village Treasurer, or their duly authorized deputies or
representatives, in the discharge of their duties in the performance of this
chapter. (Ord. 21-1668, 5-20-2021)
5-30-4: TRANSMITTAL OF TAX RETURN AND REVENUE BY OWNER; DELINQUENCY:
   (A)   The owner or owners of each place for eating shall file tax returns
showing the gross receipts received during each calendar month period upon
forms prescribed by the Village Treasurer. Returns for each calendar month
shall be due on or before the 20th day of the next calendar month, i.e., the
return for January shall be due on or before the 20th day of February; the
return for February shall be due on or before the 20th day of March, etc. At
the time of the filing of said tax returns, the owner shall pay to the Village
Treasurer all taxes due for the period to which the tax return applies.
   (B)   If, for any reason, any tax is not paid when due, a penalty at the
rate of one percent (1%) per thirty (30) day period, or portion thereof, from
the day of delinquency shall be added and collected. (Ord. 21-1668, 5-20-2021)
5-30-5: ENFORCEMENT OF PAYMENT:
Whenever any person shall fail to pay the tax imposed by this chapter, the
Village Attorney shall, upon request of the Village President, bring or cause
to be brought an action to enforce the payment of the tax on behalf of the
Village in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 21-1668, 5-20-2021)
5-30-6: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES; HEARING:
If the Village President, after a hearing held by or for him, shall find that
any owner has willfully avoided the payment of any tax imposed by this chapter,
he may suspend or revoke all Village licenses held by such tax evader. The
owner shall have an opportunity to be heard at such hearing to be held not less
than seven (7) days after being mailed notice of the time when and the place
where the hearing is to be held, addressed to him at his last known place of
business. Any suspension or revocation of any license shall not release or
discharge the owner from his civil liability for the payment of the tax nor
from prosecution from such offense. (Ord. 21-1668, 5-20-2021)
5-30-7: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting, or refusing to comply with or unlawfully resisting or opposing the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter, except when otherwise
specifically provided, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine
of not less than two hundred ($200.00) for the first offense, and not less than
three hundred dollars ($300.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty ($750.00) for
the second and each subsequent offense in any one hundred eighty (180) day
period; provided, however, that all actions seeking the imposition of fines
only shall be filed as quasi-criminal actions subject to the provisions of the
Illinois Civil Practice Law (735 ILCS 5/2-101 et seq.).
   (B)   A separate and distinct offense shall be regarded as committed each
day upon which a person shall continue any violation of this chapter or permit
any such violation to exist after notification thereof.
   (C)   Any owner subject to the penalties provided by this section shall not
be discharged or released from the payment of any tax. (Ord. 21-1668, 5-20-
2021)
TITLE VI
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
ZONING
SECTION:
6-1-1: Definitions
6-1-2: District Boundaries
6-1-3: R-A1 Residential District Regulations
6-1-4: R-A Residential District Regulations
6-1-5: B-1 Business District Regulations
6-1-5-1: M-U Mixed-Use Business District Regulations
6-1-6: H-1 Heavy Manufacturing District Regulations
6-1-6-1: Definitions Regarding Hazardous Or Industrial Wastes
6-1-6-2: Cicero Avenue Corridor Overlay District
6-1-7: L-1 Light Manufacturing District Regulations
6-1-8: F Motor Freight Terminal District Regulations
6-1-9: T Bulk Storage Of Flammables District Regulations
6-1-9-1: O Office District Regulations
6-1-10: Nonconforming Uses
6-1-11: Height And Area Exceptions And Regulations
6-1-12: Building Line Setback
6-1-13: Violation; Penalty; Enforcement
6-1-14: Board Of Appeals
6-1-15: Occupancy Permits (Rep. by Ord. 667, 7-7-1978)
6-1-16: Interpretation, Purpose And Conflict
6-1-17: Boundaries Of Districts
6-1-18: Changes And Amendments
6-1-19: Multi-Family Dwelling Regulations
6-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words in the singular number
include the plural number, and words in the plural number include the singular
number; and the word "building" includes the word "structure". Any words not
herein defined shall be construed as defined in the building code.
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS: A subordinate building or portion of main building the use
of which is incidental to that of the main building.
BLOCK: That property abutting on one side of the street between the two (2)
nearest intersecting streets, railroad rights of way or other natural barriers.
BUILDING AREA: The maximum horizontal projected area of a building and its
accessory buildings, excluding open steps, terraces and cornices projecting not
more than thirty inches (30").
BUILDING LINE: The outside of the main wall of the structure in the direction
of measurement.
COMMUNITY RESIDENCE: A single dwelling unit occupied on a relatively permanent
basis as a single housekeeping unit, in a family like environment, by not more
than six (6) unrelated persons with disabilities, plus paid professional
support staff provided by a sponsoring agency, either living with the residents
on a twenty four (24) hour basis, or present whenever residents with
disabilities are present at the dwelling, and which complies with the zoning
regulation for the district in which the site is located.
DEPTH OF LOT: The horizontal distances between the front and rear lot lines.
DEPTH OF REAR YARD: The horizontal distances between the rear line of the
building and the rear lot line.
DISABILITY: A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or
more of a person's major life activities, impairs their ability to live
independently, or a record of having such an impairment, or being regarded as
having such an impairment, but such term shall not include current use of, nor
addiction to, a controlled substance.
DISTRICT: A section of the village of Bedford Park for which the regulations
governing the height, area and use of buildings and premises are the same.
DWELLING UNIT: One or more rooms which are arranged, designed or used as living
quarters for a family or for a community residence as a single housekeeping
unit. A dwelling unit includes a bathroom and kitchen facilities in addition to
sleeping and living areas.
FAMILY: Any number of individuals who are related by blood, marriage or
adoption, living and cooking together on the premises as a single housekeeping
unit.
HEIGHT OF BUILDINGS: The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level or
its equivalent established grade opposite the middle of the front building to
the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line for mansard
roofs; and to the mean height level (between eaves and ridge) for gable and hip
roofs. Where a building is located upon a terrace or slope, the height may be
measured from the average ground level at the building wall.
LOT: Land occupied or to be occupied by one building and accessory buildings
and uses and including the open spaces required under these regulations. A lot
may be land so recorded on the records of the recorder of deeds of Cook County,
Illinois.
LOT LINES: The lines bounding a "lot" as defined herein.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building in which freight brought by motor truck is
assembled, sorted or stored for routing in intrastate or interstate shipment;
and for the purpose of this chapter shall include any building, structure or
vacant land occupied for the storage, warehousing, parking or garaging of motor
trucks used as common, contract or special carriers operating under intrastate
or interstate certificated rights.
NONCONFORMING USE: A building or premises occupied for a use that does not
conform with the regulations of the district in which it is situated.
PROPERTY LINE: Shall have the same meaning as "lot lines".
REAR YARD: An open space (unoccupied except for accessory buildings) on the
same lot with a building, between the rear line of the building and the rear
line of the lot, for the full width of the lot, except as modified by side yard
restrictions.
SETBACK: An open unoccupied space on the same lot with a building between the
building and the side line of the lot and extending from the front lot line to
the rear yard.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A detached building having accommodations for and
customarily occupied by one family, and including a private garage.
STREET LINE: The dividing line between the street and the lot line.
STREET WALL: The main wall of a building nearest to and facing on a street,
including sun parlors, but not including bay windows nor ground story porches
nor piazzas that are not closed in. (Ord. 37, 9-11-1941; amd. Ord. 91-841, 5-
16-1991; Ord. 95-960, 10-5-1995; Ord. 10-1340, 9-16-2010)
6-1-2: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
In order to classify, regulate and restrict the location of trades and
industries, and the location of buildings designed for specified uses; to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter erected or
altered; to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of lot areas; and to
regulate and determine the area of yards, courts and other open spaces within
and surrounding such buildings, the village is hereby divided into the
following classes of districts. The use, height and area regulations are
uniform in each class of district and said districts shall be known as:
R-A1 Residential district
R-A Residential district
B-1 Business district
P-D Park district
S-D School district
H-1 Heavy manufacturing district
F Motor freight terminal district
L-1 Light manufacturing district
T Bulk storage of flammables district
O Office district
M-U Mixed-use business district
Cicero Avenue corridor overlay district (Ord. 615, 7-19-1973; amd. Ord. 91-845,
7-3-1991; Ord. 03-1133, 2-6-2003)
R-A1 Residential District:
Description of Bedford Park, subdivision in "A" District Bedford Park a
subdivision of that part of the South 1544 feet of the Northwest 1/4 of Section
24, Township 38 North, Range 12 East of the Third Principal Meridian; lying
North of the South 50 feet thereof; West of the West line of a strip of land 70
feet in width lying West of and adjoining the right of way of the Baltimore and
Ohio Chicago Terminal Railroad; and East of the centerline of Archer Avenue.
Lot No. 1 to Lot No. 23 on North Side of 65th Street, inclusive.
Lot No. 26 to Lot No. 53 on South Side of 65th Street, inclusive.
Lot No. 203 to Lot No. 247 on North Side of 66th Place, inclusive.
Lot No. 248 to Lot No. 263 on South Side of 66th Place, inclusive.
Lot No. 326 to Lot No. 343 on North Side of 67th Street, inclusive.
Lot No. 346 to Lot No. 365 on South Side of 67th Street, inclusive.
R-A Residential District:
Lot No. 54 to Lot No. 86 on North Side of 65th Place, inclusive.
Lot No. 87 to Lot No. 120 on South Side of 65th Place, inclusive.
Lot No. 121 to Lot No. 158 on North Side of 66th Street, inclusive.
Lot No. 161 to Lot No. 202 on South Side of 66th Street, inclusive.
A strip of land ninety feet by one hundred twenty five feet (90' x 125') in
size situated on the northwest corner of 77th Street and Menard Avenue which is
located within the southeast quarter (except the north 33' thereof) of the
southeast quarter of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter of Section
29, Township 38 North, Range 13, East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook
County, Illinois.
B-1 Business District:
All of Lot 24 on North Side of 65th Street.
All of Lot No. 25 on East Side of Archer Avenue between 65th Street and 65th
Place.
(Ord. 615, 7-19-1973)
That part of the northeast quarter of Section 28, Township 38 North, Range 13,
East of the Third Principal Meridian, lying west of the west line of the east
fifty seven feet (57') of said Section 28, and southeasterly of the
southeasterly line of State Road, being fifty feet (50') from the centerline
and at right angles thereto; and that part of the northwest quarter of the
southeast quarter of Section 28, Township 38 North, Range 13, East of the Third
Principal Meridian, lying south of the south line and west of the westerly line
of the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois right of way; east of the
east line of the west twenty feet (20') of the northwest quarter of the
southeast quarter of Section 28, north of the north line of the south twenty
feet (20') of the north half of the northwest quarter of the southeast quarter
of said Section 28, and northwesterly of the northwesterly line of State Road,
being fifty feet (50') from the centerline and at right angles thereto.
   (Ord. 680, 3-15-1979)
P-D Park District:
Lot No. 268 to Lot No. 294 inclusive, Lot No. 295 to Lot No. 321 inclusive.
Lot No. 366 to Lot No. 396 inclusive, streets and alleys vacated.
Lots No. 159, No. 160, No. 344, all inclusive. Commencing at the center of
Section 24, Township 38 North, Range 12, East of the Third Principal Meridian
and running thence North along the North and South 1/4 line of said Section 24,
fifty feet (50') to a point, thence west along a line fifty feet (50') North
of, and parallel to, the East and West 1/4 line of Section 24, twenty eight and
thirty five one-hundredths feet (28.35') to a point for a place of beginning.
Thence north to a point twenty eight and sixty nine one-hundredths feet
(28.69') west of, and one hundred fifty seven and eighty seven one-hundredths
feet (157.87') north of the center of Section 24, thence northwesterly along a
curve, convex to the southwest, having a radius of two thousand eight hundred
twenty five and forty three one-hundredths feet (2825.43') to the north line of
the south one thousand five hundred forty four feet (1,544') of the Northwest
1/4 of Section 24, thence West along said North line to the East line of a
public alley, which East line is the East line is the Easterly boundary of the
Bedford Park Subdivision, thence southeasterly and south along said East line
of the said public alley to an intersection with a line fifty feet (50') north
of, and parallel to, the East and West 1/4 line of Section 24, thence east
along said parallel line seventy feet (70') to the place of beginning.
S-D School District:
Lot No. 264 to Lot No. 267, both inclusive, Lot No. 322 to Lot No. 325 both
inclusive.
H-I Heavy Manufacturing District:
Section 24, Township 38 North, Range 12 East of the Third Principal Meridian
described by beginning at the intersection of the Westerly line of the right of
way of the Baltimore and Ohio Chicago Terminal Railroad with the North line of
the South one thousand five hundred and forty four feet (1,544') of the
northwest quarter of said Section 24; thence southerly along the Westerly line
of said railroad right of way to the South line of the north half of the south
half of said Section; thence east along said line to the East line of said
Section; thence north along the East line of said Section 24 to an intersection
with the South line of W. 63rd Place, thence east along said South line of W.
63rd Place to the center line of Harlem Avenue diverted being a line fifty feet
(50') westerly from and parallel with the Westerly right of way line of the
Belt Railway, thence southwesterly along the centerline of Harlem Avenue to an
intersection with a line one thousand seven hundred fifty seven and seventy
eight one-hundredths feet (1,757.78') south of the North line of Section 24
aforesaid; thence west along said line to the West line of the East half of the
Northeast Quarter of Section 24; thence north along said line to a point one
thousand forty three feet (1,043') south of the North line of said Section 24,
being also the South line of West Sixty Fourth Place, thence west along said
line to the West line of the northeast quarter of Section 24 aforesaid; thence
south along said line to the North line of the South one thousand five hundred
and forty four feet (1,544') of the Northwest quarter of said Section 24 thence
west along said line to the place of beginning: ALSO:
The South three-fourths of all of Section 19, 20 and 21 in Township 38 North,
Range 13 East of the Third Principal Meridian.
Commencing at the South East Corner of Section 14, Township 38 North, Range 12
East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook County, Illinois; Thence north
along the East line of said Section 14 to the South Westerly line of the
Baltimore and Ohio Chicago Terminal Railroad; thence northwesterly along the
Southwesterly line of the Baltimore and Ohio Chicago Terminal Railroad to the
Southeasterly line of the right of way of the Alton Railroad; thence
Southwesterly along the Southeasterly line of the Alton Railroad to a line
fourteen hundred feet (1400') South of and parallel to the North line of
Section 23, Township 33 North, Range 12, East of the Third Principal Meridian;
thence East along said parallel line to the West line of Section 24, Township
33 North, Range 12, East of the Third Principal Meridian; thence South along
the West line of Section 24, to a point fifty feet (50') North of the East and
West Center line of said Section 24; thence east on a line fifty feet (50')
North of and parallel to the East and West center line of said Section 24 three
hundred two and three tenths (302.3) feet more or less to a point on the center
line of Archer Avenue, thence North and Northeasterly along the center line of
Archer Avenue to the Southwesterly Limits of the Village of Summit; thence
Northwesterly along the Southwesterly and South Limits of the Village of Summit
to the Southeast corner of Section Fourteen (14).
Beginning at the intersection of the South Limits of the Village of Summit with
the Westerly right of way line of the Baltimore and Ohio Chicago Terminal
Railroad and running thence Southeasterly along said Westerly line to the North
line of the South 1544 feet of the Northwest quarter (1/4) of Section 24,
Township 38 North, Range 12 East of the Third Principal Meridian, thence West
along said North line to the Center line of Archer Avenue, thence Northeasterly
along the said Center line of Archer Avenue to the South line extended West, of
West 64th Place, being also the South Limits of the Village of Summit, thence
East along said South line of West 64th Place extended to the place of
beginning.
That part lying West of the B & O C.T. R.R. of the South fifty feet (50') of
the N.W. 1/4 of Section 24, Township 38 North, Range 12, East of the Third
Principal Meridian and all that part of Section 23, Township 38 North, Range
12, East of the Third Principal Meridian, lying South of the North 1400 feet
thereof, West of the center line of Archer Avenue, and East of the Alton
Railroad, all in Cook County, Illinois.
Parcel "A": The North West 1/4 of the South West 1/4 of Section 28; the North
1/2 of the South East 1/4 of Section 29; the North 1/4 of the North East 1/4 of
the South West 1/4 of Section 29; the North 1/4 of the East 1/3 of the North
West 1/4 of the South West 1/4 of Section 29; the West 2/3rds of the North West
1/4 of the South West 1/4 of Section 29; the North 1/4 of the South East 1/4 of
Section 30, and the North East 1/4 of the South West 1/4 of Section 30, all in
Township 38 North, Range 13, East of the Third Principal Meridian; also
Parcel "B": That part of the North 1/2 of the North West 1/4 of the South East
1/4 of Section 28, Township 38 North, Range 13, East of the Third Principal
Meridian, lying North of State Road.
Block No. 9: Beginning at a point in the intersection of the Center line of
Lacrosse Avenue produced from the North and the Southerly Street Line of West
65th Street; thence East along said Southerly Street line of West 65th Street
to a point 165.36 feet West of the Center line of Cicero Avenue; thence
Southerly on a line a distance of 102.38 feet to a point on a line 1195.26 feet
North of and parallel to the Southerly line of the Northeast Quarter (N.E. 1/
4), Section twenty one (21) Township thirty eight (38) North, Range Thirteen
(13) East of the Third Principal Meridian, said point being 165.36 feet West of
the Center line of Cicero Avenue; thence Easterly on said line parallel to the
South line of said Northeast Quarter (N.E. 1/4) a distance of 165.36 feet to a
point in the center line of Cicero Avenue, thence South on said center line of
Cicero Avenue, a distance of 307.26 feet, thence Westerly on a line parallel
with one 888 feet North of the South line of the said Northeast Quarter (N.E.
1/4), Section twenty one (21) Township thirty eight (38) North, Range thirteen
(13) East of the Third Principal Meridian, a distance of 266 feet; thence North
on a line parallel to the center line of LaCrosse Avenue produced from the
North a distance of 307.26 feet to a point in a line parallel with and 1195.26
feet North of the South line of the Northeast Quarter (N.E. 1/4), Section
twenty one (21), Township thirty eight (38) North, Range Thirteen (13) East of
the Third Principal Meridian, said point being 266 feet West of the Center line
of Cicero Avenue; thence West on said last mentioned line to a point in its
intersection with the center line of La Crosse Avenue produced from the North;
thence North on the Center line of LaCrosse Avenue, produced from the North to
the place of beginning.
A tract of land lying in the Northwest 1/4 and Northeast 1/4 of Section 23, and
in the Southeast 1/4 of Section 14, described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the Southeasterly right-of- way line of the
Gulf, Mobile and Ohio Railroad and the Southwesterly right-of-way line of
Public Service Company; thence Northwesterly along the Northwesterly extension
of said Southwesterly right-of-way line of Public Service Company to the
Northwesterly line of Lot 141 in the Sanitary District Trustees Subdivision of
right-of-way; thence Northeasterly along said Northwesterly line of Lot 141 and
Northwesterly line of Lots 139 and 134 to the Northeasterly line of Lot 134
being the Southwesterly right-of-way line of the Baltimore & Ohio Chicago
Transfer Railroad; thence Southeasterly along said Northeasterly line of Lot
134 to the Northeast corner thereof; thence South along the East line of Lot
134 to the Southeast corner thereof, being on the Northwesterly line of the
Illinois & Michigan Canal; thence Northeasterly along said Northwesterly line
and Canal to the Southeasterly extension of the Southwesterly right- of-way
line of the Baltimore & Ohio Chicago Transfer Railroad; thence Southeasterly
along said extended line to the aforementioned Southeasterly right-of-way line
of the Gulf, Mobile & Ohio Railroad; thence Southwesterly along said
Southeasterly right-of-way line to the point of beginning, all in Township 38
North, Range 12, East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook County,
Illinois.
The following parcels of land above contained are hereby excluded from H-
I heavy manufacturing district zoning:
That part of the South 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 28 lying
Northwesterly of State Road; and also, the South 1/2 of the Northwest 1/4 of
said Section 28; and also, the South 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 29;
and also, the North 35.00 feet of that part of the Southeast 1/4 of said
Section 29 lying West of the East 1385.00 feet thereof; and also, the South 1/
2 of the Northwest 1/4 of said Section 29; and also, the North 35.00 feet of
the Southwest 1/4 of said Section 29; and also, the South 1/2 of the Northeast
1/4 of said Section 30; all in Township 38 North, Range 13 East of the Third
Principal Meridian, in Cook County, Illinois.
The Northeast 1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 30, Township 38 North, Range
13 East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook County, Illinois.
The East 400 feet of the North 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 30, Township
38 North, Range 13 East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook County,
Illinois.
The East 400 feet of the South 1000 feet of the Southeast 1/4 of Section 19,
Township 38 North, Range 13 East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook
County, Illinois.
The West 400 feet of the South 1000 feet of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 20,
Township 38 North, Range 13 East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook
County, Illinois.
(Ord. 615, 7-19-1973)
F Motor Freight Terminal District:
The W. 33 feet of the N.E. 1/4 of the S.E. 1/4 (except the N. 35 feet thereof)
of Section 30, Township 38 North, Range 13, East of the Third Principal
Meridian; also
The N.W. 1/4 of the S.E. 1/4 (except the N. 35 feet thereof) of Section 30,
aforesaid; also
The W. 1/2 (except the E. 263 feet thereof) of the N.E. 1/4 of the S.W. 1/4 of
Section 30 aforesaid; also
The E. 1/2 of the N.E. 1/4 of the S.W. 1/4 (except the N. 35 feet thereof) of
Section 30, aforesaid; also
The E. 33 feet of the W. 1/2 of the N.E. 1/4 of the S.W. 1/4 (except the N. 35
feet thereof) of Section 30, as aforesaid.
(Ord. 615, 7-19-1973; amd. Ord. 680, 3-15-1979)
L-1 Light Manufacturing District:
The N.E. 1/4 of the S.E. 1/4 (except the N. 35 feet thereof and excepting also
the W. 33 feet of the N.E. 1/4 of said S.E. 1/4) of Section 30, Township 38
North, Range 13, East of the Third Principal Meridian; also
The N.W. 1/4 of the S.W. 1/4 (except the N. 35 feet thereof and excepting also
the E. 1/3 of the S. 3/4 of the N.W. 1/4 of said S.W. 1/4) of Section 29,
Township 38 North, Range 13, East of the Third Principal Meridian; also
The N. 1/4 (except the N. 35 feet thereof) of the N.E. 1/4 of the S.W. 1/4 of
Section 29, aforesaid; also
The N. 1/2 (except the N. 35 feet thereof lying east of the E. 1385 feet) of
the S.E. 1/4 of Section 29 aforesaid,
All in Cook County, Illinois.
That part of the South 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 28 lying
Northwesterly of State Road; and also, the South 1/2 of the Northwest 1/4 of
said Section 28; and also, the South 1.2 of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 29;
and also, the North 35.00 feet of that part of the Southeast 1/4 of said
Section 29 lying West of the East 1385.00 feet thereof; and also, the South 1/
2 of the Northwest 1/4 of said Section 29; and also, the North 35.00 feet of
the Southwest 1/4 of Section 29; and also, the South 1/2 of the Northeast 1/
4 of Section 30; and also, the Southeast 1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 of said
Section 30, all in Township 38 North, Range 13 East of the Third Principal
Meridian, in Cook County, Illinois.
The Northeast 1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 30, Township 38 North, Range
13 East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook County, Illinois.
T Bulk Storage Of Flammables District:
All of that part of the South half of Section 23, Township 38 North, Range 12,
East of the Third Principal Meridian, lying West of a line 400 feet from and
parallel to the Northwesterly line of Archer Avenue and East of the
Southeasterly right of way of the Gulf Mobile & Ohio R.R.; also, that part of
the Southeast quarter of Section 22, Township 38 North, Range 12, East of the
Third Principal Meridian, lying East of the Southeasterly line of the Gulf
Mobile & Ohio R.R.; all in Cook County, Illinois.
The boundaries of these districts are indicated upon the zoning map of the
village of Bedford Park, which map is hereto attached and made a part of this
chapter. The said zoning map of Bedford Park and all the notations, references
and other matters shown thereon shall be as much a part of this chapter as if
the notations, references and other matters set forth by said map were all
fully described herein.
Except as hereinafter provided:
            (1)   No building shall be erected or altered, nor shall any
building or premises be used for any purposes, other than is permitted in the
district in which such buildings or premises are located.
            (2)   No building shall be erected or altered to exceed in height
the limit herein established for the district in which such building is
located.
            (3)   No building shall be erected, nor shall any existing building
be altered, enlarged or rebuilt, nor shall any open spaces surrounding any
building be encroached upon or reduced in any manner, except in conformity with
the area regulations hereby established for the district in which such building
is located.
A tract of land lying in the southeast 1/4 of section 22, and in the southwest
1/4 and northwest 1/4 of section 23, described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the Southeasterly right-of- way line of the
Gulf, Mobile & Ohio Railroad and the Southwesterly right-of-way line of Public
Service Company; thence Northwesterly along the Northwesterly extension of said
Southwesterly right-of-way line of Public Service Company to the Northwesterly
line of Lot 141 in the Sanitary District Trustees Subdivision of right-of-way;
thence Southwesterly along the Northwesterly line of Lots 141, 145 and 146 in
said Sanitary District Trustees Subdivision of right-of-way to the South line
of the Southeasterly 1/4 of Section 22 aforementioned; thence East along the
South line of said Southeast 1/4 to the Southeasterly right-of-way line of the
Gulf, Mobile & Ohio Railroad; thence Northeasterly along said Southeasterly
right-of-way line to the point of beginning, all in Township 38 North, Range
12, East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook County, Illinois.
O Office District:
The East 400 feet of the North 1/2 of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 30, Township
38 North, Range 13 East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook County,
Illinois.
The East 400 feet of the South 1000 feet of the Southeast 1/4 of Section 19,
Township 38 North, Range 13 East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook
County, Illinois.
The West 400 feet of the South 1000 feet of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 20,
Township 38 North, Range 13 East of the Third Principal Meridian, in Cook
County, Illinois.
(Ord. 615, 7-19-1973)
M-U Mixed-Use Business District:
That part of the South 1/2 of Section 23, Township 38 North Range 12 East of
the Third Principal Meridian, being bounded and described as follows:
Commencing at the northeast corner of the southeast 1/4 of said Section 23,
thence north 89 degrees, 52 minutes, 17 seconds west, along the north line of
said southeast 1/4, 730.00 feet; thence south 00 degrees, 25 minutes, 12
seconds east 270.00 feet; thence south 47 degrees, 02 minutes, 59 seconds west
278.18 feet; thence south 00 degrees, 25 minutes, 12 seconds east 407.76 feet;
thence south 89 degrees, 59 minutes, 50 seconds west, along a line 1787.22 feet
north of and parallel with, the south line of the southwest 1/4 of said Section
23, 53.04 feet; thence south 00 degrees, 04 minutes, 05 seconds east 294.61
feet to a line 1492.61 feet north of and parallel with the south line of the
southwest 1/4 of said Section 23; thence southwesterly along a curved line,
convex southeasterly, having a radius of 4672.98 feet, being 465.81 feet
northwesterly of and concentric with the northwesterly line of Archer Avenue as
recorded September 28, 1940 by Document No. 12554043, an arc length of 258.45
feet to the point of beginning, said point also being the most westerly corner
of Lot 2 of GATX Subdivision No. 1, a subdivision in the south half of Section
23 aforesaid, recorded as Document 90595389; thence north 51 degrees, 04
minutes, 35 seconds west, along a line radial to said northwesterly line of
Archer Avenue, a distance of 83.91 feet; thence south 89 degrees, 55 minutes,
55 seconds west 588.68 feet; thence south 00 degrees, 13 minutes, 54 seconds
east 582.94 feet; thence south 89 degrees, 55 minutes, 55 seconds west 1120.87
feet to the east line of the west 2356.90 feet of the southwest 1/4 of said
Section 23; thence south 00 degrees, 13 minutes, 54 seconds east, along the
last described line, 690.00 feet to a line that is 65.00 feet north of, and
parallel with the south line of the southwest 1/4 of said Section 23; thence
north 89 degrees, 59 minutes, 50 seconds east, along the last described line,
286.90 feet to the east line of the southwest 1/4 of said Section 23; thence
south 89 degrees, 55 minutes, 30 seconds east, along a line that is 65.00 feet
north of and parallel with the south line of the southeast 1/4 of said Section
23, 119.34 feet; thence north 89 degrees, 12 minutes, 58 seconds east 1002.40
feet to a point on the northwesterly line of Archer Avenue as recorded
September 28, 1940, by Document No. 12554043, that is 80.00 feet north of the
south line of the southeast 1/4 of said Section 23; thence north 39 degrees, 17
minutes, 28 seconds east, along the said northwesterly line of Archer Avenue,
1134.15 feet to a point of curve; thence continuing along the said
northwesterly line of Archer Avenue, along a curve convex to the southeast,
having a radius of 5158.79 feet, an arc distance of 33.10 feet to the most
southerly corner of Lot 2 of GATX Subdivision No. 1, aforesaid; thence north 51
degrees, 04 minutes, 35 seconds west, along a line radial to said northwesterly
line of Archer Avenue, said line also being the southwesterly line of Lot 2 of
GATX Subdivision No. 1, aforesaid, a distance of 485.81 feet to the point of
beginning, all in Cook County, Illinois.
(Ord. 91-845, 7-3-1991)
Cicero Avenue Corridor Overlay District:
The Cicero Avenue corridor overlay zoning district is hereby created and is
designated on the official village zoning map. (Ord. 03-1133, 2-6-2003)
6-1-3: R-A1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Use: No buildings or premises shall be used and no building shall be
hereafter erected or altered within any A1 residential district, unless
otherwise provided in this chapter, except for the following uses:
Churches and temples.
Community residence. The sponsoring agency must obtain certification of
occupancy prior to establishing a family community residence. No dwelling unit
shall be occupied as a community residence until a certificate of occupancy has
been issued by the building coordinator.
Libraries and public museums, public buildings.
Parks, recreation buildings and country clubs not conducted as a business or
for profit.
Schools and colleges.
Single-family dwellings.
Temporary buildings used for construction purposes, for a period not to exceed
one year.
Accessory uses incident to the above uses, including private garages,
professional offices, home occupations and signs advertising premises for sale
or rent, but not including the conduct of any retail or wholesale business or
manufacture. (Ord. 145, 8-3-1961; amd. Ord. 91-841, 5-16-1991)
   (B)   Height: No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed
thirty five feet (35') in height, or two and one-half (21/2) stories of
fourteen feet (14') per story.
   (C)   Area:
Rear yard: There shall be a rear yard having a minimum of not less than forty
feet (40') from rear building line to the rear lot line.
Side yard: There shall be one side yard having a width of not less than six
feet (6'), beginning from the lot line to the building line.
There shall be a side yard having a width of not less than thirteen feet (13'),
beginning at the building line extending to the lot line.
   (D)   Intensity Of Use Of Lot: No building with its accessory buildings
shall occupy in excess of forty percent (40%) of the area of an interior lot,
nor in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the area of a corner lot. No dwelling,
or group of dwellings, shall hereafter be erected or altered to accommodate or
make provisions for more than one family per dwelling in A1 residential
districts.
   (E)   Setback: See section
6-1-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 145, 8-3-1961)
   (F)   Community Residences:
      1.   No dwelling unit shall be occupied as a community residence until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the building coordinator. No such
certificate shall be issued for a community residence unless the following
requirements are adhered to:
         (a)   The community residence is located at least six hundred feet
(600') from any existing community residence as measured from lot line to lot
line; and
         (b)   Each applicant must provide satisfactory evidence that he or she
is duly licensed and/or certified to operate a group home with both the state
and all other governmental regulatory agencies.
         (c)   The number of individuals who may be allowed to reside in a
community residence shall be in accordance with the building code 1  of the
village, but in no event shall more than six (6) individuals be allowed to
reside in said residence.
         (d)   Nothing herein shall restrict or eliminate the requirement of
compliance with the provisions of this code to ensure the health, safety and
welfare of its residents.
      2.   The building coordinator may revoke a certificate of occupancy if
its license or certification, or operator license or certification to operate a
community residence, is revoked. A certificate of occupancy is not transferable
to another operator or to another location. (Ord. 91-841, 5-16-1991)
   (G)   Garages And Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Definitions:
    ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building which is subordinate to and serves a
principal building or principal use.
   GARAGE: When used in this subsection, the word "garage" shall mean a
building or premises or portion thereof used for the intended housing or care
of self-propelled vehicles. (Ord. 95-933, 6-1-1995)
      2.   Location: Garages or accessory buildings in a detached position
shall be built at least eighteen inches (18") from the side lot line and twenty
four inches (24") from the rear lot lines, or off any easement. (Ord. 98-1020,
11-19-1998)
      3.   Width:
Thirty five foot lots: Garages or accessory buildings to be constructed on
thirty five foot (35') lots shall not occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of
the rear yard which shall include the area used for a carport and/or canopy.
Fifty foot lots: Garages or accessory buildings to be constructed on fifty foot
(50') lots shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the rear yard
which shall include the area used for a carport and/or canopy.
      4.   Attached And Detached: A detached garage must be placed ten feet
(10') from the rear side of a residence. All garages closer than three feet
(3') from a residence must be attached to the residence and the foundation
design must match the residence foundation design. For an attached garage, a
gas ledge must also be constructed abutting the back wall of the residence, not
less than six inches (6") in height. All walls of an attached garage that abut
habitable rooms must be covered with five-eighths inch (5/8") drywall to the
underside of roof sheathing. All doors between a garage and living quarters
must be protected with a one and three-fourths inch (13/4") solid core wood
door, or labeled fire door, wall of house to be fire rated also.
      5.   Height: The total height of any garage shall not exceed fourteen
feet (14') in height to the peak of the roof, measured from the finished floor
of garage.
      6.   Intensity Of Use Of Rear Yard: No accessory buildings or garages
shall occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the interior rear yard. (Ord. 95-
933, 6-1-1995)
      7.   Roofs: The only type of roofs that will be allowed to be placed on
garages or accessory buildings are as follows:
         (a)   Hip;
         (b)   Gable;
         (c)   No dormers or roof extensions are permitted to be constructed
for any garage structure. Roof extensions are only permitted if the existing
roof is removed and replaced with a new roof not exceeding the height
limitation in subsection (G)5 of this section and type of roof in subsections
(G)7(a) and (G)7(b) of this section. (Ord. 98-1020, 11-19-1998)
The installation of a flat roof on accessory buildings or garages shall be
prohibited.
      8.   Standard Requirements: Various requirements relative to the
construction of accessory buildings and garages are as shown in exhibit A and
are hereby incorporated into this subsection and all applicants shall comply
with said requirements.
(Ord. 95-933, 6-1-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See title VII, chapter 5 of this code.
6-1-4: R-A RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Use: No building shall be hereafter erected or altered within any A
residential district, unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, except for
the uses permitted in the A residential districts and the following uses:
      1.   Single-family dwellings.
      2.   Community residence. The sponsoring agency must obtain certification
of occupancy prior to establishing a family community residence. No dwelling
unit shall be occupied as a community residence until a certificate of
occupancy has been issued by the building coordinator. (Ord. 145, 8-3-1961;
amd. Ord. 91-841, 5-16-1991)
   (B)   Height: No building shall hereafter be erected or altered to exceed
thirty five feet (35') in height or two and one-half (21/2) stories of fourteen
feet (14') per story.
   (C)   Area:
Rear yard: There shall be a rear yard having a width of not less than forty
feet (40') from rear building line to the rear lot line.
Side yard: There shall be one side yard having a width of not less than five
feet (5') beginning at the building line and extending to the lot line.
      1.   There shall be one side yard having a width of not less than six
feet (6'), beginning at the building line and extending to the lot line.
      2.   There shall be not less than eleven feet (11') between two (2)
dwellings, beginning at the building line of one dwelling and extending to the
building line of the adjoining dwelling.
   (D)   Intensity Of Use Of Lot: No building with its accessory buildings
shall occupy in excess of thirty percent (30%) of the area of an interior lot,
nor in excess of fifty percent (50%) of the area of a corner lot.
   (E)   Setback: See section
6-1-12 of this chapter. (Ord. 145, 8-3-1961)
   (F)   Community Residences:
      1.   No dwelling unit shall be occupied as a community residence until a
certificate of occupancy has been issued by the building coordinator. No such
certificate shall be issued for a community residence unless the following
requirements are adhered to:
         (a)   The community residence is located at least six hundred feet
(600') from any existing community residence as measured from lot line to lot
line; and
         (b)   Each applicant must provide satisfactory evidence that he or she
is duly licensed and/or certified to operate a group home with both the state
and all other governmental regulatory agencies.
         (c)   The number of individuals who may be allowed to reside in a
community residence shall be in accordance with the building code 1  of the
village, but in no event shall more than six (6) individuals be allowed to
reside in said residence.
         (d)   Nothing herein shall restrict or eliminate the requirement of
compliance with the provisions of this code to ensure the health, safety and
welfare of its residents.
      2.   The building coordinator may revoke a certificate of occupancy if
its license or certification, or operator license or certification to operate a
community residence, is revoked. A certificate of occupancy is not transferable
to another operator or to another location. (Ord. 91-841, 5-16-1991)
   (G)   Garages And Accessory Buildings:
      1.   Definitions:
    ACCESSORY BUILDING: A building which is subordinate to and serves a
principal building or principal use.
   GARAGE: When used in this subsection, the word "garage" shall mean a
building or premises or portion thereof used for the intended housing or care
of self-propelled vehicles. (Ord. 95-933, 6-1-1995)
      2.   Location: Garages or accessory buildings in a detached position
shall be built at least eighteen inches (18") from the side lot line and twenty
four inches (24") from the rear lot lines, or off any easement. (Ord. 98-1020,
11-19-1998)
      3.   Width:
Thirty five foot lots: Garages or accessory buildings to be constructed on
thirty five foot (35') lots shall not occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of
the rear yard which shall include the area used for a carport and/or canopy.
Fifty foot lots: Garages or accessory buildings to be constructed on fifty foot
(50') lots shall not occupy more than thirty percent (30%) of the rear yard
which shall include the area used for a carport and/or canopy.
      4.   Attached And Detached: A detached garage must be placed ten feet
(10') from the rear side of a residence. All garages closer than three feet
(3') from a residence must be attached to the residence and the foundation
design must match the residence foundation design. For an attached garage, a
gas ledge must also be constructed abutting the back wall of the residence, not
less than six inches (6") in height. All walls of an attached garage that abut
habitable rooms must be covered with five-eighths inch (5/8") drywall to the
underside of roof sheathing. All doors between a garage and living quarters
must be protected with a one and three-fourths inch (13/4") solid core wood
door, or labeled fire door, wall of house to be fire rated also.
      5.   Height: The total height of any garage shall not exceed fourteen
feet (14') in height to the peak of the roof, measured from the finished floor
of garage.
      6.   Intensity Of Use Of Rear Yard: No accessory buildings or garages
shall occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the interior rear yard. (Ord. 95-
933, 6-1-1995)
      7.   Roofs: The only type of roofs that will be allowed to be placed on
garages or accessory buildings are as follows:
         (a)   Hip;
         (b)   Gable;
         (c)   No dormers or roof extensions are permitted to be constructed
for any garage structure. Roof extensions are only permitted if the existing
roof is removed and replaced with a new roof not exceeding the height
limitation in subsection (G)5 of this section and type of roof in subsections
(G)7(a) and (G)7(b) of this section. (Ord. 98-1020, 11-19-1998)
The installation of a flat roof on accessory buildings or garages shall be
prohibited.
      8.   Standard Requirements: Various requirements relative to the
construction of accessory buildings and garages are as shown in exhibit A and
are hereby incorporated into this subsection and all applicants shall comply
with said requirements.
(Ord. 95-933, 6-1-1995)
 
Notes
1 1. See title VII, chapter 5 of this code.
6-1-5: B-1 BUSINESS DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Use: No building shall be used and no building shall be hereafter
erected or altered, within any local business district unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, except for the following uses:
      1.   Stores and shops for the conduct of retail business.
Any buildings primarily used for any of the above uses may have not more than
forty percent (40%) of the area devoted to business or storage purposes
incidental to such primary use.
   (B)   Height: Any building hereafter to be erected or altered shall be
constructed of brick or stone and be of dimensions of at least twenty feet
(20') in width and fifty feet (50') in length, not less than one story in
height.
   (C)   Area:
      1.   Inner Court: An inner court, if provided, shall be not less than six
feet (6') wide, nor shall its area be less than twice the square of its
required least dimension.
   (D)   Intensity Of Use Of Lot: No building with its accessory buildings, to
be used for commercial purposes, shall occupy in excess of ninety percent (90%)
of the area of the lot.
   (E)   Rear Yard: There shall be a rear yard of not less than ten percent
(10%) of the depth of the lot provided, however, such rear yard need not exceed
ten feet (10') in depth.
   (F)   Setback: See sections
6-1-12 and
6-1-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 145, 8-3-1961)
   (G)   Side Yard: A side yard, if provided, shall be not less than three feet
(3') wide, and shall extend the full depth of the lot. (Ord. 91-845, 7-2-1991)
6-1-5-1: M-U MIXED-USE BUSINESS DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Permitted Uses: The uses set forth in L-1, F, T and O districts shall
be permitted uses.
The uses set forth in B-1 and H-1 shall also be permitted uses strictly subject
to the following location restrictions in which a B-1 use will be prohibited
along the property line abutting the GATX Corporation parcel of land and an H-
1 use will be prohibited along the property line abutting Archer Avenue. (Ord.
91-845, 7-3-1991)
6-1-6: H-1 HEAVY MANUFACTURING DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Permitted Uses: Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing,
testing, repair or storage of materials and goods or products which are not
injurious or offensive to adjacent premises or nearby residential districts by
reason of the emission or creation of noise, vibration, smoke, dust or other
particulate matter, toxic or noxious materials, odors, fire or explosive
hazard, or glare or heat. Uses definitely prohibited are the following: (Ord.
90-818, 4-26-1990)
Animal glue factories.
Auto wrecking.
Fertilizer plants.
Hair processing industry.
Incinerators which burn or dispose of hazardous and/or toxic waste, hazardous
and/or toxic hospital waste, municipal waste, pollution control waste and
industrial process waste.
Junkyards or dumps.
Manufacture of high explosives.
Motor freight terminal.
Refuse, dead animal or garbage dumps. (Ord. 90-818, 4-26-1990; amd. Ord. 10-
1340, 9-16-2010)
   (B)   Setbacks: No building or structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged
or rebuilt in the heavy manufacturing district so as to place its street wall
nearer than twenty feet (20') from the front lot line. On corner lots, no
building or structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged or rebuilt so as to
place its side wall nearer than fifteen feet (15') from any side property line
on any side street. (Ord. 145, 8-3-1961)
   (C)   Side Yards And Areas Between Buildings: There shall be a side yard on
each side of the building of at least fifteen feet (15'), beginning from the
lot line to the building line. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this section, sufficient space shall at all times be maintained
between and around buildings to permit free and unobstructed access to the
premises by firefighting equipment. In all instances, however, where private
and public property adjoin each other and have a common side yard property
line, no building or structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged or rebuilt
on said private property within thirty feet (30') of such common side yard
property line. (Ord. 510, 10-7-1965)
   (D)   Utilities: Ten feet (10') shall be set aside on each side of all
public or private streets in the heavy manufacturing district for public and
municipal utilities, except however, that on West 73rd Street the ten feet
(10') on the south side thereof shall be set aside for sewers and telephone
cables and the ten feet (10') on the north side thereof shall be set aside for
water mains and fire hydrants. No overhead utility lines shall be located on
either side of 73rd Street.
   (E)   Parking: On street parking is expressly prohibited. The owner or
lessee of property improved for heavy manufacturing purposes shall provide
sufficient off street parking facilities to reasonably accommodate customers,
guests and employees of such owner or lessee of the improved premises.
   (F)   Loading Areas: Loading docks or areas must be built on the side or the
rear of buildings.
   (G)   Temporary Buildings: No temporary buildings shall be constructed or
erected in the heavy manufacturing district except temporary shells or
buildings used in conjunction with building construction. For the purpose of
this chapter, quonset huts, corrugated metal or prefabricated buildings are
hereby classified as temporary buildings.
   (H)   Streets: All streets in the heavy manufacturing district, whether
public or private, shall be built or constructed of blacktop or other hard
surface material to be approved by the enforcing officer designated in said
chapter. All dead end streets in said heavy manufacturing district shall be
provided with turn around places suitable to accommodate trucks and other large
motorized equipment. The improved area of all side streets shall be at least
thirty feet (30') in width, provided, however, that the improved area of 73rd
Street shall be forty feet (40') in width.
   (I)   Sidewalks: All sidewalks in the heavy manufacturing districts shall be
constructed or laid upon lines and grades established or given by the village.
Sidewalks on all side streets shall have a minimum width of five feet (5') and
shall be constructed on the side of the street designated by said enforcement
officer, except however, that such sidewalks shall be constructed of both sides
of 73rd Street. (Ord. 90-818, 4-26-1990)
6-1-6-1: DEFINITIONS REGARDING HAZARDOUS OR INDUSTRIAL WASTES:
For the purpose of this section, whenever any of the following words or terms
are used herein, they shall have the meaning ascribed to them in this section
unless the context otherwise clearly requires:
HAZARDOUS HOSPITAL WASTES: Pursuant to the regulations promulgated by the
Illinois environmental protection act, "hazardous hospital wastes" means waste
generated in connection with patient care that is contaminated with or may be
contaminated with an infectious agent that has the potential of inducing an
infection and has not been rendered innocuous by sterilization or incineration.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: Pursuant to the regulations promulgated by the Illinois
environmental protection act, "hazardous waste" means a waste, or combination
of wastes, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical, chemical,
or infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an
increase in mortality or an increase in serious, irreversible, or
incapacitating reversible, illness; or pose a substantial present or potential
hazard to human health or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported, or disposed of, or otherwise managed, and which has been
identified, by characteristics or listing, as hazardous pursuant to section
3001 of the resource conservation and recovery act of 1976, PL 94-580, or
pursuant to board regulations.
INCINERATOR: An industrial waste disposal site or an industrial waste treatment
facility which disposes of and/or burns any hazardous and/or toxic waste,
hazardous and/or toxic hospital waste, municipal waste, industrial process
waste, and pollution control waste.
INDUSTRIAL PROCESS WASTE: Pursuant to the regulations promulgated by the
Illinois environmental protection act, "industrial process waste" means any
liquid, solid, semisolid, or gaseous waste generated as a direct or indirect
result of the manufacture of a product or the performance of a service. Any
such waste which would pose a present or potential threat to human health or to
the environment or with inherent properties which make the disposal of such
waste in a landfill difficult to manage by normal means is an industrial
process waste. "Industrial process waste" includes, but is not limited to,
spent pickling liquors, cutting oils, chemical catalysts, distillation bottoms,
etching acids, equipment cleanings, paint sludges, incinerator ashes, core
sands, metallic dust sweepings, asbestos dust, hospital pathological wastes and
off specification, contaminated or recalled wholesale or retail products.
Specifically excluded are uncontaminated packaging materials, uncontaminated
machinery components, general household waste, landscape waste and construction
or demolition debris.
INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISPOSAL SITE: A site where industrial waste is disposed of.
MUNICIPAL WASTE: Pursuant to the regulations promulgated by the Illinois
environmental protection act, "municipal waste" means garbage, general
household and commercial waste, landscape waste and construction or demolition
debris.
POLLUTION CONTROL WASTE: Pursuant to the regulations promulgated by the
Illinois environmental protection act, "pollution control waste" means any
liquid, solid, semisolid or gaseous waste generated as a direct or indirect
result of the removal of contaminants from the air, water or land, and which
pose a present or potential threat to human health or to the environment or
with inherent properties which make the disposal of such waste in a landfill
difficult to manage by normal means. "Pollution control waste" includes, but is
not limited to, water and wastewater treatment plant sludges, baghouse dusts,
scrubber sludges and chemical spill cleanings.
TOXIC WASTE: Waste or combination of waste, having the character or producing
the effects of a poison or poisonous substance which pose a substantial present
or potential hazard to human health or to the environment.
WASTE: Pursuant to the regulations promulgated by the Illinois environmental
protection act, "waste" means any garbage, sludge from a waste treatment plant,
water supply treatment plant, or air pollution control facility or other
discarded material, including solid, liquid, semisolid or contained gaseous
material, resulting from industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural
operations, and from community activities, but does not include solid or
dissolved material in domestic sewage, or solid or dissolved materials in
irrigation return flows or industrial discharges which are point sources
subject to permits under section 402 of the clean water act or source, special
nuclear, or byproduct materials as defined by the atomic energy act of 1954, as
amended (68 stat. 921) or any solid or dissolved material from any facility
subject to the federal surface mining control and reclamation act of 1977 (PL
95-87) or the rules and regulations thereunder or any law or rule or regulation
adopted by the state of Illinois pursuant thereto. (Ord. 90-818, 4-26-1990)
6-1-6-2: CICERO AVENUE CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   (A)   Rules Of Construction: The following rules shall be observed and
applied in the interpretation of this section:
      1.   Words used in the present tense shall include the future tense;
      2.   Words used in the singular shall include the plural and the plural
shall include the singular;
      3.   The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and are not
discretionary; the word "may" is permissive;
      4.   The words "buildings/structures" shall include all nonliving
improvements upon the land;
      5.   The phrase "including, but not limited to" shall define examples
selected to illustrate the interpretation of this section and the final
interpretation shall be reserved for the village board of trustees;
      6.   The word "person" shall include the words association, corporation,
estate, partnership, venture or other legal entity.
   (B)   Applicability: These regulations shall apply to all new development
within the district, whenever development applications are required to be
submitted to the village.
Development existing or authorized prior to the approval of this section,
February 6, 2003, shall not be required to comply with the regulations
contained herein. However, compliance with this section is required for an
existing development when the principal structure is expanded by twenty five
percent (25%) or more of the existing square footage. Nonconforming uses are
also subject to regulations set forth in section
6-1-10 of this chapter.
   (C)   District Boundaries: The Cicero Avenue overlay district is generally
bounded by 65th Street to the north, Cicero Avenue to the east, 76th street to
the south, and Laramie Avenue to the west and shall include the full depth of
all parcels of land contiguous to Cicero Avenue and State Road within the
village limits. Precise boundaries are provided on the district boundaries map
on file in the village.
   (D)   Relationship To Underlying District And Regulations: The Cicero Avenue
overlay district shall overlay all underlying districts so that any parcel of
land that falls within the district boundaries becomes subject to the
regulations of both the overlay district as well as those of the underlying
zoning district. Where inconsistencies in the regulations between the overlay
district and the underlying zoning district occur the more restrictive shall
apply.
   (E)   Definitions: Whenever the following words or terms are used in this
section, they shall have such meanings herein ascribed to them.
ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT: An adult cabaret, adult massage parlor,
adult store, or adult theater, shall be defined as follows:
      Adult Booth: Any area of an adult entertainment establishment set off
from the remainder of such establishment by one or more walls or other dividers
or partitions and used to show, play, or otherwise demonstrate any adult
materials or to view any live performance that is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of
specified anatomical areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual
activities.
      Adult Cabaret: Any commercial establishment that as a substantial or
significant portion of its business features or provides any of the following:
      1.   Persons who appear nude or seminude.
      2.   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical
areas or the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
      3.   Films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, computer
displays, or other visual representations or recordings of any kind that are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or
description of specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or simulation of
specified sexual activities.
      Adult Massage Parlor: Any establishment providing massages and/or other
forms of physical contact of an erotic or adult nature.
      Adult Material: Any of the following, whether new or used:
      1.   Books, magazines, periodicals, or other printed matter, or digitally
stored materials; or
      2.   Films, motion pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, computer
displays, or other visual representations or recordings of any kind, that are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the exposure, depiction, or
description of specified anatomical areas, or the conduct or simulation of
specified sexual activities.
      3.   Instruments, novelties, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed
for use in connection with specified sexual activities, or that depict or
describe specified anatomical areas.
      Adult Store: Any commercial establishment: 1) that contains one or more
adult booths; 2) that as a substantial or significant portion of its business
offers for sale, rental, or viewing any adult materials; or 3) that has a
segment or section devoted to the sale or display of adult materials.
      Adult Theater: Any commercial establishment that as a substantial or
significant portion of its business features or provides films, motion
pictures, video or audio cassettes, slides, or other visual representations or
recordings of any kind that are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on the exposure, depiction, or description of specified anatomical areas, or
the conduct or simulation of specified sexual activities.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS DISPENSING ORGANIZATION: A facility operated by an
organization or business that is licensed by the Illinois Department of
Financial and Professional Regulation to acquire cannabis from licensed
cannabis business establishments for the purpose of selling or dispensing
cannabis, cannabis-infused products, cannabis seeds, paraphernalia or related
supplies to purchasers or to qualified registered medical cannabis patients and
caregivers, per the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, (P.A. 101-0027), as it may
be amended from time-to-time, and regulations promulgated thereunder.
BAR/NIGHTCLUB: An establishment serving alcoholic beverages in which the
principal business is the sale of such beverages at retail for consumption on
the premises.
DRUG TREATMENT FACILITIES: A facility designed for inpatient or residential
drug treatment for addictions or substance abuse which would require a patient
to reside in the facility for a designated period of time.
FULLY SHIELDED OUTDOOR LIGHT FIXTURE: A lighting fixture constructed so that no
light rays are emitted by the installed fixture at angles above the horizontal
plane as determined by a photometric test report or certified by the
manufacturer. Any structural part of the light fixture providing this shielding
must be permanently affixed.
HOTEL: An establishment designed for temporary occupancy to individuals who are
lodged with or without meals for compensation. A hotel:
      1.   Is available to the general public;
      2.   Is comprised of eighty (80) or more sleeping rooms, excluding
employee quarters;
      3.   Provides a private bath for each guest unit which includes a toilet,
sink, and shower/tub;
      4.   Provides primary access to all guest units through a fully heated/
air conditioned internal hallway;
      5.   Provides hotel services such as maid, telephone, and postal service;
      6.   May allow the conduct of incidental business;
      7.   May provide meeting rooms, common dining facilities (including
banquet rooms);
      8.   May provide all uses customarily and historically associated thereto
for the comfort, accommodation and entertainment of patrons, including the
service of alcoholic beverages.
LUMEN: A unit of measure of the quantity of light which falls on an area of one
square foot, every point of which is one foot (1') from the source of one
candela. A light source of one candela emits a total of 12.57 lumens.
MOTEL: Any building or series of buildings that is not a hotel in which
temporary lodging is open to the general public for compensation. As such it is
in contradiction to a boarding house, or multiple-family dwelling. A motel
generally differs from a hotel in that it:
      1.   Is generally no more than two (2) stories above grade;
      2.   Provides primary access to some or all guest units through an
independent exterior door;
      3.   Provides adjoining parking for each unit.
Other terms include: auto courts, tourist courts, tourist homes, and motor
lodges.
NURSING HOME: A private institution providing residential accommodations with
health care services. Nursing homes also include skilled nursing facilities,
assisted living accommodations and/or retirement centers.
RESTAURANT: A structure in which the principal use is the preparation and sale
of food and beverage. This definition does not include bars, taverns, or
cocktail lounges.
USED CAR DEALERSHIPS: An establishment in which the principal business is the
sale of a preowned automobile.
VISION CLEARANCE TRIANGLE: The area between two feet (2') and six feet (6')
above grade, within a triangle formed by joining the two (2) points measured
thirty three feet (33') from the intersection of the paved surfaces.
   (F)   Permitted And Prohibited Uses:
      1.   Permitted: The following uses shall be permitted within the Cicero
Avenue corridor overlay district:
All uses permitted in the O office zoning district.
All uses permitted within the underlying zoning district, unless otherwise
prohibited below.
Banks and financial institutions.
Convention centers.
Hotels.
Restaurants.
Retail stores/centers.
      2.   Prohibited: The following uses shall be prohibited within the Cicero
Avenue corridor overlay district:
All adult establishments.
Bars/nightclubs not associated with a hotel.
Drug treatment facilities.
Motels.
Nursing homes.
Used car dealerships.
      3.   Conditional Use: Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Establishment
facilities, as defined herein, requiring approval of a conditional use in the
Cicero Avenue overlay Business District shall be processed in accordance with
the Village Code.
   (G)   Height And Building Setbacks: Building height and setbacks for
structures within the overlay district shall reflect the standards set forth in
the underlying zoning district as well as sections
6-1-11 and
6-1-12 of this chapter.
   (H)   Building Design:
      1.   Bulk And Mass: All building and parking areas should be designed
with treatments to break up the mass and bulk. Buildings shall include vertical
architectural treatment to break down the scale of the building into visually
smaller components. Any facade with a bland wall shall be screened through
landscaping, berming, and/or fencing. Architectural details shall continue on
all facades visible from the public right of way. Large expanses of blank walls
facing the street are inappropriate.
The following design elements should be incorporated to break up the horizontal
plane of a building or wall:
         (a)   Change in color, texture, or materials;
         (b)   Projections, recesses, and reveals, structural bays, entrances;
         (c)   Grouping of windows or doors; and/or
         (d)   Awnings.
      2.   Materials And Color:
         (a)   A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of all facades (discounting
windows and doors), visible from the public right of way, should be covered
with face brick, stone, textured masonry block, or some other masonry product
of similar quality so as to add texture, color and visual interest to the
otherwise bland appearance of large walls, roofs and facades.
         (b)   Ribbed metal/vinyl siding is prohibited as a primary exterior
surface material. It may be used as trim material covering no more than ten
percent (10%) of the facades.
         (c)   Smooth faced gray concrete block and tilt up concrete panels are
prohibited on all facades visible from the public right of way.
         (d)   Facade colors should be earth tone colors with low reflectance.
High intensity, metallic, or fluorescent colors are prohibited.
      3.   Mechanical Equipment: Roof mounted heating, ventilation and air
conditioning equipment (excluding roof vents), duct work, air compressors, and
other fixed operating machinery shall be fully screened from public view with
architectural treatments that complement the overall design of the structure.
   (I)   Parking And Loading:
      1.   Scope Of Regulations: The off street parking and loading provisions
of this section shall apply as follows:
         (a)   For all buildings and structures erected and all uses of land
established after the effective date hereof, accessory parking and loading
facilities shall be provided as required by the regulations of this section.
However, where a building permit has been issued prior to the effective date
hereof, and provided that construction is begun within one year of such
effective date, and diligently carried out to completion, only the less
restrictive parking and loading standards as required prior to the effective
date shall be provided.
         (b)   When the intensity of use of any building, structure or premises
shall be increased through the addition of dwelling units, gross floor area,
seating capacity or other unit of measurement specified herein for required
parking or loading facilities, parking and loading facilities as required
herein shall be provided for such increase in intensity of use.
         (c)   Whenever the existing use of a building or structure is changed
to a new use, parking or loading facilities shall be provided as required for
such new use.
      2.   Existing Parking And Loading Facilities: Accessory off street
parking or loading facilities which are located on the same lot as the building
or use served, and which were in existence on the effective date hereof or were
provided voluntarily after such effective date, shall not hereafter be reduced
below the requirement of this section for a similar new building or use.
      3.   Joint Parking Facilities: Off street parking facilities for
properties with separate buildings or uses, or for buildings with mixed uses,
may be provided collectively on the zoning lot, provided that the total number
of spaces so located together shall not be less than the sum of the separate
requirements for each use. Cumulative parking requirements for mixed use
occupancies may be reduced where it can be determined that the peak requirement
of the several occupancies occurs at different times (either daily or
seasonally). The "Shared Parking" report published by the Urban Land Institute
may be used as a guideline in the estimation of parking demand for mixed use
buildings and sites.
      4.   Computation: When determination of the number of off street parking
spaces required by this section results in a requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction of one-half (1/2) or less may be disregarded while a fraction in
excess of one-half (1/2) shall be counted as one parking space.
      5.   Size: A required off street parking space shall be at least nine
feet (9') in width and at least eighteen feet (18') in length, exclusive of
access drives or aisles, ramps, columns, or office or work areas. Each required
off street parking space shall have a vertical clearance of at least seven feet
(7').
      6.   Access:
         (a)   Each required off street parking space shall open directly upon
an aisle or driveway of at least the width below, based upon the angle of the
parking stalls provided and whether the aisle serves one or two (2) rows of
parking spaces:
 
Parking Angle Serving 1 Row Serving 2 Rows
Parallel      12 feet       12 feet
30 degrees    12 feet       12 feet
45 degrees    13 feet       14 feet
60 degrees    18 feet       19 feet
90 degrees    20 feet       24 feet
 
         (b)   All off street parking facilities shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street in a manner which will least
interfere with traffic movements. No driveway across public property or curb
cut shall exceed a width of thirty feet (30').
      7.   Surfacing: All surface off street parking areas and driveways shall
be improved with a compacted macadam base, not less than six inches (6") thick,
surfaced with asphalt, concrete, brick or some comparable all weather dustless
material. Construction of such surfacing shall be completed within one year of
the issuance of a building permit.
      8.   Location Of Accessory Off Street Parking Facilities: For uses in
business and manufacturing districts all required parking spaces shall be
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the principal use.
      9.   Schedule Of Parking And Loading Requirements:
         (a)   Applicability: Accessory off street parking spaces shall be
provided for the following uses as required hereinafter. For uses not listed
herein, the parking requirements shall be determined by the village board. The
off street parking requirements established herein may be reduced by the
village board upon appeal, provided that it can show why the established
requirement is not applicable or appropriate. Parking spaces required on an
employee basis shall be based on the maximum number of employees on duty or
residing, or both, on the premises at any one time. For the uses listed in the
following table, off street loading berths shall be provided on the basis of
gross floor area of buildings or portions thereof devoted to such uses in the
amounts shown below:
Use Minimum Number Of Parking Spaces Required Minimum Required Loading Spaces
Use                     Minimum Number Of Parking  Minimum Required Loading
                        Spaces Required            Spaces
Residential And Lodging Uses:
                        1 parking space per
                        employee, plus one-tenth
Child daycare center    (0.1) of 1 space per       No loading space required
                        person of licensed
                        capacity
                        1 parking space per
                        guestroom, plus 1 space
                        per every 2 employees,     As required for restaurant
Hotel                   plus any spaces required   or lounge
                        for restaurant, lounge,
                        banquet areas, and meeting
                        rooms
Commercial Uses:
Automobile service      1 parking space per 2      No loading space is
stations                employees                  required
                        4 parking spaces per each
                        lane, plus additional
Bowling alley           parking as required for    Same as general retail
                        any affiliated restaurant,
                        bar, or banquet facility
                        1 parking space per 200
                        square feet of GFA.
Convenience store       Convenience stores with     
                        gas pumps require 4
                        stacking spaces/side of
                        pump islands
Laundromat              1 parking space per 4      No loading space is
                        machines                   required
Restaurants with drive- 1 parking space per 3
through or carry out    seats, plus 3 per cashier  1 loading space per 40,000
facilities              station. 8 stacking spaces square feet of GFA
                        per drive- through window
Restaurants without     11 parking spaces per      1 loading space per 40,000
drive-throughs          1,000 square feet of GFA   square feet of GFA
Retail establishments   1 parking space per 200
(unless specified       square feet of GFA          
elsewhere)
Office Uses:
                        4 parking spaces per 1,000 None for the first 10,000
                        square feet, plus 5        square feet, then 1 per
Financial institutions  stacking spaces for each   50,000 square feet up to
                        drive-through teller       110,000 square feet plus 1
                        position                   per 100,000 square feet
                                                   thereafter
                                                   None for the first 30,000
General offices         4 parking spaces per 1,000 square feet, then 1 per
                        square feet of GFA         100,000 square feet,
                                                   thereafter
Medical/dental offices  5 parking spaces per 1,000 Same as general offices
                        square feet of GFA
 
   (J)   Landscaping And Screening:
      1.   Parking Lot Street Yards: Where parking lots providing for five (5)
or more parking spaces are in view of the public right of way, there should be
installed, within a ten foot (10') wide street yard between the parking area
and the street, a minimum of, three (3) 13/4-inch caliper canopy trees and one
13/4-inch caliper understory trees per one hundred (100) linear feet of
frontage.
The substitution of one understory tree for each required shade tree that would
conflict with overhead utilities will be permitted within street yards.
In conjunction with the planting standards described above, the following
screening techniques are encouraged:
         (a)   Masonry walls compatible with proposed building design, and
landscaped as a foundation wall;
         (b)   Screen fencing of wrought iron or approved material. Chainlink
fencing is prohibited;
         (c)   An earthen berm between the right of way and the building, not
to exceed a slope of two to one (2:1) (vertical:horizontal).
      2.   Landscape Parking Islands: To break up large expanses of parking and
provide a minimum five percent (5%) landscape area, landscape islands should be
required such that no parking space may be greater than ninety (90) linear feet
away from a landscape island containing a canopy tree (roughly 1 per every 10
spaces). Landscape islands must be a minimum of seven feet (7') wide from back
of curb to back of curb and minimum of one hundred sixty two (162) square feet
in area.
      3.   Landscaping Between Buildings: There should be sufficient quantities
of canopy, understory and evergreen trees, shrubs and ground covers to
adequately screen unattractive views at the side and rear of adjacent
buildings.
      4.   Foundation Planting:
         (a)   At minimum a four foot (4') wide landscape area should be
provided adjacent to all building walls (excluding driveways, entrance areas,
covered walkways, service and delivery areas).
         (b)   This landscape area should be planted with a balance of
understory and evergreen trees, shrubs and ground covers.
         (c)   These plantings should emphasize softening of large expanses of
building walls length and height, accent building entrances and architectural
features and screen mechanical equipment adjacent to buildings.
   (K)   Outdoor Lighting:
      1.   All areas intended for pedestrian use should be well lighted by
fixtures that focus on lighting walkways and sitting areas.
      2.   Decorative lighting fixtures that supplement general lighting are
strongly encouraged in all developments.
      3.   To minimize hazardous glare, all fixtures visible from the public
right of way (with the exception of general street lighting) with output
greater than fourteen thousand (14,000) initial lumens shall be designed with
no lenses or globes protruding below the shell of the fixture and shall
generally be parallel with the ground.
   (L)   Signs:
      1.   The colors and materials of signs shall be similar to and compatible
with the architectural style, colors and materials of the related building.
Every sign shall be designed as an integral architectural element of the
building and site to which it relates.
      2.   The number of graphic elements on a sign shall be held to the
minimum needed to convey the sign's message and shall be composed in proportion
to the area of the sign face.
      3.   Signs should be oriented to vehicular traffic as well as
pedestrians, and scaled appropriately.
      4.   No sign shall be located in the vision clearance triangle.
   (M)   Minimum Lot Size: No hotel shall be constructed on a lot less than
five (5) acres in size without a special use permit in accordance with the
terms and provisions of this title. Hotels may be constructed on lots less than
five (5) acres if they are part of a larger, master planned project, provided
the sum of all contiguous lots within the master planned project is greater
than fifteen (15) acres.
   (N)   Density: Maximum density requirements for hotels are calculated on a
sliding floor area ratio (FAR) system which is dependent on the size of the
site. FARs for master planned projects are calculated based on the sum of all
contiguous lots within the project.
   The following FARs shall apply:
      0.25 for sites less than 10 acres;
      0.40 for sites between 10–15 acres; and
      0.70 for sites greater than 15 acres.
   (O)   Height: No hotel shall be less than three (3) stories above grade. No
hotel hereafter erected or structurally altered shall exceed federal aviation
administration (FAA) regulations.
   (P)   Minimum Room Size: No guestroom, including the bathroom, shall be less
than three hundred (300) square feet of heated/air conditioned space.
   (Q)   Amenities: All hotels shall be required to provide guests with the
following facilities/improvements:
      1.   On site food service including either a restaurant, cafe, and/or in
house or contracted room service;
      2.   Access to a swimming pool, and fitness center on site;
      3.   Elevator service to all floors containing guestrooms;
      4.   Twenty four (24) hour on site private security; and
      5.   Handicapped accessible facilities as required per the provisions of
this code.
   (R)   Rate Structure: No hotel shall provide rates for any period less than
one full night's stay. No hotel shall provide rates for any period greater than
thirty (30) consecutive nights.
   (S)   Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing:
      1.   Components: Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Components: In determining
compliance with division (F) 2. (Conditional Uses) of this section, the
following components of the Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Establishment shall
be evaluated based on the entirety of the circumstances affecting the
particular property in the context of the existing and intended future use of
the properties:
         a.   Impact of the proposed facility on existing or planned uses
located within the vicinity of the subject property.
         b.   Proposed structure in which the facility will be located,
including co-tenancy (if in a multi-tenant building), total square footage,
security installations/security plan and building code compliance.
         c.   Hours of operation and anticipated number of customers/employees.
         d.   Anticipated parking demand and available private parking supply.
         e.   Anticipated traffic generation in the context of adjacent roadway
capacity and access to such roadways.
         f.   Site design, including access points and internal site
circulation.
         g.   Proposed signage plan.
      2.   Requirements: Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization: In those
zoning districts in which an Adult-Use Cannabis Dispensing Organization may be
located, the proposed facility must comply with the following:
         a.   Facility may not be located within one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500 ft.) of the property line of a pre-existing public or private nursery
school, preschool, primary or secondary school, day care center, day care home
or residential care home. Learning centers and vocational/trade centers shall
not be classified as a public or private school for purposes of this Section.
         b.   Facility may not be located in a dwelling unit or within two
hundred and fifty feet (250 ft.) of the property line of a pre-existing
property zoned or used for residential purposes.
         c.   At least seventy-five percent (75%) of the floor area of any
tenant space occupied by a dispensing organization shall be devoted to the
activities of the dispensing organization as authorized by the Act, and no
dispensing organization shall also sell food for consumption on the premises.
         d.   Facility may not conduct any sales or distribution of cannabis
other than as authorized by the Act.
      3.   Security Improvements: Petitioner shall install building
enhancements, such as security cameras, lighting or other improvements, as set
forth in the conditional use permit, to ensure the safety of employees and
customers of the adult-use cannabis business establishments.
      4.   Operational Rules: That any Adult-Use Dispensing Establishment shall
fully comply with the operational rules as set forth in Section 15-70 of the
Act including but not limited to the following:
         a.   A dispensing organization must include the legal name of the
dispensary on the packaging of any cannabis product it sells.
         b.   Dispensing organizations are prohibited from selling any product
containing alcohol except tinctures, which are limited to containers that must
be no larger than one hundred (100) milliliters.
         c.   A dispensing organization may only accept cannabis deliveries
into a restricted access area. Deliveries may not be accepted through the
public or limited access areas unless otherwise approved under the Act.
         d.   A dispensing organization shall maintain compliance with state
and local building, fire and zoning requirements or regulations.
         e.   A dispensing organization's license allows for a dispensary to be
operated only at a single location.
         f.   A dispensing organization may operate between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. local time.
         g.   A dispensing organization shall not:
            (1)   Produce or manufacture cannabis;
            (2)   Obtain cannabis or cannabis-infused products from outside the
State of Illinois;
         h.   Sell cannabis or cannabis-infused products to a purchaser unless
the dispensary organization is licensed under the Illinois Medical Cannabis
Program Act, and the individual is registered under the Medical Cannabis
Program Act or the purchaser has been verified to be over the age of 21;
         i.   Operate drive-through windows;
         j.   Allow for the dispensing of cannabis or cannabis-infused products
   in vending machines;
         k.   Transport cannabis to residences or other locations where
purchasers may be for delivery;
         l.   Operate a dispensing organization if its video surveillance
equipment is inoperative;
         m.   Operate a dispensing organization if the point-of-sale equipment
is inoperative;
         n.   Operate a dispensing organization if the state's cannabis
electronic verification system is inoperative;
         o.   Operate a dispensing organization when there are fewer than two
   people working at any time;
         p.   Violate any other requirements or prohibitions set by the Act or
administrative rules. (Ord. 03-1134, 2-6-2003; amd. Ord. 19-1615, 11-21-2019;
Ord. 21-1659, 3-4-2021)
6-1-7: L-1 LIGHT MANUFACTURING DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Permitted Uses: No building or premises shall be used and no building
shall hereafter be erected, altered, enlarged or rebuilt within the light
manufacturing district except for the following purposes:
Bakeries.
Generating plants.
Light manufacturers of merchandise from cork, metal, fibre, paper products,
printing, binding and newspaper plants, wood products shops, lighting fixtures.
Light manufacturing of products from steel, iron, copper, etc., but not a
foundry.
Machine shops.
Milk bottling and distribution plants.
Other light manufacturing which is free of obnoxious odors or fumes or other
disturbing elements seen, heard, felt or noticed beyond the boundaries of such
district.
   (B)   Setbacks: No building or structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged
or rebuilt in the light manufacturing district so as to place its street wall
nearer than twenty feet (20') from the front lot line. On corner lots, no
building or structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged or rebuilt so as to
place its side wall nearer than fifteen feet (15') from the street property
line on any side street. (Ord. 145, 8-3-1961)
   (C)   Side Yards And Areas Between Buildings: There shall be a side yard on
each side of the building of at least fifteen feet (15'), beginning from the
lot line to the building line. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this section, sufficient space shall at all times be maintained
between and around buildings to permit free and unobstructed access to the
premises by firefighting equipment. In all instances, however, where private
and public property adjoin each other and have a common side yard property
line, no building or structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged or rebuilt
on said private property within thirty feet (30') of such common side yard
property line. (Ord. 510, 10-7-1965)
   (D)   Utilities: Ten feet (10') shall be set aside on each side of all
public or private streets in the light manufacturing district for public or
municipal utilities.
   (E)   Parking: On street parking is expressly prohibited. Owner or lessees
of property actually using the same for light manufacturing purposes shall
provide sufficient off street parking facilities to reasonably accommodate
customers, guests and employees of such owner or lessee.
   (F)   Temporary Buildings: No temporary buildings shall be constructed or
erected in the light manufacturing district except temporary shells or
buildings used in conjunction with building construction. For the purpose of
this chapter, quonset huts, corrugated metal or prefabricated buildings are
hereby classified as temporary buildings.
   (G)   Loading Areas: Loading docks or areas must be built on the side or
rear of buildings. (Ord. 145, 8-3-1961)
6-1-8: F MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Definition: "Motor freight terminal" shall mean a building in which
freight brought by motor truck is assembled, sorted or stored for routing in
intrastate or interstate shipment; and for the purpose of this chapter shall
include any building, structure or vacant land occupied for the storage,
warehousing, parking or garaging of motor trucks used as common, contract or
special carriers operating under intrastate or interstate certificated rights.
      1.   Activities involving motor freight terminals shall be permitted only
in the F or motor freight terminal district as herein legally described. The
following additional uses of land or buildings are permitted in the F or motor
freight terminal district:
Automobile service stations.
Battery and tire service stations.
Garages and parking lots for automobiles.
Heliports.
Motor vehicle service shops for passenger and commercial vehicles, including
body repair, automobile painting and engine rebuilding.
Packing and crating.
Parcel delivery stations.
Parks and playgrounds.
Planned developments, business or commercial.
Public utility and public service uses.
Warehouses.
   (B)   Setbacks: No building or structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged
or rebuilt in the motor freight terminal district so as to place its street
wall nearer than twenty feet (20') from the front lot line. On corner lots, no
building or structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged or rebuilt so as to
place its side wall nearer than fifteen feet (15') from any side property line
on any side street.
   (C)   Side Yards And Areas Between Buildings: There shall be a side yard on
each side of the building of at least fifteen feet (15') from the lot line to
the building line. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
section, sufficient space shall be maintained between and around buildings to
permit free and unobstructed access of firefighting equipment.
   (D)   Parking: On street parking is expressly prohibited in the motor
freight terminal district. The owner or lessee of any property which is
actually used for truck terminal purposes shall provide sufficient off street
parking facilities to reasonably accommodate customers, guests and employees of
such owner or lessee.
   (E)   Temporary Buildings: No temporary buildings shall be constructed or
erected in the motor freight terminal district except temporary shells or
buildings to be used in conjunction with building construction. For the purpose
of this chapter, quonset huts, corrugated metal or prefabricated buildings are
hereby classified as temporary buildings.
   (F)   Fencing: All property in the motor freight terminal district, whenever
used for such purpose, shall be surrounded on all sides with cyclone, chainlink
or other suitable fencing not less than six feet (6') in height, together with
3-strand wire at the top thereof.
   (G)   Paving: All property actually used for truck terminal purposes shall
be improved with blacktopping or other hard surface material approved by said
enforcing officer.
   (H)   Utilities: Ten feet (10') shall be set aside on each side of all
private or public streets in the motor freight terminal district for public or
municipal utilities. Water supply in the motor freight terminal district shall
be furnished through mains from the Harlem Avenue pumping station of the
village of Bedford Park. (Ord. 145, 8-3-1961)
6-1-9: T BULK STORAGE OF FLAMMABLES DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Definitions:
   BULK STORAGE: The method of containing, holding or storing liquids received
by tank vessel, pipeline, tank car or tank vehicle, and stored or blended in
bulk for the purpose of distributing such liquids by tank vessel, pipeline,
tank car, tank vehicle or container.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS: Common usage considers "flammable liquids" as those below
one hundred degrees Fahrenheit (100°F) (37.8°C) and having a vapor pressure not
exceeding forty (40) pounds per square inch. "Combustible liquids" include
those both below and above two hundred degrees Fahrenheit (200°F) (93.4°C).
   FLASH POINT: The minimum temperature in degrees Fahrenheit at which a
flammable liquid will give off a flammable vapor.
   PACKAGING: To make into a pack, bundle or container for delivery and
distribution to other points and places.
   WAREHOUSING: The storing and housing of all products, merchandise and
materials used in connection with bulk storage activities, as well as such
products, merchandise and materials which may be shipped to those engaged in
such activities in the district for distribution to other points and places.
(Ord. 37, 9-11-1941; amd. Ord. 517, 12-16-1965; Ord. 667, 7-7-1978)
   (B)   Permitted Uses, Regulations, Restrictions And Exceptions: Activities
involving the handling of bulk storage of flammables and nonflammables shall be
permitted only in the T or bulk storage of flammables district, as herein
legally described. That in addition thereto, all activities permitted in the L-
1 light manufacturing district, including warehousing and packaging activities
and office structures shall be permitted in said district, provided, however,
that activities involving storage of nonflammable liquids, warehousing and
packaging, as well as office structures shall be permitted only when the same
have been recommended to the village board by the village fire chief and have
been approved by the village board; and provided, further, that the same meet
all other zoning, building and safety requirements promulgated by the village
board. (Ord. 517, 12-16-1965)
   (C)   Regulations And Restrictions:
      1.   (Rep. by Ord. 667, 7-7-1978)
      2.   (Rep. by Ord. 667, 7-7-1978)
      3.   (Rep. by Ord. 667, 7-7-1978)
      4.   Each diked area, whether containing a single tank or a group of
tanks shall be adjacent on one side to an all weather road at least thirty feet
(30') wide. The exterior shell of a tank shall not be more than one hundred
feet (100') from a roadway and all such roads shall be open for entrance and
egress at each end.
      5.   No tank shall be erected within two hundred feet (200') of the north
or south boundary of said district.
      6.   Owners of adjacent property within the district shall not erect a
tank closer than one hundred feet (100') to the common property line, except
that tanks of more than two hundred feet (200') in diameter shall not be
erected closer than one times the diameter of such tank less than one hundred
feet (100') to the common property line.
      7.   No tank shall be erected in said district within four hundred feet
(400') of Archer Road.
      8.   All tanks erected along the line nearest to and paralleling any
dedicated street shall contain only fuel oil.
      9.   All buildings erected in said district shall be so spaced and
located as to be at least thirty feet (30') apart, but no such building shall
be spaced or located less than one hundred feet (100') or one times the
diameter of any tank measured from the peripheral surface of such tank.
      10.   With regard to the metropolitan sanitary district property, no tank
shall be erected thereon within one hundred feet (100') of the sanitary and
ship canal on the west side, and the spacing and location of tanks and
buildings on the east side of said property shall be subject to the approval of
the village board. (Ord. 517, 12-16-1965)
      11.   The storage of nonflammable liquids may be permitted as a
conditional and/or incidental use in H-1 heavy manufacturing districts, L-
1 light manufacturing districts, and F motor freight terminal districts,
subject to the requirement that all tanks exceeding six feet (6') in height or
two feet (2') in diameter be placed under ground or housed in a suitable
building. (Ord. 634, 5-15-1975)
6-1-9-1: O OFFICE DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Reference: The regulations set forth in this section, or set forth
elsewhere in this chapter when referred to in this section, are the office
district regulations.
   (B)   Use Regulations: No building or premises shall be used and no
buildings shall hereafter be erected or altered within the O office district
except for the necessary use to which any one of the following places or
establishments may be put:
Business offices, such as district offices, sales offices, branch offices.
Dental and medical clinics and/or offices.
Insurance, real estate, loan association and other similar business and
professional offices.
Private or professional schools, except those of an industrial character.
Signs, subject to village ordinances.
   (C)   Other Uses: As part of an office complex and contained within the
building whose main use is listed in subsection (B) of this section, the
following uses are permitted:
Barbershops.
Drug sales.
Restaurants.
   (D)   Height Regulations: No building hereafter erected or structurally
altered in the O office district shall exceed FAA regulation.
   (E)   Area Regulations: No building shall be erected or shall any existing
structure be enlarged or altered unless the following yards and lot areas are
provided and maintained in connection with such building, structure, or
enlargement:
      1.   Front Yard: A front yard of not less than twenty feet (20') in depth
along the front lot line shall be provided.
      2.   Rear Yard: Rear yard is required for adequate and useable loading
and unloading and refuse disposal facilities.
      3.   Rear Yard With No Public Alley: Where no public alley exists, there
shall be a rear yard of the same depth as that required for either the rear or
side yard, whichever is lesser, in the adjacent residential lot.
      4.   Side Yards And Areas Between Buildings: There shall be a side yard
on each side of the building of at least fifteen feet (15'), beginning from the
lot line to the building line. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in this chapter, sufficient space shall at all times be maintained
between and around buildings to permit free and unobstructed access to the
premises by firefighting equipment. In all instances, however, where private
and public property adjoin each other and have a common side yard property
line, no building or structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged or rebuilt
on said private property within thirty feet (30') of such common side yard
property line.
      5.   Setbacks: No building or structure shall be erected, altered,
enlarged or rebuilt in the office district so as to place its street wall
nearer than twenty feet (20') from the front lot line. On corner lots, no
building or structure shall be erected, altered, enlarged or rebuilt so as to
place its side wall nearer than fifteen feet (15') from any side property line
on any side street.
      6.   Parking: On street parking is expressly prohibited. The owner or
lessee of property improved for office district purposes shall provide
sufficient off street parking facilities to reasonably accommodate customers,
guests and employees of such owner or lessee of the improved premises.
      7.   Utilities: Ten feet (10') shall be set aside on each side of all
public or private streets in the office district for public and municipal
utilities, except, however, that on West 73rd Street, the ten feet (10') on the
south side thereof shall be set aside for sewers and telephone cables and the
ten feet (10') on the north side thereof shall be set aside for water mains and
fire hydrants. No overhead utility lines shall be located on either side of
73rd Street. (Ord. 616, 7-19-1973)
6-1-10: NONCONFORMING USES:
The lawful use of a building or premises existing at the time of adoption of
this chapter may be continued, although such use does not conform with the
provisions hereof, and such use may be extended throughout the building or
premises lawfully acquired previous to the adoption of this chapter and on
which such use is located. A nonconforming use may be changed to a use of the
same or higher classification according to the provisions of this chapter and
whenever a district shall hereafter be changed to a use of the same or higher
classification according to the provisions of this chapter, and whenever a
district shall hereafter be changed, any then existing nonconforming use in
such changed district may be continued or changed to a use of a similar or
higher classification, provided all other regulations governing the new use are
complied with. Whenever a nonconforming use of a building has been discontinued
or changed to a higher classification or to a conforming use, such use shall
not thereafter be changed to a use of lower classification.
No use of property by buildings or otherwise, which has been damaged by fire or
other causes to the extent of more than fifty percent (50%) of its value, shall
be repaired or rebuilt without conforming with the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 37, 9-11-1941)
6-1-11: HEIGHT AND AREA EXCEPTIONS AND REGULATIONS:
The foregoing requirements in the height regulations shall be subject to the
following exceptions and regulations:
   (A)   Public, semipublic or public service buildings, churches, hospitals,
sanitariums or schools may be erected to a height not exceeding sixty feet
(60'), provided that if such building is located in any residential district,
it shall be set back from each property line at least one foot (1') for each
foot or additional building height above the limit for the district, in
addition to the other requirements of this chapter.
The foregoing requirement in the area regulations shall be subject to the
following exceptions and regulations.
   (B)   In A-1 and A residential districts, no accessory buildings shall be
located within ten feet (10') of its rear or side lot line where such line
forms part of the front half of the side line of an adjacent lot, but the
foregoing rule shall not prohibit the erection of an accessory building eighty
feet (80') or more from any street bounding the block. (Ord. 37, 9-11-1941)
   (C)   The height and aisle spacing of stackable containers in the village
shall be regulated as follows:
      1.   Use of stackable containers in the village for permanent storage is
hereby prohibited.
      2.   The use of stackable containers for transportation purposes of goods
and commodities shall be governed by all applicable village code provisions
contained in the comprehensive zoning ordinance of the village 1 .
      3.   In addition to being governed by the comprehensive zoning ordinance
of the village, no stackable containers shall be erected to a height exceeding
thirty feet (30') in any zoning district of the village.
      4.   All stackable containers used to transport goods through the village
shall be subject to aisle spacing requirements. Each stack of containers shall
have an aisle space on each of the four (4) sides of said stack which shall be
no less than three-fourths (3/4) of the height of said stack. (Ord. 761, 4-18-
1985)
 
Notes
1 1. See title VI of this code.
6-1-12: BUILDING LINE SETBACK:
No building shall be erected or altered in any A-1 residential district so as
to place its street wall nearer than twenty three feet (23') from the street
line; no building shall be erected or altered in any A residential district so
as to place its street wall nearer than twenty three feet (23') from the street
line; provided that:
   (A)   Where a block is occupied or partially occupied by buildings which
existed in the block at the time of the passage of this chapter, the average of
the distances of the street walls of buildings, from the street line, shall be
the established building line; but no building shall be required to set back in
any case more than twenty three feet (23') in any A-1 residential district, nor
more than twenty three feet (23') in any A residential district.
   (B)   Where a lot on which a building line setback is required, adjoins a
district with a smaller or no setback requirement, the buildings on said lot,
for a distance of not more than fifty feet (50') from the district line, shall
be required to observe only one-half (1/2) the setback that would otherwise be
required for first said lot.
   (C)   Where the continuation of the front line of one or more lots in a
business district forms the front line of one or more lots in the same block
and in a residential district, the buildings in the business district shall,
along that frontage, conform to the setback requirements of the adjoining
residential district, but no business building shall be required by this
section to set back more than fifteen feet (15') from the street line.
   (D)   Where owners of all properties in a block petition in writing for the
establishment of a building line within that block, which building line differs
from that which would otherwise be established by the provisions of this
section, the board of appeals may, after due notice and hearings, recommend to
the village board of trustees the adoption of the building line proposed by the
petitioners. (Ord. 37, 9-11-1941)
6-1-13: VIOLATION; PENALTY; ENFORCEMENT:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with,
or who resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be fined not less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
The building commissioner is hereby designated and authorized to enforce this
chapter. (Ord. 37, 9-11-1941)
6-1-14: BOARD OF APPEALS:
   (A)   Creation And Membership: A board of appeals is hereby authorized to be
established. The word "board" when used in this section shall be construed to
mean the board of appeals. The said board shall consist of seven (7) members
appointed by the president of the village with the advice and consent of the
village board. One of said members shall be by the president designated as
chairman of the said board and shall hold his office for a period of seven (7)
years and until his successor is appointed and qualified. One of said members
shall be by the president designated to hold office for six (6) years and until
his successor is appointed and qualified. One of said members shall be by the
president designated to hold office for five (5) years and until his successor
is appointed and qualified. One of said members shall be by the president
designated to hold office for four (4) years and until his successor is
appointed and qualified. One of said members shall be by the president
designated to hold office for three (3) years and until his successor is
appointed and qualified. One of said members shall be by the president
designated to hold office for two (2) years and until his successor is
appointed and qualified. One of said members shall be by the president
designated to hold office for one year and until his successor is appointed and
qualified. At the expiration of the respective terms of office hereby created,
and thereafter the members of said board shall be appointed in the manner
hereinabove set forth for a term of seven (7) years each and until their
respective successors are duly appointed and qualified. All of the members of
said board shall serve without compensation, and they shall be subject to
removal by the president and board of the village for cause and after public
hearing.
   (B)   Meetings: All meetings of the board of appeals shall be held at the
call of the chairman and at such other times as such Board may determine. Such
chairman, or in his absence the acting chairman, may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings of such board shall be open to
the public. The board shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member upon every question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
such fact, and shall also keep records of its examination and other official
actions. Every rule, regulation, every amendment or repeal thereof, and every
order, requirement, decision or determination of the board shall immediately be
filed in the office of the board and shall be a public record.
   (C)   Duties: The board of appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and
review any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the building
coordinator. It shall also hear and decide all matters referred to it or upon
which it is required to pass. The concurring vote of five (5) members of the
board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the building coordinator, or to decide in favor of the
applicant any matter upon which it is required to pass.
Such an appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved or by an officer,
department, board or bureau of the municipality. Such appeal shall be taken
within such time as shall be prescribed by the board of appeals by general rule
by filing with the building coordinator and with the board of appeals a notice
of approval, specifying the grounds thereof. The building coordinator shall
forthwith transmit to the board of appeals all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken.
   (D)   Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed from, unless the officer from whom the
appeal is taken certifies to the board of appeals after the notice of appeal
has been filed with him, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate a
stay would, in his opinion, cause imminent peril to life or property, in which
case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order
which may be granted by the board of appeals, or by a court of record on
application on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken, and on due
cause shown.
   (E)   Powers:
      1.   The board of appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may appear in person or
by agent or by attorney. The board of appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination as in
its opinion ought to be made in the premises, and to that end shall have all
the powers of the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
      2.   The board shall have the power to recommend to the village board
such changes in the district boundaries or regulations as it may deem necessary
or desirable, as more particularly set forth in this chapter.
      3.   The board may from time to time adopt such rules and regulations as
may be deemed necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this chapter.
      4.   The board shall have the power to call on any of the other village
departments for assistance in the performance of its duties, and it shall be
the duty of such other departments to render such assistance as may be
reasonably required. (Ord. 37, 9-11-1941)
6-1-15: OCCUPANCY PERMITS:
(Rep. by Ord. 667, 7-7-1978)
6-1-16: INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT:
In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any rules,
regulations or permits previously adopted or issued, and not in conflict with
any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted, or issued,
pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises; nor is it
intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements,
covenants or other agreements between parties; provided, however, that where
this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or
premises or upon height of buildings or requires larger open spaces than are
imposed or required by such rules, regulations or permits, or by covenants, or
agreements, the provisions of this chapter shall control. (Ord. 37, 9-11-1941)
6-1-17: BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICTS:
Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the zoning map the following rules shall apply:
   (A)   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys, unless otherwise
shown, and where the designations on the zoning map indicate that the various
districts are approximately bounded by street or alley lines, such alleys or
streets shall be construed to be the boundaries of such districts.
   (B)   Where the district boundaries are not shown to be streets or alleys
and where the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and
lots, the district boundaries shall be construed to be lot lines, and where the
designations on the zoning map indicate that the various districts are
approximately bounded by lot lines, such lot lines shall be construed to be the
boundaries of such districts.
   (C)   Where the district boundaries are not shown by streets or alleys, or
lot or block lines, the district boundaries shall be determined by use of the
scale shown on the map. (Ord. 37, 9-11-1941)
6-1-18: CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS:
The regulations imposed and the districts created by this chapter may be
amended from time to time by ordinance, but no such amendments shall be made
without a hearing before the board of appeals.
The board of appeals may of its own motion, or upon petition signed by one or
more property owners of any district or portion thereof, or upon instruction
from the village board, cause to be prepared a notice indicating the changes
proposed to be made in the regulations or in the district boundary lines,
describing the boundaries of the territory to be affected. Such notice shall
state the time and place of the public hearing for consideration of such
proposed amendment, supplement or change, and the place where maps of the
proposed amendment, supplement or change will be accessible for examination by
interested parties.
Notice of such public hearing shall be published at least fifteen (15) days in
advance thereof in at least one newspaper of general circulation in the
village. After such public hearing, the board of appeals shall report to the
village board on the proposed amendment, supplement or change, and may cause an
ordinance authorizing such proposed amendment, supplement or change to be
introduced in the village board. Such hearing may be adjourned from time to
time. Whenever a written protest against such proposed amendment, supplement or
change, signed and acknowledged by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of
frontage proposed to be altered, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of
the frontage immediately adjoining in the same block or in the block back of or
across an alley therefrom, or by the owners of twenty percent (20%) of the
frontage in the block directly opposite the frontage proposed to be altered,
shall have been filed with the clerk within thirty (30) days after said public
hearing, the ordinance providing for such proposed amendment, supplement or
change shall not be passed except by the favorable vote of two-thirds (2/3) of
the members of the village board. (Ord. 37, 9-11-1941)
6-1-19: MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following terms
shall have these definitions:
FAMILY: An individual or married couple and the children thereof with not more
than two (2) other persons related directly to the individual or married couple
by blood or marriage, or a group of not more than four (4) unrelated persons,
living together as a single housekeeping unit in a dwelling.
MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING: An existing building or portion thereof that was
designed or altered in accordance with the provisions of this code for
occupancy by two (2) families living independently of each other. That the only
residences to be classified as permitted multi-family dwellings are as follows:
7647 W. 65th Place
7649 W. 65th Place
7654 W. 65th Place
7701 W. 65th Place
7703 W. 65th Place
7719 W. 65th Place
7720 W. 65th Place
7733 W. 65th Place
7813 W. 65th Place
7628 W. 66th Place
7701 W. 66th Street
7707 W. 66th Street
7710 W. 66th Street
7715 W. 66th Street
7807 W. 66th Street
OWNER: An individual who is the owner of record or has a primary beneficial
land trust interest in the premises.
SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING: A detached building having accommodations for and
customarily occupied by one family unit and including a private garage. (Ord.
95-960, 10-5-1995; amd. Ord. 01-1086, 8-2-2001; Ord. 07-1236, 6-21-2007; Ord.
09-1295, 5-21-2009; Ord. 09-1307, 10-15-2009; Ord. 10-1341, 10-10-2010)
   (B)   Restrictions Of Multi-Family Dwellings:
      1.   Only the owner of the dwelling and his or her family and another
family, related or unrelated, shall be allowed to reside, live or occupy the
premises and said use shall be deemed a permitted use.
      2.   Any attempt or effort to alter, design, construct or remodel an
existing single-family dwelling to a multi-family dwelling is strictly
prohibited.
      3.   All multi-family dwellings shall comply with all pertinent
provisions of this code.
   (C)   Effective Date Of Restriction: The restriction as described in
subsection (B) of this section shall be effective upon any sale, transfer,
conveyance of title to any of the aforesaid multi-family residences and thereon
shall be an ongoing restriction. (Ord. 01-1086, 8-2-2001)
   (D)   Compliance With The Village Code: Nothing herein shall restrict or
eliminate the requirement of compliance with all other provisions, terms, and
conditions of this code.
   (E)   Penalties: Any individual who is in violation of this section shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Each day a violation is allowed to exist by
the individual shall be considered a separate offense. The village authorities
shall also have the right to file a lawsuit before the proper division of the
circuit court of Cook County seeking to enjoin the continuation of the
violation either by the filing of a petition seeking a temporary restraining
order, preliminary or permanent injunction. (Ord. 95-960, 10-5-1995)
TITLE VII
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FOUNDATION WALLS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Height Restriction
7-1-1: HEIGHT RESTRICTION:
No person shall erect, build, construct or maintain a foundation wall for
residential structures within the village, the height of which shall exceed
more than one foot (1') above the existing or established sidewalk grade or
level. (Ord. 86, 10-15-1953)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDINGS FOR TRANSIENTS
SECTION:
7-2-1: Location Limitation
7-2-1: LOCATION LIMITATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, erect, maintain, manage,
operate or use any building or structure, temporary or permanent, which is
located within two thousand feet (2,000') of any public building, school,
institution or grounds where such building or structure is occupied, or
intended to be occupied, by one or more individuals as a sleeping place,
boarding or lodging house, hotel or motel catering to transient trade. (Ord.
105, 1-3-1957)
CHAPTER 3
SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definition
7-3-2: Location
7-3-3: Permit Required
7-3-4: Fences
7-3-5: Chlorination
7-3-6: Recirculating System
7-3-7: Emptying Pools
7-3-8: Water Supply
7-3-9: Nuisances
7-3-10: Inspections
7-3-11: Annual Permit
7-3-1: DEFINITION:
The term "private residential swimming pool", (hereinafter referred to as
"pool") is hereby defined as a receptacle for water, or an artificial pool of
water, intended for the purpose of swimming, diving, wading or immersing
therein of human beings, and including all appurtenant equipment constructed,
installed and maintained in or above ground outside of a building used in
connection therewith. Providing further, that such private residential swimming
pool is maintained by an individual for the sole use of his household and guest
and not for the purpose of profit or in connection with any business operated
for profit. (Ord. 134, 6-2-1960)
7-3-2: LOCATION:
   (A)   Private residential swimming pools shall be permitted in A and A1
residential districts only. (Ord. 134, 6-2-1960)
   (B)   No portion of any such pools shall be located less than four feet (4')
from any side or rear property line, nor building lines, unless written consent
is obtained from property owner or owners on pool side. (Ord. 685, 7-19-1979)
   (C)   No pool shall occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the total back
yard area. (Ord. 134, 6-2-1960)
7-3-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement or alteration of any pool having a depth at any point of more than
sixteen inches (16"), or a capacity of more than two thousand (2,000) gallons
of water unless a permit therefor shall have first been obtained from the
building commissioner. (Ord. 134, 6-2-1960)
7-3-4: FENCES:
   (A)    Any pool having a depth at any point of more than sixteen inches
(16") shall be completely enclosed by a fence of at least four feet (4') in
height above grade level, exclusive of ornamentation, which fence shall be set
back at least three feet (3') from all sides of the pool. Any pool having a
depth at any point of more than thirty six inches (36”) shall be completely
enclosed by a fence of at least six feet (6’) and no more than six and one half
feet (6 ½’) in height above ground level. No pool in the village may have a
fence exceeding six and one-half feet (61/2').
   Any pool which reaches a depth of more than twenty three inches (23") may
have the fence located on the top edge of the pool or set back at least three
feet (3') from all sides of the pool; however, in either case, the height from
grade level to the top of the fence must not exceed six and one-half feet (61/
2') and must not be less than six feet (6') from grade level. No pool may be
drained during the swimming season without prior written approval from the
village. Approval shall not be unreasonably withheld and shall take into
account all circumstances relating to drainage; no approval from the village is
necessary if the owner or operator of the pool is draining the pool at the end
of the swimming season.
   (B)   All fencing required hereunder shall be constructed of a minimum #9-
gauge woven wire mesh corrosive resistant material, or such other material as
may, from time to time, be approved by the building commissioner.
   (C)   All fence openings or points of entry into said pool or enclosure
shall be equipped with gates. Such gates shall be of the type not readily
scalable and shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices
placed at the top of the gate and made inaccessible to small children. Such
gates shall be kept securely locked at all times when the pool is not in use
and whether or not the same contains any water.
   (D)   Any hot tub that is not enclosed by a fence shall have a rigid secure
covering when not in use. The installation of a hot tub shall require a permit
issued by the Building Commissioner. (Ord. 134, 6-2-1960; amd. Ord. 88-797, 7-
21-1988; Ord. 20-1635, 8-6-2020)
7-3-5: CHLORINATION:
All pool regardless of size shall contain a minimum free chlorine residual of
five-tenths (0.5) parts per million. (Ord. 134, 6-2-1960)
7-3-6: RECIRCULATING SYSTEM:
Any swimming pool having a capacity of more than two thousand (2,000) gallons
of water shall be equipped with approved recirculating rapid pressure filters.
Sufficient filter area shall be provided to filter the entire contents of the
pool in eighteen (18) hours at the rate of not more than three (3) gallons per
square foot of filter area per minute. The recirculating system shall be so
installed as to produce, as far as possible, uniform circulation throughout the
pool without the existence of dead spots. (Ord. 134, 6-2-1960)
7-3-7: EMPTYING POOLS:
Pools having a capacity of more than two thousand (2,000) gallons of water
shall be equipped with facilities for completely emptying the same through a
trap to the sewer. (Ord. 134, 6-2-1960)
7-3-8: WATER SUPPLY:
No source of water other than that secured from the village water works
distribution system shall be used in swimming pools. (Ord. 134, 6-2-1960)
7-3-9: NUISANCES:
   (A)   No pool shall be drained in any manner which will cause such drainage
to become obnoxious or offensive to adjacent property or owners thereof.
   (B)   All pools and the areas surrounding the same shall be kept in a clean,
wholesome, sanitary and safe condition at all times; and the operation and use
thereof shall be subject to all rules and regulations which may, from time to
time, be prescribed by the health officer.
   (C)   It shall be the duty and responsibility of the owner of a pool to
prevent misuse thereof and to so use the same as to preserve the health, safety
and welfare of the community in general. (Ord. 134, 6-2-1960)
7-3-10: INSPECTIONS:
All pools shall be subject to inspection by the duly designated village
officials at such times as the village shall deem necessary and prudent. (Ord.
134, 6-2-1960)
7-3-11: ANNUAL PERMIT:
The owner or operator of any swimming pool in the village shall obtain an
annual permit to operate said pool prior to commencement of filling and
operation, from the village. No fee shall be levied, charged or imposed to
obtain the operating permit. (Ord. 88-797, 7-21-1988)
CHAPTER 4
COMMERCIAL SWIMMING POOLS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definition
7-4-2: Location
7-4-3: Permit Required
7-4-4: Drawings, Plans And Permits
7-4-5: Recirculation Pools
7-4-6: Materials
7-4-7: Structural Design
7-4-8: Walk Areas
7-4-9: Fences
7-4-10: Steps Or Ladders
7-4-11: Skimmers
7-4-12: Water Supply
7-4-13: Inlets
7-4-14: Outlets
7-4-15: Recirculation System And Appurtenances
7-4-16: Electrical Requirements
7-4-17: Safety Precautions
7-4-18: Operation And Maintenance
7-4-19: Inspection
7-4-20: Permit Fees
7-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "commercial swimming pool" (hereinafter referred to as "swimming
pool") is defined as a receptacle for water, or an artificial pool of water,
having a depth at any point of more than eighteen inches (18"), capable of or
intended for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein of human
beings, and including all appurtenant equipment, constructed, installed and
maintained in or above the ground, but used solely for the purpose of display
in connection with possible sales and installation thereof, and not for the
purpose of swimming, diving, wading or immersing of human beings. (Ord. 135, 6-
16-1960)
7-4-2: LOCATION:
   (A)   Such swimming pools shall be permitted in B-1 local business districts
only.
   (B)   No portion of any such swimming pool shall be located at a distance
less than ten feet (10') from any side or rear property line, or building line.
Pumps, filters and pool water disinfection equipment installations shall be
located at a distance not less than eight feet (8') from any side property
line. Pools and appurtenant equipment shall not be permitted in the side yard
between dwellings. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful to proceed with the construction, installation,
enlargement or alteration of any swimming pool and appurtenances unless permits
therefor shall have first been obtained from the village. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-4: DRAWINGS, PLANS AND PERMITS:
   (A)   All drawings and plans for the construction, installation, enlargement
or alteration of any swimming pool and appurtenances for which a permit is
required shall first be presented to the village for examination and approval
as to proper location, construction and use.
   (B)   All plans and drawings shall be drawn to a scale of not less than one-
eighth (1/8) of an inch to the foot, on paper or cloth, in ink, or by some
process that will not fade or obliterate. All distances and dimensions shall be
accurately figured and drawings made explicit and complete, showing the lot
lines, and including information pertaining to the pool, walk and fence
construction, water supply system, drainage and water disposal systems, and all
appurtenances pertaining to the swimming pool.
   (C)   All swimming pools, appurtenances, water supply and drainage systems
shall be constructed in conformity with such approved plans. If any deviations
from such plans are desired, a supplementary plan covering that portion of the
work involved shall be filed for approval and shall conform to the provisions
of this chapter. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-5: RECIRCULATION POOLS:
Swimming pools shall be of the recirculation type in which circulation of the
water is maintained through the pool by pumps; the water drawn from the pool
being clarified and disinfected before being returned to the pool. (Ord. 135,
6-16-1960)
7-4-6: MATERIALS:
Swimming pool walls and floor shall be constructed of any impervious material
which will provide a tight tank with white or light colored finished easily
cleaned surfaces. The floor or bottom surface of the pool shall have a nonslip
finish as smooth as possible. The side and end walls of a pool shall present a
smooth finish and shall be vertical to a depth of at least six feet (6') or
shall have a slope or curvature meeting one of the following conditions:
   (A)   The pool wall may be vertical for thirty inches (30") from the water
level below which the wall may be curved to the bottom with a radius at any
point equal to the difference between the depth, at that point, and thirty
inches (30").
   (B)   To a depth of six feet (6'), except as in subsection (A) of this
section, the walls slope shall not be less than one foot (1') horizontal in six
feet (6') vertical. Pool walls that are to be lined with a plastic liner shall
be constructed of masonry or reinforced concrete. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-7: STRUCTURAL DESIGN:
Swimming pools shall be designed to withstand the water pressure from within
and to resist the pressure of the earth when the pool is empty, to a pressure
of two thousand two hundred (2,200) pounds per square foot. The slope of the
bottom of any part of a pool in which the water is less than five feet (5') in
depth shall not be more than one foot (1') in each ten feet (10'). The maximum
slope where water is five feet (5') or more in depth shall not exceed one foot
(1') in two feet (2'). (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-8: WALK AREAS:
Unobstructed walk areas not less than six feet (6') wide shall be provided to
extend entirely around the pool. The walk area shall be constructed of
impervious material, and the surfaces shall be of such as to be smooth and
easily cleaned and of nonslip construction. The slope of the walks shall have a
pitch of at least one-fourth inch (1/4") to the foot, designed so as to prevent
back drainage from entering the pool. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-9: FENCES:
Swimming pools shall be completely enclosed by a fence erected along the
periphery of the pool walks. All fence openings or points of entry into pool
area enclosure shall be equipped with gates. The fence and gates shall be six
feet (6') in height above the walk grade level and shall be constructed of a
minimum #9- gauge woven wire mesh corrosion resistant material, or material
approved by the building official. All gates shall be equipped with self-
closing and self-latching devices placed at the top of the gate and made
inaccessible to small children. All fence posts shall be decay or corrosion
resistant and shall be set in concrete bases. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-10: STEPS OR LADDERS:
Two (2) or more means of egress in the form of steps or ladders shall be
provided for swimming pools. At least one such means of egress shall be located
on a side of the pool at both the deep end and shallow end of the pool. Treads
of steps and ladders shall be constructed of nonslip material and at least
three inches (3") wide for their full length. Steps and ladders shall have a
handrail on both sides. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-11: SKIMMERS:
In every swimming pool, at least one skimming device shall be provided for each
eight hundred (800) square feet of surface area or fraction thereof. Skimmers
shall be located at least thirty feet (30') apart. Handholds shall be provided
and consist of a bull nosed coping not over two and one-half inches (21/2")
thick for the outer two inches (2") or an equivalent approved handholds. The
handhold must be no more than nine inches (9") above the normal water line.
Skimming devices shall be built into the pool wall, shall adequately remove
floating oils and waste and shall meet the following general specifications:
   (A)   Each skimmer shall be designed for a flow through rate of at least
thirty (30) gallons per minute and a total capacity of all skimmers on any pool
shall be at least fifty percent (50%) of the required filter flow of the
recirculation system.
   (B)   They shall be automatically adjustable to variations in water level
over a range of at least three inches (3").
   (C)   An easily removable and cleanable basket or screen through which all
overflow water must pass shall be provided to trap large solids.
   (D)   The skimmer shall be provided with a device to prevent airlock in the
suction line. If an equalizer pipe is used, it shall provide an adequate amount
of makeup water for pump suction should the water of the pool drop below the
weir level. This pipe shall be at least two inches (2") in diameter and shall
be located at least one foot below the lowest overflow level of the skimmer.
   (E)   An equalizer line shall be provided with a valve that will remain
tightly closed under normal operating conditions, but will automatically open
at a differential of not more than four inches (4") between the pool level and
the level of the overflow tank.
   (F)   The overflow weir shall be of sufficient length to maintain a rate of
flow of at least twenty (20) gallons per minute per lineal foot of weir lip.
(Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-12: WATER SUPPLY:
No source of water other than that secured from the village waterworks
distribution system shall be used in swimming pools. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-13: INLETS:
   (A)   A swimming pool water recirculation system inlet shall be installed so
as to produce so far as possible uniform circulation of water throughout the
pool without the existence of dead spots and to carry pool bottom deposits to
the outlets, and shall discharge at a minimum depth of ten inches (10") below
the pool overflow level. A minimum of one recirculation system inlet shall be
provided for every six hundred fifteen (615) square feet of surface area of the
pool.
   (B)   Swimming pools shall be equipped with suitable facilities for adding
makeup water as needed. There shall be no physical connection between the water
supply line and the pool system. If the makeup water is added directly to the
pool, the outlet shall be at least six inches (6") above the upper rim of the
pool. If the makeup water line discharges to a surge or balancing tank, the
point of discharge shall be at least six inches (6") above the rim of the tank.
If a hose connection from a sill cock or other plumbing fixture is to be used
for supplying makeup water, then an approved vacuum breaker shall be installed
between the sill cock or control valve at the fixture and the hose connection.
The vacuum breaker shall be installed at a height not less than seven feet six
inches (7'6") above the floor, platform or ground upon which a person would
stand when operating the sill cock or control valve. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-14: OUTLETS:
   (A)   In swimming pools thirty feet (30') in width or less, water
circulation system outlets shall be located so as to provide at least one
outlet at the deepest point in the pool, if the pool width is more than thirty
feet (30'), multiple outlets shall be provided and spaced not more than thirty
feet (30') apart, nor closer than four feet (4') to any wall. All pool drain
outlets shall be equipped with gratings having an area of openings not less
than four (4) times the cross sectional area of the outlet pipe. The gratings
shall be of such design so they cannot be readily removable by bathers and will
not injure bathers' fingers. One outlet shall be provided for each eight
hundred (800) square feet of surface area.
   (B)   Swimming pools shall be equipped with facilities for completely
emptying the pool and the discharge of the pool water to the sewer shall be at
a rate not exceeding two hundred fifty (250) gallons per minute. No direct
connection shall be made to the sewer.
   (C)   Water drained from the pool shall not be discharged to the sewer
system during periods of rain or storms. At no time shall the rate of drain
water discharge exceed a flow of two hundred fifty (250) gallons per minute.
(Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-15: RECIRCULATION SYSTEM AND APPURTENANCES:
   (A)   Swimming pool recirculation systems shall consist of pumping
equipment, hair and lint catcher, filters, together with the necessary pipe
connections to the pool inlets and outlets, facilities and pipe connections
necessary for backwashing filters, and facilities and equipment for
disinfecting the pool water.
   (B)   Swimming pools shall have a recirculating system with an hourly
capacity equal to the pool volume divided by eight (8).
   (C)   The recirculation system pump shall have sufficient capacity to
discharge the volume of water required for an eight (8) hour turnover of the
pool against the maximum head in the recirculating system.
   (D)   The pump used for backwashing filters shall have sufficient capacity
to provide a filter backwash rate of at least twelve (12) gallons per minute
per square foot of filter area.
   (E)   A hair and lint catcher or strainer shall be installed on the suction
side of the circulation pump to prevent hair, lint and other extraneous matter
from reaching the pump and filters. Hair and lint catcher shall be so designed
that they can be easily dismantled for cleaning and inspection and shall be so
located as to be easily accessible for such cleaning. The design features shall
be as follows: water passes through the strainer from the outside; the strainer
is made of noncorrosive material; the width or diameter of strainer openings is
not more than one-eighth inch (1/8"); the area of the strainer openings shall
be at least five (5) times the cross sectional area of the inlet pipe to the
strainer.
   (F)   Recirculating systems shall contain rapid pressure filters. Sufficient
filter area shall be provided to filter the entire contents of the pool in
eighteen (18) hours at the rate of not more than three (3) gallons per square
foot of filter area per minute. The filter backwashing facilities shall be
sufficient to backwash at the rate of twelve (12) gallons per minute per square
foot of filter area. All backwash water and effluents shall be discharged to
the sewer through an indirect connection. Pressure filters shall be equipped
with readily accessible air relief valves, loss of head or pressure gauges on
the inlet and outlet pipes, and an access head or hold large enough to permit
inspection, maintenance and repair work. Sight glasses that can be easily
removed for cleaning shall be provided in the effluent line from the filter
units.
   (G)   Equipment shall be provided for the disinfection of all pool water.
Any disinfection method using materials other than chlorine compounds shall be
subject to the approval of the village. Disinfection equipment installed for
the use of chlorine compounds shall have sufficient capacity to maintain a
minimum free chlorine residual of five-tenths (0.5) parts per million. The
disinfectant shall be introduced into the recirculation system ahead of the
filters.
   (H)   Gaseous chlorination systems shall not be made use of as a
disinfection method for pool water. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-16: ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   All electrical installations provided for, installed, and used in
conjunction with swimming pools, shall be in conformance with generally
recognized and accepted practices.
   (B)   All metal fences, enclosures or railings near or adjacent to swimming
pools, which might become electrically alive as a result of contact with broken
overhead conductors, or from any other cause, shall be effectively grounded.
(Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-17: SAFETY PRECAUTIONS:
   (A)   A skilled swimmer shall be present at all times that such swimming
pools are in use.
   (B)   Ever such swimming pool shall be equipped with one or more throwing
ring buoys not more than fifteen inches (15") in diameter and having sixty feet
(60') of three-sixteenths (3/16) inch Manila line attached, and one or more
light but strong poles with blunted ends and not less than twelve feet (12') in
length, for making reach assists or rescues. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-18: OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE:
   (A)   A suitable substantial protective cover shall be provided and
installed over swimming pool surfaces during the nonswimming season.
   (B)   Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition,
and all equipment shall be maintained in a satisfactory operating condition
during periods the pool is in use.
   (C)   No swimming pool shall be used, kept, maintained or operated if such
use, keeping, maintaining, or operating shall be the occasion of any nuisance
or shall be dangerous to life or detrimental to health. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
7-4-19: INSPECTION:
The building inspector periodically shall inspect all swimming pools to
determine whether or not the provisions of this code regarding health,
sanitation and safety applicable thereto are being complied with. (Ord. 135, 6-
16-1960)
7-4-20: PERMIT FEES:
The fee for a permit for the erection or construction of a swimming pool shall
be ten dollars ($10.00) for each one thousand (1,000) cubic feet or fraction
thereof to be contained within the proposed pool as determined by the plans and
specifications submitted with the application for permit. (Ord. 135, 6-16-1960)
CHAPTER 5
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
7-5-1: Adoption Of International Existing Building Code
7-5-2: Establishment Of Office Of Building Coordinator
7-5-3: Liability Of Building Commission
7-5-4: Cooperation Of Other Officials
7-5-5: Right Of Entry
7-5-6: Definitions
7-5-7: Fees; Bonds; Insurance
7-5-8: Saving Clause
7-5-9: Validity
7-5-10: Inconsistent Ordinances Repealed
7-5-11: Amendments Made In Said Code
7-5-12: Penalty
7-5-13: Certificate Of Occupancy
7-5-1: ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL EXISTING BUILDING CODE:
The International Existing Building Code 2015 edition with amendments is hereby
adopted in full. (Ord. 18-1569, 5-17-2018)
7-5-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF BUILDING COORDINATOR:
   (A)   For the establishment of the office, duties, appointment and term of
the Building Coordinator, refer to title I, chapter 15 of this Code.
   (B)   Qualified and experienced plumbing, electrical, special and general
inspectors to enforce the provisions of this Code may be appointed by the
President, by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees and shall be under
the supervision of the Building Coordinator. (Ord. 670, 7-7-1978)
7-5-3: LIABILITY OF BUILDING COMMISSION:
The Building Coordinator, any inspector or any employee charged with the
enforcement of this Code, acting in good faith and without malice for the
Village in the discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself liable
personally, and he is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any
damage that may accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required
or by reason of any act or omission in the discharge of his duties. Any suit
brought against the Building Coordinator, or inspector employee, because of
such act or omission performed by him in the enforcement of any provisions of
this Code, shall be defended by the Legal Department of the Village until final
termination of the proceedings. (Ord. 670, 7-7-1978)
7-5-4: COOPERATION OF OTHER OFFICIALS:
The Building Coordinator may request and shall receive, so far as may be
necessary, in the discharge of his duties, the assistance and cooperation of
other officials of the Municipality. (Ord. 670, 7-7-1978)
7-5-5: RIGHT OF ENTRY:
The Building Coordinator, in the discharge of his official duties, and upon
proper identification, shall have authority to enter any building, structure,
or premises at any reasonable hour. (Ord. 670, 7-7-1978)
7-5-6: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following terms shall be held to mean:
BUILDING CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm or corporation who procures a building
permit, but who must sublet all of the work to licensed specialty contractors
and including anyone engaged in rehabilitation of property (rehabbers).
BUILDING DEPARTMENT OR BUILDING OFFICIAL: The Building Coordinator.
CORPORATION COUNSEL: The village attorney.
GENERAL CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm or corporation who has the entire or major
portion of a contract, and who employs the basic trades directly to perform
building work and sublets to licensed specialty contractors.
MUNICIPALITY: The village of Bedford Park, Illinois.
SPECIALTY CONTRACTOR: Any person, firm or corporation whose operations are the
performance of building work requiring special skills and whose principal
contracting business involves the use of a specialized building trade or craft.
(Ord. 670, 7-7-1978; amd. Ord. 00-1063, 7-7-2000)
7-5-7: FEES; BONDS; INSURANCE:
   (A)   1. Bond Requirements: All contractors 1 , their agents or owners,
except those performing only glazing, painting and decorating, cleaning of
tile, marble and mosaic work, shall before performing any work in the village,
provide the building department with a license and permit bond with a
certificate of insurance in the sum equal to the total cost of the proposed
project. Such bond shall be an amount of not less than two thousand five
hundred dollars ($2,500.00) nor need be for an amount of more than ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) unless a higher amount is so determined to be needed by
the building inspector or other village officials, to assure that the
contractor, its agents or owners faithfully comply with the provisions of the
building code, zoning code, and village ordinances, and any and all
nonconforming work will be corrected. The building inspector or other village
officials shall have the right to require the posting of a cash money bond
rather than a permit bond. Such bonds shall be conditioned to save and hold
harmless the village, its officials and employees from all accidents and
damages that may happen and also shall accrue to and be usable by the village
for such purposes as, but not limited to, the repair, replacement or bringing
back into condition of any street, curb, sidewalk, trees or other damages of
items located within the public right of way, including adjoining residential
properties, whether such damage or injury shall be inflicted by the principal
or his agents, employees or workmen, as well as to guarantee compliance with
this code and any conditions of the permit issued by the village. Any repairs
to any street, curb, sidewalk or village right of way shall be completed within
two (2) weeks after the damage has been incurred, weather permitting.
      2.   Construction Project: The bond requirements contained herein shall
apply to any residential, industrial or commercial construction project.
      3.   Waiver: A waiver of the surety bond requirements as set forth herein
can be waived in the following situations:
         (a)   Upon the recommendation of the building inspector, the village
board shall have the right to waive the furnishing of said bond after a review
of the permit related conditions.
         (b)   A resident of the village employing a contractor for work to be
done on his or her residence reserves the right to waive the furnishing of a
bond upon informing the building inspector, in writing, of said request.
      4.   Certificate Of Insurance: No contractor shall be allowed to engage
in business as provided in this chapter unless such contractor shall provide,
in addition to all the requirements set forth herein, a certificate of
insurance verifying the existence of a current public liability policy in the
name of the contractor. Said insurance policy shall include coverage of
personal injury in an amount not less than one hundred thousand dollars
($100,000.00) and property damage in an amount not less than fifty thousand
dollars ($50,000.00). The contractor shall be required to furnish the village
with a new certificate upon expiration, lapse, cancellation or other change in
coverage and the building inspector shall be empowered to suspend the license
of any contractor found to be in violation of this subsection. (Ord. 00-1063,
7-7-2000)
   (B)   For a permit for the construction, addition, alteration or repair of a
building or structure, the fee schedule shall be as follows: (Ord. 97-999, 7-3-
1997)
      1.   Building Permit Fee:
Total Valuation  Fee
Total Valuation             Fee
$1.00 to $500.00            $20.00
                             $25.00 for the first $500.00, plus $2.00 for each
$501.00 to $2,000.00        additional $100.00 or fraction thereof, to and
                             including $2,000.00
                             $50.00 for the first $2,000.00, plus $5.00 for
$2,001.00 to $25,000.00     each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $25,000.00
                             $300.00 for the first $25,000.00, plus $4.00 for
$25,001.00 to $50,000.00    each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $50,000.00
                             $350.00 for the first $50,000.00, plus $3.00 for
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00   each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $100,000.00
                             $500.00 for the first $100,000.00, plus $5.00 for
$100,001.00 to $500,000.00  each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $500,000.00
$500,001.00 and up          $1,500.00 for the first $500,000.00, plus $5.00
                             for each additional $1,000.00 or fraction thereof
 
(Ord. 07-1227, 4-19-2007)
The permit fee of one dollar ($1.00) shall be assessed to all village residents
who submit plans or drawings for the alteration, repair, remodeling of their
residence.
      2.   Plan Review Fee: A plan review fee of sixty five percent (65%) of
the building permit fee shall be assessed for all new construction and for the
alteration and repairs exceeding one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) valuation.
      3.   Reinspection Fee: A fee of fifty dollars ($50.00) shall be assessed
for each reinspection.
   (C)   For a permit for the removal of a building or structure, the
applicant, contractor or owner shall pay a fee in accordance with subsection
(B) of this section to the village.
   (D)   The term "estimated cost" as used in this section, means the
reasonable value of all services, labor, materials and use of scaffolding and
other appliances or devices entering into and necessary to the prosecution and
completion of the work ready for occupancy; provided that the cost of
excavating or grading, and of painting and decorating or other work that is
merely for embellishment, or not necessary for the safe and lawful use of the
building or structure, is not deemed a part of such estimated cost. (Ord. 97-
999, 7-3-1997)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  7-5-6 of this chapter.
7-5-8: SAVING CLAUSE:
Nothing in this chapter or in the building code hereby adopted shall be
construed to affect any suit or proceeding now pending in any court, or any
rights acquired, or liability incurred, nor any cause or causes of action
accrued or existing, under any act or ordinance repealed hereby. Nor shall any
right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this chapter.
(Ord. 670, 7-7-1978)
7-5-9: VALIDITY:
The invalidity of any section or provision of this chapter or of the building
code hereby adopted shall not invalidate other sections or provisions thereof.
(Ord. 670, 7-7-1978)
7-5-10: INCONSISTENT ORDINANCES REPEALED:
Ordinances or parts thereof in force at the time that this chapter shall take
effect and inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed. (Ord. 670, 7-7-1978)
7-5-11: AMENDMENTS MADE IN SAID CODE:
The international building code adopted herein is amended as follows:
Chapter 2
Chapter 2, "Definitions" is hereby amended as follows:
Add to section 202.0 to read: Conflicting Definitions: In the event that any
definition(s) listed in section 201.0 conflict with any definition(s) in any
other village of Bedford Park, Illinois, such definitions shall have the
meanings ascribed to them as in those codes or ordinances.
Chapter 3
Chapter 3, "Use or Occupancy" is hereby amended and deleted as follows:
Subsection 307.9 of Section 307.0, exceptions 3, 4 and 14 are hereby deleted.
Chapter 5.
Chapter 5, "GENERAL BUILDING LIMITATIONS" is hereby amended as follows:
Subsection 502.1 of Section 502, "Definitions" is hereby amended to read as
follows:
Basement: That portion of a building having more than one half (1/2) in height,
or four (4) feet, below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
Story Above Grade: Any story having its finished floor surface entirely above
grade, except that a basement shall be considered a story above grade where the
finished surface of the basement is not one half (1/2) in height or four feet
(4'), below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
Subsection 505.3.1 of Section 505 "Mezzanines" is hereby added to read as
follows:
503.1 The mezzanine shall have one approved, enclosed exit leading to the
exterior of the building.
Exception: Mezzanines under 2000 square feet in area used for dead storage may
be served by one unenclosed stair.
Chapter 6.
Chapter 6, TYPES OF CONSTRUCTION is hereby amended as follows:
Table 601 is hereby amended as follows:
Note c.1, Table 601 is hereby deleted.
Table 602, "Fire Resistance Ratings For Exterior Walls Based on Fire Separation
Distance" is hereby amended by deleting said table and inserting in lieu
thereof the following:
   TABLE 602
   EXTERIOR WALL FIRE RESISTANCE RATINGS (hours)
 
Fire Separation Distance (feet) All Use Groups
0 to 5                          3
5 to 10                         2
10 to 30                        1
Greater than 30                 0
 
Chapter 7
Chapter 7. FIRE RESISTANCE RATED MATERIALS AND CONSTRUCTION is hereby amended
by the following:
Section 704. EXTERIOR WALLS
Subsection 704.5. Exterior walls shall be fire resistance rated on both sides
in accordance with Table 601 and Table 602.
Subsection 704.8. Allowable area of openings. Allowable area of openings shall
be in accordance with the required fire rating and listings.
Subsection 704.8. Delete.
Section 705. FIRE WALLS. Revised to read as follows:
Subsection 705.3. Materials. Fire Walls shall be of approved solid masonry
construction.
Subsection 705.4. Fire Resistance Rating. Firewalls shall have a four-hour fire
resistance rating. Table 705.4 is deleted.
Subsection 708.1.5: Tenant Separation
708.1.5-A: Each tenant space in a multiple tenant building shall be separated
from each other and from corridors, hallways, or passageways, by walls,
partitions, and floor- ceiling assemblies having a fire resistance rating of
not less than one hour.
708.1.5-B: For the purpose of applying "A" above, the following definitions
shall apply:
   1.) Tenant: A person, corporation, company, or similar organization, however
organized, operating as one business and occupying space within a building.
708.1.5-C: Tenant space: The area of square footage used and occupied by a
tenant in a single tenant or multi-tenant building.
Subsection 708.4 of Section 708.0. "Fire Partitions" are hereby amended to read
as follows:
Subsection 708.4. Continuity: All fire partitions shall extend from the top of
the floor assembly below to the underside of the floor/roof slab and shall be
securely attached thereto. The supporting construction shall be protected to
afford the required fire resistance rating of the wall supported. All hollow
vertical spaces shall be fire-stopped at every floor level with an approved
fire resistive material(s).
Chapter 9
Chapter 9. FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS is hereby added to, amended and/or deleted
as follows:
Section 903. "Automatic Sprinkler Systems" is hereby amended by adding to such
Section.
Subsections 903.1.0 and 903.02.12.1.4 shall read as follows:
903.1.0. All Use Groups. Supplementing those locations listed in this Code, any
building when more than 5,000 square feet (gross) in area or when more than
three stories in height shall be provided with an approved automatic fire
sprinkler system.
903.2.12.1.4. Basements. If the area of a basement exceeds 2,000 square feet
(gross) an automatic fire sprinkler systems shall be required.
Subsections 903.3.1.2. and 903.3.1.3 of Section 903.0. "Automatic Sprinkler
Systems" is hereby deleted.
Subsection 903.3.5. Subsections 1.1 and 903.4.2 of Section 903. "Limited Area
Sprinkler Systems" are hereby deleted.
Subsection 907.2 of Section 907 "Fire Alarm and Detection Systems" is hereby
amended by inserting the following:
907.2.0.1. Residential Uses. An automatic fire detection system shall be
installed and maintained in all buildings of Use Groups R-1 and R-2. All
buildings having multiple uses including residential use shall be equipped with
an approved automatic fire alarm and fire detection system.
907.2.0.2. Other Uses: All other buildings including educational, high hazard,
institutional, mercantile, factory or industrial, assembly, storage, or
business occupancies including any other buildings housing combustible
materials and products, over one story I height, and such one-story building
over 1,000 square feet (gross) in area shall be equipped with an approved fire
alarm system.
Subsection 907.2.12.1.4 of Section 907.0. "Fire Alarm and Detection Systems" is
hereby amended by adding said subsection.
907.2.12.1.4. The automatic fire alarm system shall be approved for the
particular application and shall be used for detection and signaling in the
event of fire. Automatic detecting devices shall be approved for use in which
they are intended. Smoke detectors, as part of the fire alarm system, shall be
used where assembly, institutional, residential and educational uses exist.
The following Subsection 909.1.1 is hereby added to Section 909, "Smoke Control
Systems" and Section 910, "Smoke and Heat Vents" shall read as follows:
909.1.1. Village requirements. An emergency smoke control system and/or smoke
and heat vents shall be provided:
      1.   In all sprinklered buildings with a gross (combined floor area of
all floors) floor area exceeding 50,000 square feet.
      2.   In all non- sprinklered buildings with a gross floor area exceeding
5,000 square feet.
      3.   In all buildings over one-story or 15 feet in height. Basements are
considered a story. Residential R-3 and R-4 use groups are exempt from this
subsection.
909.1.2. Design Criteria. All systems shall be designed in accordance with
nationally recognized standards for the design of such systems. Also, refer to
Sections 909 and 910.
909.1.2.1. Air Changes. The system shall be designed to provide a minimum of
four (4) to six (6) air changes per hour throughout the fire area.
909.1.2.1.1. The mechanical smoke management system shall have an adequate
supply and/or return air source to allow the system to operate properly.
909.1.2.1.2. The smoke management system shall be operated manually except for
buildings over three stories in height. It may also be designed to operate
automatically.
909.1.2.3.1. The location and design of controls for the mechanical smoke
management system including the pressurization of areas of a building shall be
at a location approved by the Bureau of Fire Prevention and shall be at a
location easily accessible.
909.1.2.3.1. Building Over Three Stories. In buildings over three stories in
height, interior access corridors, stairs and exit ways shall be provided with
positive pressure.
909.1.2.3.1.1. The pressurization system may operate continuously or be
activated by the alarm signal of the fire alarm of fire suppression system.
Manual controls shall be provided.
Subsection 901.6.4. of Section 901 "General" is hereby amended by deleting said
section and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
907.14.1. Fire Suppression System/Fire Alarm System Supervision. Each fire
suppression system and/or each fire alarm system shall be supervised at an
approved, constantly attended location from which the fire department will be
immediately notified.
907.14.2. Alarm Supervisory and Trouble Signals. The following signals shall be
supervised.
907.14.2.1. Alarm. All flow and all active alarm signals from any fire
suppression and/or fire alarm system in service shall be supervised.
907.14.3. Supervisory and Trouble Signals. All system components which are
normally supervised including valves, pressures and levels where critical to
the system operation, National Fire Protection standards required signals and
any other component deemed necessary for the proper operation of the system
shall be supervised.
Chapter 10.
Chapter 10. MEANS OF EGRESS is hereby amended as follows:
Add to Subsection 1005.2.2.4 of Section 1005, "Exits".
1005.2.2.4. Village Requirements. Two or more remotely located exits are
required when any of the following are not met. Space is under 2000 square
feet, space with an occupancy load of 20 or less or travel distance of 75 feet
or less.
Chapter 11.
Chapter 11. ACCESSIBILITY is hereby amended as follows:
Subsection 1101.1.1 of Section 1101.0, "General" is hereby added to include the
following:
   1.   Business Signs and Street Numbers: All buildings, tenant spaces, places
of business, licensed to do business within the Village of Bedford Park shall
have a business sign for identification of the establishment along with the
numbered address (not less than six inches in height) posted on the front or
street side of said establishment, front and rear access or entrance points of
the building or facility.
   2.   Occupancy Certificates.
   3.   Maintenance of Exterior Property:
A. Sanitation: All exterior property or premises shall be maintained, clean,
safe, sanitary and free from any accumulation of rubbish, wood or garbage,
unusable metals, machinery, tanks, miscellaneous scrap, appliances, motor
vehicle parts, furniture and junk is prohibited.
B. Sidewalks and Driveways: All sidewalks, walkways, driveways, paved areas and
concrete areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair and maintained free
from hazardous conditions.
C. Rat and Rodent Harborage: All structures and exterior of properties shall be
kept free from rat and rodent harborage, where infestation occurs, the property
owner or owners shall be responsible for elimination of the infestation
problem. Whereas, if a business has caused to attract the rodent nuisance, the
said business is responsible to remedy the infestation problem.
   4.   Drainage Ditches or Sewers: No persons(s), companies, corporations,
businesses, etc. shall obstruct any drainage ditch or sewer or shall deposit,
dump or pour any substance or materials into a storm or sanitary sewer system
other than normal sanitary waste or storm/rain water.
   5.   Exterior of Structures - Appearance: The exterior of a structure shall
be maintained in good repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose
a threat to the public health, safety and welfare. Any painted surface must be
maintained free of scaling or chipping paint and must have a uniform surface
appearance.
   6.   Vacant Structures: All vacant structures shall be maintained in a
clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition so as to not adversely affect the
public health or safety. No vacant structure may have any broken windows,
broken doors, structural openings or other means of access thereto.
   7.   Exterior Walls: All exterior walls shall be free of holes, breaks,
loose or rotted materials and maintained weather proof and properly surface
coated where required to prevent deterioration.
   8.   Roofs and Drainage: The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and not
have defects which would admit rainwater, leakage or any other type of liquids,
etc. that would affect or present a hazard within the building.
   9.   Doors and Locks: All exterior and interior doors and the associated
hardware shall be maintained in good condition for ingress and egress purposes.
All locks and latches used shall be the proper hardware, not to be operated
with the use of keys or other special knowledge.
   10.   Interior Surfaces: All interior surfaces, including concrete floors,
windows and doors, shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition.
Peeling paint, cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood and other defective
surface conditions shall be corrected (repaired properly).
   11.   Accumulation of Rubbish or Garbage: The interior of every structure
shall be free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
1101.1.1. Illinois Accessibility Code. The provisions of the Illinois
Accessibility apply.
   (Ord. 01-1103, 11-29-2001; amd. Ord. 02-1125, 10-18-2002)
7-5-12: PENALTY:
Any person or persons found to be in violation of this chapter shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to be
committed for each day that a violation exists. In addition to the imposition
of fines, the person or persons may be directed to correct and remedy the code
violation. Noncompliance with this chapter is also a basis for the revocation
of a business certificate per the terms of the village code. (Ord. 01-1103, 11-
29-2001)
7-5-13: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
   (A)   Definitions: The following definitions shall be used throughout this
section:
   CONSTRUCTION: Any modifications, alterations, rehabilitation or new
construction.
   STRUCTURES: Any building, structure, residence, garage or accessory
building.
   (B)   Issuance Of Certificate: It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or reside
in any structure or any portion thereof until the building official or fire
department has issued a certificate of occupancy. No such certificate shall be
issued unless there is full compliance with all applicable village rules and
regulations. This provision shall apply to any and all construction and/or
structures within the village of Bedford Park.
   (C)   Penalty: Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be
fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Every day that a violation is allowed to
exist shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 01-1094, 10-18-2001)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTRICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-6-1: Adoption Of Code
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Electrical Inspector; Office Created
7-6-4: Electrical Inspector; Qualifications
7-6-5: Electrical Inspector; Oath And Bond, Duties, Powers
7-6-6: Electrical Permit Fees
7-6-7: Appeals
7-6-8: Penalty
7-6-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The current Chicago Electrical Code with amendments is hereby adopted in full.
(Ord. 18-1568, 5-17-2018)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the words "administration authority" or the "authority having
jurisdiction" are used in the Chicago Electrical Code it shall mean the Village
of Bedford Park or such person or persons that may be appointed and authorized
by the Village to carry out the provisions of the code. (Ord. 96-984, 11-7-
1996; amd. Ord. 01-1104, 11-29-2001)
7-6-3: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; OFFICE CREATED:
There shall be created the office of electrical inspector who shall be
appointed by the President, by and with the consent of the Board of Trustees of
the Village whose duty it shall be to inspect all electrical equipment in the
Village which is either altered or installed at any building or facility and
residential homes in the Village. The electrical inspector shall so certify
that the foregoing equipment is in a safe and operable condition pursuant to
the applicable codes and standards and specifications adopted by the Village.
Upon inspection or reinspection of a building or facility in the Village, the
electrical inspector shall report his findings as to the condition of the
electrical equipment in said building to the Building Department at which time
the Building Coordinator shall administer and execute the necessary regulations
and procedures within the department to effectively administer the issuance of
permits. Whenever electrical equipment has been installed, altered or repaired,
no electrical current shall be supplied to or used on any building or equipment
prior to the inspection of said equipment or building by the electrical
inspector and review by the Building Coordinator. The electrical inspector
shall be compensated for his duties as set forth by the Board of Trustees. If
the President and Board of Trustees desire to employ the electrical inspector
in his capacity as an electrician to either work for the Village in said
capacity or for an official or employee of the Village in his capacity as an
electrical contractor, the Village or individual wishing to employ the
electrical inspector may do so; except that any installation or alteration of
electrical equipment to be performed by the electrical inspector pursuant to
the foregoing provisions shall require the approval of the Board of Trustees
whenever the amount of compensation to be paid to the electrical inspector for
electrical contractor work exceeds the sum of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
(Ord. 96-984, 11-7-1996)
7-6-4: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; QUALIFICATIONS:
The person certified to fill the position of electrical inspector shall be a
licensed electrician or electrical contractor with at least two (2) years of
experience in electrical installation work. (Ord. 96-984, 11-7-1996)
7-6-5: ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR; OATH AND BOND, DUTIES, POWERS:
   (A)   Oath And Bond: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the
electrical inspector shall take and subscribe the oath of office and shall
execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Village a good and sufficient bond with
two (2) or more sureties conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties
in his office. The bond shall meet with the approval of the Village Board.
   (B)   Duties: It shall be the duty of the electrical inspector to ensure
compliance with all of the ordinances of the Village relating to electrical
work and electrical equipment; and to make such investigations and perform such
duties as may be necessary in the enforcement of such ordinances.
   (C)   Powers: The electrical inspector is hereby authorized and empowered to
enforce all ordinance provisions relating to electrical work and electrical
systems. Said inspector is authorized and directed to do the following work on
behalf of the Village:
      1.   Inspection: No electrical installation or alteration shall be
covered, enclosed or closed in until an approved seal of inspection shall have
been applied to the installation by the electrical inspector.
      2.   Stop Order: The electrical inspector shall have the power to order
work stopped on the construction, alteration or repair of electrical equipment
when such work is being done in violation of any ordinance. Work shall not be
resumed after the issuance of such a stop order except on written permission.
      3.   Employees Not Liable: Any employee charged with the enforcement of
this chapter, acting in good faith and without malice for the Village in the
discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself liable personally and
is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue
to persons or property as a result of any act required or by reason of any act
or omission in the discharge of his duties. Any suit brought against any
building official or employee because of such act or omission performed by him
in the enforcement of any provisions of this chapter shall be defended by the
Legal Department of the Village until final termination of the proceedings.
      4.   Stop Work Notice: Whenever any electrical work is being done
contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the enforcing officers may order
the work stopped by notice, in writing, served on the contractor or persons
doing or causing such work to be done, and any such person shall forthwith stop
such work until authorized by the enforcing officer to proceed with the work.
      5.   Reports: The enforcing officer shall prepare and submit all reports
requested by the Village Board on any work covered by this chapter and shall
incorporate in said report a summary of his recommendations as to desirable
amendments to this Code. (Ord. 96-984, 11-7-1996)
7-6-6: ELECTRICAL PERMIT FEES:
   (A)   Electrical Services:
0 - 100 amperes     $ 50.00
101 - 200 amperes   60.00
201 - 400 amperes   80.00
401 - 600 amperes   100.00
601 - 1000 amperes  200.00
1001 - 1600 amperes 300.00
1601 - 2000 amperes 400.00
2001 - 2400 amperes 500.00
2401 - 3000 amperes 600.00
3001 - 3400 amperes 650.00
3401 - 4000 amperes 700.00
 
(Ord. 07-1226, 4-19-2007)
   (B)   Motors:
 
1 motor (current consuming device)  20.00
For each additional motor or device 10.00
 
   (C)   Miscellaneous:
 
Minimum fee         40.00
Low voltage systems 40.00
Plan examinations   50.00
 
   (Ord. 96-984, 11-7-1996)
7-6-7: APPEALS:
Whenever the electrical inspector shall disapprove an application or refuse to
grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed the provisions of the
Electrical Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code
have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal before
the Village Board the decisions of the electrical inspector within thirty (30)
days from the date of such decisions.
   (A)   Requirements; Application For Electrical Permit: All electrical work
to be accomplished in the Village must first receive an approved permit from
said Village. Proper applications must be made at the Clerk's Office. Approval
in the Village requires the signatures of two-thirds (2/3) of the Public Works
Committee with recommendations from the Building Coordinator and his signature.
(Ord. 96-984, 11-7-1996)
7-6-8: PENALTY:
Any person or persons found to be in violation of this chapter shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to be
committed for each day that a violation exists. In addition to the imposition
of fines, the person or persons may be directed to correct and remedy the code
violation. Noncompliance with this chapter is also a basis for the revocation
of a business certificate per the terms of this Code. (Ord. 01-1104, 11-29-
2001)
CHAPTER 7
PLUMBING CODE
SECTION:
7-7-1: Adoption Of Code
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Plumbing Inspector
7-7-4: Penalty
7-7-5: Qualifications
7-7-6: Oath And Bond, Duties, Powers
7-7-7: Appeals
7-7-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
   (A)   The revised Illinois Plumbing Code 2014 with Bedford Park amendments
is hereby adopted in full. (Ord. 19-1589, 2-6-2019)
   (B)   The Village's current Plumbing Code is hereby amended to include the
following amendments:
      1.   Section 890.110(c) General Regulations. Plumbing and drainage
systems in all buildings, public and private, shall be installed in accordance
with the provisions of this ordinance by a licensed plumber in accordance with
the provisions of the State of Illinois Plumbing License Law. If a plumbing
contractor is found to be using unlicensed plumbers, the contractor's plumbing
permit will be revoked.
      2.   Section 890.120 "Plumbing Code". The Illinois Plumbing Code, 77 Ill.
Admin. Code 890 et seq., as adopted and amended by the Village, shall be known
as the Plumbing Code of the Village of Bedford Park. As used in the Illinois
Plumbing Code, 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890 et seq., as adopted and amended by the
Village, the terms "Part" or "this code" shall mean the Plumbing Code of the
Village of Bedford Park. As used in the ordinances and codes published by the
Village, the term "this code" shall mean and the Plumbing Code of the Village
of Bedford Park shall be called the "Plumbing Code."
      3.   Additions. 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890 et seq.
         (a)   Potable Water. Type LAG/TY K UG copper piping shall be used for
potable water 3" and smaller construction.
         (b)   NO Hub DWV Couplings; ONLY Heavy duty 4 band couplings shall be
used with no hub soil pipe.
         (c)   PVC System Primer; primer shall be used on all PVC piping.
      4.   Water Service Installation Repair. That any water service
installation repairs shall adhere to the following requirements:
         (a)   Water Service. For all new construction, including additions and
substantial remodeling a minimum 1 inch copper water service is required.
         (b)   Any Water Service construction shall comply with meter/backflow
ordinance of the Village of Bedford Park in compliance with any current IEPA
standards; codes; regulation mandates by governing authority requiring Village
of Bedford Park Compliance.
         (c)   All water service construction shall provide minimum of 5' bury
cover for any installation/repair.
         (d)   Any water service that requires repair, reconstruction and/or
alternation by maintenance or construction shall be of specified materials by
applicable code. Any lead/asbestos system shall be required to be completely
replaced.
      5.   Existing Building Condition. That any non-conforming plumbing
installation or materials discovered during any phase of remodeling, renovating
or other alteration projects shall be corrected to comply with the provisions
of this Code including the following:
         (a)   Inspections.
            (1)   Inspections Required. All plumbing work shall be done by
licensed plumbers and shall be subject to the inspection and approval by the
plumbing inspector under the supervision of the building department.
The plumbing contractor shall be on site when the rough plumbing inspection is
conducted.
            (2)   Testing by Plumbing contractor shall require inspection
during all such performance. All plumbing work shall be tested by the plumbing
contractor, in accordance with this code, while all pipes are uncovered in
every part. A water test shall be applied to the drainage system in its
entirety, or in sections, as completed. A water pressure test for plumbing work
shall be applied by closing the lower end of the vertical pipes and filling the
pipes to the highest opening above the roof with water. Special provision shall
be made to include all joints and connections to the finished line or face of
floors or side walls, so that all vents or regents, including lead work, may be
tested with the main stacks. The house drain inside any building shall be
tested by closing up the drain at the point where it leaves the building, using
the clean out way provided for, and filling the pipes inside the building with
water to a height of at least five feet above the highest point of the drainage
system.
            (3)   Water Supply for Testing. Licensed plumbers will be allowed
to leave the water turned on to pipes for forty-eight (48) hours after
completing any work for the purpose of testing the same, at the end of which
time they shall immediately shut off the supply. Plumbers are prohibited from
turning water on from any service pipe for any other purpose, except on the
order of or permission from the Building Department.
            (4)   Additional Inspections. All plumbing work shall be subject to
such further inspections and tests as shall be required by the rules and
regulations of the Village plumbing inspector.
         (b)   Overhead Sewers and Other Similar Devices.
Any buildings construction or improvement below ground including but not
limited to basement improvements, floor reconstruction, rooms or occupancy
areas below grade and served by a public or private sewer system shall have
overhead plumbing with ejector pumps.
Section 890.1360 - Sanitary wastes below sewer: b) Design: add at end
subsection no sump or ejector basin shall be less than 18" diameter; 30" deep
with minimum; shall provide minimum 14" sump below inlet pipe invert or of
approved design specified by the manufacturer.
      6.   Prohibited Materials. The following provisions of the Illinois
Plumbing Code 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890 et seq. are excluded from adoption by the
Village. The exclusion shall include all sections and subsections within the
specified range.
         (a)   Prohibited Materials Village of Bedford Park
            (1)   Code Exclusions: The following provisions of the Illinois
Plumbing Code 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890 et seq., are excluded from adoption by
the Village. Where a range of sections is listed, the exclusion includes all
sections and subsections within the specified range.
   A. Table A, "Approved Materials for Building Sewers" is amended by deleting
the following items:
i. 2) Asbestos Cement Pipe
ii. 5) Concrete Pipe
iii. 8) Vitrified Clay Pipe
iv. 9) Solder
   B. Table A, "Approved Materials for Water Service Pipe" is amended by
deleting the following items:
i. 1) ABS Pipe
ii. 4) CPVC Pipe
   C. Table A, "Approved Materials for Water Distribution Pipe" is amended by
deleting the following items 2, 7 and 8:
i. 2) CPVC Pipe
ii. 7) Poly Butylene Pipe
iii. 8) PVC Pipe
            (2)   Amendments Specifics: The following provisions of the
Illinois Plumbing Code 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890 et seq., are amended for
adoption by the Village:
   A. Section 890.330(c) shall be amended to delete the reference to CPVC for
potable water applications.
   B. Soldered and/or braised fittings shall not be installed below grade.
      7.   Material Requirements. That the following amendments to the Illinois
Plumbing Code 77 Ill. Admin. Code 890 et seq., will be in effect:
         (a)   Section 890.310 shall be amended to add at the end of the
section the following words: "All copper water tubing, when installed
underground shall be a minimum of Type K, and when above grade shall be a
minimum of Type L."
         (b)   Section 890.340 f) Copper water tube is to be amended to add the
following language at the end of the subsection:
            (1)   Flared joint adapter shall be required at all water service
supply lines two (2) inch or less with full port ball valve upstream of water
meter.
      8.   Plumbing Permit Requirements. That the following requirements with
respect to plumbing permits shall be in effect:
         (a)   Work Permit:
            (1)   No plumbing work whether new construction or alteration shall
be undertaken by any person, firm or corporation unless a permit has been
issued therefor. The plumbing permit may be included on the Village Building
Permit.
            (2)   A plumbing permit shall only be issued to a licensed plumbing
contractor, except as specified herein.
Permitting for homeowner/occupant in case of a single family residence;
plumbing permit may be issued to the owner/occupant of said residence ONLY.
Further, such owner/occupant or owner/occupant shall only employ a licensed
plumber per code as applicable.
         (b)   Application:
Application for a plumbing permit shall be made on the forms provided by the
Village Building Department. Said application shall be accompanied by the fees
established by Ordinance.
         (c)   Issuance of Permit:
No plumbing permit shall be issued until after plans and specifications showing
the proposed plumbing work have been submitted, reviewed and approved by the
Village Building Department. If a plumbing permit is denied, the applicant
shall submit revised plans and specifications. When it is found necessary to
make any change in the plumbing from the plans and specifications on which a
permit has been issued, amended plans and specifications shall be submitted to
the Village Building Department for approval prior to actual making of any
change in the plumbing system.
      9.   Storm Water Management. That all roof drain/sub-soil construction
shall comply with codes latest VBP Code amendments.
         (a)   Storm Drainage:
The provisions of this article shall govern the materials, design, construction
and installation of storm drainage. Storm water shall not be drained into
sewers intended for sewage only.
The conductors and the building storm drain shall be tested in accordance IDPH
plumbing code drainage requirement; air/water compliance.
The size of a drainage pipe shall not be reduced in the direction of the flow.
All connections and changes in direction of the storm drainage system shall be
made with approved drainage-type fittings in accordance with IDPH plumbing code
per drainage compliance. The fittings shall not obstruct or retard flow in the
system.
The roof of a structure shall be designed for the storage of water where the
storm drainage system is engineered for controlled flow. The controlled flow
roof drain system shall be an engineered system in accordance with the design,
submittal, approval, inspection and testing requirements compliant with VBP
Building code.
In lieu of the conventional downspout requirements, controlled flow roof
drainage may be used.
         (b)   Vertical/Horizontal Drain/Piping Table:
Refer to Illinois Plumbing Code.
         (c)   Overflow Drainage:
Dedicated overflow drainage shall be included by design as applicable to any
building code drainage requirement. Drains shall discharge indirectly to
surface area without restriction in size or flow capacity.
Secondary drainage required. Secondary (emergency) roof drains or scuppers
shall be provided where the roof perimeter construction extends above the roof
in such a manner that water will be entrapped if the primary drains allow
buildup for any reason.
Separate systems required. Secondary roof drain systems shall have the end
point of discharge separate from the primary system. Discharge shall be above
grade, in a location that would normally be observed by the building occupants
or maintenance personnel.
Sizing of secondary drains. Secondary (emergency) roof drain systems shall be
sized in accordance with Code (IBC TABLE) based on the rainfall rate for which
the primary system is sized in Tables 1106.2, 1106.3 and 1106.6 (IBC VBP).
Scuppers shall be sized to prevent the depth of ponding water from exceeding
that for which the roof was designed as determined by Section 1101.7 (IBC VBP).
Scuppers shall not have an opening dimension of less than 4 inches. The flow
through the primary system shall not be considered when sizing the secondary
roof drain system.
         (d)   Cleanouts required
Cleanouts shall be installed in the storm drainage system and shall comply with
the provisions of IDPH plumbing code for sanitary drainage pipe cleanouts
design standards.
         (e)   Materials
The materials and methods utilized for the construction and installation of
storm drainage systems shall comply with this section and the applicable
provisions of code as specified for Sanitary System/House Drainage as amended
by Village.
         (f)   Inside Storm Drainage Conductors
Inside storm drainage conductors installed above ground shall conform to one of
the standards listed in the Illinois Plumbing Code Table per applicable
building code requirement; per tables specified herein.
         (g)   Roof Drains
Roof drains shall conform to ASME A112.21.2.
         (h)   Roof drain flashing
The connection between roofs and roof drains which pass through the roof and
into the interior of the building shall be made water tight by the use of
approved flashing material.
         (i)   Main Trap
Leaders and storm drains connected to a combined sewer shall be trapped.
Individual storm water traps shall be installed on the storm water drain branch
serving each conductor, or a single trap shall be installed in the main storm
drain just before its connection with the combined building sewer or the public
sewer. One trap may serve more than one downspout, and any such trap shall be
on the downstream side of the connection to any sanitary sewer or any combined
sewer or drain, and shall be set where not subject to frost.
         (j)   Prohibited
Storm system piping shall not be used as building/house sanitary drainage,
waste or vent pipes, and soil, waste or vent pipes shall not be used as
conductors.
         (k)   Combine Storm/Sanitary Drainage
The sanitary and storm drainage systems of a structure shall be entirely
separate except where combined sewer systems are utilized. Where a combined
sewer is utilized, the building storm drain shall be connected per the
determination of Village Engineer in review/design of storm water management
system in compliance with MWRD requirements applicable.
         (l)   Size of Combined Drains and Sewers
Whenever a combined sewer system is employed, the required size of the combined
house sewer shall be determined by adding the total drained area in square feet
in accordance with IBC (VBP building code) and equivalent area for the number
of fixture units in accordance with best design/engineering practices.
         (m)   Roof Drain Vertical Conductors and Leaders.
Vertical conductors and leaders shall be sized for the maximum projected roof
area, in accordance with applicable tables.
         (n)   Building Storm Drains and Sewers.
The size of the building storm drain, building storm sewer and their horizontal
branches having a slope of one-half unit or less vertical in 12 units
horizontal (4-percent slope) shall be based on the maximum projected roof area
in accordance with applicable table. The minimum slope of horizontal branches
shall be one-eighth unit vertical in 12 units horizontal (1-percent slope)
unless other- wise approved.
         (o)   Vertical Walls Sizing
In sizing roof drains and storm drainage piping, one-half of the area of any
vertical wall that diverts rain-water to the roof shall be added to the
projected roof area for inclusion in calculating the required size of vertical
conductors, leaders and horizontal storm drainage piping.
         (p)   Parapet wall Scupper Location
Parapet wall roof drainage scupper and overflow scupper location shall comply
with the requirements of the (VBP) International Building Code.
         (q)   Size of Roof Gutters
The size of semicircular gutters shall be based on the maximum projected roof
area in accordance with IBC Applicable Table.
         (r)   Sizing of Secondary Drains
Secondary (emergency) roof drain systems shall be sized in accordance with
applicable IBC Table.
         (s)   CONTROLLED FLOW ROOF DRAIN SYSTEMS
            (1)   General:
The roof of a structure shall be designed for the storage of water where the
storm drainage system is engineered for controlled flow. The controlled flow
roof drain system shall be an engineered system in accordance with this section
and the design, submittal, approval, inspection and testing requirements of
(VBP) plumbing code. The controlled flow system shall be designed based on the
required rainfall rate in accordance with code.
            (2)   Roof Drain Control Devices:
The roof drain control devices shall be installed so that the rate of discharge
of water per minute shall not exceed the values for continuous flow as
indicated by engineered flow designs standards.
            (3)   Drain Strainer Requirements
Roof drain control devices shall be protected by strainers.
            (4)   Minimum number of Roof Drains
Not less than two roof drains shall be installed in roof areas 10,000 square
feet.
         (t)   Building Storm Drain Sub-soil
Underground building sub-soil drainage perforated/non-perforated storm drain
pipe shall be of schedule 40 PVC material, 4" minimum diameter pipe and
fittings materials.
All Sub-soil drainage construction shall be compliant to provisions of code as
specified for Sanitary System/House Drainage per IDPH plumbing Code.
Where the building is subject to backwater, the subsoil drain shall be
protected by an accessibly located backwater valve
            (1)   Table Subsoil Drain Pipe Materials
   A. Material
Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic pipe (Schedule 40) or approved alternate equal
         (u)   Pumping System
The sump pump, pit and discharge piping shall conform to IDPH plumbing code
applicable material standards for sanitary system construction.
No sump or receiving tank shall be less than 18" inch in diameter/30" inches
(762 mm) deep and shall be in an accessible location. The sump pit rim shall be
2" above finished floor elevation.
Pits and pumping systems as applicable for sub-soil drainage shall be per
applicable design demands. This per engineering best practice based on sub-soil
requirement of geo-logical condition of said areas of drainage install.
            (1)   Pump Capacity and Head
The sump pump shall be of a capacity and head appropriate to anticipated use
requirements.
Subsoil drains shall discharge to a trapped area drain, sump, dry well or
approved location above ground.
The subsoil sump shall not be required to have either a gas-tight cover or a
vent. Unless the system is a radon system; then such system shall be per
requirements of building code.
      10.   Lawn Sprinklers. Any lawn sprinkler controls, piping or appendages
to be installed in the Village shall be placed in public rights-of-way located
not less than three (3) feet from any existing or planned public street curb
and gutter line. In addition, all lawn sprinkler systems shall be equipped with
an approved rain detection device. The Village shall not be responsible for the
maintenance of private lawn sprinkler systems within the public rights-of-way.
The adjacent property owner assumes all risk involved in choosing to place lawn
sprinkler components in the public rights-of- way.
All operation of sprinkler/irrigation system shall be per the requirements
established by the water/building department of the Village. The Village of
Bedford Park shall not be responsible for the restoration or repair of private
sprinkler systems within the public rights- of-way.
All construction shall be pursuant to (17 Ill. Adm. Code 3730.307 4) and
subject to the Illinois Plumbing Code (77 Ill. Admin. Code 890) and the Lawn
Irrigation Contractor and Lawn Sprinkler System Registration Code (77 Ill. Adm.
Code 892), Program). When WaterSense labeled fixtures are available in
compliance with Water Sense (Label) such shall be utilized.
      11.   Water Conservation.
All new plumbing fixtures/appliances and controllers installed after the
effective date of this ordinance shall bear the WaterSense label (as designated
by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency WaterSense program).
Any carwash/auto detailing business facility shall provide reclaim methods in
accordance with current industry standards applicable; Village compliance
requirements applicable by governmental authority with respect to lake water
distribution.
   (C)   Failure to Comply. Any person, firm or corporation who fails or
refuses to comply with the rules and regulations as set forth in the Village
Plumbing Code shall be reported to the Illinois Department of Public Health.
The Village shall have the authority to issue "Stop Work Orders" until any
outstanding issues are resolved to the satisfaction of the Village.
   (D)   Additional Fees. Plumbing permit fees shall be assessed for any re-
inspection and/or design construction changes to plans which necessitate
additional site inspection visits and/or plan reviews.
(Ord. 17-1546, 8-10-2017)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the words "Administrative Authority" are used in the Chicago Plumbing
Code it shall mean the Village or such person or persons that may be appointed
and authorized by the Village to carry out the provisions of the Code. (Ord.
589, 3-4-1971; amd. Ord. 96-985, 11-7-1996)
7-7-3: PLUMBING INSPECTOR:
   (A)   Office Created; Powers And Duties: There shall be created the office
of plumbing inspector who shall be appointed by the President, by and with the
consent of the Board of Trustees of the Village, whose duty it shall be to
inspect all plumbing, sewers and gas installations or alterations in any
installed plumbing or sewerage systems. No work shall be permitted without the
approval of the plumbing inspector. The compensation of the plumbing inspector
shall be fixed by the Board of Trustees of the Village. (Ord. 589, 3-4-1971)
7-7-4: PENALTY:
   (A)   For Violating Chapter; Revocation Of Certificates: Any person
violating, neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense, and in addition the
certificate issued as herein provided may be revoked by the President on
recommendation of the plumbing inspector or the building coordinator. (Ord.
663, 2-2-1978)
7-7-5: QUALIFICATIONS:
The person certified to fill the position of plumbing inspector shall be a
sanitary engineer or a licensed plumber with at least two (2) years' experience
in plumbing installation work. (Ord. 586, 10-15-1970)
7-7-6: OATH AND BOND, DUTIES, POWERS:
   (A)   Oath And Bond: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the
plumbing inspector shall take and subscribe the oath of office and shall
execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Village a good and sufficient bond with
two (2) or more sureties conditioned for the faithful discharge of his duties
in his office. The bond shall meet with the approval of the Village Board.
   (B)   Duties: It shall be the duty of the plumbing inspector to see to the
enforcement of all provisions of the ordinances of the Village relating to
plumbing and plumbing equipment; and to make such investigations and perform
such duties as may be necessary in the enforcement of such ordinances.
   (C)   Powers: The plumbing inspector is hereby authorized and empowered to
enforce all ordinance provisions relating to plumbing and plumbing equipment.
      1.   Inspection: No plumbing installation shall be covered, enclosed or
closed in until an approved seal of inspection shall have been applied to the
installation by the plumbing inspector.
      2.   Stop Order: The plumbing inspector shall have the power to order
work stopped on the construction, alteration and repair of plumbing equipment
when such work is being done in violation of any ordinance. Work shall not be
resumed after the issuance of such a stop order except on written permission of
the plumbing inspector; provided that if the stop order is an oral one, it
shall be followed by a written stop order within one hour.
      3.   Employees Not Liable: Any employee charged with the enforcement of
this Code, acting in good faith and without malice for the Village in the
discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself liable personally and
is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue
to persons or property as a result of any act required or by reason of any act
or omission in the discharge of his duties. Any suit brought against any
building official or employee, because of such act or omission performed by him
in the enforcement of any provisions of this Code, shall be defended by the
Legal Department of the Village until final termination of the proceedings.
      4.   Stop Work Notice: Whenever any plumbing work is being done contrary
to the provisions of this Code, the enforcing officers may order the work
stopped by notice, in writing, served on the contractor or persons doing or
causing such work to be done, and any such person shall forthwith stop such
work until authorized by the enforcing officer to proceed with the work.
      5.   Reports: The enforcing officer shall prepare and submit all reports
requested by the Village Board on any work covered by this Code and shall
incorporate in said report a summary of his recommendations as to desirable
amendments to this Code. (Ord. 586, 10-15-1970)
7-7-7: APPEALS:
Whenever the plumbing inspector shall disapprove an application or refuse to
grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed the provisions of the
Plumbing Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal before the
Village Board the decisions of the plumbing inspector within thirty (30) days
from the date of such decisions. (Ord. 586, 10-15-1970)
   (A)   Requirements; Application For Plumbing Permit: All plumbing work to be
accomplished in the Village must first receive an approved permit from said
Village. Proper applications must be made at the Clerk's Office. Included with
the application must be the Metropolitan Sanitary District permit number.
Approval in the Village requires the signatures of two-thirds (2/3) of the
Public Works Committee with recommendations from the Public Works
Superintendent and his signature. (Ord. 589, 3-4-1971)
CHAPTER 8
BILLBOARDS AND SIGNS
SECTION:
7-8-1: Definition
7-8-2: Constructing, Erecting, Maintaining; Prohibited
7-8-3: Signs In Residential Districts
7-8-4: Definitions
7-8-1: DEFINITION:
The terms "signboard" and "billboard" as used herein are hereby defined to mean
any board or other material on which advertisements or notices are pasted,
painted or in any manner attached thereto, and whether or not the same are
lighted, illuminated or reflective. (Ord. 173, 5-7-1964)
7-8-2: CONSTRUCTING, ERECTING, MAINTAINING; PROHIBITED:
No person shall construct, erect, maintain or place or cause to be placed any
signboard or billboard upon any vacant property within one hundred feet (100')
of any public street, roadway or highway in the village. The designated one
hundred feet (100') shall be measured from the centerline of any such public
street, roadway or highway to the nearest and closest part of said signboard or
billboard. (Ord. 640, 9-4-1975)
7-8-3: SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
   (A)   For Sale Signs: Unilluminated "For Sale" signs shall be permitted in
the R-A1 and R-A family residential districts subject to the following:
There shall not be more than one sign on any residential lot unless said lot is
a corner lot wherein two (2) signs, one facing each street, shall be permitted.
No sign shall exceed six (6) square feet in total area and must be located six
feet (6') or less from the front of the residence. No signs of any kind shall
be permitted in the parkway. The sign shall be removed from the premises within
two (2) days after the sale of a residence.
   (B)   Permits: No person shall display any "For Sale" sign without having
first obtained a permit from the building coordinator of the village. To obtain
a permit, the applicant shall complete the appropriate application form and
submit the same to the building coordinator for his review. Provided that the
"For Sale" sign complies with all of the applicable provisions of this section,
there shall be no fee charged for the posting of such a sign. (Ord. 97-1001,
10-16-1997)
7-8-4: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, signs above mentioned are hereby defined to
mean any poster, bill, placard, sign or banner carrying the following or
similar words or phrases: "For Sale", "Sold", "Open House", "New House", "Home
Inspection", "Open for Inspection", "Visitors Invited", "Installed By" or
"Built By" or any other language indicating to the general public that any
premises are offered for sale. (Ord. 600, 3-16-1972)
CHAPTER 9
HOUSE-CAR TRAILER
SECTION:
7-9-1: Definitions
7-9-2: Maintenance Of House-Car Trailers Prohibited
7-9-3: Penalty
7-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever any of the following words or terms are used in this chapter, they
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
HOUSE-CAR TRAILER: Any structure for, or used for, living or sleeping purposes,
which is mounted upon wheels and capable of being transported from place to
place either by its own power or by some vehicle attached to it. Such
definition shall also include those structures from which the wheels have been
removed. (Ord. 508, 8-19-1965)
7-9-2: MAINTENANCE OF HOUSE-CAR TRAILERS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain any house-car trailer for human
habitation or use upon any plot of ground within the village, provided,
however, that such prohibition shall not apply to house-car trailers used for
office or storage purposes by any person in conjunction with or during building
construction. (Ord. 508, 8-19-1965)
7-9-3: PENALTY:
Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects, refuses to comply with or
resists the enforcement of any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00), nor more than fifty dollars
($50.00) for each offense. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 508, 8-19-1965)
CHAPTER 10
SEWER INSTALLATION
SECTION:
7-10-1: Permit Required
7-10-2: Issuance Of Permit
7-10-3: Cash Deposit And Bond Required
7-10-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to build, construct or lay a sewer in a
public way or to make any connection with any public sewer in the village
unless he shall first have received a permit therefor from the commissioner of
public works of the village; and when desiring to perform any of the work
mentioned in this section, shall first make written application to the said
commissioner, stating the character and place of work, and it shall be the duty
of said commissioner to grant or refuse such application or limit the use of
same as he shall deem best; and if he shall grant permission, he shall endorse
his assent upon said application, together with such reasonable restrictions as
he may see fit to impose. (Ord. 520, 1-20-1966)
7-10-2: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
Upon the presentation of the application mentioned in section
7-10-1 of this chapter, having the assent of said commissioner thereon as
provided in said section, it shall be the duty of the clerk to issue a written
permit without any charge therefor under the corporate seal of the village,
which permit shall specify the name and address of the person to whom the
permit is granted, the character and location of the work proposed to be done,
the time for which such permit is granted and any restrictions endorsed upon
said application by said commissioner as provided in section
7-10-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 520, 1-20-1966)
7-10-3: CASH DEPOSIT AND BOND REQUIRED:
Before a permit is granted under the provisions of this chapter, said
commissioner shall make an estimate of the cost of restoring the damaged area
to the condition it was in at the time a permit was granted, plus a fair
additional sum as margin for contingent damages, and shall require the deposit
of the amount of said estimate before delivering a permit. After the completion
of the work to the satisfaction of said commissioner, the surplus remaining
from the amount deposited shall be returned to the applicant.
That in addition to the foregoing, no person shall be granted a permit under
the provisions of this chapter until the applicant shall first have executed to
the village a good and sufficient bond in the amount of at least ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00), with sureties to be approved by the commissioner,
conditioned to indemnify, save and keep harmless the village from any and all
loss, cost, damage, expense or liability of any kind whatsoever, which the
village may suffer, or which the village may be put to, or which may be
recovered from the village, from or on account of the issuance of such permit,
or from or on account of any act or thing done by virtue of the authority given
in such permit. (Ord. 520, 1-20-1966)
CHAPTER 11
FIRE HYDRANTS
SECTION:
7-11-1: Fire Hydrants Required
7-11-2: Connections, Specifications, Locations
7-11-3: Control Of Fire Hydrants; Maintenance Thereof
7-11-4: Private Use Of Fire Hydrants Prohibited
7-11-1: FIRE HYDRANTS REQUIRED:
In all instances where a public fire hydrant is located more than four hundred
feet (400') from any part of an exterior wall of any building or structure to
be constructed or erected after the effective date hereof, it shall be
mandatory before a building permit is granted by the village for the owner of
such proposed building or structure to install upon his property and at his own
expense a sufficient number of fire hydrants at such locations as will be
necessary to ensure that at least one fire hydrant will be within four hundred
feet (400') of any part of such exterior wall of such building or structure.
(Ord. 560, 1968)
Fire hydrants shall be designed and installed in accordance with the
requirements of the Bedford Park fire prevention code 1 . (Ord. 666, 7-7-1978)
 
Notes
1 1. See title VIII, chapter 2 of this code.
7-11-2: CONNECTIONS, SPECIFICATIONS, LOCATIONS:
Such fire hydrants shall be connected to the public water supply main at a
point designated by the water department superintendent. All such fire
hydrants, service mains, fittings and appurtenances incident thereto shall be
in accordance with the specifications prepared and prescribed by said water
department superintendent. He shall also designate the location and number of
such fire hydrants and service mains and shall supervise the entire
installation thereof, and any charges or expenses incident to such supervision,
as aforesaid, shall be borne by the owner. (Ord. 97-945, 8-28-1995)
7-11-3: CONTROL OF FIRE HYDRANTS; MAINTENANCE THEREOF:
All such fire hydrants shall be under the absolute control of the village, the
same as though such fire hydrants were located on public property in the
village. (Ord. 560, 1968)
7-11-4: PRIVATE USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person or the owner of any property upon which
fire hydrants are located, in conformance with the provisions of this chapter,
to take water from such fire hydrants or to open the same for the purpose of
taking water therefrom. (Ord. 560, 1968)
CHAPTER 12
MISCELLANEOUS BUILDING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-12-1: Storage Facilities
7-12-2: Satellite Dish Policy
7-12-3: Water Conservation Regulations
7-12-1: STORAGE FACILITIES:
   (A)   Representatives of any governmental unit, including, but not limited
to, the village and its police and fire officials and its building coordinator,
shall have the right to inspect and enter each leased unit located in the
storage facility at random and without notice to examine the unit for building,
fire, or health code violations.
   (B)   The storing of any improperly packaged goods or perishable materials,
flammable materials, explosives, hazardous, toxic or other inherently dangerous
materials and/or any illegal materials is and shall be strictly prohibited. If,
upon an inspection of the premises, any of the aforesaid items are located in a
leased storage unit, the fire department shall have the right to order and
direct the owner of the storage facility to immediately remove the prohibited
materials.
   (C)   Each leased unit shall be secured by a lock provided by the owner of
the storage facility. The village fire department will at all times maintain a
master key to open the aforesaid issued locks. No other type of lock may be
used to secure the leased units. If an occupant of a leased storage unit fails
to use the lock provided to him or her by the owner of the facility, the
village fire department shall have the right to order and direct the owner of
the storage facility to remove the unauthorized lock. Following the removal of
the lock, the village fire department shall then have the right to inspect the
premises and may take whatever action is necessary to bring the premises into
compliance with the applicable building and fire codes.
   (D)   In the event there is noncompliance with any provisions of this
section, any and all costs incurred by the village shall be the responsibility
of the owner of the storage facility and/or occupant of the unit. Furthermore,
the village shall not be liable for any damages that may occur to the goods,
wares or commodities that are stored in the occupant's unit.
   (E)   The owner of the storage facility shall incorporate the terms of this
section into the rental agreement that is entered into by and between the owner
and the occupant of a leased unit.
The owner shall also make available, upon demand by the village police and fire
officials and/or building inspector, any such rental agreement for their
review. (Ord. 89-811, 11-2-1989)
7-12-2: SATELLITE DISH POLICY:
   (A)   Prohibition Against Satellite Dishes: It shall be unlawful for any
person, firm or company to install, maintain or use a satellite dish in excess
of three feet (3') in diameter within the entire residential district of the
village. (Ord. 94-908, 9-15-1994)
   (B)   Penalties: Any individual, firm or company who shall violate this
section shall be guilty of an offense against the village punishable by a fine
of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and such other penalties as may be provided. Each day that a
violation continues shall be deemed as a separate offense. (Ord. 92-875, 8-6-
1992)
7-12-3: WATER CONSERVATION REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Installation Of Plumbing Fixtures: Water efficient plumbing fixtures
based on a flowing water pressure of eighty (80) psi shall be installed in all
new construction projects and in all repair or replacement of fixtures or trim.
The maximum flow shall be as follows:
Fixtures Max-Flow
Fixtures                   Max-Flow
Water closets, tank type   1.6 gallons per flush
Water closets, flushometer 1.6 gallons per flush
Urinals, tank type         1.0 gallon per flush
Urinals, flushometer       1.0 gallon per flush
Shower heads               2.5 gallons per minute
Lavatory, sink faucets     2.5 gallons per minute
 
   (B)   Installation Of Closed System Air Conditioning: All proposed
facilities to be constructed or existing facilities to be remodeled shall
install a closed system air conditioning system. (Ord. 96-981, 7-18-1996)
CHAPTER 13
FENCE REGULATIONS
SECTION:
7-13-1: Height Restriction
7-13-2: Placing Of Fences
7-13-3: Property Line Restrictions
7-13-4: Fence Materials
7-13-5: Yard Area Egress Requirements
7-13-6: Penalty
7-13-1: HEIGHT RESTRICTION:
All fencing including chainlink or wooden fencing to be installed or erected
within the residential district of the village shall not exceed six feet (6')
in height. (Ord. 91-858, 11-7-1991)
7-13-2: PLACING OF FENCES:
   (A)   Placement: It shall be unlawful to install or erect any fence,
including chainlink or wooden fencing with the framing of said fence facing the
adjacent property owner. (Ord. 91-858, 11-7-1991; amd. Ord. 15-1482, 8-5-2015)
   (B)   Installation Of Fences On Fire Lane Property:
      1.   Prohibited: It shall be strictly prohibited to place, install or
construct any type of fence, whether permanent or temporary on any designated
fire lane located within the village of Bedford Park.
      2.   Penalty: Any person found to be in violation of this subsection (B)
shall be subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor
more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). A separate violation will have
deemed to be committed for each day that the violation is present. (Ord. 15-
1482, 8-5-2015)
7-13-3: PROPERTY LINE RESTRICTIONS:
All fences that are to be installed within the residential area shall be placed
at least two inches (2") from inside the owner's property line and/or lot line.
(Ord. 91-858, 11-7-1991)
7-13-4: FENCE MATERIALS:
All fences that are to be installed within the residential district of the
village shall be constructed with either of the following materials:
   (A)   Chainlink Fence: All such fences shall be of at least a 9-gauge wire.
   (B)   Wooden Fence: All such fences shall be of an approved grade and
structurally sound. Furthermore, all fence posts shall be supported by a
concrete base. (Ord. 91-858, 11-7-1991)
7-13-5: YARD AREA EGRESS REQUIREMENTS:
All fences that are to be installed within the residential district of the
village which will totally enclose the rear and/or side yard shall have at
least two (2) access gates for ingress and egress. (Ord. 91-858, 11-7-1991)
7-13-6: PENALTY:
Any person who is in violation of this chapter shall be fined not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00), nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), per
offense. (Ord. 91-858, 11-7-1991)
CHAPTER 14
MINIMUM HOUSING STANDARDS AND PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
SECTION:
7-14-1: Application
7-14-2: Enforcement Official
7-14-3: Inspections
7-14-4: Rules And Regulations
7-14-5: Penalty
7-14-6: Property Maintenance Standards
7-14-7: New Residence Building Requirements
7-14-1: APPLICATION:
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply upon the transfer of any
interest, ownership or occupancy of all residential dwellings located within
the village.
   (B)   The substantive provisions of the current international building code
shall apply to all dwellings subject to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
92-881, 11-19-1992; amd. Ord. 01-1103, 11-29-2001)
7-14-2: ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
   (A)   The enforcement official for this chapter shall be the building
inspector unless otherwise specifically stated. (Ord. 92-881, 11-19-1992)
7-14-3: INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   Inspection Upon Transfer: No owner, agent or person in charge of a
one-family dwelling, or multi-family structure, shall sell or allow any person
to occupy the same as a tenant or lessee unless the owner, agent or person in
charge of such dwelling or structure has notified the building inspector of the
intent to sell or lease such dwelling or structure. Notice shall be in writing
and must be received by said building inspector no less than eight (8) working
days before the proposed sale or lease.
   (B)   Attempted Inspection By Building Inspector: Upon receiving notice of
intent to sell or lease a dwelling or structure as described in subsection (A)
of this section, the building inspector shall attempt to inspect such dwelling
or structure to determine whether the dwelling or structure is in compliance
with all of the provisions of this code. The building inspector shall attempt
to make the inspection no less than three (3) working days before the date of
the proposed sale or lease. (The term 3 days in this instance shall mean any 3
days during a week or part thereof, when normal business activities are carried
on by the village.) Failure to consent to an inspection under this section
shall not constitute an offense against the village and shall not be punishable
by fine or imprisonment.
   (C)   Certificate Of Occupancy: If such inspection establishes that the one-
family dwelling or multi-family structure complies with all the provisions of
the health and building codes of the village, the building inspector shall then
issue a certificate of occupancy. One copy of said certificate shall be
delivered to the applicant and a copy of the same shall be filed in the office
of the building inspector.
   (D)   Annual Inspections: The inspector shall have the right to inspect
multi-family or rental dwelling structures on an annual basis to verify
compliance with all applicable building, fire and safety codes of the village.
   (E)   Issuance Of Certificate Shall Not Be Construed As A Warranty: If said
certificate of occupancy is issued, the village is not warranting, representing
or ensuring to the holder thereof, or his or her assigns or other interested
parties that there are no violations of this code or laws of the state. (Ord.
92-881, 11-19-1992)
7-14-4: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The building inspector of the village shall be empowered to promulgate
reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with the terms and provisions
of this chapter in order to enforce the provisions contained herein. (Ord. 92-
881, 11-19-1992)
7-14-5: PENALTY:
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this chapter or shall fail to comply with any requirements thereof shall be
guilty of an offense against the village, punishable by a fine of not less than
fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 92-
881, 11-19-1992)
7-14-6: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
   (A)   Maintenance Of Exterior Property:
      1.   Sanitation: All exterior property and premises shall be maintained
clean, safe, sanitary and free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
      2.   Grading And Drainage: All premises shall be graded and maintained to
prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon. The natural drainage of
water over land shall not be changed. Water from sump pumps or ejector pumps
shall not be directed nor allowed to drain to a neighboring property.
      3.   Sidewalks And Driveways: All sidewalks, walkways, driveways and
paved areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair and maintained free of
hazardous conditions.
      4.   Lawn Areas: All premises and exterior property shall be maintained
free from weeds and plant growth in excess of eight inches (8") (excluding
trees, shrubs, and cultivated flower or garden areas) and shall be maintained
with grass.
      5.   Ground Cover: No exterior property (except cultivated flower or
garden areas) may be maintained with stone, sand, or other nonliving ground
cover.
      6.   Rat And Rodent Harborage: All structures and exterior property shall
be kept free from rat and rodent infestation.
      7.   Limitation Of Number Of Dogs And Cats: No person shall keep or
maintain more than two (2) dogs and two (2) cats of two (2) months of age or
older in any single-family residence, building or lot.
      8.   Exhaust Vents And Air Conditioning Units: Pipes, ducts, conductors,
fans, blowers and ground air conditioning units shall not discharge onto
adjacent private property.
      9.   Accessory Structures Including Fences: All accessory structures
including detached garages, sheds, fences and walls shall be maintained
structurally sound and in good repair.
      10.   Sidewalks: The adjoining property owner shall be responsible for
notifying the village if the public sidewalk in front and to the side (if any)
of their property is in a hazardous condition.
      11.   Parkways: The adjoining property owner shall be responsible for
maintaining the public parkway in front and to the side (if any) of their
property to the same standards as if it were their private property.
      12.   Drainage Ditches And Sewers: No person shall obstruct any drainage
ditch or sewer. Furthermore, no person shall deposit or pour any substance or
material into a storm sewer or sanitary sewer.
      13.   Corner Lots; Obstructed View: All trees, hedges, and shrubbery
within fifteen feet (15') of the corner of the lot shall be maintained so as to
allow a clear view of traffic by vehicles approaching an intersection.
      14.   Sidewalk Obstructions: No person shall obstruct a public sidewalk.
All limbs of trees or shrubs belonging to the property owner shall be
maintained at least eight feet (8') above the surface of the public sidewalk.
      15.   Storage Of Materials, Equipment: Outside storage of building
materials, appliances, motor vehicle parts, furniture and other discarded
material is hereby prohibited. The owner of a residence shall be responsible to
provide adequate landscaping so to shield the parking of a vehicle located near
the rear section or garage area of the residence. The proposed landscaping plan
must be submitted to the village for its approval. The parking of a vehicle is
further subject to compliance with any and all other applicable village codes,
rules and regulations.
      16.   Storage Of Firewood: Outside storage of firewood is permitted
provided that the firewood is placed on a platform at least four inches (4")
above the ground.
      17.   Garbage Containers: All garbage shall be placed in a refuse
container of not greater than thirty two (32) gallons with a tightfitting
cover.
      18.   Trees And Shrubs: All dead trees or shrubbery, or parts thereof,
shall be promptly removed.
   (B)   Structures And Use Of Premises:
      1.   Business Use Of Residential Premises: No person shall use or
maintain any business which is not a home occupation on any residentially zoned
property. A home occupation is any occupation or profession, practiced by a
member of the family residing on the premises, and which occupation is clearly
incidental and secondary to the residential use of the dwelling; and in
connection with which there is no indication from the exterior, other than one
unanimated, nonilluminated sign of not more than one square foot in size, that
the building is being utilized in whole or in part for any purpose than that of
a dwelling. A professional person may use his residence for consultation,
emergency treatment, or performance of religious rites. (No accessory building
shall be used for such home occupation. Home occupations, further, shall not
utilize more than 25 percent of the total floor area of any one story. No
vehicle used in conjunction with the home occupation may be parked on the
premises, except for one passenger car designed for carrying not more than 6
persons.)
      2.   Vacant Structures: All vacant structures shall be maintained in a
clean, safe, secure and sanitary condition so as not to adversely affect the
public health or safety. No vacant structure may have any broken windows,
broken doors, or other means of access thereto.
      3.   Boarded Up Structures: No structures may be boarded up for a period
in excess of ninety (90) days. Any structure boarded up for a period in excess
of ninety (90) days shall be considered abandoned and subject to demolition.
      4.   Bedrooms:
         (a)   Definitions: Whenever used in this subsection (B)4, the
following words and phrases shall have the meanings as described below:
   BEDROOM: A segregated and separate room or space used or intended to be used
for sleeping purposes and delineated by four (4) fixed walls and a door
containing a minimum of at least seventy (70) square feet of floor area for a
single occupant and at least fifty (50) square feet of floor area for each
additional occupant, for the health, safety and welfare of the residents of
Bedford Park, excepting studios.
         (b)   Bedroom Requirements: All walls and ceilings in bedrooms on any
floor shall have, as a minimum, a layer of one-half inch (1/2") gypsum board or
equivalent, taped and finished so as to provide a continuous surface with no
breaks or gaps. For all bedrooms, except basement bedrooms, the minimum height
of the ceiling shall be seven feet (7'). In basement bedrooms, the minimum
height of the ceiling shall be six feet eleven inches (6'11") finished height.
Doors, with a minimum dimension of one and five-eighths inch (15/8") thick and
six feet eight inches (6'8") in height, shall be required for all bedrooms. The
door shall be side hinged, readily operable, and provided with latching
hardware. A smoke detector shall be installed in each basement bedroom.
Basement bedrooms, as well as other habitable basement space, shall be free of
excess moisture, dampness and ground water seepage. All excess moisture shall
be removed by mechanical or gravitational means. For basement bedrooms, there
must be an escape window well as described herein. An escape window well with a
sill height over forty four inches (44") below the adjacent ground level shall
have a step permanently attached to the floor or wall directly in front of the
escape window well with a minimum size of two feet by two feet (2' x 2') not to
exceed ten inches (10") in height. Furthermore, the escape window well shall
have horizontal dimensions that allow the window to be fully opened. The escape
window well shall have an accessible and clear opening of not less than nine
(9) square feet and with a length and width of not less than thirty six inches
(36").
         (c)   Areas For Sleeping Purposes: Only "bedrooms", as defined herein,
may be occupied for sleeping purposes and/or considered to be rooms occupied
for sleeping purposes. Kitchens, living rooms, dining rooms and other
nonhabitable rooms which do not qualify as bedrooms, shall not be used for
sleeping purposes.
         (d)   Violations: It shall be a violation of this subsection (B)4 for
any person or persons to occupy a dwelling unit in a number in excess of that
provided herein.
         (e)   Enforcement: The village may inspect residential units for
compliance with the provisions of this subsection (B)4 upon the receipt of
probable cause, at which time, the village shall apply with the circuit court
of Cook County for the issuance of a search warrant for said inspection.
Nothing herein shall limit the right of a property owner or occupant of any
residence from consenting to an unannounced search.
   (C)   Exterior Structures:
      1.   Appearance: The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety and welfare. Any painted surface must be maintained free
of scaling or chipping paint and must have a uniform surface appearance.
      2.   Street Numbers: Each building shall display a street number, if
practicable, on the premises so as to be visible and readable from the public
right of way and shall be not less than three inches (3") in height for
residential and six inches (6") in height for other buildings, commercial,
retail, assembly, and businesses. All numbers shall be placed on the side of or
above the front door to be seen from the primary street or travel location
approved by the AHJ.
      3.   Structural Members: All structural members shall be maintained free
of deterioration, and capable of safely bearing the imposed dead and live
loads.
      4.   Foundation Walls: All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rats.
      5.   Exterior Walls: All exterior walls shall be free of holes, breaks,
loose or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface
coated where required to prevent deterioration.
      6.   Roofs And Drainage: The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight, and
not have defects which might admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to
prevent dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the
building. All structures of more than one thousand (1,000) square feet in area
shall be provided with gutters and downspouts which shall be maintained in good
repair at all times. Gutters shall not be discharged to neighboring properties.
      7.   Exterior Surfaces: All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be
protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic applications
of weather coating materials, such as paint, stain, or similar surface
treatment.
      8.   Handrails: Any handrail or guardrail shall be firmly attached and
maintained in good condition.
      9.   Window And Door Frames: Every window, door and frame shall be kept
in sound condition, good repair and weathertight. All glazing materials shall
be maintained free of cracks and holes. Every window, other than a fixed
window, shall be easily operable and capable of being held in position by
window hardware.
      10.   Screens And Doors: During the period from May 1 through October 1,
every door, window and other outside opening used or required for ventilation
purposes shall be supplied with tightly fitting screens of not less than
sixteen (16) mesh per inch and every swinging door shall have a self-closing
device in good working order.
      11.   Doors And Locks: All exterior doors, hardware and locks shall be
maintained in good condition and shall tightly secure the premises.
   (D)   Interior Structure:
      1.   Appearance: The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall
be maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
      2.   Structural Members: The supporting structural members of every
building shall be maintained structurally sound, and capable of carrying the
imposed loads.
      3.   Interior Surfaces: All interior surfaces, including windows and
doors, shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling
paint, cracked or loose plaster, decayed wood, and other defective surface
conditions shall be corrected.
      4.   Accumulation Of Rubbish Or Garbage: The interior of every structure
shall be free from any accumulation of rubbish or garbage.
      5.   Insect And Rat Harborage: All structures shall be kept free from
insect and rat infestation. All structures in which insects or rats are found
shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious
to human health. After extermination, proper precautions shall be taken to
prevent reinfestation.
      6.   Stairs And Railings: All interior stairs and railings shall be
maintained in sound condition and good repair.
      7.   Handrails And Guardrails: Every handrail and guardrail shall be
firmly fastened and capable of bearing normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (E)   Administration:
      1.   Inspections: The building commissioner and employees thereunder
shall be charged with the enforcement of the Bedford Park property maintenance
ordinance.
      2.   Notices: Whenever there has been determined to be a violation, a
notice to correct the violation may be sent in lieu of proceeding to court. A
notice to correct a violation is not required before proceeding to court.
      3.   Unlawful Acts And Responsibility: It shall be unlawful for any
person to erect, construct, alter, extend, repair, remove, demolish, maintain,
fail to maintain, provide, fail to provide, use, occupy, permit another to use
or occupy any premises, structure, or equipment in violation of any provision
of the property maintenance ordinance. The owner and occupant of any premises
are jointly and severally responsible to maintain the structure and exterior
property.
      4.   Court Proceedings: In any court prosecution, the village may request
the court to restrain, correct or remove the violation; to prevent the
occupation or use of a structure or premises; to require the removal of work in
violation; to demolish any structure or part thereof; to remove any motor
vehicle; and for a fine.
      5.   Schedule Fines: In the event that a notice of violation is given and
correction is made within the time stated in the violation, there shall be no
fine. In the event that a ticket is given or other court proceedings are
instituted, the minimum fine shall be twenty five dollars ($25.00) if the
correction is made within ten (10) days or before the first court hearing. In
any other event the minimum fine shall be fifty dollars ($50.00). The maximum
fine shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 95-930, 5-4-1995; amd. Ord.
03-1139, 5-1-2003; Ord. 06-1196, 2-2-2006; Ord. 21-1650, 1-7-2021)
7-14-7: NEW RESIDENCE BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Requirements: Each new residence shall comply with the following
building requirements:
      1.   Size Of Dwelling: Every new structure shall have at least one
thousand (1,000) square feet of livable area, exclusive of basement and garage
space.
      2.   Height Of Dwelling: Any new residential home shall not exceed two
(2) stories in height or twenty five feet (25') in height, whichever is less.
(Ord. 00-1068, 10-19-2000)
      3.   Structure Design: All new residential dwelling units shall be
constructed in one of the following:
         (a)   One-story brick;
         (b)   Split-level brick;
         (c)   One-story ranch brick;
         (d)   Bilevel brick; or
         (e)   Two-story brick unit.
All new homes shall have at least seventy five percent (75%) face brick, brick
veneer covering or solid brick construction. (Ord. 07-1247, 9-20-2007)
   (B)   Setbacks: All setback requirements set forth in the zoning ordinance
of sections
6-1-1,
6-1-3,
6-1-4 and
6-1-12 of this code for R-A and R-A1 districts shall be the governing
requirements for any existing and new residential homes.
   (C)   Construction Of A Garage Structure: In addition to compliance with the
aforesaid provisions, each new structure proposed to be built within the
residential section of the village, it shall be required that a garage be
constructed on the premises in accordance with subsection
6-1-3(G) of this code.
   (D)   Multi-Family Dwellings: It shall be strictly prohibited to construct
any new residence or remodel an existing residence as to create any type of
multi-family dwelling of any kind.
   (E)   Review Of Plans: Any and all proposed drawings, plans and designs
relative to the construction of a new residence shall be submitted for review
and approval to the village building commissioner. Upon approval by the
building commissioner, the plans shall then be submitted to the village board
for its review and approval. No construction of any type, including excavation,
shall be permitted until the village board authorizes the issuance of a
building permit.
   (F)   Penalties: Any person who is found to be in violation of any
subsection of this section shall be subject to the following:
      1.   The imposition of a monetary penalty up to a maximum of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each day that noncompliance with this section has been
established; and
      2.   The filing of a lawsuit by the village before the proper division of
the circuit court of Cook County, Illinois, seeking to enjoin the defendant
from continuing his actions either by the filing of a temporary restraining
order, preliminary or permanent injunction.
   (G)   Cash Bond And Surety Bond: All new and existing residential homes
created, constructed, remodeled, altered, etc., under the general building
permit requirements will be required to comply with the cash/surety bond set
forth in section
7-5-7 of this title. (Ord. 00-1068, 10-19-2000)
ARTICLE A. PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
SECTION:
7-14A-1: Adoption By Reference
7-14A-2: Definitions
7-14A-3: Applicability
7-14A-4: Enforcement
7-14A-5: Penalty
7-14A-1: ADOPTION BY REFERENCE:
All rules and provisions contained in the ICC (International Code Council)
international property maintenance code, 2006, with amendments, published by
the International Code Council, 5203 Leesburg Pike, Suite 70, Falls Creek, VA
22041-3401, being particularly the 2006 edition thereof, are hereby adopted by
the Village of Bedford Park, Post Office Box 128, Bedford Park, IL 60501-0128.
This code shall be known as the "village of Bedford Park property maintenance
code". (Ord. 07-1240, 9-6-2007)
7-14A-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the words "property maintenance code" are used, they shall be held to
mean the village of Bedford Park, Illinois, property maintenance code. Whenever
the word "municipality" is used in the property maintenance code, it shall be
held to mean the village of Bedford Park, Illinois. Whenever the word
"corporation counsel" is used in the property maintenance code, it shall be
held to mean the village attorney for Bedford Park, Illinois. (Ord. 01-1102,
11-29-2001)
7-14A-3: APPLICABILITY:
Said ICC international property maintenance code shall apply to all areas in
the village except the areas zoned as R-A and R-A1. (Ord. 01-1102, 11-29-2001)
7-14A-4: ENFORCEMENT:
The property maintenance code shall be enforced by the village of Bedford Park.
Application of this code is to the village of Bedford Park, Illinois. (Ord. 01-
1102, 11-29-2001)
7-14A-5: PENALTY:
Any person or persons found to be in violation of this article shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed to be
committed for each day that a violation exists. In addition to the imposition
of fines, the person or persons may be directed to correct and remedy the code
violation. Noncompliance with this article is also a basis for the revocation
of a business certificate per the terms of this code. (Ord. 01-1102, 11-29-
2001)
CHAPTER 15
INTERNATIONAL MECHANICAL CODE
SECTION:
7-15-1: Adoption Of Code
7-15-2: Penalty
7-15-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The International Mechanical Code 2015 edition is hereby adopted in full. (Ord.
18-1570, 5-17-2018)
7-15-2: PENALTY:
Any person found to be in violation of this chapter shall be fined not less
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00). Each day any violation of this chapter continues to exist shall be
considered a separate offense. Any such violation shall also be required to be
corrected or remedied by all such persons as soon as possible. In addition to
the imposition of fines, the person or persons may be directed to correct and
remedy the code violation. Noncompliance with this chapter is also a basis for
the revocation of a business certificate per the terms of this Code. (Ord. 01-
1101, 11-29-2001)
CHAPTER 16
ELEVATOR INSPECTIONS; INSPECTOR
SECTION:
7-16-1: Elevator Inspector Position Created
7-16-2: Elevator Inspector; Qualifications
7-16-3: Elevator Inspector; Oath And Bond, Duties, Powers
7-16-4: Inspections
7-16-5: Fees
7-16-1: ELEVATOR INSPECTOR POSITION CREATED:
There shall be created the office of elevator inspector who shall be appointed
by the president, by and with the consent of the board of trustees of the
village whose duty it shall be to inspect all elevator equipment which is
either altered or installed at any building or facility in the village.
Elevator equipment shall include freight and passenger elevators, dock lifts,
freight lifts and other similar devices. The elevator inspector shall so
certify that the foregoing equipment is in a safe and operable condition
pursuant to the applicable codes, standards and specifications adopted by the
village, including, but not limited to, the building and fire prevention codes
1 . Upon inspection or reinspection of elevator equipment in the village, the
elevator inspector shall report his findings as to its condition to the fire
department at which time the fire prevention officer shall administer and
execute the necessary regulations and procedures. The elevator inspector shall
be compensated for his duties as set forth by the president and board of
trustees. (Ord. 02-1114, 4-18-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 5 of this title, article A of this chapter, and title VIII,
  chapter 2 of this code.
7-16-2: ELEVATOR INSPECTOR; QUALIFICATIONS:
The person certified to fill the position of elevator inspector shall be a
licensed elevator inspector with at least two (2) years of experience in
elevator work. (Ord. 02-1114, 4-18-2002)
7-16-3: ELEVATOR INSPECTOR; OATH AND BOND, DUTIES, POWERS:
   (A)   Oath And Bond: Before entering upon the duties of his office, the
elevator inspector shall take and subscribe the oath of office and shall
execute, acknowledge and deliver to the village a good and sufficient bond with
two (2) or more sureties conditioned for the faithful discharges of his duties
in his office. The bond shall meet with the approval of the village board.
   (B)   Duties: It shall be the duty of the elevator inspector to ensure
compliance with all of the ordinances of the village relating to elevator
equipment and to make such investigations and perform such duties as may be
necessary in the enforcement of such ordinances.
   (C)   Powers: The elevator inspector is hereby authorized and empowered to
enforce all ordinance provisions relating to elevator equipment. Said inspector
is authorized and directed to do the following work on behalf of the village:
      1.   Stop Order: The elevator inspector shall have the power to order
work stopped on the construction, alteration or repair of elevator equipment
when such work is being done in violation of any ordinance or applicable code.
The elevator inspector shall also have the authority to lockout the elevators
in the event of nonconforming work or repair. Work shall not be resumed after
the issuance of such a stop order except on written permission.
      2.   Employees Not Liable: Any employee charged with the enforcement of
this chapter, acting in good faith and without malice for the village in the
discharge of his duties, shall not thereby render himself liable personally and
is hereby relieved from all personal liability for any damage that may accrue
to persons or property as a result of any act required or by reason of any act
or omission in the discharge of his duties. Any suit brought against any
building official or employee because of such act or omission performed by him
in the enforcement of any provisions of this chapter shall be defended by the
legal department of the village until final termination of the proceedings.
      3.   Stop Work Notice: Whenever any elevator work is being done contrary
to the provisions of this chapter, the enforcing officer may order the work
stopped by notice, in writing, served on the contractor or persons doing or
causing such work to be done, and any such person shall suspend such work until
authorized by the enforcing officer to proceed with the work.
      4.   Reports: The enforcing officer shall prepare and submit all reports
requested by the village board on any work covered by this chapter and shall
incorporate in said report a summary of his recommendations as to desirable
amendments to this code. (Ord. 02-1114, 4-18-2002)
7-16-4: INSPECTIONS:
All freight elevators, dock lifts, and freight lifts shall be inspected at
least one time per year. Passenger elevators shall be inspected at least twice
a year. (Ord. 02-1114, 4-18-2002)
7-16-5: FEES:
The following fees shall be assessed to the owner and/or landlord of the
building or facility for each inspection: (Ord. 02-1114, 4-18-2002)
   (A)   One hundred dollars ($100.00) per unit for existing equipment;
   (B)   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) per unit for new equipment;
   (C)   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) per unit for review of architectural
plans; and
   (D)   Two hundred dollars ($200.00) per unit for review of elevator
drawings. (Ord. 10-1326, 7-1-2010)
ARTICLE A. ELEVATOR SAFETY CODE
SECTION:
7-16A-1: Adoption Of Code
7-16A-1: ADOPTION OF CODE:
The rules and regulations contained in ASME safety code for elevators, 2004,
with 2005 supplements, are hereby adopted by the village of Bedford Park in its
entirety. (Ord. 07-1245(A), 9-20-2007)
TITLE VIII
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
8-1-1: Department Established
8-1-2: General Supervision And Control
8-1-3: Organization
8-1-4: Appointments
8-1-5: Powers
8-1-6: Auxiliary Firemen
8-1-7: Rules And Regulations; Volunteer Fire Department (Rep. by Ord. 99-1030,
4-15-1999)
8-1-8: Duties Of Village Fire Department
8-1-9: Fire Chief
8-1-10: Position Deputy Fire Chief/Fire Marshal
8-1-11: Lieutenant
8-1-12: Engineer
8-1-13: Fireman
8-1-14: Impersonate Fireman
8-1-15: Private Use Of Equipment
8-1-16: Following Fire Truck
8-1-17: Hinderance
8-1-18: Fire Marshal
8-1-19: Ambulance Service
8-1-20: Participation In Illinois Fire Protection Training Act
8-1-21: Firefighter II/Paramedic
8-1-22: Firefighter II/EMT
8-1-23: Fire Department Secretary
8-1-24: Fire Department Chief Administrative Officer
8-1-25: Fire Department Captain
8-1-26: Part-Time Fire Training Officer
8-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
A department of the government of the Village to be known as the Village Fire
Department is hereby created. The primary purposes of the department are to
provide the fire protection and rescue operations necessary to serve the best
interests of safety and the preservation of life and personal and public
properties. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-2: GENERAL SUPERVISION AND CONTROL:
The department shall be under the control and supervision of an executive
officer to be known as the Fire Chief. He shall be responsible to the President
of the Village for the efficient operation of the Fire Department. (Ord. 534,
eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-3: ORGANIZATION:
The Village Fire Department shall consist of:
   (A)   The regular Fire Department consisting of full time regular employees,
made up of the Fire Chief, Fire Lieutenant, Fire Engineer and such firemen as
may from time to time be appointed. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967; amd. Ord. 635, 5-
15-1975)
   (B)   (Rep. by Ord. 99-1030, 4-15-1999)
   (C)   Paid on call firemen consisting of personnel responding to fire calls
on an alarm or special assignment basis. All paid on call firemen shall
function strictly as firemen and shall be subject to the orders of the officer
in command of the attending fires, rescue missions or training sessions. (Ord.
534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-4: APPOINTMENTS:
   (A)   Fire Department: The Village President, with the advice and consent of
the Board of Trustees, shall appoint all members of the regular Fire
Department.
   (B)   Procedures: The procedures for handling such appointments shall be in
conformance with the provisions contained in title I, chapter 18 of this Code,
which chapter is incorporated herein and made a part hereof by reference. (Ord.
534, eff. 1-1-1967)
   (C)   Paid On Call Firefighters:
      1.   The Village President, with the advice and consent of the Board of
Trustees, shall appoint all paid on call firefighters. The requisites for such
appointments are as follows:
         (a)   Proof of United States citizenship;
         (b)   Must possess a high school diploma or equivalent;
         (c)   Appointees must be at least twenty (20) years of age;
         (d)   Appointees shall be of good character and have not been
convicted of a felony or a crime of moral turpitude;
         (e)   Appointees must possess a valid driver's license;
         (f)   All appointees must reside within five (5) miles of the
corporate limits of the village;
         (g)   All appointees shall be required to take a polygraph test and
background check;
         (h)   Appointees must pass a physical and psychological examination.
      2.   Upon being appointed to the position of POC firefighters, each
appointee shall, within three (3) years, be required to achieve the status of
certified firefighter II with a minimum of two hundred forty (240) training
hours per year. Each appointee shall also be required to attend a minimum of
four (4) training drills a month. The appointee, in addition to the training
drills, may also be required to attend any other drills including special
drills that the fire chief deems appropriate. All appointees shall adhere to
the rules and regulations of the fire department and orders of the fire chief
or next officer in the chain of command. If an appointee fails to attend the
training drills as set forth or does not abide by the rules and regulations of
the fire department, he or she will be discharged from the POC program. No POC
shall be considered a part of the regular fire department and consequently, the
terms of the collective bargaining agreement shall not be applicable to the POC
appointee. (Ord. 99-1029, 4-15-1999)
   (D)   Liaison Officer: The village president, with the advice and consent of
the board of trustees, shall appoint a liaison officer elected by the vote of
the members of the volunteer fire department. The liaison officer shall work
directly with the fire chief in all matters relating to the fire department and
fire protection. His term of appointment shall be for the period of time
specified in such appointment, but in no event to extend beyond the then
current fiscal year.
   (E)   Auxiliary Firemen: In cases of emergencies, the village president
shall have the power to appoint auxiliary firemen without the advice or consent
of the board of trustees. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-5: POWERS:
   (A)   All members of the village fire department not classified as members
of the regular fire department shall be subject and obedient to the orders of
the fire chief or other officers in command while carrying out the functions of
the village fire department. In case any person shall refuse to obey such
orders, he shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of
not less than five dollars ($5.00), nor more than twenty dollars ($20.00) for
each and every offense. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-6: AUXILIARY FIREMEN:
   (A)   In case of emergency, the fire chief or the officer in command shall
have the power to summon as many persons to his assistance to serve as
auxiliary firemen as may be necessary to effectively carry out the duties of
the village fire department. The power granted to the fire chief or officer in
command, as set forth in this section, shall in no way be in limitation of the
powers granted to the village president as set forth in subsection
8-1-4(E) of this chapter.
   (B)   Any person refusing to obey such summons shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not less than five dollars
($5.00) nor more than twenty dollars ($20.00) for each and every offense.
   (C)   The "auxiliary fireman" is hereby defined as a person pressed into
emergency service pursuant to the provisions of subsection
8-1-4(E) of this chapter and subsection (A) of this section. He shall, under
direction of the commanding officer present, carry out the functions of the
fire department as required during the emergency period. He shall be held
responsible and to a strict accountability for the good order of the post to
which he is assigned for duty. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-7: RULES AND REGULATIONS; VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT:
(Rep. by Ord. 99-1030, 4-15-1999)
8-1-8: DUTIES OF VILLAGE FIRE DEPARTMENT:
It shall be the function and duty of the village fire department and every
member thereof to extinguish accidental or destructive fires, to prevent the
occurrence or spread of fires, to enforce all provisions of this code relating
to the occurrence or spread of such fires, and to provide such rescue
operations to best serve the interests of safety and the preservation of life
and personal and public properties. The members of the village fire department
shall meet once a month for drill and training under the direction and
supervision of the fire chief.
The fire department shall have the right of way on all streets and alleys in
going to and coming from fires, or for practice from time to time as the fire
chief may deem necessary.
The fire department shall have the right to enter any premises within the
village limits for the purpose of securing water to extinguish fires. (Ord.
534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-9: FIRE CHIEF:
The fire chief shall have management and control of all matters pertaining to
the village fire department and shall have custody and control of the fire
stations, personnel, equipment, records and other such property belonging to
the fire department. He shall be responsible for complete fire prevention,
provide such response in firefighting as necessary for control of any fire
emergency, and shall be answerable to the president and board of trustees for
such management of the department so that the purposes for which a fire
department is maintained are realized in the greatest measure consistent with
factors involved. The fire chief shall be present at fire emergencies
including, but not limited to, situations involving substantial fire damage to
property or possible harm to the public.
The fire chief shall reside within twenty (20) miles of the corporate limits of
the village and submit proof of residency upon the request of the president and
board of trustees.
He shall keep informed at all times of the affairs of his department and be
assured that the duties of his subordinates are properly discharged.
He shall issue the routine and emergency orders requisite to the conduct of the
affairs of the department and all members of the department shall be subject to
said orders.
He shall submit such reports as are required by agencies of local and state
governments. He shall provide reports to the president and board of trustees as
required.
A personnel folder of each member is to be maintained and kept up to date.
Entries are to be made as often as necessary.
He shall be responsible for conducting inspections for fire prevention in
keeping with the provisions of this code.
He shall be responsible in planning and conducting training programs and
maintaining such programs to the best interests of the department.
The fire chief shall have the power to enter upon the premises where any fire
has occurred, if necessary, in order to investigate the origin of the fire, and
shall have power to stop the construction of any building, when the same is
being done in a reckless manner, or in violation of any ordinance of the
village.
The fire chief shall examine all buildings and walls reported as dangerous,
whether damaged by fire or otherwise, and also examine all buildings under
application to raise, enlarge, alter or rebuild, and make a report of the
condition thereof to the board of trustees.
The fire chief shall inquire into and investigate the causes of all fires which
may occur within the limits of the village, as soon as may be after they occur,
and shall keep a record of the proceedings and of the circumstances in each
case.
The fire chief or officer in command shall have the power to cause the removal
of any property whenever it becomes necessary to prevent such property from
catching fire, or to prevent the spreading of fire, or to protect the adjacent
property.
The fire chief shall have the right to enter upon any premises at any time to
find the location of wells and cisterns and determine the best way to get to
the same in case of fire.
The fire chief shall organize the department in such manner as he may deem
necessary to efficiently conduct the duties and responsibilities prescribed by
law.
The fire chief is hereby authorized and shall prescribe and enforce such
directives as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter and
other laws, the enforcement of which is hereby vested in the department.
The fire chief is hereby authorized to establish and execute all necessary
regulations and procedures within the department to effectively administer his
responsibilities regarding members of the regular fire department, dealing with
promotions, suspensions, layoffs, demotions, dismissals, wage increases and
other personnel policies and procedures. This authorization shall be in
conformance to the provisions contained in title I, chapter 18 of this code.
The Fire Chief shall have the authority to direct any new hire while on
Probation to attend and complete Paramedic training. Any new hire who fails to
comply with such directive from the Fire Chief is subject to disciplinary
action which shall include termination. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967; amd. Ord. 02-
1121, 8-1-2002; Ord. 22-1704, 8-4-2022)
8-1-10: POSITION DEPUTY FIRE CHIEF/FIRE MARSHAL:
   (A)   Creation. On March 3, 2022, the position of Fire Marshal and Fire
Chief is hereby created.
   (B)   Definition. The position of "Deputy Fire Chief/Fire Marshal" shall be
defined as an individual who will assist in the development, implementation and
coordination of various programs within an assigned area of responsibility.
   (C)   Appointment. The Village President, with the advice and consent of the
board of trustees, shall appoint one individual to the position of Deputy Fire
Chief/Fire Marshal. Upon an appointment to said position, the individual shall
be required to maintain his or her residence within a twenty (20) mile radius
of the corporate limits of the Village. In the event an individual resides
outside the twenty (20) mile radius at the time of his/her appointment, the
individual shall have six (6) months to relocate his/her residence within the
prescribed radius. The Fire Chief shall have the authority to require the
individual to provide proof of residency.
   (D)   Qualifications. The Deputy Fire Chief/Fire Marshal shall be chosen on
the basis of executive and administrative qualifications and capabilities as
described herein, without consideration of a candidate's race, sex, political
or religious beliefs. The qualifications and capabilities to be considered
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Knowledge of:
         (a)   Operational characteristics, services, and activities of a
comprehensive fire suppression, prevention, and emergency medical services
program.
         (b)   Principles, practices, and procedures of fire prevention,
suppression, and emergency medical services.
         (c)   Principles, practices, techniques, and procedures of a modern
firefighter.
         (d)   Mechanical, chemical, and related characteristics of a wide
variety of flammable and explosive materials and objects.
         (e)   Pertinent federal, state and local laws, codes and regulations
including those pertaining to fire prevention.
         (f)   Principles and practices of supervision and training.
         (g)   Department policies, rules and regulations.
         (h)   Principles of municipal budget preparation and control.
         (i)   Local geography including the location of water mains and
hydrants and the major fire hazards of the Village.
         (j)   Principles of advanced first aid and CPR.
      2.   Capabilities:
         (a)   Manage and coordinate the work assignments.
         (b)   Select, supervise, train, and evaluate staff.
         (c)   Interpret and explain department fire suppression, prevention
and emergency medical policies, and procedures.
         (d)   Conduct training on fire prevention.
         (e)   Prepare clear and concise operational work records and reports.
         (f)   Properly interpret and make decisions in accordance with laws,
regulations, and policies.
         (g)   Make technical and emergency decisions in accordance with laws,
regulations, and policies.
         (h)   Conduct thorough fact finding investigations and enforce
regulations firmly, tactfully, and impartially.
         (i)   Communicate clearly and concisely, both orally and in writing.
         (j)   Establish and maintain effective working relationships with
those contacted in the course of work.
         (k)   Maintain physical conditions to perform essential duties and
specifications of firefighter certification.
      3.   Ability to Accomplish:
         (a)   Performing life threatening firefighting activities in an
emergency situation.
         (b)   Running, walking, crouching or crawling during emergency
operations.
         (c)   Moving equipment and injured/deceased persons.
         (d)   Climbing stairs/ladders.
         (e)   Performing lifesaving and rescue procedures.
         (f)   Walking, standing or sitting for extended periods of time.
         (g)   Operating assigned equipment and vehicles.
         (h)   Manage the activities and operations of the fire prevention
bureau.
         (i)   Assist in the development, implementation and coordination of
various programs within assigned area of responsibility.
         (j)   Act as liaison to the office of the state Fire Marshal for
matters concerning codes, code enforcement and fire/arson investigations.
         (k)   Exercise direct supervision over subordinate fire inspectors.
         (l)   Assist in emergency management as part of the incident
management system.
   (E)   Experience Guidelines: The position of deputy Fire Chief/Fire Marshal
shall require him or her to possess certain experience or training which shall
include, but not limited to, the following combinations.
      1.   Experience: Five (5) years of increasingly responsible fire service
experience including administrative and supervisory experience, and a minimum
of one year as a lieutenant of the Bedford Park Fire department.
      2.   Training:
         (a)    Fire officer I certification.
         (b)    Fire officer II certification.
      3.   License and Certificates:
         (a)   Possession of, or ability to obtain, an appropriate, valid
driver's license.
         (b)   Possession of, or ability to obtain, a valid CPR certificate.
         (c)   Possession of, or ability to obtain, a valid emergency medical
technical certificate.
         (d)   Possession of, or ability to obtain, a fire officer III
certification.
      4.   Working Conditions: Work in an emergency firefighting environment,
work in intense life threatening conditions; exposure to fire, smoke, bodily
fluids and noise; running, walking, crawling, climbing, stooping and lifting;
work in inclement weather conditions.
   (F)   Duties. The Deputy Fire Chief/Fire Marshal shall be under the direct
command of the Fire Chief. The duties and responsibilities of the Deputy Fire
Chief/Fire Marshal shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Direct supervision over the subordinate fire department personnel.
      2.   Coordinate the organization, staffing and operational activities of
an assigned shift; assist in the development and implementation of a
comprehensive fire suppression, preventions and emergency medical services
program.
      3.   Participate in the development and implementation of goals,
objectives, and policies; identify resource needs; recommend and implement
policies and procedures.
      4.   Select, train, motivate and evaluate assigned personnel; provide or
coordinate staff training; work with employees to correct deficiencies;
implement discipline and termination procedures.
      5.   Direct, coordinate and review the work plan for assigned programs,
meet with staff to identify and resolve problems; assign work activities and
projects; monitor work flow; review and evaluate work products, methods and
procedures.
      6.   Identify opportunities for improving service delivery methods and
procedures; review all appropriate management staff; implement improvements.
      7.   Participate in the development and administration of the assigned
program budget; forecast additional funds needed for staffing, equipment,
materials, and supplies; direct the monitoring of and approve expenditures;
recommend adjustments as necessary.
      8.   Coordinate assigned activities with those of other assistant chiefs,
outside agencies and organizations; provide staff assistance to the Fire Chief,
prepare and present staff reports and other necessary correspondence.
      9.   Attend and participate in professional group meetings; stay abreast
of new trends and innovations in the field of fire prevention, suppression, and
emergency services.
      10.   Respond to various emergency situations and implement the "incident
command system" as needed.
      11.   When applicable, inspect various facilities, ensure adherence to
fire safety standards.
      12.   Evaluate existing fire safety conditions and federal, state and
local codes applicable to fire safety; recommend policies, procedures, and
ordinance revisions as necessary.
      13.   When applicable, develop and implement procedural methods and
practices for reviewing plans, conducting inspections investigating incidents
and related activities as required; provide continued technical support and
training as required.
      14.   When applicable, supervise and participate in the conduct of arson
investigation; determine the origin and cause of fire incidents; collect
evidence and participate in prosecution activities as required.
      15.   When applicable, make comprehensive, technical reviews checks of
proposed projects to determine fire safety conditions and needs; conduct field
inspections of construction projects as necessary.
      16.   Develop and maintain a variety of records and reports.
      17.   Conduct specialized educational programs to discourage arson,
eliminate fire hazards in homes and buildings and stress safety; review and
assess available educational programs.
      18.   May assume responsibility for the fire department in the absence of
the Fire Chief.
      19.   Develop or assist in the development of the annual budget for the
department.
      20.   Perform related duties and responsibilities as required.
   (G)   Compensation. That the compensation for this position of Deputy Fire
Chief/Fire Marshal shall be determined by the Village of Bedford Park Board of
Trustees on annual basis. (Ord. 02-1131, 12-19-2002; amd. Ord. 12-1375, 2-2-
2012; Ord. 13-1427, 12-11-2013; Ord. 22-1703, 8-4-2022)
8-1-11: LIEUTENANT:
The lieutenant in the absence of the deputy fire chief shall be subject to all
the rules and regulations governing the deputy fire chief insofar as they are
applicable and he shall perform all the duties of the deputy fire chief insofar
as the urgencies of the fire department shall require. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-
1967; amd. Ord. 635, 5-15-1975; Ord. 02-1130, 12-19-2002; Ord. 02-1131, 12-19-
2002; Ord. 13-1427, 12-11-2013)
He shall be directly responsible for the discipline, conduct and efficiency of
the members under his supervision. He shall maintain a shift log.
When reporting on shift he shall generally inspect the conditions of the
station and enter his comments in the shift log. Such log is to have his
signature.
The lieutenant shall perform all duties assigned to him and his shift as
outlined by his senior officers. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-12: ENGINEER:
The engineer shall be held responsible for the inspection and maintenance of
all firefighting equipment such as rubber gear, hoses, axes, lanterns,
emergency gear, and the fire and emergency trucks. He shall see that all
records of truck maintenance and other vehicles are kept up to date and all
required maintenance performed is the best possible. A status report is to be
issued once each month to the chief. He shall be responsible for operating and
attending all pumping and operating equipment during the fighting of a fire.
(Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-13: FIREMAN:
The fireman is charged with carrying out the functions of the fire department
under the direction and orders of his commanding officers and shall be held
accountable for performance of these responsibilities to the best of his
ability at all times. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-14: IMPERSONATE FIREMAN:
Any person not a member of the fire department who shall impersonate a fireman
or officer of the department at a fire, or going to or from a fire, by wearing
a uniform or cap, or in any other way, unless by authority of the officer in
command, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-15: PRIVATE USE OF EQUIPMENT:
Whoever shall use any fire engine, hose, cart, or any other apparatus belonging
to the municipality for any private purpose, other than the extinguishment of
fires, or whoever shall remove the same or any part thereof from its place of
deposit, or having the control thereof shall permit such engine, hose, cart or
other apparatus to be used for any private purposes other than aforesaid, shall
upon conviction be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a fine of
not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00)
for each and every offense. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-16: FOLLOWING FIRE TRUCK:
It shall be unlawful for any vehicle to pass from behind or to follow a fire
truck within three hundred feet (300') when such fire truck is on its way to a
fire, or to drive or park a vehicle within a block of any fire. It shall be
unlawful for any person or persons to drive any vehicle over or across any line
of hose in use or lying across any street. Any person violating this section
shall be subject to a fine of not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than
twenty dollars ($20.00) for each and every offense. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-17: HINDERANCE:
Any person who shall wilfully offer any hinderance to any officer or fireman in
the discharge of his duty at a fire, or shall wilfully destroy, injure or
deface any engine or other fire apparatus belonging to the village, shall for
every offense be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not
less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each and every offense in addition to the cost of replacing or restoring
equipment to its original condition prior to damage. (Ord. 534, eff. 1-1-1967)
8-1-18: FIRE MARSHAL:
   (A)   Position: Subject to the terms and conditions of this code and policy
manual, the position of village fire marshal is hereby created.
   (B)   Appointment And Salary: The village president, along with the advice
and consent of the board of trustees, shall appoint the fire marshal on an
annual basis. The starting salary shall be sixty nine thousand dollars
($69,000.00) per year. Annual wage increases, if any, will be dependent upon
job performance and evaluations. Any such wage increase shall not exceed the
increase given to all other noncontractual employees.
   (C)   Minimum Qualifications: The minimum qualifications for the position of
fire marshal shall be as follows:
      1.   Fire officer I and II.
      2.   Fire prevention officer I and II.
      3.   Possession of or ability to obtain an appropriate driver's license,
CPR certificate and fire officer III certification.
Appointees shall have at least ten (10) years of fire service experience with a
minimum of two (2) years' experience as a full time fire inspector.
   (D)   Duties: The fire marshal job duties shall include, but are not limited
to, the following:
      1.   Manage the activities and operations of the fire prevention bureau.
      2.   Assist in the development, implementation and coordination of
various programs within assigned area of responsibility.
      3.   Act as liaison to the office of the state fire marshal for matters
concerning codes, code enforcement and fire/arson investigations.
      4.   Exercise direct supervision over subordinate fire inspectors.
      5.   Receive direction from the fire chief.
      6.   Assist in emergency management as part of the incident management
system.
      7.   Comply with the terms and provisions of the fire department policy
and procedure 3.1. (Ord. 07-1224, 4-5-2007)
8-1-19: AMBULANCE SERVICE:
   (A)   The fire department shall provide ambulance and rescue service in
cases of emergency requiring the prehospital care and transportation of persons
who are sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless at the
time of dispatch of a fire department vehicle.
   (B)   The response area shall be limited to the territory within the
corporate limits of the Village. Service outside corporate limits shall be
limited to circumstances governed by mutual aid agreement, and extreme
lifesaving necessity. (Ord. 703, 11-20-1980)
   (C)   The Fire Department shall transport persons only to one of the
following hospitals:
      1.   Advocate Christ Medical Center, Oak Lawn, Illinois.
      2.   Palos Community Hospital, Palos Heights, Illinois.
      3.   Loyola University Medical Center, Maywood, Illinois.
      4.   La Grange Community Memorial General Hospital, La Grange, Illinois.
      5.   MacNeal Memorial Hospital, Berwyn, Illinois.
      6.   Hinsdale Hospital, Hinsdale, Illinois.
      7.   Holy Cross Hospital, Chicago, Illinois.
      8.   Little Company of Mary Hospital, Evergreen Park, Illinois.
Provided, however, that in exceptional circumstances, the Fire Chief may
authorize the transportation of persons to other hospitals that have specialist
physicians or special equipment and facilities not available at the above
mentioned hospitals. (Ord. 06-1200, 3-16-2006)
   (D)   1. A fee will be charged for emergency medical services rendered by
the Village of Bedford Park Fire Department or provided with ambulance service
by the Village or any municipality which provides emergency medical services to
the Village pursuant to a contract or mutual aid agreement with the Village as
follows:
Procedure Resident Cost Non-Resident Cost
Procedure                   Resident Cost  Non-Resident Cost
BLS emergency               $1,350.00      $1,800.00
BLS return trip             300.00            n/a
ALS I                       1,350.00       1,800.00
ALS II                      1,350.00       1,800.00
BLS loaded mileage          15.00 per mile 15.00 per mile
ALS loaded mileage          15.00 per mile 15.00 per mile
Treatment/no transportation 200.00         250.00
Engine assist               990.00         1,325.00
 
(Ord. 17-1553, 12-7-2017)
      2.   The Fire Chief and/or the Village Board is hereby authorized to
waive any or all the fees due from a person, business, or other entity under
this subsection (D). Said fee may be waived by administrative regulation and/or
on an individual basis.
      3.   When emergency response services are rendered by the Village of
Bedford Park Fire Department for noncommercial passenger vehicle fires of
persons, businesses, or other entities who are not residents of the Village,
the charge to be assessed will be four hundred seventy five dollars ($475.00).
      4.   No charge shall be levied against nonresidents of the Village if the
total charge of the emergency response service is less than fifty dollars
($50.00).
      5.   All revenue from the charges assessed pursuant to the emergency
response services portions of this subsection (D) shall be deposited in the
Corporate Fund of the Village. (Ord. 02-1115, 5-2-2002)
8-1-20: PARTICIPATION IN ILLINOIS FIRE PROTECTION TRAINING ACT:
   (A)   The Village hereby elects to participate in the programs provided for
in the Illinois Fire Protection Training Act.
   (B)   Before an individual may commence regular full time employment as a
firefighter, he must have been certified by the Illinois State Fire Marshal as
a firefighter II, as having successfully completed an approved training course
as provided in said Act.
   (C)   The board of fire and police commissioners is hereby instructed and
directed to make the necessary amendments to the personnel rules, the manual of
rules of the Bedford Park fire department, and rules of said board of fire and
police commissioners in order to require that any person appointed to the fire
department of the village shall not become a regular member of the Bedford Park
fire department unless and until he shall complete, pursuant to said Illinois
fire protection and training act, the approved training course within twelve
(12) months of the date of his initial employment. (Ord. 723; amd. Ord. 94-909,
10-6-1994)
8-1-21: FIREFIGHTER II/PARAMEDIC:
   (A)   Job Description: It shall be the function and duty of all firefighter
II/paramedic personnel of the fire department to extinguish all accidental or
destructive fires and to prevent the occurrence or spread of such fire. All
firefighter II/paramedics shall also provide emergency medical services or
treatment wherever a situation arises in which services or treatment is
necessary.
   (B)   Qualifications: In order to be considered for employment under this
section, an applicant must be a state licensed paramedic and have received
their licensure from an accredited school/hospital recognized by the Village
Fire Department or is currently attending ~lasses at an accredited hospital and
will be licensed within six months of hire. Personnel hired that are not
certified basic operations firefighter will be sent to a recognized fire
academy and will be required to achieve certification as a condition of
employment The Fire Department Village Chief shall be permitted to allow
firefighter/paramedic students to be released from duty to attend firefighter
and paramedic training and shall be so compensated for off duty homs to attend
such training. Any such firefighter and paramedic training tuition and fees
shall be paid by the Village.
   (C)   Failure To Maintain Certification: If any individual, after becoming
employed with the village, fails to maintain the above mentioned certification,
disciplinary action can be imposed ranging from a reprimand to immediate
termination. (Ord. 95-941, 8-3-1995; amd. Ord. 22-1706, 10-17-2022)
8-1-22: FIREFIGHTER II/EMT:
   (A)   Job Description: It shall be the function and duty of all firefighter
II/EMT personnel of the fire department to extinguish all accidental or
destructive fires and to prevent the occurrence or spread of such fire. All
firefighter II/EMTs shall also provide treatment to the injured and assist
paramedics at the scene of an incident when necessary or directed to do so.
   (B)   Qualifications: In order to be considered for employment under this
section, an applicant must be a duly accredited firefighter II. In addition to
being a firefighter II, applicants must be state certified in emergency
technician training and whatever steps that are necessary to maintain said
certification.
   (C)   Failure To Maintain Certification: If any individual, after becoming
employed with the village, fails to maintain the above mentioned certification,
disciplinary action can be imposed ranging from a reprimand to immediate
termination. (Ord. 95-940, 8-3-1995)
8-1-23: FIRE DEPARTMENT SECRETARY:
The Fire Department Secretary shall assist the Fire Chief in the administration
duties of the Fire Department. The Secretary shall report directly to the Fire
Chief or in the absence of the Fire Chief, the Secretary will report to the
next in command. The Fire Department Secretary duties shall include but are not
limited to the following:
   (A)   Safekeeping of all confidential records, reports and correspondence
relating to the Fire Department operations;
   (B)   Shall process any F/O/I requests for fire department records;
   (C)   Shall create and maintain a list of any and all chemicals used by the
Fire Department;
   (D)   Shall create and maintain Safety Dola Sheets in accordance with OSHA
guidelines;
   (E)   Perform any other Fire Department duties as assigned by the Fire
Chief. (Ord. 95-939, 7-20-1995; amd. Ord. 02-1130, 12-19-2002; Ord. 02-1131,
12-19-2002; Ord. 13-1427, 12-11-2013; Ord. 21-1665, 5-6-2021)
8-1-24: FIRE DEPARTMENT CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER:
   (A)   Position Created: The position of chief administrative officer for the
fire department is hereby created. The village president, along with the advice
and consent of the board of trustees shall appoint an individual to this
position on an annual basis.
   (B)   General Qualifications: It is recommended that the general
qualifications for this position be as follows:
      1.   Bachelor's degree in business administration; and
      2.   Experience in the administration of a fire department.
   (C)   Knowledge And Skills: This position will require knowledge and/or
ability in the following areas:
      1.   Federal, state and local rules and regulations relating to the
operation of a fire department;
      2.   Ability to perform statistical and cost/benefit analysis;
      3.   Ability to prepare written reports and statistical and financial
calculations;
      4.   Ability to effectively communicate both verbally and in writing;
      5.   Ability to conduct research and present financial and factual
information; and
      6.   Ability to establish and maintain good working relationships both
with his/her superiors, village officials and fellow employees.
   (D)   Assignment Of Duties: The chief administrative officer will be
assigned his/her duties and job responsibilities by the department fire chief.
   (E)   Responsibilities: The responsibilities of chief administrative officer
shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Conduct research into and prepare for grant applications related to
fire department needs;
      2.   Being involved with the preparation of the fire department budget;
      3.   Coordinate, incorporate and improve statistical data processing
related to departmental reports and documents;
      4.   Seek and maintain the necessary classification from ISO for
insurance purposes;
      5.   Monitor departmental equipment replacement program through a
computerized inventory data system, chart longevity and replacement of all
apparatus, building equipment, and tools for budget analysis purposes;
      6.   Conduct cost/benefit analysis, when necessary, related to
recommendations made to the fire department;
      7.   Assist the ESDA coordinator relative to maintaining an emergency
services disaster plan for the community, including detailing information
related to manpower, equipment, and outside resources;
      8.   Conduct research, procedural and administrative studies of various
department programs as requested; present progress reports related to the
programs; and
      9.   Perform related job tasks and duties as requested or required. (Ord.
02-1109, 2-7-2002)
8-1-25: FIRE DEPARTMENT CAPTAIN:
   (A)   Creation Of Position: On January 1, 2014, the position of fire
department captain is hereby created.
   (B)   Definition: The position of "fire department captain" shall be defined
as an individual who will assist in the development, implementation and
coordination of various programs within an assigned area of responsibility.
   (C)   Appointment To Position: The village president, with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, shall make the appointments to the position
of fire department captain.
   (D)   Qualifications: The fire department captain shall be chosen on the
basis of executive and administrative qualifications and capabilities as
described herein, without consideration of a candidate's race, sex, political
or religious beliefs. The qualifications and capabilities to be considered
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Required Knowledge, Skill And Ability:
         (a)   Comprehensive knowledge of modern firefighting and fire
prevention methods;
         (b)   Familiarity with the physical layout of the village and with the
fire hazards and conditions of buildings within the village;
         (c)   Supervise and coordinate the work of others;
         (d)   Resourcefulness and sound judgment in emergencies.
      2.   Physical Condition: Maintain physical condition appropriate to the
performance of assigned duties and responsibilities, which may include the
following:
         (a)   Performing life threatening firefighting activities in emergency
situations;
         (b)   Running, walking, crouching or crawling during emergency
operations;
         (c)   Moving equipment and injured/deceased persons;
         (d)   Climbing stairs/ladders;
         (e)   Performing lifesaving and rescue procedures;
         (f)   Walking, standing or sitting for extended periods of time; and
         (g)   Operating assigned equipment and vehicles.
      3.   Personal Danger: Effectively deal with personal danger, which may
include exposure to:
         (a)   Fire encompassed surroundings;
         (b)   Dangerous persons;
         (c)   Dangerous animals;
         (d)   Hazards of emergency driving;
         (e)   Hazards associated with traffic control and working in and near
traffic;
         (f)   Natural and manmade disasters.
      4.   Audiovisual Discrimination: Maintain effective audiovisual
discrimination and perception needed for:
         (a)   Making observations;
         (b)   Communicating with others;
         (c)   Reading and writing; and
         (d)   Operating assigned equipment and vehicles.
      5.   Mental Capacity: Maintain mental capacity, which allows the
capability of:
         (a)   Exercising sound judgment and rational thinking under dangerous
circumstances;
         (b)   Evaluating various options and alternatives and choose an
appropriate and reasonable course of action; and
         (c)   Demonstrating intellectual capabilities during training and
testing processes.
   (E)   Experience Guidelines: The position of fire department captain shall
require him or her to possess certain experience or training which shall
include, but is not limited to, the following combination:
      1.   Completion of high school diploma;
      2.   Extensive successful experience as a firefighter;
      3.   OSFM fire officer II certification; and
      4.   Three (3) year lieutenant of Bedford Park fire department.
   (F)   Duties: The fire department captain shall be under the direct command
of the fire chief. The duties and responsibilities of the fire department
captain shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      1.   Command of assigned companies and quarters;
      2.   Maintenance of discipline and supervision of, enforcement of, and
compliance with the rules and regulations of the fire department and village
policies;
      3.   Initiate the incident command system at emergency incidents. Develop
an incident action plan; including the review, evaluation, and revision of the
plan as needed;
      4.   Prepare written reports to the fire chief on performance and
capability of probationary firefighters not later than forty five (45) days
prior to the expiration of the probationary period;
      5.   Supervision, dissemination, and knowledge of general and special
orders of the fire chief;
      6.   Report in writing to the fire chief on accidents occurring in the
course of response to or return from a fire alarm, including names and
addresses of all witnesses thereto;
      7.   Maintenance of company books and records in proper and orderly
condition subject to inspection by superior officers;
      8.   Daily written report of all fires and alarms attended by their
company during a twenty four (24) hour period;
      9.   Preparation of an inventory of all articles and pieces of property
on hand at the end of the calendar year, setting forth such property as was
received, disposed of, worn out, assigned, etc. Such inventory shall be
prepared in duplicate and one copy submitted to the Fire Chief not later than
January 15 of each year; the other copy shall be retained in the company
records;
      10.   Maintenance and care of buildings, furniture, and fixtures
committed to their use;
      11.   Maintenance and care of apparatus and equipment including
examination and cleaning thereof after each use, but not less than once each
day;
      12.   Supervision of behavior, conduct, and habits of all men assigned to
their company;
      13.   Report in writing to the Fire Chief regarding any equipment or
apparatus out of service and/or undergoing repairs or maintenance, including
the date and time when such equipment or apparatus becomes out of service, the
nature of the work to be performed, an estimate of the cost thereof and the
person authorizing such maintenance or repairs;
      14.   Responsibility for all articles and equipment belonging to reserve
apparatus including cleaning and restoration after use;
      15.   Report in writing to the Fire Chief regarding any loss of tools,
equipment, or property of the department. Any articles or equipment, belonging
to another company shall be returned to that company as soon as possible, with
a written report of such return submitted to the Fire Chief; and
      16.   Escort visitors and citizens with appropriate explanations made to
them while assuring that such activity does not interfere with the
administration and conduct of normal duties and assignments.
   (G)   Compensation: The Fire Department Captain shall receive such
compensation as the Board deems appropriate and may be adjusted from time to
time. (Ord. 13-1424, 12-11-2013)
8-1-26: PART-TIME FIRE TRAINING OFFICER:
   (A)   Creation Of Position: A position of part-time Fire Training Officer is
hereby created. Said officer shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice
and consent of the Board of Trustees on an annual basis.
   (B)   Position Status: This position shall be exempt for FLSA standards and
is part-time wherein no more than nine hundred ninety nine (999) hours of time
per year will be allocated to the position. This position shall be non-union.
   (C)   Position Summary: Performs administrative and technical work in the
administration and presentation of training related to fire suppression,
emergency medical services, hazardous materials, fire prevention, specialized
rescue operations, and other related topics. This officer shall also assist the
Fire Department Safety Officer.
   (D)   Supervision: The officer will work under and report to the Fire Chief
or his or her designee.
   (E)   Essential Duties: The essential duties shall include but are not
limited to the following:
      1.   Develops, implements, and evaluates programs related to fire
suppression, emergency medical service, hazardous materials, fire prevention,
and special team training activities; implements modifications to training
programs as required to ensure effectiveness and current technical or
procedural compliance. Instructs students both directly and indirectly.
      2.   Evaluates and coordinates all training requests and scheduling for
department personnel to attend external training schools, seminars and
conferences.
      3.   Ensures all training reports are accurate, complete, and maintained
in compliance with applicable standards and practices.
      4.   Maintains training records and files on all department personnel.
Completes necessary forms for submittals to the Office of the State Fire
Marshal.
      5.   Assists in the management of the department through the development,
administration, and implementation of departmental policies, rules,
regulations, procedures, budget plans, strategic plans and goal-setting.
      6.   Attends schools, conferences and other meetings to keep abreast of
current trends in the field; represents the department in a variety of local,
regional, County, State and other organizations and committees.
      7.   Reports to working incidents, if available, to observe operations
and evaluate the effectiveness of training programs in actual operation and to
identify training needs and/or safety concerns. Does not perform direct
emergency mitigation duties, but may assist incident command as part of the
incident safety team, if needed.
      8.   Assists the department Safety Officer, assessing processes and
conditions, providing related training, drafting, and implementing related
policies or procedures, chairing the department's Safety Committee,
administering and participating in an accident review process, and
participating in related meetings.
      9.   Produces and submits yearly budget requests for training, schools,
and supplies. Administers the Training Division budget on an ongoing basis.
      10.   Maintains the Fire Department's training calendars, curriculum,
schedules, lesson plans, and various other elements.
      11.   Manages school attendance, budget expenditures, and purchases
related to training and safety.
      12.   Lead departmental committees and serve on, and contribute to,
regional training and safety committees.
      13.   Performs other duties as assigned.
      14.   This is not an emergency response position. The employee may
respond to emergencies to observe conditions and identify training/safety needs
and provide incident scene assistance to incident commanders, provided that the
employee may not enter potential IDLH (immediately dangerous to life and
health) atmospheres.
   (F)   Minimum Qualifications: The minimum qualifications include the
following:
      1.   Associate degree required, bachelor degree preferred. Minimum of ten
(10) years of fire service experience. Two (2) years of experience as a
training officer in a full-time Fire Department.
      2.   Considerable knowledge of the principles and practices of effective
administration as it applies to the fire service; considerable knowledge of
fire suppression and prevention principles, procedures, techniques and
equipment; considerable knowledge of rescue, first aid and resuscitation
techniques and their application; considerable knowledge of emergency response
agency operations and protocols, including hazardous materials and specialized
rescue response.
      3.   Knowledge in the operation of Fire Department tools and equipment.
      4.   Ability to analyze the effectiveness of departmental operations, to
diagnose operations problems, and to correlate the department's development
with changing conditions within the community and industry.
      5.   Ability to train and supervise personnel in the duties of their
positions.
      6.   Ability to follow verbal and written instructions.
      7.   Ability to communicate effectively orally and in writing.
      8.   Ability to establish effective working relationships with department
members, other agencies and the general public.
      9.   Ability to recognize and apply the most effective methods for
teaching skills and developing programs.
   (G)   Compensation: The salary for the position shall be provided for in the
annual budget.
   (H)   Evaluation: The officer shall be evaluated as to the job performance
within the first ninety (90) days and then on an annual basis. (Ord. 18-1566,
4-5-2018)
CHAPTER 2
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Adoption Of Nationally Recognized Codes
8-2-2: Establishment And Duties
8-2-3: Definitions
8-2-4: Prohibited Storage Of Explosives And Blasting Agents
8-2-5: Prohibited Storage Of Flammable And Combustible Liquids
8-2-6: Restricted Bulk Storage Of Liquefied Petroleum Gases
8-2-7: Sec. 8-1006, Motor Vehicle Routes For Transporting Explosives
8-2-8: Sec. 8-1007, Motor Vehicle Routes For Transporting Hazardous Chemicals
And Other Dangerous Articles Including Liquefied Petroleum Gases And
Combustible And Flammable Liquids
8-2-9: Amendments To Fire Prevention Code
8-2-10: Other Provisions
8-2-11: Emergencies
8-2-12: Modifications
8-2-13: Appeals
8-2-14: New Materials, Processes Or Occupancies Which May Require Permits
8-2-15: Inspection Procedure And Penalties
8-2-16: Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances
8-2-17: Validity
8-2-1: ADOPTION OF NATIONALLY RECOGNIZED CODES:
All rules and provisions contained in the ICC (International Code Council)
International Fire Prevention Code 2015 edition with amendments published by
the International Code Council, 5203 Leesburg Pike, Suite 70, Falls Church, VA
22041-3401, being particularly the 2015 edition, and the Life Safety Code (NFPA
no. 101) published by the National Fire Protection Association, being
particularly the 2015 edition, thereof, except such portions herein deleted,
modified or amended are hereby adopted by the Village of Bedford Park, P.O. Box
128, Bedford Park, Illinois 60501. These codes and amendments thereto shall be
known as the "Village of Bedford Park Fire Prevention Code". (Ord. 16-1503, 4-
7-2016)
8-2-2: ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES:
The Fire Prevention Code shall be enforced by the Village of Bedford Park Fire
Chief or representatives of the Fire Chief. (Ord. 01-1100, 11-29-2001)
8-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Wherever the words "Fire Prevention Code" or "Code" are used, they
shall be held to mean the Village of Bedford Park, Illinois, Fire Prevention
Code.
   (B)   Wherever the word "Municipality" is used in the Fire Prevention Code,
it shall be held to mean Village of Bedford Park, Illinois.
   (C)   Wherever the term "corporation counsel" is used in the Fire Prevention
Code, it shall be held to mean the Village Attorney for Bedford Park, Illinois.
   (D)   Wherever the term "fire official", "fire inspector", "inspector",
"Code official", "authority having jurisdiction" or "Fire Marshal" is used, it
shall be held to mean the Fire Chief of the Village of Bedford Park, Illinois.
   (E)   Wherever the term "Bureau of Fire Prevention" is used, it shall be
held to mean the Bureau of Fire Prevention of the Village of Bedford Park,
Illinois. (Ord. 01-1100, 11-29-2001)
8-2-4: PROHIBITED STORAGE OF EXPLOSIVES AND BLASTING AGENTS:
The storage, handling and use of explosives and blasting agents are hereby
prohibited. (Ord. 01-1100, 11-29-2001)
8-2-5: PROHIBITED STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE AND COMBUSTIBLE LIQUIDS:
The storage of flammable and combustible liquids in outside aboveground tanks
is hereby prohibited.
Exception: Those tanks located in the Village Zoning District T, "bulk storage
of flammables". (Ord. 01-1100, 11-29-2001)
8-2-6: RESTRICTED BULK STORAGE OF LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES:
The bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases in excess of one thousand (1,000)
gallons' water capacity is hereby prohibited.
   (A)   Any storage over thirty (30) gallons' water capacity shall require a
permit. (Ord. 01-1100, 11-29-2001)
8-2-7: SEC. 8-1006, MOTOR VEHICLE ROUTES FOR TRANSPORTING EXPLOSIVES:
Routes for vehicles transporting explosives and blasting agents are hereby
established as follows:
Routes approved by the state or federal governments.
(Ord. 01-1100, 11-29-2001)
8-2-8: SEC. 8-1007, MOTOR VEHICLE ROUTES FOR TRANSPORTING HAZARDOUS CHEMICALS
AND OTHER DANGEROUS ARTICLES INCLUDING LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GASES AND
COMBUSTIBLE AND FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS:
Routes for vehicles transporting hazardous chemicals and other dangerous
articles including combustible and flammable liquids are hereby established as
follows:
   (A)   Routes approved by the state or federal governments.
   (B)   No tank vehicles shall be parked for over one hour or left unattended
at anytime except in the village T zoning district, "bulk storage of
flammables".
(Ord. 01-1100, 11-29-2001)
8-2-9: AMENDMENTS TO FIRE PREVENTION CODE:
   (A)   Amendments Made In The American Insurance Association Fire Prevention
Code: The American Insurance Association Fire Prevention Code is no longer
recognized as the standard used by the Village authorities with respect to fire
prevention issues. Any reference to the American Insurance Association Fire
Prevention Code shall be hereby replaced with the International Fire Prevention
Code, 2015 edition.
   (B)   Amendments To The ICC International Fire Prevention Code Adopted
Herein: The letter "F" indicates the Village amendments to the International
Fire Code.
Chapter 3 - GENERAL PRECAUTIONS AGAINST FIRE.
   Sec. F-315 is hereby amended to read as follows:
      F-315.4   Material Storage.
   F-315.4.1.   Stock Maintenance. All stock shall be kept in a neat, orderly,
compact manner in accord with good housekeeping practices. Storage shall not be
within two (2) feet of the ceiling or the floor or roof structural members,
eighteen (18) inches from the sprinkler heads nor shall storage obstruct egress
from a building.
   F-315.4.2.   Packing Materials. Wherever and whenever stock is dispensed
directly from a shipping container and combustible material is used as
protective packing, such packing material shall be removed from the container
and taken care of by removing to the outside in closed containers. Such
container shall be kept closed at all times except when removing stock there
from.
   F-315.4.3.   Removal Of Packing And Waste Materials. No persons shall store
in any building excess amounts of combustible empty packing cases, wooden or
plastic pallets, barrels, boxes, rubber tires, shavings, excelsior, rubbish,
paper bags, litter, hay, straw and similar combustibles. Aisleways and storage
of the above- mentioned combustibles necessary for the performance of business
shall be kept in an orderly and neat manner. Combustible materials shall be
removed daily or more often as is necessary to suitable vaults, bins,
dumpsters, compactors or separate buildings. Such practices shall be as
approved by the fire marshal.
   Sec. F-315 is hereby added to read as follows:
   Sec. F-315.5. Miscellaneous Provisions.
   F-315.5.1.   Hazardous Areas. Rooms used for storage, boiler or furnace
rooms, fuel storage, janitors closets, maintenance shops and kitchens shall be
separated from other building areas by assemblies having a fire resistance
rating of not less than one hour with appropriate protection of openings into
the rooms.
   F-315.5.2.   Fire Procedure Notice. Owners, managers, and agents of multiple
dwelling units with three (3) or more units, motels, hotels and places of
assembly shall post and maintain in a conspicuous location with each dwelling
unit and in access routes, a written notice which explains what procedures to
use in the event of a fire. The notice shall contain a diagram of all fire
exits.
Chapter 5 - FIRE, SERVICE FEATURES.
   Sec. F-503.   Fire Apparatus Access Roads. Add the following village
requirements:
   F-503.7.   Public Access and Fire Lanes On Private Property Devoted to
Public Use shall be provided so that:
   F-503.7.1   Public or private access is provided to each building so that
the first responding fire department pumper unit will be able to be so located
that all points of the interior of the building may be reached by one hundred
fifty (150) feet of initial attack hose.
   F-503.7.2   Where the size or height of the building does not allow this
regulation to be met, an interior standpipe system equipped with fire
department hose connections approved by the Fire Official may be allowed as an
exception. The standpipe system shall be connected to a public water system.
   F-503.7.3   Design and installation shall meet the design criteria for a
Class I or III system of NFPA No. 14.
   F-503.7.4   Public or private access for motor fire apparatus shall be
provided around the building so that there may be proper operation of ladders
and mechanically elevated mechanisms. Minimum width of the fire lanes shall be
12 feet with greater widths to accommodate vehicles when turning and laddering
buildings.
   F-503.7.5   Access routes shall be so arranged that fire department
apparatus may respond from all points of the building to adjacent fire hydrants
along routes not to exceed three hundred (300) feet from the most remote point
to the building to the closest fire hydrant.
   F-503.7.6   Fire lanes on private property shall be approved by the Fire
Marshal, and parking of motor vehicles otherwise obstructing such fire lanes or
access routes shall be prohibited at all times. Permanent all-weather signs
identifying fire lanes and accessways shall be posted.
   F-503.7.7   Public or private fire department access roads and ways shall be
all weather, properly maintained and accessible at all times. Such access roads
and ways shall be a minimum of six (6) inches of granular stone surfaced by at
least two (2) inches of bituminous asphalt material or such other construction
acceptable to the Fire Marshal.
   F-503.7.8   Access roads shall be not less than fifteen (15) feet from the
building and further if the height of the building requires a greater set back
to ladder the buildings.
   F-503.7.9   Access routes shall be continuous around the building.
   F-503.7.10   This requirement may be modified by the Fire Marshal where
adequate building access openings and a complete fire suppression system are
provided.
   F-503.7.11   Where cul de sacs are permitted, they shall not be less than
ninety (90) feet in diameter. The maximum length of the cul de sac shall be one
hundred (100) feet.
   Sec. F-506   Key Box is hereby revised as follows:
   F-506.1   General. The Fire Marshall shall require all buildings to have an
approved key box system unless operated on a continuous 24 hours basis every
day of the year.
   F-506.2   Purpose. The purpose of the rapid entry key system is to allow the
fire department to gain immediate access to a building in emergency situations
without forcible entry.
   F-506.3   Location. The installation of the key box shall be approved by the
Fire marshal with said installation not to exceed six feet in height and each
box shall have a tamper switch.
   F-506.4   Contents. The approved key box shall contain keys to gain
necessary access as required by the Fire Marshal.
   F-506.5   Alarms. The key box shall be connected to the building's alarm
system. The tamper switch shall be as a trouble or supervisory signal.
STOPPED 2-22-01
   Sec. F-508   Fire Protection Water Supplies is hereby amended to read as
follows:
   Sec. F-508   Fire Protection Water Supplies
   F-508.1   Application. This section defines water supplies for fire
department use for new construction buildings and structures.
   F-508.2   Where Required. All buildings or structures shall be served by a
public water supply system meeting this criteria. This system shall be under
pressure with an average static pressure of not less than 35 pounds per square
inch (psi). Flows shall be calculated at 20 psi residual pressure. The supplies
shall be available for a continuous four-hour duration.
   F-508.3   Water Supplies – Quantity. A flow rate of not less than 2,000
gallons per minute (gpm) shall be provided for single- family residential
areas. For all other areas, not less than 4,000 gpm shall be provided.
Exceptions – Higher flows may be required where more hazardous uses,
manufacture or storage are involved. These shall be determined by the Code
Official.
   F-508.4   Fire Hydrant Locations. Water supplies shall be delivered under
pressure to fire hydrants located as follows:
   F-508.4.1   Fire hydrants shall be located along public streets so that no
portion of the building will be over 300 feet from a fire hydrant. Where this
is not possible, additional hydrants shall be located on the premise accessible
to motorized fire apparatus.
   F-508.4.2   One hydrant shall be located at each intersection and
intermediate hydrants where distance between intersections exceed 400 feet.
   F-508.4.3   At least two (2) fire hydrants shall be located within 300 feet
of the building.
   F-508.4.4   Additional fire hydrants shall be provided within 500 feet of
the building so that the fire flow requires divided by 1,000 will equal the
number of hydrants available.
   F-508.4.5   Hydrants will be located approximately ten (10) feet from an 11-
weather roadways. If this cannot be done, the closest part of the hydrant shall
be set back at least two (2) feet from the curb.
   F-508.6   A fire hydrant shall be located within 75 feet of the fire
department connection.
   F-508.7   Hydrants shall be located approximately 50 feet from the building
to be protected.
   F-508.8   Access to fire hydrants shall be all-weather roadways adequate in
width, clearance and strength for fire fighting purposes. Such routes,
including private roadways, shall be maintained accessible during all seasons
for the year. Legal provisions will be required for private roads.
   F-508.9   Fire hydrants used in conjunction with water supplies shall meet
the requirements of the Village and the standards of the American Water Works
Association, and shall have two (4-1/2) inch outlets with auxiliary gate valves
on the hydrant branch line. Threads shall be American National Standard. Pumper
outlets shall face roadways.
   F-509.10   Fire hydrants shall be protected from accidental damage by
approved methods when located in areas subject to vehicular damage.
   Chapter 9   Fire Protection System is hereby amended as follows:
Section 901   General – Add:
   F-901.6   Annually, a qualified technician shall inspect, test and maintain
all fire protection systems, including Fire Alarm, Sprinkler Systems, Fire
Pumps and Hood and Duct Systems.
   F-903.2 is hereby added to read as follows:
   F-903.2   Automatic Fire Suppression System.
   F-903.2.1   Where required. Automatic fire suppression systems shall be
provided as follows:
   (Ord. 01-1100, 11-29-2001)
   F-903.2.1.1   In all buildings exceeding zero (0) square feet, except
residential R-3.
   F-903.2.1.2    Any new construction, including additions to existing
buildings (except R-3), exceeding zero (0) square feet.
   F-903.2.1.3    New residential construction (R-3) will require fire
sprinkler protection at the furnace/boiler location.
   F-903.2.1.4    Renovation of, or additions to, residential (R-3) occupancies
totaling more than 75% of square footage must retro fit the furnace/boiler
location for fire sprinkler protection.
   F-903.2.1.5    Sprinkler system shall not be required in unattached garages
and/or sheds of R-3 occupancies.
   F-903.2.1.6    Delete.
   F-903.2.1.7    Delete.
   F-903.2.1.8    Delete.
   Section 907   Fire Alarm and Detection System is hereby amended as follows:
   F-907.2   Fire Alarm and Detection Systems Required
   F-907.2.1.   Approval. The automatic fire alarm system shall be approved for
the particular application and shall be used for detection and signaling in the
event of fire. Automatic detecting devices shall be approved devised with smoke
detectors used where residential, institutional and assembly uses exist.
   F-907.3   Where Required. Following are locations where a fire alarm system
with or without automatic detection is required:
   F-907.3.1   Assembly, educational, residential and institutional use groups
shall be equipped with an approved fire alarm system.
   F-907.3.2   This shall include assembly and educational uses with less than
50 occupants.
   F-907.3.3   Other Uses: All other buildings over one story in height and
one-story buildings over 2,000 square feet in area shall be equipped with an
approved fire alarm system.
   F-907.3.4   Design. The system shall be designed and installed in accordance
with the NFPA 72, national fire alarm code, 2000 edition.
   F-907.3.5   Power Supplies. A primary power supply source for the operation
of the system under normal conditions shall be provided. A secondary power
supply for operation of the system shall be by an approved storage battery or
engine driven generator.
   F-907.3.6   Fire Department Supervision. All fire alarm systems shall
terminate at a point approved by the fire marshal.
   F-907.3.7   No alarm shall be out of service for more than 24 consecutive
hours without the approval from the fire department. Furthermore, the fire
department shall have the authority to require a 24 hour guard watch at the
location for any out of service alarm.
   F-907.3.8   Residential Uses: In all buildings of use groups R-1 and R-2,
(where used as hotels, motels, lodging houses, dormitories, apartments) and
similar occupancies. All buildings having multiple uses including residential
use shall be equipped with an approved fire alarm system.
   Section 1001    General amended as follows:
   F-1001.1   Scope. The provisions of this article shall govern the
maintenance and use of means of egress as provided in buildings and structures
in accordance with the requirements of the building code listed in Appendix A,
NFPA 101 Life Safety Code, 2015 edition, and this code.
   Section F-1001.2 is hereby added to read as follows:
   Section F-1001.2   Additional Requirements.
   F-1001.22.   Emergency Lighting. Emergency power supplies from an
independent, approved reliable source (battery or automatic starting generator)
shall be provided in all rooms and spaces over 2,000 square feet in area, with
an occupancy load of 20 or more, stairways, corridors, access routes and other
exit components.
   F-1001.2.1   Number And Location Of Exits. All rooms or spaces with
accommodations for 20 or more persons or over 2,000 square feet in area shall
have 2 separate means of egress.
   Chapter 34.   Flammable And Combustible Liquids.
   F-3401.6 is hereby added to read as follows:
   F-3401.6   Village Requirements. The following requirements supplement those
in the fire prevention code.
   F-3401.6.1   Gravity Dispensing. Flammable or combustible liquids shall not
be dispensed by gravity from tanks, drums, barrels or similar containers.
Approved pumps that take suction from the top of the container shall be used.
   Exception. Special permission is required when other methods are necessary
due to the viscosity of the liquid.
   F-3401.6.2   Special Dispensers. Special type dispensers, such as coin, key
or card operated devices for self-service operation by the general public are
prohibited.
   F-3401.6.3   Parking Restrictions. No tank vehicle shall be left unparked or
unattended on any lot, street, highway, avenue, alley or any other location,
public or private.
   Chapter 38.   Liquefied Petroleum Gases.
   F-3801.5 is hereby added to read as follows:
   F-3801.5   Storage Prohibited/Permit Required. Aboveground storage of
liquefied petroleum gas utilizing one or more containers having a total
capacity of over 1,000 gallons water capacity shall be prohibited. Any tank
installation using containers over 30 gallons or aggregate capacity over 60
gallons water capacity shall require a permit issued by the fire official. All
propane cylinders, "portable" shall be kept outside on an approved rack, except
for the storing of 6-8 cylinders inside tenant space on an approved rack.
   F-3801.6 is hereby added to read as follows:
   F-3801.6   Parking Restrictions. No tank vehicle shall be left parked or
unattended on any lot, street, highway, avenue, alley or any other location,
public or private.
(Ord. 01-1100, 11-29-2001; amd. Ord. 02-1108, 1-17-2002; Ord. 05-1180(A), 7-21-
2005; Ord. 07-1242, 9-6-2007; Ord. 07-1244(A), 9-20-2007; Ord. 16-1502, 4-7-
2016; Ord. 16-1504, 4-7-2016; Ord., 4-18-2022)
8-2-10: OTHER PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Identification Of Fire Hazard Of Materials: Any hazardous material
shall be identified for health, flammability and reactivity in accordance with
NFPA 704, "Identification System for Fire Hazards of Materials", 1975 edition.
   (B)   Fire Procedure Notice: Owners, managers and agents of multiple
dwelling units shall post and maintain in a conspicuous location within each
dwelling unit an approved notice in writing which explains what procedures to
use in the event of fire. The notice shall contain a diagram of exit routes and
all fire exits.
   (C)   Fire, Gases And Smoke Spread:
      1.   Walls, partitions, floors, ceilings, roofs, openings therein, and
other features necessary for prevention of spread of fire, smoke and gases
shall be provided and shall be maintained in proper condition and repair at all
times. All openings including doors shall be provided with automatic self-
closing devices designed to keep opening protective devices closed. Approved
smoke and gases detecting devices may be considered for closing doors where
openings must normally remain open.
   (D)   Stairs, Fire Escapes, Tunnel Safety Test: All stairs, fire escapes,
tunnels and similar safety devices shall be periodically tested for their safe
use.
   (E)   Stock Maintenance: All stock shall be kept in a neat, orderly, compact
manner in accord with good housekeeping.
   (F)   Packing Materials: Wherever and whenever stock is dispensed directly
from a shipping container and combustible material is used as protective
packing, such packing material shall be removed from the container and taken
care of by removing to the outside in closed containers. Such container shall
be kept closed at all times except when removing stock therefrom.
   (G)   Removal Of Packing And Waste Materials: No persons shall store in any
building excess amounts of combustible empty packing cases, barrels, boxes,
rubber tires, shavings, excelsior, rubbish, paper bags, litter, hay, straw and
similar combustibles. Aisle ways and storage of the above mentioned
combustibles necessary for the performance of business shall be kept in an
orderly and neat manner. Combustible materials shall be removed daily or more
often as is necessary to suitable vaults, bins or separate buildings. Such
practices shall be approved by the bureau of fire prevention. (Ord. 671, 7-7-
1978)
   (H)   Open Flames And Lights: No open flames or lights, no heating or
lighting apparatus or equipment capable of igniting flammable materials shall
be allowed unless such apparatus is well adhered in permanently mounted glass
globe or similar approved device. (Ord. 671, 7-7-1978; amd. Ord. 753, 1-3-1985)
   (I)   Tenant Separation:
      1.   Each tenant space in a multiple tenant building shall be separated
from each other and from corridors, hallways or passageways, by walls,
partitions and floor-ceiling assemblies having a fire resistance rating of not
less than one hour.
      2.   For the purpose of applying subsection (I)1 of this section, the
following definitions apply:
   TENANT: A person, corporation, company or similar organization, however
organized, operating as one business and occupying space within a building.
   TENANT SPACE: The area of square footage used and occupied by a tenant in a
single tenant or multi-tenant building. (Ord. 753, 1-3-1985)
   (J)   Fire Walls: When required, fire walls shall be installed between
buildings or to divide complexes of buildings into areas for fire fighting
control. Openings in fire walls shall be protected in accordance with NFPA no.
80 "Standards For Fire Doors And Windows," 1973 edition.
   (K)   Fire Stopping: Vertical and horizontal spread of fire shall be
controlled by properly located and installed fire stopping.
   (L)   Elevators:
      1.   All elevators shall be designed to automatically return to the main
floor in case of fire.
      2.   One elevator shall be designed for emergency control.
      3.   One elevator shall be designed to allow access to and hold an
ambulance cot with patient in horizontal position.
      4.   All elevators shall be designed in accordance with nationally
recognized standards.
      5.   Fire safety and emergency operating facilities for elevators shall
be approved by the bureau of fire prevention.
   (M)   Water Supplies For Fire Department Use:
      1.   Water Supplies; Quantity: The following water supplies shall be
available commensurate with the hazards therein:
Single-family residential               1,000 to 1,500 gpm
Multi-family residential construction   2,000 to 4,000 gpm
Industrial type development             3,000 to 6,000 gpm
Research and developmental laboratories 3,000 to 4,000 gpm
Business and commercial areas           3,000 to 4,000 gpm
 
      2.   Fire Hydrant Locations:
         (a)   Fire hydrants shall be located along public streets so that no
portion of the building will be over three hundred feet (300') from a fire
hydrant. Where this is not possible, additional hydrants should be located on
the premises accessible to motorized fire apparatus.
         (b)   One hydrant shall be located at each intersection and
intermediate hydrants where distance between intersections exceeds four hundred
feet (400').
         (c)   In apartments, townhouses, condominiums, town/row or cluster
housing areas where streets or parking lots dead end, hydrants shall be placed
along the access route.
         (d)   At least two (2) fire hydrants shall be located within three
hundred feet (300') of the building.
         (e)   Additional fire hydrants shall be provided within five hundred
feet (500') of the building so that the fire flow required divided by one
thousand (1,000) will equal the number of hydrants available.
         (f)   Hydrants shall be so located that:
            (1)   Hydrants will be located approximately ten feet (10') from
all weather roadways. If this cannot be done, the closest part of the hydrant
shall be set back at least two feet (2') from the curb line.
            (2)   Hydrants shall be located approximately fifty feet (50') from
the building to be protected.
            (3)   Access to fire hydrants shall be by all weather roadways
adequate in width, clearance and strength for fire fighting purposes. Such
routes shall be maintained accessible during all seasons of the year. Legal
provisions will be required for private roads.
         (g)   Fire hydrants used in conjunction with water supplies shall meet
the standards of the American Water Works Association standard no. C-502, and
shall have two (2) 21/2-inch and one 41/2-inch outlets with auxiliary gate
valves on the hydrant branch line. Threads shall be American national
standards. Pumper outlets shall face roadways. (Ord. 671, 7-7-1978)
            (1)   In industrial areas, all hydrants shall have two (2) 41/2-
inch outlets. (Ord. 675, 1-4-1979)
         (h)   Fire hydrants shall be protected from accidental damage by
approved methods when located in areas subject to vehicular damage.
   (N)   Fire Department Access:
      1.   Public or private access shall be provided to each building so that
the first responding fire department pumper unit will be so located that all
points of the interior of the building may be reached by one hundred fifty feet
(150') of fire department initial attack hose.
Exception: Where size of building and height of building does not allow this
criteria to be met and interior stand pipe system connected to a public water
system and equipped with a fire department connection, the above criteria may
be considered met when approved by the fire prevention bureau.
      2.   Public or private access for motor fire apparatus shall be provided
around the building so that it may be properly laddered and operation of
mechanical elevated mechanisms may be properly utilized. Minimum width of the
access routes shall be twelve feet (12') with greater widths to accommodate
vehicles when turning.
      3.   Access routes shall be so arranged that fire department apparatus
may respond from all points of the building to adjacent fire hydrants along
routes not to exceed three hundred feet (300') from the most remote point of
the building to the closest fire hydrant.
      4.   Fire lanes on private property shall be approved by the fire marshal
and parking of motor vehicles or otherwise obstructing such fire lanes or
access routes shall be prohibited at all times.
      5.   Private fire department access roads and ways shall be properly
designed, maintained and accessible at all times.
      6.   Access routes shall be circulating for adequate fire apparatus
movement.
      7.   Access roads shall not be less than fifteen feet (15') from
buildings. (Ord. 671, 7-7-1978)
   (O)   Annual Certificate: Any building, structure or occupancy covered by
this code shall have an annual certificate indicating compliance with the
provisions of this code.
      1.   Issuance of the village's business regulation certificate (ordinance
650, August 5, 1976) shall be deemed to meet the requirement for an annual
certificate under this code.
      2.   The village shall not issue a business regulation certificate until
the provisions of this code are met and certificate application is approved by
the fire marshal. (Ord. 688, 9-20-1979)
   (P)   Key Box Access: Where access to or within a structure or an area is
not provided twenty four (24) hours per day, all days of the year, because of
secured openings or where immediate access is necessary for lifesaving or
firefighting purposes, an approved key box shall be installed in an accessible
exterior location. The key box shall be a type approved by the fire chief and
shall contain keys to gain necessary access as required by the fire chief.
      1.   The key box shall be of a type having a tamper switch and shall be
supervised as part of the "trouble" alarm of the fire alarm system.
      2.   The key box shall be supervised by the fire chief, and he may set
rules to govern the number and distribution of the key box keys, and the
procedure for gaining access when a "trouble" alarm is sounded. (Ord. 756, 1-
17-1985)
      3.   The key box shall be located a minimum of six feet (6') above the
surrounding grade. (Ord. 98-1021, 11-19-1998)
      4.   Any person, business or company who shall violate the key box
provisions of the code shall be subject to the penalty provisions stated in
subsection
8-2-15(C) of this chapter. (Ord. 756, 1-17-1985)
8-2-11: EMERGENCIES:
When in the opinion of the fire marshal there is actual and immediate danger
because of hazardous conditions which endanger life or may cause adverse
effects upon adjoining properties, the fire marshal may order the building to
be immediately vacated and cause immediate remedial action if necessary. The
cost of such remedial action shall be borne by the owner of the premises. (Ord.
671, 7-7-1978)
8-2-12: MODIFICATIONS:
The fire marshal shall have power to modify any of the provisions of the fire
prevention code upon application in writing by the owner or lessee, or his duly
authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way of carrying
out the strict letter of the code, provided that the spirit of the code shall
be observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done. The
particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision of
the fire marshal shall be entered upon the records of the department and a
signed copy shall be furnished the applicant. (Ord. 671, 7-7-1978)
8-2-13: APPEALS:
Whenever the fire marshal shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do
not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the fire marshal to the president and board of trustees within fifteen (15)
days from the date of the decision appealed. (Ord. 671, 7-7-1978)
8-2-14: NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES WHICH MAY REQUIRE PERMITS:
The fire marshal shall determine and specify after giving affected persons an
opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which
shall require permits, or otherwise alter the provisions of the fire prevention
code, in addition to those now enumerated in said code. The fire marshal shall
post such list in a conspicuous place in his office, and distribute copies
thereof to interested persons. (Ord. 671, 7-7-1978)
8-2-15: INSPECTION PROCEDURE AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   The duly constituted fire inspector of the village shall routinely
inspect the buildings located within the village. If, upon inspection, the fire
inspector finds violations of the code, he/she shall note said violations in
writing, and shall deliver a copy of the violations to the fire chief, village
attorney, village prosecutor and any person who has been deemed to have
violated the code. The fire inspector shall designate a time period within
which the violator shall correct any violations listed in the notice, unless
the fire inspector deems the violations to be of such a serious nature that
they require immediate compliance, in which case the fire inspector may
immediately issue a citation for the violator to appear in court. The violator
may request additional time for compliance from the fire inspector, who shall
have the discretion to accommodate the request or demand immediate compliance.
   (B)   This section shall be subject to the emergency and modification
provisions of sections
8-2-11 and
8-2-12 of this chapter.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of the code hereby
adopted or who otherwise fails to comply with any order made thereunder, or any
direction of the fire inspector with respect to compliance with the code, or
who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or
plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued
thereunder, shall severally for each and every such violation or noncompliance
respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than
one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   (D)   The imposition of one penalty for any violation or defects shall be
required to be corrected or remedied by all such persons within a reasonable
time and each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a
separate offense. The imposition of one fine or penalty shall not exclude
concurrent imposition of injunctive relief or demolition orders for violation
of the code, nor shall it exclude subsequent fines for recurrent violations.
   (E)   The application of any monetary penalty shall not be construed to
prevent the enforced removal of prohibited conditions or noncompliance with the
code. (Ord. 02-1123, 9-19-2002)
8-2-16: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
All former fire prevention ordinances or parts thereof conflicting or
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or of the code hereby adopted
are hereby repealed. (Ord. 671, 7-7-1978)
8-2-17: VALIDITY:
The board of trustees hereby declares that should any section, paragraph,
sentence or word of this chapter or of the code hereby adopted be declared for
any reason to be invalid, it is the intent of said village board that it would
have passed all other portions of this chapter independent of the elimination
herefrom of such portion as may be declared invalid. (Ord. 671, 7-7-1978)
CHAPTER 3
FIREWORKS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Terms Defined
8-3-2: Possession Or Display Prohibited
8-3-3: Sale
8-3-4: Operation Of Fireworks Prohibited
8-3-5: When Act Applicable
8-3-1: TERMS DEFINED:
The term "fireworks" shall mean and include any combustible or explosive
compositions, or any substance or combination of substances or articles
prepared for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by
combustion, explosion or deflagration or detonation. (Ord. 28, 1-2-1941)
8-3-2: POSSESSION OR DISPLAY PROHIBITED:
No person shall possess, keep, store or display any fireworks. (Ord. 28, 1-2-
1941)
8-3-3: SALE:
No person shall sell or offer for sale any fireworks. (Ord. 28, 1-2-1941)
8-3-4: OPERATION OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED:
No person shall use, discharge or set in operation any fireworks of any kind or
description.
Provided, however, that a public pyrotechnic display of fireworks may be
authorized by resolution passed by the president and board of trustees when
under the control of a competent and qualified operator and the time, place and
manner of such display is approved by the fire chief. (Ord. 28, 1-2-1941)
8-3-5: WHEN ACT APPLICABLE:
Nothing in these regulations shall be construed as applying to the
transportation of any article or things shipped in conformity with the
regulations prescribed by the interstate commerce commission, nor as applying
to the military or naval forces of the United States, nor to the use of signals
necessary for the safe operation of railroads, steamboats, trucks or aircraft.
(Ord. 28, 1-2-1941)
CHAPTER 4
HAZARDOUS MATERIAL DISCHARGE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Payment For Services
8-4-2: Costs To Be Assessed
8-4-3: Payment For Additional Assistance
8-4-4: Payment For First District Hazardous Materials Response Team
8-4-5: Payment For Commercial Hazardous Materials Contractor
8-4-1: PAYMENT FOR SERVICES:
That the Fire Chief is hereby authorized to promulgate a fee schedule for
equipment rates and personnel for emergency response charges relating to the
occurrence which shall be the same as provided for by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) of the Department of Homeland Security. All other
charges shall be billed at their reasonable and customary rates. (Ord. 04-1169,
11-4-2004; amd. Ord. 19-1606, 6-6-2019)
8-4-2: COSTS TO BE ASSESSED:
The board of trustees of the village should determine the amount of costs to be
assessed against the responsible party in connection with services rendered by
the fire department in responding to a hazardous waste discharge or threatened
discharge. (Ord. 91-849, 8-22-1991)
8-4-3: PAYMENT FOR ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE:
If the fire chief, or the person acting in his stead at the scene of an
occurrence, deems it necessary to request mutual aid assistance, the
responsible party shall be charged for the services rendered by each company at
the rate charged by said entity. (Ord. 91-849, 8-22-1991)
8-4-4: PAYMENT FOR FIRST DISTRICT HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE TEAM:
If the fire chief or the person acting in his stead at the scene of an
occurrence, deems it necessary to request assistance from the first district
hazardous materials response team, the responsible party shall be charged for
the services rendered by the first district hazardous materials response team
at the rate according to the actual cost as determined by said team. (Ord. 91-
849, 8-22-1991)
8-4-5: PAYMENT FOR COMMERCIAL HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CONTRACTOR:
If the fire chief or the person acting in his stead at the scene of an
occurrence, deems it necessary to request assistance from a separate
specialized service or cleanup contractor, the responsible party shall be
responsible for payment to the specialized service or cleanup contractor per
reasonable payment terms as defined by said contractor. (Ord. 91-849, 8-22-
1991)
CHAPTER 5
AMBULANCE RESPONSES
SECTION:
8-5-1: Definitions
8-5-2: Charges For Ambulance Responses
8-5-3: Payment Of Fees
8-5-4: Nonliability Of Village
8-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this chapter, they shall have
such meanings herein ascribed to them:
ALS RESPONSE: An ambulance dispatched which can provide or is capable of
providing advance life support to an individual.
BLS RESPONSE: An ambulance dispatched which can provide or is capable of
providing basic life support to an individual.
NONRECIPROCAL COMMUNITIES: Communities who are not obligated to provide
reciprocal ambulance related services to the village of Bedford Park. (Ord. 94-
906, 7-7-1994)
8-5-2: CHARGES FOR AMBULANCE RESPONSES:
See subsection
8-1-19(D) of this title for current ambulance service charges. (Ord. 02-115, 5-
2-2002)
8-5-3: PAYMENT OF FEES:
If payment is not received from a nonreciprocal community within sixty (60)
days upon the services being rendered, the village shall have the right to
suspend further responses to that community until full payment is received.
(Ord. 94-906, 7-7-1994)
8-5-4: NONLIABILITY OF VILLAGE:
Any official or employee of the village charged with the administration or
enforcement of this chapter and acting for the village in the discharge of such
duties shall not be rendered liable personally for any and all damages that may
accrue to persons or property as a result of any act required or permitted
under this chapter. (Ord. 94-906, 7-7-1994)
TITLE IX
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
9-1-1: Department Established
9-1-2: General Supervision And Control
9-1-3: Appointments
9-1-4: Powers Of The Police Chief
9-1-4-1: Duties And Responsibilities Of The Captain Of Police
9-1-4-2: Deputy Police Chief
9-1-5: Auxiliary Police (Rep. by Ord. 95-948, 9-21-1995)
9-1-6: Duties And Responsibilities Of A Lieutenant
9-1-7: Sergeant Of Police
9-1-8: Patrol Officer
9-1-9: Police Matron
9-1-10: Communications Coordinator And Officers
9-1-11: Administration, Regulations And Standard Operating Procedure
9-1-12: Bonds
9-1-13: Administrative Services Officer
9-1-1: DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED:
A department of the village to be known as the village police department is
hereby established, which shall consist of the police chief, deputy police
chief, captain of police, police lieutenants, police sergeants, patrol
officers, radio communication officers and administrative officers. The primary
objectives include, but are not limited to: (Ord. 95-946, 8-28-1995; amd. Ord.
01-1082, 5-17-2001)
   (A)   Suppress crime;
   (B)   Protect life and property;
   (C)   The preservation of law and order;
   (D)   The enforcement of the criminal and traffic laws of the state and the
criminal and traffic ordinances of the village;
   (E)   The detection and apprehension of criminal and traffic offenders;
   (F)   The recovery of stolen property;
   (G)   Such other duties and responsibilities as may from time to time be
imposed by law. (Ord. 95-946, 8-28-1995)
9-1-2: GENERAL SUPERVISION AND CONTROL:
The department shall be under the control and supervision of the police chief,
who shall be the executive officer of the police department. He shall be
responsible to the president and board of trustees for the efficient operation
of the department. (Ord. 531, eff. 1-1-1967)
9-1-3: APPOINTMENTS:
   (A)   The president, with the advice and consent of the board of trustees,
shall appoint all members of the police department.
   (B)   The procedure for handling such appointment shall be in conformance
with the provisions provided for in title I, chapter 18 of this code. (Ord.
531, eff. 1-1-1967)
9-1-4: POWERS OF THE POLICE CHIEF:
   (A)   The chief of police shall organize the department in such manner as he
may deem necessary to efficiently and properly conduct the duties and
responsibilities prescribed by law.
   (B)   The chief of police is hereby authorized to and shall prescribe and
enforce such directives as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
chapter and any other laws, the enforcement and administration of which are
vested in the department.
   (C)   The police chief is hereby authorized to establish and execute such
regulations and procedures within the department so as to effectively
administer his responsibilities dealing with promotions, suspensions, layoffs,
demotions, dismissal, wage increases and other personnel policies and
procedures. This authorization shall be in conformance with the provisions set
forth in said "personnel ordinance" and the provisions contained in
administration, regulations and standard operating procedure of the village,
which is incorporated herein and made a part of this chapter by reference.
(Ord. 531, eff. 1-1-1967)
9-1-4-1: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE CAPTAIN OF POLICE 1 :
   (A)   Position Of Captain Of Police: The position of captain of police is
hereby created and established.
   (B)   Duties And Responsibilities: The duties and responsibilities of the
captain of police are as follows:
      1.   The captain of police shall be the second in command, and shall have
such authority and perform such duties as the chief of police shall assign.
      2.   The captain of police shall be required to supervise the work of the
department and require the satisfactory performance of the unit subject to the
orders of the chief of police. He shall use his best efforts in meeting the
problems, appraising the effectiveness of the police techniques used and
interpreting departmental policies and rules, as laid down by the chief of
police. He may receive special instruction from the chief of police in unusual
situations, and his work will be reviewed through observation and evaluation of
reports to the chief of police.
      3.   The captain of police shall strive constantly to create and maintain
high morale among the members of the police department, and constantly evaluate
the quality of supervision provided by subordinate officers. He shall strive to
maintain friendly relations between his police department and other police
departments, the press and the public.
      4.   The captain of police shall make personal inspection of the area
under his command at irregular intervals, as frequently as may be necessary to
keep him thoroughly informed of conditions therein. He shall determine if all
members of his command are efficiently performing their duties and shall take
suitable action to correct any violation of departmental orders or dereliction
of duty that he may observe. He shall note all noncompliance with the laws and
ordinances and all other matters requiring the attention of the police.
      5.   The captain of police shall supervise and review the reports of
subordinates and if there are mistakes or omissions, return them to the
officer's supervisor for corrections and review with the reporting officer. He
shall cover major crimes and unusual occurrences during his tour of duty, and
when appropriate, assist and instruct the officers in the proper methods of
handling the assignment. He may be called to such incidents, if needed when off
duty.
      6.   The captain of police shall, whenever practical, patrol the village
and shall interview frequently and at regular intervals, each officer and
observe the manner in which each officer performs his duty, and shall give
instruction on the proper and most effective methods of performing it. He shall
investigate any delinquent morale, or any laxity in performance of duty, or in
the observance of departmental orders on the part of any of his officers. After
determining the facts, he shall report his findings and action taken, or
recommendation to the chief of police.
      7.   The captain of police shall have such other duties and
responsibilities as are contained in the code of ethics and rules and
regulations of the police department of the village of Bedford Park, Illinois,
a home rule unit of government. (Ord. 98-1017, 10-15-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section 9-1-4-2 of this chapter.
9-1-4-2: DEPUTY POLICE CHIEF:
   (A)   Position Created: The position of deputy police chief is hereby
created and established within the village of Bedford Park police department.
   (B)   Responsibilities: The duties and responsibilities of the deputy police
chief are as follows:
      1.   The deputy chief of police shall be the second in command and shall
have such authority and perform such duties as the police chief shall assign.
The deputy chief shall be required to supervise the work of the department and
require satisfactory performance of the unit, subject to the orders of the
chief of police.
      2.   The deputy police chief shall have the same job responsibilities and
duties as a captain of police described in section
9-1-4-1 of this chapter.
      3.   The deputy police chief shall be a full time employee of the village
of Bedford Park and shall assume all the powers, duties and responsibilities of
the police chief in the absence of said chief.
   (C)   Compensation: The compensation for the deputy police chief shall be
determined on an annual basis. (Ord. 01-1082, 5-17-2001)
9-1-5: AUXILIARY POLICE:
(Rep. by Ord. 95-948, 9-21-1995)
9-1-6: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF A LIEUTENANT:
   (A)   The lieutenant will be responsible for supervising traffic services,
such as accident investigation work, enforcement patrol work, parking control
work, and any other traffic work as ordered by the chief of police or captain
of police.
   (B)   The lieutenant will supervise his subordinates in conforming to the
rules, regulations and orders of the department, as well as proper attendance
and uniforming. He will also supervise the conformance with plans and
procedures ordered by the captain of police, and investigate complaints, as
ordered by the captain.
   (C)   The lieutenant will supervise office procedures which will include
desk procedure, the making of daily attendance sheets, and current entering of
activity report information as ordered by the captain. He will also check
reports and citations for clerical correctness, before being forwarded to the
clerk, and any errors or omissions found will be brought to the attention of
the original reporting officer, and will not be corrected by other personnel.
   (D)   The lieutenant, on his tour of duty, will be responsible for the
preparation of reports and the necessary notifications as covered in department
rules, regulations and orders. He will also be responsible for conducting roll
call and notifying squad operator of vehicles available for use in the various
traffic functions.
   (E)   Other responsibilities of the lieutenant will be to ascertain that all
department property, vehicles, vehicular equipment, and buildings are properly
safeguarded and cared for, as per department rules, regulations and orders. He
will oversee surveys and investigations as assigned by the chief or captain of
police, the booking of prisoners arrested by area personnel, and any other
duties, as assigned by the chief or captain of police.
   (F)   The lieutenant will make daily personnel and equipment assignments,
making temporary emergency changes as necessary. He may also make assignments
to desk or office duty on his shift, subject to the approval of the chief or
captain of police.
   (G)   The lieutenant must submit recommendations to the chief or the captain
concerning discipline, transfer, or change of duty.
   (H)   The chain of command for the rank of lieutenant is such that he will
report to and take orders from the chief of police and the captain of police,
and he has authority over, control of, and supervision of sergeants, patrol
officers, and other employees on his shift. (Ord. 95-944, 8-28-1995)
9-1-7: SERGEANT OF POLICE:
A sergeant shall be held responsible for exacting the proper performance of
police duties from the members of the department assigned to his command; for
the enforcement of all laws, rules, regulations and orders of the department;
and for the proper conduct and appearance of the members of the department
assigned to his command. The sergeant shall perform his duties and
responsibilities in conformance with the provisions provided for in said
administration, regulations and standard operating procedure. (Ord. 531, eff.
1-1-1967)
9-1-8: PATROL OFFICER:
A patrol officer is charged with carrying out the functions of the police
department, namely, the preservation of public peace, the protection of life
and property, the prevention of crime, the arrest and prosecution of violators
of the law, and the proper enforcement of all laws and ordinances as provided
for by this code and the criminal law of the state. The patrol officer shall
perform his/her duties and responsibilities in conformance with the provisions
set forth in said administration, regulations and standard operating procedure.
(Ord. 96-989, 12-19-1996)
9-1-9: POLICE MATRON:
A police matron is responsible for assisting the police officer as required in
the apprehension of females found in the act of violating any criminal law of
the state or any provision of this code, or aiding and abetting any violation;
and assisting in the handling of such females to the lockup facility or any
other designated safe place, or assisting in taking such females to the proper
court for trial, maintaining good discipline and order of the prisoner during
the trial, and assisting in the execution of the court order as required. The
police matron shall perform her duties and responsibilities in conformance with
the provisions set forth in said administration, regulations and standard
operating procedure. (Ord. 96-989, 12-19-1996)
9-1-10: COMMUNICATIONS COORDINATOR AND OFFICERS:
   (A)   Communications Coordinator:
      1.   Created: Subject to the terms and conditions of this code and policy
manual, the position of village communications coordinator is hereby created.
      2.   Appointment: The village president, along with the advice and
consent of the board of trustees, shall appoint the communications coordinator
on an annual basis.
      3.   Compensation: The compensation for this position will be established
at the time of the annual appointment.
      4.   Nature Of Work: This is a civilian personnel position. The
communications coordinator will manage the operations of the communication
division. This position will be administratively accountable to the chief and
deputy chiefs.
      5.   Duties And Responsibilities: The duties and responsibilities
described below are indicative of what the position may be asked to perform.
The job description is to incorporate any municipal ordinances created for the
position.
         (a)   Communications:
            (1)   The communications coordinator is the direct link between
management and communications personnel. The position requires administrative
and technical expertise in directing the various communications operations;
            (2)   The communications coordinator shall direct the work of
subordinate communications personnel on any assigned shift;
            (3)   Ensures that communications personnel dispatch and track all
police, fire, and EMS units throughout the duration of their response to calls
for service;
            (4)   Ensures that communications personnel monitor and dispatch
for water and public works;
            (5)   Monitors all procedures, including those related to telephone
answering techniques, the delivery of services, complaint report processing and
recording, E911 responses, field unit tracking, radio procedures, computerized
documentation, and computer aided dispatch operations;
            (6)   Monitors all alarm reports directed to the communications
center, including direct line signals and telephone alerts;
            (7)   Acts as the department's liaison to other emergency agencies/
systems, i.e., Illinois commerce commission for
9-1-1;
            (8)   Researches and coordinates equipment maintenance, upgrades
and operations for the division, including oversight of dictaphone recording
unit and other devices used for recording communication activity;
            (9)   Works communication desk/station as needed;
            (10)   Maintains any and all necessary communication certification
standards; and
            (11)   Performs any and all other duties that may be assigned by
the police chief.
         (b)   Public Relations:
            (1)   Ensures that personnel process all telephone traffic in a
friendly, courteous, and professional manner;
            (2)   Provides information to the public on a variety of subjects,
including the status of incidents, staff availability, services provided,
referrals, and administrative procedures;
            (3)   Is responsible for the use of the telecommunications device
for the deaf (TDD), to provide access to public safety services for this
clientele.
         (c)   Responsibilities:
            (1)   Directs training required for communications personnel;
            (2)   The communications coordinator shall instruct and advise
subordinates of their duties and is responsible for the efficient and
economical use of resources: manpower, equipment and facilities assigned;
            (3)   The communications coordinator is responsible for enforcing
compliance with all directives and the rules and regulations of the department.
As such, he/she is responsible for submitting written reports with
recommendations to the chief and deputy chiefs in any instance of infraction of
a directive or for commendation when applicable;
            (4)   Communications coordinator remains answerable and accountable
for all job related failures on the part of their subordinates when the
communications coordinator was aware of the potential for failure and failed to
take the appropriate action to correct the deficiency;
            (5)   Works with employees to set job expectations and monitor
productivity;
            (6)   Completes employee evaluation instruments and assists in
employee development; and
            (7)   Identifies employee performance issues and recommend
performance improvement measures.
         (d)   Training:
            (1)   Retains personal certification status for LEADS and CPR
(first aid).
            (2)   Attends scheduled specialized training courses. (Ord. 07-
1219, 2-15-2007)
   (B)   Communications Officer: The communications officer shall be
organizationally responsible to the chief of police; however, he shall maintain
communication functions for the fire department and police department and water
department.
Under police department functions, he shall receive and record the complaints
of all persons and reports of the members of the department and submit same to
the shift commanding officer, or make such other disposition as may be
necessary. He shall receive, send and record radio and telephone messages on
all matters pertaining to police work, making prompt, accurate and necessary
entries of official business in the department records in a manner prescribed
for keeping of such records and shall make such records as are required of him.
Under fire department functions, he shall receive, send and record radio and
telephone messages on all matters pertaining to fire work, making prompt and
accurate and necessary entries of official business in the department records
in a manner prescribed for keeping of such records. In case of fire or other
emergencies requiring immediate action by the fire department, he shall operate
emergency fire department systems notifying the firemen of place of fire or
emergency. During periods of emergency, he shall operate the radio system as
center of communications as required.
Under the water department function he shall receive all emergency calls
dealing with water problems, notifying the water department superintendent of
same, and call in emergency call repair crews when authorized to do so.
When he leaves his post for any urgent reason, a competent person shall be
placed in charge during his absence. (Ord. 730, 6-2-1983; amd. Ord. 07-1219, 2-
15-2007)
The salary level of the communications officer shall be determined by the board
of trustees and the mayor on an annual basis. (Ord. 90-817, 3-15-1990; amd.
Ord. 07-1219, 2-15-2007)
9-1-11: ADMINISTRATION, REGULATIONS AND STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURE:
The administration of the department covering the organization, personnel and
jurisdiction; the regulations of the department, including job
responsibilities, authority, codes of conduct and equipment; and standard
operating procedure covering both the administrative and operational functions
of the department, shall be in conformance with the provisions as provided for
in the manual of direction for the Bedford Park police department, which is
hereby incorporated herein in its entirety and made a part of this chapter by
reference. (Ord. 705, 1-15-1981)
9-1-12: BONDS:
All members of the police department, before entering upon duties of his or her
office or position, shall execute and post bond, as required in title I,
chapter 4 of this code. (Ord. 705, 1-15-1981)
9-1-13: ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES OFFICER:
   (A)   The administrative services officer shall assist the police chief in
the administration duties of the police department. The administrative services
officer shall report to the police chief. In the absence of the police chief,
the administrative services officer shall then report to the next officer in
the chain of command. The administrative services officer will perform all
related duties assigned by the police chief. (Ord. 99-1024, 3-4-1999)
CHAPTER 2
MISDEMEANORS
SECTION:
9-2-0: Injury To Public Property
9-2-1: Injury To Sewer System
9-2-2: Signs
9-2-3: Burning
9-2-4: Permission For Burning
9-2-5: Trespassing
9-2-6: Offensive Matter
9-2-7: Refuse
9-2-8: Penalty
9-2-0: INJURY TO PUBLIC PROPERTY:
   (A)   Public Property Damage: It shall be unlawful to damage, destroy or
deface any public property of any kind located within the village of Bedford
Park.
   (B)   Penalties: Any person or company who is found to be in violation of
this section shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) for each offense. In
addition to the imposition of said fines, an offender shall be liable for the
attorney fees and repair costs as incurred by the village. (Ord. 10-1339, 9-16-
2010)
9-2-1: INJURY TO SEWER SYSTEM:
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit, or cause to
be permitted, any substance to flow into any sewer system in the village which
would cause blockage to, or damage to, said sewer system. (Ord. 622, 1-3-1974;
amd. Ord. 95-952, 9-21-1995; Ord. 10-1339, 9-16-2010)
9-2-2: SIGNS:
No person shall erect, maintain or use, except for the purpose of advertising
his own business, any sign or advertising board without a special permit from
the board of trustees, on or over any public street. (Ord. 14, 7-18-1940; amd.
Ord. 95-953, 9-21-1995)
9-2-3: BURNING:
No person shall burn any standing hay or grass, nor set fire to or burn any
leaves or other combustible matter, in any street, park, or public ground.
(Ord. 14, 7-18-1940; amd. Ord. 95-953, 9-21-1995)
9-2-4: PERMISSION FOR BURNING:
No person shall burn or set fire to any combustible matter nearer than one
hundred feet (100') to any house, fence, barn, shed, or wooden building, unless
by the written permission of the fire chief. (Ord. 14, 7-18-1940; amd. Ord. 95-
953, 9-21-1995)
9-2-5: TRESPASSING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to commit a trespass within the village
upon either public or private property. The following acts, but not by way of
limitation, shall constitute a trespass:
   (A)   Violation Of Notice: Any entry upon the premises of another, or any
part thereof, including public property, if said entry is in violation of a
notice posted or exhibited at the main entrance to said premises or at any
approach or entry, or if an entry is in violation of any notice, warning or
protest, given orally or in writing, by an owner, occupant or person in charge
thereof.
   (B)   Failure To Depart: A failure or refusal to immediately depart any
premises of another when requested, either orally or in writing, to leave by
the owner, occupant or person in charge thereof.
   (C)   Penalties: Any person who is found to be in violation of this section
shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 91-840, 5-16-1991; amd. Ord. 95-954,
9-21-1995)
9-2-6: OFFENSIVE MATTER:
Any person who shall bring into or transport through the village the body or
carcass of any unslaughtered dead animal, or any offal, blood, bones, or tank
stuff in a state of decomposition, or any putrid or offensive animal matter,
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 14, 7-18-1940; amd. Ord. 95-954,
9-21-1995)
9-2-7: REFUSE:
No person shall throw, place, leave, or suffer to be thrown, placed or left,
any coal, ashes, refuse, tins or rubbish of any kind upon any paved,
macadamized, or otherwise improved street or highway. (Ord. 14, 7-18-1940; amd.
Ord. 95-955, 9-21-1995)
9-2-8: PENALTY:
Unless previously indicated, any person who is found to be in violation of any
section of this chapter shall be fined no less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 95-950, 9-21-
1995)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
9-3-1: Nuisance Defined
9-3-2: Nonsummary Abatement, Notice
9-3-3: Nonsummary Abatement
9-3-4: Summary Abatement
9-3-1: NUISANCE DEFINED:
It is hereby declared to be a nuisance:
   (A)   To so negligently conduct any business or use any premises as to
create such an offensive smell as may taint the air, and render it unwholesome
or disagreeable to others. (Ord. 15, 7-18-1940)
   (B)   To deposit any night soil, dead animal, or other filthy offensive or
noisome substance upon any lot, street, alley, highway, park or other place.
   (C)   To obstruct or encroach upon public highways, private ways, streets,
alleys and commons. (Ord. 15, 7-18-1940; amd. Ord. 95-956, 9-21-1995)
   (D)   To store, keep or maintain outside of a closed building any junk,
parts, machinery or equipment not in an operable condition, or motor vehicle
not in an operable condition, where such inoperable motor vehicle is an actual
danger or detriment to life, safety, health, or peaceful enjoyment of the
property of surrounding landowners; provided, however, that this provision
shall not apply to a properly licensed junkyard or other permitted outdoor
storage use which is in full compliance with all of the ordinances of the
village governing the same.
   (E)   To own, maintain or keep a dwelling unit or place of business which is
unfit for human habitation or dangerous or detrimental to the life, safety or
health because of lack of repair, violations of the fire prevention code of the
village, violations of the building code of the village, defects in the
plumbing system, lighting or ventilation, the existence of contagious diseases
or unsanitary conditions likely to cause sickness among persons residing in
said premises or residing in proximity thereof.
   (F)   To produce or permit to be produced, whether on public or private
property, any offensive noise to the disturbance of the peace or quiet of any
person residing in the vicinity. (Ord. 745, 7-19-1984; amd. Ord. 95-956, 9-21-
1995)
   (G)   To allow or direct whether negligently, intentionally or wilfully, the
flow or discharge of water from one's property onto the property of an adjacent
landowner whenever said water could reasonably be directed through the plumbing
or sewer systems of the village. (Ord. 762, 4-18-1985; amd. Ord. 95-956, 9-21-
1995)
   (H)   To interfere with the orderly conduct of business by using a strike,
picket, or other assembly permit in any one or more of the following ways:
      1.   Blocking of vehicular traffic within the corporate limits of the
village.
      2.   Vandalism or damage to private or public vehicles, or other personal
or real property within the corporate limits of the village.
      3.   Consumption of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances at a
strike or picket site within the corporate limits of the village.
      4.   Use of verbal or physical threats or infliction of bodily injury
upon the persons or property of any individual during a strike, picket or other
assembly within the corporate limits of the village.
      5.   Erection of any building, shed or structure at a strike or picket
site which fails to conform to building or zoning codes adopted by the village.
(Ord. 87-789, 12-17-1987; amd. Ord. 95-956, 9-21-1995)
9-3-2: NONSUMMARY ABATEMENT, NOTICE:
Except as where otherwise provided by the ordinances of the village, any
officer of the village possessing police powers may serve or cause to be served
a notice, in writing, upon the owner, agent, occupant, or person in possession,
charge or control of any lot, building or premises or item of personalty in or
upon which any nuisance, requiring them, or either or both of them, to abate
the same within a reasonable time in such manner as the notice shall direct.
(Ord. 745, 7-19-1984; amd. Ord. 95-957, 9-21-1995)
9-3-3: NONSUMMARY ABATEMENT:
If the person so served and notified does not abate the nuisance within the
specified reasonable time, the corporate authorities may proceed to abate the
nuisance in any or all manner allowable by law, including, without limiting the
generality thereof, the following:
   (A)   By the writing of a citation seeking to impose a monetary penalty up
to a maximum amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) per day per offense
from the date that the notice is given to abate the nuisance.
   (B)   By the writing of the citation or the filing of a lawsuit before the
proper division of the circuit court of Cook County, seeking to enjoin the
continuation of the nuisance either by the filing of a motion for a temporary
restraining order, preliminary or permanent injunction, or an action to condemn
or demolish any premises not in conformance with this chapter.
   (C)   Each day that a violation is allowed to exist shall constitute a
separate offense. (Ord. 745, 7-19-1984; amd. Ord. 95-957, 9-21-1995)
9-3-4: SUMMARY ABATEMENT:
Whenever, in the opinion of an officer of the village possessing police powers,
the maintenance or continuation of a nuisance creates an imminent threat of
serious injury to persons or serious damage to personal or real property, or if
the nuisance can be abated summarily without or with only minor damage to the
items or premises which are creating the nuisance, and the continuation of the
nuisance poses a substantial threat of injury to persons or property or a
substantial interference with the quiet enjoyment of life normally present in
the community, such officer shall proceed to abate such nuisance; provided,
however, that whenever the owner, occupant, agent or person in possession,
charge or control of the real or personal property which has become a nuisance
is unknown or cannot readily be found, the municipal officer with police power
may proceed to abate such nuisance without notice. Where the abatement of the
nuisance requires continuing acts by the corporate authorities beyond the
initial summary abatement and any other additional emergency abatements, it
shall seek abatement of such nuisance on a permanent basis through judicial
process as soon as reasonably possible. (Ord. 745, 7-19-1984; amd. Ord. 95-957,
9-21-1995)
CHAPTER 4
WEEDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Nuisance Declared
9-4-2: Height Restriction
9-4-3: Barberry Bushes
9-4-4: Removal Notice
9-4-5: Abatement
9-4-6: Weed Cutting Lien
9-4-7: Penalties
9-4-1: NUISANCE DECLARED:
Any weeds such as jimson, burdock, ragweed, thistle, cockleburr, or other weeds
of a like kind, or noxious weeds, found growing in any lot or tract of land in
the village, are hereby declared to be a nuisance, and it shall be unlawful to
permit any such weeds to grow or remain on any such place. (Ord. 95-968, 11-2-
1995)
9-4-2: HEIGHT RESTRICTION:
It shall be unlawful to permit any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees,
bushes, flowers or other ornamental plants to grow to a height exceeding eight
inches (8") anywhere in the village; any such plants or weeds exceeding such
height are hereby declared to be a nuisance. (Ord. 95-968, 11-2-1995)
9-4-3: BARBERRY BUSHES:
It shall be a nuisance and unlawful to plant or permit the growth of the bush
of the tall common or European barberry, further known as Berberis vulgaris, or
its horticultural varieties. (Ord. 95-968, 11-2-1995)
9-4-4: REMOVAL NOTICE:
It shall be the duty of the superintendent of public works to serve or cause to
be served notice upon the owner or occupant of any premises on which weeds or
plants are permitted to grow in violation of the provisions of this chapter and
to demand the abatement of the nuisance within ten (10) days. (Ord. 95-968, 11-
2-1995)
9-4-5: ABATEMENT:
If the person so served does not abate the nuisance within ten (10) days, the
superintendent of public works may proceed to abate such nuisance, keeping an
account of the expense of the same, and such expense shall be charged to and
paid by the owner or occupant. (Ord. 95-968, 11-2-1995)
9-4-6: WEED CUTTING LIEN:
Charges for weed cutting shall be a lien upon the premises as provided by
statute. Whenever a bill for weed cutting remains unpaid sixty (60) days after
it has been rendered, the village clerk may file with the county recorder of
deeds a statement of lien claim. This statement shall contain the legal
description of the premises served, the amount of the unpaid bill, and a notice
that the village claims a lien for this amount. Notice of the bill for weed
cutting shall be mailed to the owner of the premises whenever such bill remains
unpaid for a period of sixty (60) days after it has been rendered. The failure
of the village clerk to record such lien claim or to mail such notice or the
failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not affect the right to
foreclose the lien for unpaid bills for weed cutting as provided for in section
9-4-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 95-968, 11-2-1995)
9-4-7: PENALTIES:
Any person who is found to be in violation of this chapter shall be fined not
less than fifty dollars ($50.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be
deemed committed on each day during or on which such nuisance continues
unabated after ten (10) days from receipt of notice. (Ord. 95-968, 11-2-1995)
CHAPTER 5
GUNS
SECTION:
9-5-1: Definition
9-5-2: Discharge Unlawful
9-5-3: Laser Sight Accessory
9-5-1: DEFINITION:
A "gun" is any weapon from which a bullet or other missile is discharged or
hurled by an explosive, compressed air, spring or other device. (Ord. 92, 12-
16-1954)
9-5-2: DISCHARGE UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person not lawfully authorized to bear arms in the
discharge of his duties to discharge or attempt to discharge any gun within the
corporate limits of the village. (Ord. 92, 12-16-1954)
9-5-3: LASER SIGHT ACCESSORY:
   (A)   Definition: "Laser sight accessory" shall mean a laser sighting device
which is either integrated into a firearm or capable of being attached to a
firearm.
   (B)   Possession Of Laser Sight Accessories: It shall be unlawful for any
individual to sell, offer, or display for sale, give, lend, transfer, own or
possess any laser sight accessory in the village except for police officers to
the extent that any such officer is authorized to acquire or possess a laser
sight accessory and is acting within the scope of his/her duties.
   (C)   Penalties: Any person who violates this section shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars
($500.00). In addition to said penalties, a laser sight accessory is subject to
forfeiture and confiscation by the village. (Ord. 99-1031, 4-15-1999)
CHAPTER 6
WILD ANIMALS; BIRDS
SECTION:
9-6-1: Hunting Unlawful
9-6-2: Feeding Wild Animals
9-6-1: HUNTING UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, kill, trap, take and/or destroy
wild birds or wilds animals within the corporate limits of the village. (Ord.
93, 12-16-1954)
9-6-2: FEEDING WILD ANIMALS:
   (A)   Definitions: Words used in this section shall be defined as follows:
   ANIMAL: Any live animal capable of transmitting rabies with any break or
abrasion of the skin except for domesticated animals so as to live and breed in
a tame condition.
   (B)   Feeding Of Animals: It shall be unlawful for any person to feed any
food substance to any animal within the village.
   (C)   Penalty: Any person who violates the provisions of this section shall
be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) and no more than
five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. (Ord. 02-1118, 6-6-2002)
CHAPTER 7
ANIMALS
SECTION:
9-7-1: Definitions
9-7-2: Dogs And Cats Restricted
9-7-3: Running At Large Prohibited
9-7-4: Leash
9-7-5: Licensing
9-7-6: Rabies Vaccination
9-7-7: Penalty
9-7-8: Miniature Pigs
9-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the following words shall have the following meanings:
CAT: All animals of the feline species.
DOG: All animals of the canine species.
FECAL MATTER: Waste matter or excrement discharged from the intestines.
URINATE: The act or process of passing or discharging a fluid from the kidneys
known as "urine". (Ord. 601, 4-20-1972)
9-7-2: DOGS AND CATS RESTRICTED:
No person owning any dog or cat or having the same under his control shall
permit such dog or cat to deposit or discharge any fecal matter or to urinate
upon any public or private property other than upon the property of such owner
or person having control of such dog or cat. (Ord. 601, 4-20-1972)
9-7-3: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
No person owning any dog or cat or having the same under his control shall
permit such dog or cat to run at large on any street, alley or public place, or
upon any private property other than upon the property of such owner or person
having control of such dog or cat within the limits of the Village. (Ord. 601,
4-20-1972)
9-7-4: LEASH:
No person owning any dog or cat or having the same under his control shall
permit such dog or cat to be upon any street, alley or public place, or upon
any private property other than upon the property of such owner or person
having control of such dog or cat within the limits of the Village, unless such
dog or cat shall be led by a chain or on leash, and in such a manner as to
prevent such dog or cat from biting or attacking any person or animal. (Ord.
601, 4-20-1972)
9-7-5: LICENSING:
All dogs or cats kept, harbored or maintained by their owners in the Village
shall be licensed and registered if over six (6) months of age. Dog and cat
licenses shall be issued by the Village Clerk upon applications provided
therefor. There shall be no fee required for this license. Upon application the
Clerk shall issue to the owner a metallic tag for each dog or cat so licensed.
Every owner shall be required to provide each dog and cat so licensed with a
collar to which the licensed tag must be affixed and shall see that the collar
and tag are constantly worn. Said license shall not be transferable from one
dog or cat to another. (Ord. 601, 4-20-1972)
9-7-6: RABIES VACCINATION:
As a condition to the issuance of any license for a dog or cat, the owner
thereof shall present to the Clerk a certification that such dog or cat shall
have been vaccinated by a licensed veterinary surgeon with antirabies vaccine,
within one year preceding the date of the application for license. (Ord. 601,
4-20-1972)
9-7-7: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine of not
less than ten dollars ($10.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for
each offense. (Ord. 601, 4-20-1972)
9-7-8: MINIATURE PIGS:
   (A)   Keeping Of Miniature Pigs: It shall be unlawful for any person to keep
more than one miniature pig over twenty two inches (22") in height and weighing
over fifty (50) pounds in the residential district of the Village. Miniature
pig ownership shall not be allowed in any other area of the Village except for
the residentially zoned districts.
   (B)   Neutering/Spaying: It is hereby required that all miniature pigs kept
within the Village be neutered or spayed. All such neutering or spaying shall
be performed by a duly licensed veterinarian. Upon performing any neutering or
spaying, the veterinarian shall issue a certificate showing said services to
the owner.
   (C)   Fencing Of Miniature Pigs: All residents who own a miniature pig shall
install a fence on their property to secure the same will not trespass on
another's property or on any public street, alley or other public property.
   (D)   Registration With Village: All such miniature pigs shall be registered
with the Village in same manner as other domesticated pets.
   (E)   Penalty: Any person found to be in violation of this section shall be
subject to a fine of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than
seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) per violation. Every day a violation
occurs shall be deemed a separate offense. (Ord. 16-1524, 12-1-2016)
ARTICLE A. DANGEROUS DOGS
SECTION:
9-7A-1: Definitions
9-7A-2: Prohibitions; Exceptions
9-7A-3: Penalty
9-7A-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this article, the following words shall be defined:
DANGEROUS DOGS: Any dog which has known vicious propensities or which has been
known to attack any person who was peacefully conducting himself in any place
where he may lawfully be or if unmuzzled, unleashed or unattended, behaves in a
manner that a responsible person would believe poses a serious and unjustified
threat of physical injury to a person in a public place.
ENCLOSURE: A fence or structure of at least six feet (6') in height, forming or
causing an enclosure suitable to prevent the entry of young children. The
enclosure shall be securely enclosed and locked and designed with secure sides,
top and bottom and shall be designed to prevent the dog from escaping.
PERSON: Any person having the right of property in an animal, who keeps or
harbors or allows another person to keep or harbor a dangerous dog, who has it
in his care, acts as its custodian or who knowingly permits a dangerous dog on
the premises.
PREMISES: Any lot or building located in the R-A1 or R-A zoning district of the
village. (Ord. 06-1212, 9-6-2006)
9-7A-2: PROHIBITIONS; EXCEPTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain a dangerous dog on the
premises unless the dog is kept in an enclosure. The only times that a
dangerous dog may be allowed out of the enclosure are: a) if it is necessary to
obtain veterinary care for the dog, or b) in the case of an emergency where the
dog's life is threatened. (Ord. 06-1212, 9-6-2006)
9-7A-3: PENALTY:
Any person found to be in violation of this article will be subject to a fine
of not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per offense. A person shall be guilty of a separate offense
for every day the violation of this article is committed or permitted to
continue. (Ord. 06-1212, 9-6-2006)
CHAPTER 8
CURFEW
SECTION:
9-8-1: Children On Public Ways At Night After Certain Hours Prohibited
9-8-2: Penalty
9-8-1: CHILDREN ON PUBLIC WAYS AT NIGHT AFTER CERTAIN HOURS PROHIBITED:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person between the age of twelve (12)
years through and including the age of seventeen (17) years to be present upon
any public way in the village between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M.
Friday and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Saturday, or between the hours of eleven
o'clock (11:00) P.M. Saturday and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. Sunday, or between
the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Sunday and six o'clock (6:00) A.M.
Monday, or between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M. on any other day of the week, unless accompanied and supervised by a
parent, legal guardian or other responsible companion at least twenty one (21)
years of age approved by the parent or legal guardian, or unless engaged in
some business or occupation in which such child may lawfully engage under the
statutes of this state. It shall also be unlawful for any person under the age
of twelve (12) years to be present upon any public way in the village between
the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on any day of
the week, unless accompanied and supervised by a parent, legal guardian, or
other responsible companion at least twenty one (21) years of age approved by
the parent or legal guardian. (Ord. 96-982, 7-18-1996)
   (B)   Any police officer finding a child violating any of the provisions of
this section shall warn the child to desist immediately from such violation,
and shall promptly report the violation to his superior officer who shall cause
a written notice to be served upon the parent, legal guardian or person in
charge of said child, setting forth the manner in which this section has been
violated. (Ord. 507, 8-19-1965)
9-8-2: PENALTY:
   (A)   Any child who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
after having been previously warned to desist from such violation shall be
fined not less than five dollars ($5.00) nor more than twenty five dollars
($25.00) for each offense. (Ord. 507, 8-19-1965)
   (B)   Any parent, legal guardian or person in charge of such child who shall
knowingly permit such child again to violate the provisions of this chapter
after receiving notice of the first violation shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
offense. (Ord. 96-982, 7-18-1996)
CHAPTER 9
PUBLIC INDECENCY
SECTION:
9-9-1: Definitions
9-9-2: Public Indecency
9-9-3: Penalties
9-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, for the purposes of this chapter, shall have the following
definitions:
NUDITY: The showing or exhibiting of the human male or female genitals, pubic
area, female breast with less than a full covering of any part of the nipple,
or the covered male genitals in a discernable state, or the exposure of any
portion of the buttocks.
PUBLIC PLACE: Any location frequented by the public or where the public is
present or likely to be present. Public places include, but are not limited to,
streets, sidewalks, parks, hotels, motels, restaurants, business
establishments, commercial establishments (whether for profit or not for
profit), meeting room facilities, night clubs, retail establishments or other
similar places. Public places shall not include enclosed single sex public
restrooms, enclosed single sex showers, locker rooms, enclosed motel/hotel
rooms used for sleeping accommodations, doctor offices, hospital facilities,
churches and/or synagogues. (Ord. 95-969, 11-2-1995)
9-9-2: PUBLIC INDECENCY:
Any person commits the offense of public indecency if he or she knowingly or
intentionally in a public place: a) engages in sexual intercourse; b) engages
in deviate sexual conduct; c) appears in any type of a state of nudity; d)
fondles the genitals of himself or another person. Any person who knowingly or
intentionally permits, allows or encourages another person to commit a publicly
indecent act as described above shall be deemed to have violated this chapter.
(Ord. 95-969, 11-2-1995)
9-9-3: PENALTIES:
Any person who is convicted of the offense of public indecency shall be fined
not less than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense. Every day that
the public indecency occurs shall be deemed a separate offense. The village
shall also have the right to seek immediate injunction relief against any
person engaging in the conduct determined to be a public indecency. (Ord. 95-
969, 11-2-1995)
CHAPTER 10
STREET AND SIDEWALK ASSEMBLIES
SECTION:
9-10-1: Declaration Of Purpose
9-10-2: Unlawful Action
9-10-3: Size Of Assembly
9-10-4: Permit Necessary
9-10-5: Time Of Holding
9-10-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE:
It is hereby declared to be the public policy of the village:
   (A)   That the maintenance of good order on sidewalks or roadways in the
village is a paramount responsibility of the village;
   (B)   That the public health, welfare and safety of the community require
that the movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic on such sidewalks or
roadways be lawfully conducted with a minimum of disruption;
   (C)   That unhindered and unrestrained assembly, demonstrations, marching or
parading on such sidewalks or roadways can cause disruption of police, fire and
emergency services, thereby causing injury to persons or property, regardless
of participation in such assembly, demonstrations, marching or parading; and
   (D)   That the provisions herein enacted are necessary for the protection of
health, welfare and safety of the public. (Ord. 548, 11-1967)
9-10-2: UNLAWFUL ACTION:
It shall be unlawful for any person, group of persons or organizations to
conduct or participate in any assembly, demonstration, march, parade, meeting
or gathering on sidewalks or roadways in the village unless a permit as
hereinafter set forth has been obtained from the village. (Ord. 548, 11-1967)
9-10-3: SIZE OF ASSEMBLY:
It shall be unlawful for any group or organization, or any individual acting
with such group or organization to conduct or participate in any assembly,
demonstration, march, parade, meeting or gathering on sidewalks or roadways in
the village unless such assembly, demonstration, march, parade, meeting or
gathering is limited to ten (10) persons. (Ord. 548, 11-1967)
9-10-4: PERMIT NECESSARY:
It shall be unlawful for any group or organization, or any individual acting
with such group or organization, to conduct or participate in any assembly,
demonstration, march, parade, meeting or gathering on sidewalks or roadways in
the village unless such person, group or organization shall have first obtained
a permit from the village so to do. Application for such permit shall be made
in writing to the clerk on a form to be furnished by said clerk at least forty
eight (48) hours before its inception. Such application shall set forth the
location, maximum number of persons participating, the names and addresses of
the organizers of such activity, its route, and its time of inception and
duration. (Ord. 548, 11-1967)
9-10-5: TIME OF HOLDING:
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any section or sections
of this chapter, not more than one assembly, demonstration, march, parade,
meeting or gathering shall be held, conducted or take place on sidewalks or
roadways in the village within any one given day, and then only at such time as
the superintendent of police may direct. (Ord. 548, 11-1967)
CHAPTER 11
STATE OF EMERGENCY
SECTION:
9-11-1: Declaration Of Emergency
9-11-2: Exercise Of Powers
9-11-3: Curfew
9-11-4: Regulation Of Businesses; Places Of Assemblage
9-11-5: Expiration Of State Of Emergency
9-11-6: Notice To Public
9-11-7: Penalty
9-11-1: DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY:
Whenever the village president determines that there has been an act of
violence or a flagrant and substantial defiance of or resistance to a lawful
exercise of public authority, any natural disaster or manmade calamity,
including flood, conflagration, cyclone, tornado, earthquake or explosion
within the corporate limits of the village, resulting in the death or injury of
persons or the destruction of property to such an extent that extraordinary
measures must be taken to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and
that, partly on account thereof, there is reason to believe that there exists a
clear and present danger of a riot or other general public disorder, widespread
disobedience of the law, and for substantial injury to persons or to property,
all of which constitutes a threat to public peace or order and to the general
welfare of the village, or a part or parts thereof, he may declare that a state
of emergency exists within the village or any part or parts thereof. (Ord. 562,
11-1968)
9-11-2: EXERCISE OF POWERS:
The village president shall not exercise the power and authority herein granted
to him to declare a state of emergency except and only after he has signed a
statement under oath finding that the standards for declaring such state of
emergency, as set forth in section
9-11-1 of this chapter, have been met, setting forth facts to substantiate such
findings, describing the nature of the emergency, and declaring that a state of
emergency exists. Such statement shall be filed with the clerk as soon as
practicable. (Ord. 562, 11-1968)
9-11-3: CURFEW:
After proclamation of a state of emergency by the village president, he may
order a general curfew applicable to such geographical areas of the village, or
to the village as a whole, as he deems advisable, and applicable during such
hours of the day or night as he deems necessary in the interest of the public
safety and welfare. (Ord. 562, 11-1968)
9-11-4: REGULATION OF BUSINESSES; PLACES OF ASSEMBLAGE:
After the proclamation of a state of emergency, the village president may also,
in the interest of public safety and welfare, make any or all of the following
orders:
   (A)   Order the closing of all retail liquor stores, including taverns and
private clubs, or portions thereof, wherein the consumption of intoxicating
liquor and beer is permitted.
   (B)   Order the discontinuance of the sale of alcoholic liquor by any
wholesaler or retailer.
   (C)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing or giving away
gasoline or other liquid flammable or combustible products in any container
other than a gasoline tank properly affixed to a motor vehicle.
   (D)   Order the discontinuance of selling, distributing, dispensing or
giving away of any firearms or ammunition of any character whatsoever.
   (E)   Order the closing of all places of business and places of public
assemblage, except those which, in his sole judgment and opinion, are
reasonably necessary for the health, welfare and safety of the village.
   (F)   Issue such other orders as are imminently necessary for the protection
of life and property. (Ord. 562, 11-1968)
9-11-5: EXPIRATION OF STATE OF EMERGENCY:
A state of emergency established under this chapter shall commence upon the
declaration thereof by the village president and shall expire not later than
the adjournment of the first regular meeting of the village board after the
state of emergency is declared, or unless sooner terminated by a proclamation
by the village president indicating that such emergency no longer exists. (Ord.
562, 11-1968)
9-11-6: NOTICE TO PUBLIC:
Whenever practicable, such state of emergency or emergency measures ordered by
the village president, as set forth in this chapter, shall be publicized by
posting in public places in the village, by loudspeakers and/or by
dissemination of such notice to appropriate news media. (Ord. 562, 11-1968)
9-11-7: PENALTY:
Any violation of a provision of this chapter, or of any emergency measure
established pursuant thereto, shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of
not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 562, 11-1968)
CHAPTER 12
JUNKED VEHICLES
SECTION:
9-12-1: Nuisance
9-12-2: Abatement Of Nuisance By Owners
9-12-3: Penalty For Failure Of Owner To Abate Such Nuisance
9-12-4: Abatement By Village
9-12-1: NUISANCE:
Unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped, junked and other automobiles not
in good and safe operating condition, whether licensed or unlicensed, and of
any other vehicles, machinery, implements and/or equipment and personal
property of any kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for
which it was manufactured, which hereinafter are collectively described as
"said personalty", for a period of five (5) days or more within the corporate
limits of this village, is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to
the public safety. Any repair of said personalty, other than emergency repairs
to automobiles or motor vehicles in the residential section of the village
other than in completely enclosed buildings, is declared to be a nuisance and
dangerous to the public safety. (Ord. 635, 7-3-1975)
9-12-2: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY OWNERS:
The owner, owners, tenants, lessees and/or occupants of any lot within the
corporate limits of this village upon which such storage is made, and also the
owner, owners and/or lessees of said personalty involved in such storage (all
of whom are hereinafter referred to collectively as "owners"), shall jointly
and severally abate said nuisance by the prompt removal of said personalty into
completely enclosed buildings, if within the corporate limits of the village,
or otherwise to remove it to a location without said corporate limits. (Ord.
635, 7-3-1975)
9-12-3: PENALTY FOR FAILURE OF OWNER TO ABATE SUCH NUISANCE:
If said owners allow said nuisance to exist or fail to abate said nuisance,
they, and each of them, upon conviction thereof shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
during or on which said nuisance is permitted to exist. (Ord. 635, 7-3-1975)
9-12-4: ABATEMENT BY VILLAGE:
Whenever said owners fail to abate said nuisance, then the village shall remove
the said personalty to a location of its selection, the expenses therefor to be
billed to said owners, jointly and severally, said bill to be recoverable in a
suit at law.
When said personalty has been removed and placed in storage by the village, as
provided for herein, said personalty shall be sold by the village after the
lapse of such time as is provided by law. If the proceeds of such sale are
insufficient to pay the costs of abatement, said owners shall be liable to the
village for the balance of the costs, jointly and severally, to be recoverable
in a suit at law. If the proceeds are in excess of costs, the balance shall be
paid to said owners, or deposited in the village treasury for their use. (Ord.
635, 7-3-1975)
CHAPTER 13
VANDALISM
SECTION:
9-13-1: Parental Irresponsibility
9-13-2: Presumption
9-13-3: Definitions
9-13-4: Supervision
9-13-5: Court Appearance Of Parents
9-13-6: Penalty
9-13-1: PARENTAL IRRESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for the parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor
residing with such parent or legal guardian to fail to exercise proper parental
responsibility by allowing or permitting said minor to commit any violation of
a village ordinance or state statute concerning vandalism, battery, curfew 1 ,
disorderly conduct, fireworks, obscene conduct, indecent exposure, trespass or
possession of alcoholic liquor, cannabis, or controlled substances or any other
offense of wilful or malicious acts to persons or property. (Ord. 653, 11-4-
1976)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 8 of this title.
9-13-2: PRESUMPTION:
A parent or legal guardian shall be presumed to have allowed or permitted said
minor to have committed a violation of a village ordinance or state statute
under all of the following conditions:
   (A)   Said minor has been either adjudicated to be in violation of any
ordinance or state statute as described in section
9-13-1 of this chapter; or has been charged with the violation of any ordinance
or state statute as described in section
9-13-1 of this chapter (except if found to be not guilty); or has incurred
nonjudicial sanctions from any peace officer, or conservator of the peace
resulting from an admission of guilt to an offense of an ordinance or state
statute as described in section
9-13-1 of this chapter; and
   (B)   Said parent or legal guardian has received a written notice by
certified mail (return receipt requested) or by personal service in
substantially the following form:
         LEGAL NOTICE
TO: (Parents' Names)
FROM: Village of Bedford Park
You are hereby notified that (minor's name) has been involved with a violation
of an ordinance or State statute concerning vandalism, battery, curfew,
disorderly conduct, fireworks, obscene conduct, indecent exposure, trespass, or
possession of alcoholic liquor, or any other offense of wilful or malicious
acts to persons or property.
If said minor is again involved with a violation of one of the above-type
ordinances or State statutes you may be found guilty of the offense of Parental
Irresponsibility. Conviction for said offense can result in a fine of not less
than $25 nor more than $500. You are hereby notified that you must exercise
proper parental responsibility over said minor by controlling his unlawful
conduct.
   (C)   Said minor, within two (2) years of the receipt of said notice by the
parent or legal guardian, has been either adjudicated to have committed, has
been charged with the violation (except if found to be not guilty), or has
admitted to have committed any violation of any ordinances or state statute as
described in section
9-13-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 653, 11-4-1976)
9-13-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them for the purposes
of this chapter:
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
court but it does not include a person appointed guardian, or given custody of
a minor under the "juvenile court act", as amended, in the state of Illinois.
MINOR: Any person who has not yet attained the age of nineteen (19). (Ord. 653,
11-4-1976)
9-13-4: SUPERVISION:
It is the policy of the village of Bedford Park to permit the village
prosecutor to use the provisions of the "unified code of corrections", as
amended of the state of Illinois, pertaining to supervision in order to further
the ends of justice, restitution, and purposes of this chapter. (Ord. 653, 11-
4-1976)
9-13-5: COURT APPEARANCE OF PARENTS:
It is the policy of the village of Bedford Park that a parent or legal guardian
of a minor be notified and required to appear in court whenever that minor is
charged with a violation of an ordinance or state statute which requires the
minor's appearance in court. To this end, it is hereby directed that a notice
in substantially the following form be sent to the parents or legal guardians
of the minor:
   LEGAL NOTICE
TO: (Parents' Names)
FROM: Village of Bedford Park
You are hereby notified that (minor's name) has been charged with an offense
which is a violation of a Village ordinance or State statute and which requires
the appearance of said minor in Court. You are further notified that one of the
parents of said minor must appear in Court before the case will be tried or be
disposed.
If you fail to appear, the Village Prosecutor has been directed to have issued
a subpoena to bring you into Court. Failure to obey a subpoena can result in
contempt of Court, with a fine or imprisonment as the penalty.
The village prosecutor is hereby directed to have subpoenas issued whenever a
parent or legal guardian of a minor does not appear in court after the first
two (2) times said case has been before the court. (Ord. 653, 11-4-1976)
9-13-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be fined not less
than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
for each offense, and a separate offense shall be deemed committed on each day
on which a violation occurs. (Ord. 653, 11-4-1976)
CHAPTER 14
AUTOMATIC TELEPHONE DEVICES
SECTION:
9-14-1: License Required
9-14-2: Application For License; Investigation
9-14-3: Penalty
9-14-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install, connect, or use any telephone
device or attachment which automatically dials, calls, selects or transmits a
prerecorded message to any phone line of the village of Bedford Park, without
having first obtained a license from the village clerk. (Ord. 682, 5-17-1979)
9-14-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION:
Every applicant for license shall file an application with the village clerk
upon a form prescribed therefor by the fire chief, upon payment of a fee of ten
dollars ($10.00), the fire chief shall investigate the telephone device or
attachment and shall approve the same unless the public health, safety and
welfare will be threatened by the installation, connection or use of said
device or attachment. The village clerk shall issue a license which shall be
valid as long as the approved device dials, calls, selects or transmits to a
specific phone number or numbers set aside for such purpose by the village.
(Ord. 682, 5-17-1979)
9-14-3: PENALTY:
   (A)   Fine Provided: Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects,
permits or allows, or refuses to comply with or who resists enforcement of any
provision of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than ten
dollars ($10.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for each
offense. Nothing in this subsection shall prevent the village from prosecuting
for several violations of the same paragraph on the same day or for each day of
said violations, although the same may continue, and each of said violations
shall be separate and distinct violations and subject to the penalties of this
subsection.
   (B)   Responsibility Of Corporation; Joint Liability: A corporation may be
prosecuted for the commission of an offense performed by any officer, agent, or
employee of the corporation where the offense is committed while said person is
acting within the scope of his office, employment or agency, or the commission
of said offense is authorized, requested, commanded, performed, permitted,
allowed, or by neglect of said corporation. An officer or any other agent who
has a position of comparable authority for the formulation of corporate policy
or the supervision of subordinate employees in a managerial capacity is legally
accountable for any offense committed in the name of or in behalf of the
corporation to the same extent as if it were performed in his own name and
behalf and may be prosecuted for violations of this chapter. Prosecutions for
violations of this chapter may be jointly, severally or in the alternative
against any of the above named persons. Person jointly liable for any
violations may be prosecuted under one complaint.
   (C)   Cumulative Remedies: The remedies or penalties enumerated herein are
cumulative and the village may prosecute in the alternative and, in the case of
a nuisance, subject the person committing said nuisance to an immediate arrest
without the notice to abate or other procedure and may, in addition, proceed
for any other violation of any other paragraph of this chapter or to enforce
its remedy under any other ordinance, the federal and Illinois statutes, or the
common law.
   (D)   Imprisonment: The village may elect to proceed to prosecute any
violation under any paragraph of this chapter punishable by incarceration in a
penal institution other than the penitentiary not to exceed six (6) months. If
the village so elects, the complaint shall state that a conviction may result
by incarceration in a penal institution other than the penitentiary for a
period not to exceed six (6) months. All prosecutions under this subsection
shall be in the circuit court by information or complaint sworn to charging
said offense, and the prosecution shall conform to the rules of criminal
procedure and a conviction shall require the village to establish the guilt of
the defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. The court may, in lieu of
imprisonment, assess a fine as set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Procedure Governing Issuance Of Citation In Violation Of This Code:
Whenever a police or peace officer or any officer charged with the enforcement
of any ordinance of the village is authorized to arrest a person without a
warrant or to file a quasi-criminal complaint in the circuit court for a
warrant or summons to issue because of a minor violation of any section or
provision of this code, said officer may, in lieu of making said arrest or
filing of a complaint, in the first instance issue to such alleged violator a
citation:
      1.   Warning: Advising said person that he has violated a specific
section of the ordinance and issuing him a warning to correct said violation
within the time specified in the notice. There shall be no fine connected with
this warning. In the event, however, that said violator fails to correct the
condition within the time specified in the notice, proceedings may be had under
subsection (E)2 of this section. No more than one such warning shall be given.
      2.   Issuing A Citation:
         (a)   Giving him a parking and ordinance violation ticket.
         (b)   Advising said person that he has violated a specific section of
the ordinance.
         (c)   Requesting him to make payment in an amount applicable to said
alleged violation as set forth below as settlement of said violation claim.
         (d)   Informing him that upon failure to make payment, a quasi-
criminal complaint will be filed in the circuit court of Cook County, charging
him with such violation and fixing the return day of the court hearing which
shall be his notice to appear.
         (e)   Pursuant to said citation, the person so accused of said
violation may settle and compromise the violation claim in respect to such code
violation by paying to the municipality the applicable amount as shown in the
schedule set forth below, within a period to be specified in said citation, not
more than seven (7) days of the time said alleged offense was committed.
Such payment shall be made in accordance with the instructions contained in the
aforesaid citation, at the office of the village clerk who shall issue a
receipt for the money so received and promptly remit said amount to the village
treasurer to be credited to the proper municipal fund.
      3.   Schedule Of Payment: The violation claim described in said citation,
issued pursuant to the terms herein, may be settled, compromised, and paid in
the respective amounts set forth in the following schedule:
The following amounts shall be accepted as settlement:
$10.00 for the first offense;
20.00 for the second offense; and
Persons cited for a third offense concerning the same subject matter and
section of the ordinance shall be processed by a quasi-criminal complaint filed
in the circuit court of Cook County.
The payment of an amount as settlement herein will not excuse the person from
curing the violation. Every day said violation continues shall be considered a
separate and distinct offense.
      4.   Failure To Make Payment: In the event that the person to whom said
citation is issued fails to settle and pay said violation claim within the
prescribed time, then said officer is authorized to file a quasi-criminal
complaint with the same return day as in the issued parking and ordinance
violation ticket, or file a separate quasi-criminal complaint with warrant or
summons to issue and prosecute the same in the circuit court of Cook County.
All such complaints shall be prosecuted by the village prosecutor. (Ord. 682,
5-17-1979)
CHAPTER 15
GRAFFITI
SECTION:
9-15-1: Definition
9-15-2: Prohibited Activities
9-15-3: Removal Of Graffiti
9-15-4: Penalties
9-15-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter "graffiti" is defined as any sign, symbol,
drawing, name, initial, picture, letter, sketch, design or diagram placed upon
property, both real and personal. (Ord. 93-897, 12-16-1993)
9-15-2: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, or cause to be placed,
graffiti upon the property of another, whether publicly or privately owned,
without the express written consent of the owner of said property.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner, occupant, or lessee of property
which is in the public view to grant such written consent to place any graffiti
if such graffiti refers to gang criminal activity, contains defamatory language
or symbolism or depicts obscene sexual conduct in that such graffiti
constitutes a nuisance.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess spray paint containers,
paint, ink, marking pens, or other similar materials for marking or etching
with the intent of using said items in violation of subsections (A) and/or (B)
of this section. (Ord. 93-897, 12-16-1993)
9-15-3: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI:
Upon receiving written notice by a police officer of the village, the owner of
the property upon which graffiti has been illegally placed shall remove said
graffiti within ten (10) days of the date of the notice. Failure to remove the
graffiti within said time frame shall be a violation of this chapter. The
penalty upon a conviction shall be not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor
more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per offense for each day from the date
that the notice is given to remove the graffiti. (Ord. 93-897, 12-16-1993)
9-15-4: PENALTIES:
Any individual who is found to be in violation of subsection
9-15-2(A) of this chapter, shall be assessed a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). In addition to
said fine, the offender may be ordered by the court to pay appropriate
restitution to the property owner for any costs incurred as a result of
restoring their property to its original state prior to the application of the
graffiti.
Any individual who is found to be in violation of subsection
9-15-2(B) of this chapter, shall be assessed a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for each offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each day during or on which a
violation occurs. Any individual who is found to be in violation of subsection
9-15-2(C) of this chapter shall be assessed a fine of not less than fifty
dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00). (Ord. 93-897,
12-16-1993)
CHAPTER 16
GAMBLING AMUSEMENT DEVICES
SECTION:
9-16-1: Prohibition
9-16-2: Violation, Penalty
9-16-1: PROHIBITION:
   (A)   No gambling amusement device shall be able to accept any currency in
an amount greater than twenty five cents ($0.25) or a quarter. Said machine may
be able to accept unlimited amounts of United States currency in the amount of
twenty five cents ($0.25) or a quarter however no larger currency denomination
may be accepted by the gambling amusement device at one time.
   (B)   No person may make payment in an effort to circumvent the twenty five
cents ($0.25) or quarter limitation whereby credits said machine are added to
the machine.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any device subject to this section to have
credit points or any other indication of payment added to the device, by
payment or other than by the insertion of twenty five cents ($0.25) or a
quarter, or for the device to be able to have such credit administered or added
manually. (Ord. 98-1007, 3-5-1998)
9-16-2: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
Any person found in violation of subsection
9-16-1(A) or (B) of this chapter shall be subject to a minimal fine of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) per offense, with each day constituting a separate
and chargeable offense as well as each incident. (Ord. 98-1007, 3-5-1998)
CHAPTER 17
RETAIL THEFT
SECTION:
9-17-1: Definitions
9-17-2: Acts Of Retail Theft
9-17-3: Full Retail Value Of Property
9-17-4: Presumptions
9-17-5: Repeat Offenders
9-17-6: Penalties
9-17-7: Failure To Attend Court Hearing
9-17-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words shall be defined as indicated:
CONCEAL: To "conceal" merchandise means that, although there may be some notice
of its presence, the merchandise is not visible through ordinary observation.
FULL RETAIL VALUE: The merchant's stated or advertised price of the
merchandise.
MERCHANDISE: Any item of tangible personal property.
MERCHANT: An owner or operator of any retail mercantile establishment or any
agent, employee, lessee, consignee, officer, director, franchisee or
independent contractor of such owner or operator.
PERSON: Any natural person or individual.
PREMISES OF A RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Includes, but is not limited to,
the retail mercantile establishment, any common use areas in shopping centers
and all parking areas set aside by a merchant or on behalf of a merchant for
the parking of vehicles for the convenience of the patrons of such retail
mercantile establishment.
RETAIL MERCANTILE ESTABLISHMENT: Any place where merchandise is displayed,
held, stored or offered for sale to the public. (Ord. 01-1078, 1-18-2001)
9-17-2: ACTS OF RETAIL THEFT:
A person shall be deemed to have committed retail theft upon any of the
following acts:
   (A)   Takes possession of, carries away, transfers or causes to be carried
away or transferred, any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for
sale in a retail mercantile establishment with the intention of retaining such
merchandise or with the intention of depriving the merchant permanently of the
possession, use or benefit of such merchandise without paying the full retail
value of such merchandise; or
   (B)   Alters, transfers, or removes any label, price tag, marking, indicia
of value or any other markings which aid in determining value affixed to any
merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale, in a retail mercantile
establishment and attempts to purchase such merchandise personally or in
consort with another at less than the full retail value with the intention of
depriving the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
   (C)   Transfers any merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale,
in a retail mercantile establishment from the container in or on which such
merchandise is displayed to any other container with the intention of depriving
the merchant of the full retail value of such merchandise; or
   (D)   Obtains or exerts unauthorized control over property of the owner and
thereby intends to deprive the owner permanently of the use or benefit of the
property when a lessee of the personal property of another fails to return it
to the owner, or if the lessee fails to pay the full retail value of such
property to the lessor in satisfaction of any contractual provision requiring
such, within thirty (30) days after written demand from the owner for its
return. A notice in writing, given after the expiration of the leasing
agreement, by registered mail, to the lessee at the address given by the lessee
and shown on the leasing agreement shall constitute proper demand. (Ord. 01-
1078, 1-18-2001)
9-17-3: FULL RETAIL VALUE OF PROPERTY:
The value of the property as described in section
9-17-2 of this chapter shall be less than three hundred dollars ($300.00).
(Ord. 16-1512, 7-7-2016)
9-17-4: PRESUMPTIONS:
If any person:
   (A)   Conceals upon his or her person or among his or her belongings,
unpurchased merchandise displayed, held, stored or offered for sale in a retail
mercantile establishment; and
   (B)   Removes that merchandise beyond the last known station for receiving
payments for that merchandise in that retail mercantile establishment;
such person shall be presumed to have possessed, carried away or transferred
such merchandise with the intention of retaining it or with the intention of
depriving the merchant permanently of the possession, use or benefit of such
merchandise without paying the full retail value of such merchandise. (Ord. 01-
1078, 1-18-2001)
9-17-5: REPEAT OFFENDERS:
Any person arrested for or convicted of retail theft under this chapter or
State Statute, who is arrested for retail theft a second or further time, shall
not be charged under this chapter, but shall be charged under the State Statute
provisions relating to retail theft, 720 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/16A-1 et
seq. (Ord. 01-1078, 1-18-2001)
9-17-6: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of violating this chapter shall be fined not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00).
Furthermore, any person found guilty of the offense of retail theft in addition
to the imposition of a fine or in lieu of a fine, may be required by the court
to perform community service. (Ord. 01-1078, 1-18-2001)
9-17-7: FAILURE TO ATTEND COURT HEARING:
   (A)   Attendance Required: Retailers or vendors who seek the Police
Department's assistance with respect to individuals accused of retail theft
shall fully cooperate with the Police Department in connection with the
prosecution of the case. A retailer or vendor shall be obligated to attend each
and every court assigned hearing date relative to the case.
A failure to attend a court hearing resulting in the dismissal of the case
shall be a violation of this section.
   (B)   Violation: Any retailer or vendor found to be in violation of this
section shall be subject to a fine of not less than five hundred dollars
($500.00) and no more than seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00). (Ord. 16-
1514, 8-15-2016)
CHAPTER 18
SOUND AMPLIFICATION DEVICES
SECTION:
9-18-1: Noise Restrictions
9-18-2: Exception
9-18-3: Penalties
9-18-1: NOISE RESTRICTIONS:
It shall be unlawful for a person to play, use, operate or permit to be played,
used or operated, any radio, tape recorder, cassette player or other similar
device for receiving broadcast sound or reproducing recorded sound if such
device is located:
   (A)   On a public way; or
   (B)   In any motor vehicle on a public way;
and if the sound generated by the device is clearly audible to a person with
normal hearing at a distance greater than seventy five feet (75'). (Ord. 02-
1124, 10-3-2002)
9-18-2: EXCEPTION:
This chapter shall not apply to any person participating in a parade or public
assembly in which a permit has been issued or to authorized emergency vehicles.
(Ord. 02-1124, 10-3-2002)
9-18-3: PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be fined
not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than three hundred dollars
($300.00) per offense. (Ord. 02-1124, 10-3-2002)
CHAPTER 19
ICE CREAM VEHICLES
SECTION:
9-19-1: Prohibition Of Ice Cream Vehicles
9-19-2: Penalty
9-19-1: PROHIBITION OF ICE CREAM VEHICLES:
It shall be unlawful to operate, or cause to operate, any vehicle including
vehicles by human power, designed for the storage and carrying of ice cream or
similar products for resale within the entire residential section of the
village. (Ord. 03-1143, 7-3-2003)
9-19-2: PENALTY:
Any person, company or other entity convicted of violating this chapter shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per offense. (Ord. 03-1143, 7-3-2003)
CHAPTER 20
MOTOR DRIVEN SCOOTERS
SECTION:
9-20-1: Definition
9-20-2: Restrictions
9-20-3: Exemptions
9-20-4: Applicability
9-20-5: Penalty
9-20-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this chapter, a "motor driven scooter" is defined as any
electric or gas driven wheeled scooter, motor driven cycle or other similar
motor driven vehicle for which the state of Illinois does not issue a title
document, and does not issue license plates or registration documents. (Ord.
04-1168, 10-21-2004)
9-20-2: RESTRICTIONS:
No person shall operate a motor driven scooter upon any public street,
sidewalk, parking lot, bike path, park or on any other public property. (Ord.
04-1168, 10-21-2004)
9-20-3: EXEMPTIONS:
The following shall be exempt from the prohibitions contained in this chapter:
   (A)   Any police vehicle, fire vehicle, municipal vehicle, special district
vehicle, operated by an employee in the course of his or her duties.
   (B)   Motorized wheelchairs. For purposes of this chapter, a "motorized
wheelchair" means any motorized vehicle designed for and used by a person with
disabilities.
   (C)   Electric personal assistive mobility devices, as defined in section 5/
1-117.7 of the Illinois vehicle code 1 . (Ord. 04-1168, 10-21-2004)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-100 et seq.
9-20-4: APPLICABILITY:
This chapter shall apply to the entire area located within the corporate limits
of the village. (Ord. 04-1168, 10-21-2004)
9-20-5: PENALTY:
Any person eighteen (18) years of age or older who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than two
hundred dollars ($200.00) nor more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) for
each offense. An offense committed by a minor under the direct control or with
the consent of a parent or guardian may subject the parent or guardian to the
penalties provided in this section. (Ord. 04-1168, 10-21-2004)
CHAPTER 21
CANNABIS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
SECTION:
9-21-1: Definitions
9-21-2: Personal Use Of Cannabis
9-21-3: Personal Use Of Cannabis; Restrictions On Cultivation; Penalties
9-21-4: Persons Under 21 Years Of Age
9-21-5: Identification And False Identification
9-21-6: Prohibited Conduct
9-21-7: Cannabis Waste
9-21-8: Possession Of Adult Use Cannabis In A Motor Vehicle
9-21-9: Preemption
9-21-10: Schedule Of Fines; Penalties
9-21-11: Drug Paraphernalia
9-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
All defined terms used in this chapter which are not expressly defmed herein
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Drug Paraphernalia Control
Act, Illinois Controlled Substances Act* the Cannabis Control Act, or the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act As used in this subsection, unless the context
otherwise requires:
CANNABIS:      The meaning ascribed to it in section 3 of the Cannabis Control Act, as if that
               definition were incorporated herein.
               Equipment, products, or materials intended to be used for planting, propagating,
CANNABIS       cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, producing, processing,
PARAPHERNALIA: preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing,
               concealing, ingesting, or otherwise introducing cannabis into the human body.
CONTROLLED     The meaning ascribed to it in section 102 of the Illinois Controlled Substances
SUBSTANCES:    Act, as if that definition were incorporated herein.
DELIVER OR     The actual, constructive or attempted transfer of possession, with or without
DELIVERY:      consideration, whether or not there is an agency relationship.
               All equipment, products and materials of any kind, other than methamphetamine
               manufacturing materials as defined in Section 10 of the Methamphetamine Control
               and Community Protection Act and cannabis paraphernalia as defined in Section 1-
               10 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, which are intended to be used
               unlawfully in planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting,
               manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing,
               testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing,
               injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a
               controlled substance in violation of the Illinois Controlled Substances Act, or
               the Melhamphetamine Control and Community Protection Act or a synthetic drug
               product or misbranded drug in violation of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic
               Act It includes, but is not limited to:
               A.   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in manufacturing,
               compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
               substances.
               B.   Isomerization devices used, intended for use or designed for use in
               increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance.
               C.   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in identifying
               or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of controlled substances.
               D.   Diluents and adulterants intended to be used unlawfully for cutting a
               controlled substance by private persons;
               E.   Objects intended to be used unlawfully in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
               introducing cocaine or a synthetic drug product or misbranded drug in violation
               of the Illinois Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act into the human body including, where
               applicable, the following items:
                  1.   Water pipes;
                  2.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
                  3.   Smoking and carburetion masks;
                  4.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
                  5.   Carburetor pipes;
                  6.   Electric pipes;
                  7.   Air-driven pipes; rLchillums;
                  8.   Bongs;
                  9.   Ice pipes or chillers;
               F.   Any item whose purpose, as announced or described by the seller, is for use
               in violation of this Drug Paraphernalia Control Act.
DRUG           “Drug paraphernalia” does not include:
PARAPHERNALIA: A.   Items used in the preparation, compounding, packaging, labeling, or other
               use of cannabis or a controlled substance as an incident to lawful research,
               teaching, or chemical analysis and not for sale.
               B.   Items historically and customarily used in connection with the planting,
               propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding,
               converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
               repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, or inhaling
               of cannabis, tobacco, or any other lawful substance. Items exempt under this
               subsection include, but are not limited to, garden hoes, rakes, sickles, baggies,
               tobacco pipes, and cigarette-rolling papers.
               C.   Items listed in this subsection which are used for decorative purposes, when
               such items have been rendered completely inoperable or incapable of being used
               for any illicit purpose prohibited by the Drug Paraphernalia Control Act and this
               subsection.
               D.   A person who is legally authorized to possess hypodermic syringes or needles
               under the Hypodermic Syringes and Needles Act
               In determining whether or not a particular item is exempt from the definition of
               "drug paraphernalia," the trier of fact should consider, in addition to all other
               logically relevant factors, the following:
               A.   The general, usual, customary, and historical use to which the item involved
               has been put;
               B.   Expert evidence concerning the ordinary or customary use of the item and the
               effect of any peculiarity in the design or engineering of the device upon its
               functioning;
               C.   Any written instructions accompanying the delivery of the item concerning
               the purposes or uses to which the item can or may be put;
               D.   Any oral instructions provided by the seller of the item at the time and
               place of sale or commercial delivery;
               E.   Any national or local advertising concerning the design, purpose or use of
               the item involved, and the entire context in which such advertising occurs;
               F.   The manner, place and circumstances in which the item was displayed for
               sale, as well as any item or displayed for sale or otherwise exhibited upon the
               premises where the sale was made;
               G.   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a legitimate
               supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a licensed
               distributor or dealer of cannabis or tobacco products;
               H.   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the community.
               The production, preparation, propagation, compounding, conversion or processing
               of controlled substances, either directly or indirectly, by extraction from
               substances of natural origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or
MANUFACTURER:  by a combination of extraction and chemical synthesis, and includes any packaging
               or repackaging of controlled substances or labeling of its container; except,
               that "manufacturer" does not include the preparation, compounding, packaging or
               labeling of controlled substances as an incident to lawful research, teaching or
               chemical analysis and not for sale.
PERSON:        Any individual, corporation, government or governmental subdivision or agency,
               business trust, estate, trust, partnership or association, or any other entity.
PRODUCE OR     Planting, cultivating, tending or harvesting.
PRODUCTION:
PRODUCT
CONTAINING A   Any product containing a "synthetic cannabinoid," stimulant or psychedelic/
SYNTHETIC      hallucinogen, as those terms are defined herein, or a drug that is misbranded or
ALTERNATIVE    falsely advertised as a product containing a synthetic alternative drug.
DRUG:
               Includes the state of Illinois and any state, district, commonwealth, territory,
STATE:         insular possession thereof, and any area subject to the legal authority of the
               United States of America.
               Any compound that functions similar to the active ingredient in marijuana,
SYNTHETIC      tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), including, but not limited to, any quantity of a
CANNABINOID:   natural or synthetic material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and
               their analog (including isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers)
               containing a cannabinoid receptor agonist.
               Any compound mat functions similar to the active ingredient of any substance
               listed on schedule 1(d) and schedule m(g) of the Illinois Controlled Substances
SYNTHETIC      Act, including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic
PSYCHEDELIC/   material, compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their "controlled
HAL LUCINOGEN: substance analog" (including salts, isomers, esters, ethers and salts of isomers)
               which have a psychedelic/hallucinogenic effect on the central nervous system and/
               or brain.
               Any compound that functions similar to the active ingredient of any substance
               listed on schedule 1(f), schedule 11(d) and schedule 111(b) of the Illinois
               controlled substances act (such as cathinone, methcathinone, MDMA and MDEA),
SYNTHETIC      including, but not limited to, any quantity of a natural or synthetic material,
STIMULANT:     compound, mixture, preparation, substance and their "controlled substance
               analog1' (including salts, isomers, and salts of isomers) which have a stimulant
               effect on the central nervous system. (Ord. 12-1374, 2-2-2012; amd. Ord. 20-1630,
               4-2-2020)
 
9-21-2: PERSONAL USE OF CANNABIS:
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act
(the "Act"), the following acts are prohibited in the Village:
      1.   Possession, consumption, use, purchase, obtaining, or transporting
an amount of cannabis for personal use that exceeds the possession limit under
Section 10-10 of the Act or otherwise not in accordance with the requirements
of the Act;
      2.   Cultivation of cannabis for personal use not in accordance with the
requirements of the Act; and
      3.   Controlling property if actions that are authorized by the Act occur
on the property not in accordance with the Act
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
it is unlawful for any person knowingly to possess cannabis.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act,
it is unlawful for any person knowingly to manufacture, deliver, or possess
with intent to deliver or manufacture cannabis. (Ord. 20-1630, 4-2-2020)
9-21-3: PERSONAL USE OF CANNABIS; RESTRICTIONS ON CULTIVATION; PENALTIES:
   (A)   Any person other than a registered qualifying patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act who cultivates cannabis
plants is liable for penalties provided by this chapter.
   (B)   Any registered qualifying patient under the Compassionate Use of
Medical Cannabis Program Act who:
      1.   Cultivates cannabis plants in violation of Section 10-5 of the
Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act;
      2.   Cultivates more than the allowable number of cannabis plants; or
      3.   Sells or gives away cannabis plants, cannabis, or cannabis-infused
products produced under Section 10-5 of the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, is
liable for penalties as provided by this chapter. (Ord. 20-1630, 4-2-2020)
9-21-4: PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE:
   (A)   The transfer of cannabis, with or without remuneration, to a person
under twenty-one (21) years of age, or allowing a person under twenty-one (21)
years of age to purchase, possess, use, process, transport, grow, or consume
cannabis except where authorized by the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act or by the Community College Cannabis Vocational Program is
prohibited.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person under twenty-one (21) years of age to
knowingly possess cannabis or cannabis paraphernalia, except under provisions
of law authorizing the possession of medical cannabis.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian to knowingly permit his or
her residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any
vehicle, conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used by an
invitee of the parent's child or the guardian's ward, if the invitee is under
the age of twenty-one (21), in a manner that constitutes a violation of this
Section. A parent or guardian is deemed to have knowingly permitted his or her
residence, any other private property under his or her control, or any vehicle,
conveyance, or watercraft under his or her control to be used in violation of
this Section if he or she knowingly authorizes or permits consumption of
cannabis by underage invitees. In this subsection, where the residence or other
property has an owner and a tenant or lessee, the trier of fact may infer that
the residence or other property is occupied only by the tenant or lessee. (Ord.
20-1630, 4-2-2020)
9-21-5: IDENTIFICATION AND FALSE IDENTIFICATION:
   (A)   A person who is under twenty-one (21) years of age may not present or
offer to a cannabis business establishment or the cannabis business
establishment's principal or employee any written or oral evidence of age that
is false, fraudulent, or not actually the person's own, for the purpose of:
      1.   Purchasing, attempting to purchase, or otherwise obtaining or
attempting to obtain cannabis or any cannabis product; or
      2.   Gaining access to a cannabis business establishment
   (B)   An agent or employee of a cannabis business establishment must demand
and be shown adequate written evidence of age and identity of a person before
furnishing cannabis or cannabis products to the person.
   (C)   An agent or employee of a cannabis business establishment cannot
knowingly accept false or fraudulent written evidence of age and identity of a
person before furnishing cannabis or cannabis products to the person.
   (D)   Adequate written evidence of age and identity of the person is a
document showing a person is twenty-one (21) years of age or older, issued by a
Federal, state, county, or municipal government, or subdivision or agency
thereof including, but not limited to, a motor vehicle operator's license, a
registration certificate issued under the Military Selective Service Act, or an
identification card issued to a member of the Armed Forces.
   (E)   Proof that the cannabis business establishment or its employee or
agent was shown and reasonably relied upon such written evidence in any
transaction forbidden by this section is an affirmative defense in any
prosecution under this section. (Ord. 20-1630, 4-2-2020)
9-21-6: PROHIBITED CONDUCT:
   (A)   No person may engage in the following conduct
      1.   Possessing cannabis:
         (a)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
         (b)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
         (c)   In any correctional facility;
         (d)   In a vehicle not open to the public unless the cannabis is in a
reasonably secured, sealed container and reasonably inaccessible while the
vehicle is moving; or
         (e)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
      2.   Using cannabis:
         (a)   In a school bus, unless permitted for a qualifying patient or
caregiver pursuant to the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
         (b)   On the grounds of any preschool or primary or secondary school,
unless permitted for a qualifying patient or caregiver pursuant to the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
         (c)   In any correctional fecility;
         (d)   In any motor vehicle;
         (e)   In a private residence that is used at any time to provide
licensed child care or other similar social service care on the premises;
         (f)   In any public place; or
         (g)   Knowingly in close physical proximity to anyone under twenty-one
(21) years of age who is not a registered medical cannabis patient under the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      3.   Smoking cannabis in any place where smoking is prohibited under the
Smoke Free Illinois Act;
      4.   Operating, navigating, or being in actual physical control of any
motor vehicle, aircraft, watercraft, or snowmobile while using or under the
influence of cannabis in violation of Section 11-501 or 11-502.1 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, Section 5-16 of the Boat Registration and Safety Act, or
Section 5-7 of the Snowmobile Registration and Safety Act;
      5.   Facilitating the use of cannabis by any person who is not allowed to
use cannabis under this Act or the Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis
Program Act;
      6.   Transferring cannabis to any person contrary to the Act or the
Compassionate Use of Medical Cannabis Program Act;
      7.   The use of cannabis by a law enforcement officer, corrections
officer, probation officer, or firefighter while on duty; or
      8.   The use of cannabis by a person who has a school bus permit or a
Commercial Driver's License while on duty.
As used in this Section, "public place" means any place where a person could
reasonably be expected to be observed by others. "Public place" includes all
parts of buildings owned in whole or in part, or leased, by the State or a unit
of local government. "Public place" includes all areas in a park, recreation
area, wildlife area, or playground owned in whole or in part, leased, or
managed by the State or a unit of local government "Public place" does not
include a private residence unless the private residence is used to provide
licensed child care, foster care, or other similar social service care on the
premises. (Ord. 20-1630, 4-2-2020)
9-21-7: CANNABIS WASTE:
   (A)   Any recyclable waste generated by a cultivator for personal use,
cannabis cultivation facility, craft grower facility, or infuser must be
recycled per applicable state and local laws, ordinances, and rules.
   (B)   Any cultivator for personal use, cannabis cultivation facility, craft
grower facility, or infuser must store, secure, and manage all recyclables and
waste, including organic waste composed of or containing finished cannabis and
cannabis products, in accordance with applicable State and local laws,
ordinances, and rules.
   (C)   Cannabis and cannabis-infused product waste must be destroyed by
rendering it unusable following the methods set forth in this Section or state
law. The allowable method to render cannabis waste unusable is by grinding and
incorporating the cannabis waste with other ground materials so the resulting
mixture is at least 50% non-cannabis waste by volume. Material used to grind
with the cannabis falls into two categories, compostable waste and non-
compostable waste.
      1.   Compostable Mixed Waste: Cannabis waste to be disposed as compost
feedstock or in another organic waste method (for example, anaerobic digester)
may be mixed with the following types of waste materials:
         (a)   Food waste;
         (b)   Yard waste; or
         (c)   Other approved wastes (e.g., agricultural material,
biodegradable products and paper, clean wood, fruits and vegetables, plant
matter).
      2.   Non-compostable Mixed Waste: Cannabis waste to be disposed in a
landfill or by another disposal method may be mixed with the following types of
waste materials:
         (a)   Paper waste;
         (b)   Cardboard waste;
         (c)   Plastic waste;
         (d)   Soil; or
         (e)   Other approved wastes (e.g., non-recyclable plastic, broken
glass, leather).
   (D)   Cannabis waste rendered unusable following the methods described in
this Section can be disposed. Disposal of the cannabis waste rendered unusable
may be delivered to a permitted solid waste facility for final disposition.
Examples of acceptable permitted solid waste facilities include:
      1.   Compostable Mixed Waste: Compost, anaerobic digester or other
facility with approval of the jurisdictional health department.
      2.   Non-compostable Mixed Waste: Landfill, incinerator or other facility
with approval of the jurisdictional health department. (Ord. 20-1630, 4-2-2020)
9-21-8: POSSESSION OF ADULT USE CANNABIS IN A MOTOR VEHICLE:
   (A)   No driver may use cannabis within the passenger area of any motor
vehicle upon a highway in the Village.
   (B)   No driver may possess cannabis within any area of any motor vehicle
upon a highway in this State except in a sealed, odor-proof, child-resistant
cannabis container.
   (C)   No passenger may possess cannabis within any passenger area of any
motor vehicle upon a highway in mis State except in a sealed, odor-proof,
child-resistant cannabis container. (Ord. 20-1630, 4-2-2020)
9-21-9: PREEMPTION:
   (A)   This Chapter should not be construed to regulate or license the
activities described in the Cannabis Regulation and Tax Act, except as
otherwise provided in the Act.
   (B)   This chapter should not be construed to regulate the activities
described in paragraphs (1), (2), or (3) of section 55-25 of the Cannabis
Regulation and Tax Act in a manner more restrictive than the regulation of
those activities by the State under the Act.
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between this Chapter and the Act and its
administrative rules, the Act and its rules will prevail. (Ord. 20-1630, 4-2-
2020)
9-21-10: SCHEDULE OF FINES; PENALTIES:
Proceedings shall be instituted against the violator on the Village's
administrative adjudications pursuant to the terms set forth in Title 1,
Chapter 21 of this code.
The fines and penalties for any person who violates any of the terms of this
Chapter shall be imposed as follows:
 
FINE PAYMENT SCHEDULE
       Fine Schedule             Fine Amount 1st Offense Fine Amount 2nd or
                                                         Subsequent Offense
       Upon service of a
       "violation notice" issued
       with a hearing court date
Step 1 and the violator has      Not less than $150 and  Not less than $300 and
       attended such court date  not more than $1,000.   not more than $1,500.
       and a finding of guilty
       is imposed, the fine
       amount owed shall be:
       Having failed to attend
Step 2 the issued hearing court  Not less than $300 and  Not less than $600 and
       date, the fine amount     not more than $1,000.   not more man $1,500.
       owed shall be:
       Having failed to make
       payment by any deadline
       date or failure to appear
       at any issued hearing
Step 3 court date, judgments     Judgment to stand.      Judgment to stand.
       entered against a
       violator shall be sent to
       a collection agency of
       the Village's choice for
       enforcement proceedings:
 
(Ord. 20-1630, 4-2-2020)
9-21-11: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA:
   (A)   Unlawful Use or Possession of Drug Paraphernalia. A person who
knowingly possesses an item of drug paraphernalia with the intent to use it in
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing a controlled substance into the
human body, or in preparing a controlled substance for that use, is liable for
the penalties provided by this Section.
   (B)   Advertising Drug Paraphernalia. It is unlawful for any person to place
in any newspaper, magazine, handbill or other publication any advertisement
knowing, or under circumstances where one reasonably should know, that the
purpose of the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of
objects designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
   (C)   Sale of Delivery of a Synthetic Alternative Drug. It is unlawful for
any person to sell, offer tor sale, publicly display for sale or attempt to
sell, give, deliver, or barter any product containing a synthetic alternative
drug.
   (D)   Possession of a Synthetic Alternative Drug. It is unlawful for any
person to knowingly possess or deliver a product containing a synthetic
alternative drug with the intent of using the product for ingestion,
consumption, inhaling, or intravenous use. In determining intent under this
section, a trier of fact may take into consideration, among other things: the
proximity of the product to drug paraphernalia; the presence of the product on
or within drug paraphernalia; the proximity of the product to a different
controlled substance; and whether or not the individual in possession of the
product is exhibiting physical effects commonly associated with being under the
influence of a controlled substance.
   (E)   Use of a Synthetic Alternative Drug. It is unlawful for any person to
be under the influence of a product containing a synthetic alternative drug.
   (F)   Manufacture of Synthetic Alternative Drug. It shall be unlawful for
any person to manufacture or assemble the ingredients with the intent to
manufacture, a product containing a synthetic alternative drug. In determining
intent under this section, a trier of fact may take into consideration, among
other tilings: the proximity of the product or ingredients to drug
paraphernalia; the presence of the product or ingredients on or within drug
paraphernalia; the proximity of the product or ingredients to a different
controlled substance.
   (G)   Penalties. Except as authorized by law, it shall be a violation of
this chapter for any person knowingly to possess any drug paraphernalia with
the intent to use it to ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce cannabis and/or a
controlled substance as defined by Illinois Iowa into the human body. Any
person found to be guilty of violating this section shall be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than seven hundred fifty dollars
($750.00) for each offense. Each day any violation of any provision of this
section shall occur or continues to occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 20-1630, 4-2-2020)
CHAPTER 22
TRUANCY
SECTION:
9-22-1: Definitions
9-22-2: Prohibition Of Chronic Truancy
9-22-3: Supportive Services
9-22-4: Parental Responsibility
9-22-5: Excused Absences
9-22-6: Administrative Adjudication
9-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
That the following words shall have the following meanings and/or definition:
CHRONIC TRUANCY: Any chronic truant minor who has been absent on more than one
occasion during a school year without cause or acceptable excuse.
CHRONIC TRUANT MINOR: A truant minor to whom supportive services, including
prevention, diagnostic, intervention and remedial services, alternative
programs and other school and community resources, have been provided and have
failed to result in the cessation of habitual or ongoing truant behavior, or
have been offered and refused.
MINOR: A child who is seventeen (17) years of age or younger.
SCHOOL: Either a public or private educational institution fully accredited or
certified by the Illinois Department of Education.
TRUANT MINOR: A minor in any school accredited or certified by the Illinois
Department of Education, located within the Village, who is absent without
cause or an acceptable excuse from such attendance for a school day or portion
thereof. (Ord. 16-1510, 7-7-2016)
9-22-2: PROHIBITION OF CHRONIC TRUANCY:
It shall be unlawful for a minor enrolled in any school in Bedford Park and
subject to compulsory attendance requirements of the Illinois School Code to
engage in chronic truancy. A chronic truant minor child shall be identified to
the Bedford Park Police Department by the minor's school, along with any and
all information, as permitted by law, detailing absences from school. (Ord. 16-
1510, 7-7-2016)
9-22-3: SUPPORTIVE SERVICES:
Prior to a minor being cited under this chapter for chronic truancy, the school
must have provided supportive services, including prevention diagnostic,
intervention and remedial services, alternative programs and other school and
community resources that have failed to result in the cessation of habitual or
ongoing truant behavior, or have been offered to the student and refused. (Ord.
16-1510, 7-7-2016)
9-22-4: PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY:
It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian, or person having custody or
control of a minor enrolled in any school located in the Village to cause,
permit or encourage a minor to become a chronic truant minor or engage in
chronic truancy. (Ord. 16-1510, 7-7-2016)
9-22-5: EXCUSED ABSENCES:
If a parent, guardian or person having legal custody and control over a minor
presents in writing to school officials within twenty four (24) hours after an
occurrence or such other deadline as established by the school, any of the
following reasons for an absence, there is a rebuttable presumption that it is
a legitimate and acceptable excuse:
   (A)   Illness (if illness persists more than 5 days, a doctor's report will
be required detailing the nature of the illness and the projected return date
of the student);
   (B)   Observance of a religious holiday;
   (C)   Death in the family;
   (D)   Family emergency;
   (E)   Any situation beyond the control of the minor as determined by the
student's school officials; or
   (F)   Such other circumstances which cause reasonable concern to the parent
for the safety or health of the minor. (Ord. 16-1510, 7-7-2016)
9-22-6: ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION:
A citation issued for any violation herein may be processed through the
administrative process as provided in this Code. (Ord. 16-1510, 7-7-2016)
TITLE X
TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 2
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 3
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 4
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 5
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 6
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 7
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 8
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 9
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 10
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 11
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 12
STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING
SECTION:
10-12-1: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
10-12-2: Officers Authorized To Remove Illegally Stopped Vehicles
10-12-3: Impoundment Of Vehicles
10-12-4: Street Cleaning; Parking Prohibition
10-12-5: One Hour Time Limit
10-12-6: Vehicles For Sale; Vehicle Merchandising
10-12-7: Alleys
10-12-8: Cab And Bus Stand Use Exclusive
10-12-9: Parking Motor Vehicles On Private Property
10-12-10: Superintendent Of Public Works To Designate Curb Loading Zones
10-12-11: Permits For Curb Loading Zones
10-12-12: Standing In Passenger Curb Loading Zone
10-12-13: Standing In Freight Curb Loading Zone
10-12-14: Superintendent Of Public Works To Designate Public Carrier Stops And
Stands
10-12-15: Stopping, Standing, Parking Of Buses, Taxicabs Regulated
10-12-16: Restricted Use Of Bus And Taxicab Stands
10-12-17: Parking Prohibited At All Times On Certain Streets; Exceptions
10-12-18: Starting Parked Vehicle
10-12-19: When Copy Of Citation Shall Be Deemed A Lawful Complaint
10-12-20: Citation On Illegally Parked Vehicle
10-12-21: Presumption In Reference To Illegal Parking
10-12-22: When Warrant To Be Issued
10-12-23: Parking During And After Snowfall
10-12-24: Parking Fees (Rep. by Ord. 95-966, 10-20-1995)
10-12-25: Manner Of Parking; Parking In Areas Reserved For Handicapped Persons
10-12-26: Boats And Related Vehicles
10-12-1: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
   (A)   Parking Prohibited: No person shall park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the
following places:
      1.   On a sidewalk;
      2.   In front of a public or private driveway;
      3.   Within an intersection;
      4.   Within fifteen feet (15') of a fire hydrant;
      5.   On a crosswalk;
      6.   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection;
      7.   Within thirty feet (30') upon the approach to any flashing beacon,
stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway in the
industrial, retail and/or commercial sections of the village; and
Within six feet (6') upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway in the residential
section of the village;
      8.   On the medial strip of a highway;
      9.   Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad grade
crossing;
      10.   Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire
station and on the side of street opposite the entrance to any fire station
within seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly posted;
      11.   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
such parking would obstruct traffic;
      12.   On the roadway side of any vehicle parked at the edge or curb of a
street;
      13.   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
      14.   At any place where official signs prohibit parking.
   (B)   Moving Parked Vehicles: No person other than a police officer, as
provided in section
10-12-2 of this chapter, shall move a vehicle into any such prohibited area or
away from a curb such distance as is unlawful or start or cause to be started
the motor of any other vehicle, or shift, change, or move the levers, brake,
starting device, gears, or other mechanism of a parked motor vehicle to a
position other than that in which it was left by the owner or driver thereof,
or attempt to do so.
   (C)   Parking Restrictions On Residential Streets: The following parking
restrictions shall apply to residential streets:
      1.   Statute Reference: All words and phrases used in this section shall,
for the purpose of this section, have the meanings respectively ascribed to
them in the Illinois vehicle code 1 ;
      2.   Restrictions: No automobile, bus (commuter van), motor home, mini-
motor home or van, camper, recreational vehicle, school bus, truck, truck
camper, or other motor vehicle of the second division as defined in the
Illinois vehicle code 2  shall be parked on any residential street between the
hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M., unless the
following conditions are complied with:
         (a)   The vehicle is registered to a resident within the village, or
the vehicle meets all of the Village vehicle license requirements set forth in
section 5-8-2 of the Village code.
         (b)   The vehicle is less than eight thousand (8,000) pounds in total
weight and as defined by 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-815(a), this will
include any B license plate vehicles weighing eight thousand (8,000) pounds or
less under the foregoing provisions of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-815
(a); said weight must be certified by the Bedford Park police department after
being weighed on a certified scale.
         (c)   The vehicle is less than eight thousand (8,000) pounds, licensed
pursuant to the lowest class of recreational type vehicles pursuant to 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-815(b), and certified as having a total weight
of less than eight thousand (8,000) pounds as certified by the Bedford Park
police department after being weighed on a certified scale;
         (d)   The appropriate vehicle registration tag is purchased from the
village and is displayed on the lower right hand side of the front windshield
of the vehicle.
         (e)   The public works department, when authorized by the president
and board of trustees, shall cause signs to be posted in all areas where
parking is limited or prohibited, indicating such limitation or prohibition;
      3.   Penalty: Any person who is found to be in violation of this
subsection (C) shall be fined not less than thirty dollars ($30.00) nor more
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per offense.
   (D)   Parking Restrictions For Commercial Vehicles: The following parking
restrictions shall apply to residential streets:
      1.   Commercial Motor Vehicles: "Commercial motor vehicles" are vehicles
which are used primarily for business and industrial purposes which shall
include, but are not limited to, vehicles displaying commercial printing, logos
or lettering.
      2.   Prohibited Parking: It shall be unlawful for any person to park any
commercial vehicle of any kind, or bus, between the hours of six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on public streets or roads within the
residential district of the municipality, provided that it shall not be a
violation of this subsection (D) to park any such vehicle for the purpose of
performing emergency repair or maintenance work on any public utility facility,
sewer mains and the appurtenances thereto, water mains and the appurtenances
thereto, or on any private property requiring such emergency repair or
maintenance work, or for the purpose of saving life, limb or property,
including responding to a service call, or for fighting fire.
      3.   Penalty: Any person who is found to be in violation of this
subsection (D) shall be fined not less than thirty dollars ($30.00), nor more
than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) per offense.
      4.   Exemption: Residents of the village who drive a commercial vehicle
to and from work on a regular basis can be issued a village vehicle license and
be allowed to park on village streets overnight if they meet all other village
vehicle license requirements (License Application
5-8-2). This exception only applies to passenger cars, sport utility vehicles
(SUV), vans, or pick-up trucks. Trucks requiring a registration plate greater
than a Class B Illinois registration (greater than 8,000 pounds), are not
eligible for this exemption. All signs, decals, lettering, logos, and placards
displaying the company's name shall be removed from the vehicle when parking
the vehicle overnight on village streets or the vehicle will be in violation of
this section.
   (E)   Fees And Penalties: The following fees and penalties shall apply for
registration or violation of this section:
      1.   The fee for the vehicle registration tag referred to in subsection
(C)2(d) of this section is five dollars ($5.00) per annum.
      2.   There shall be no fee for issuance of a special parking permit.
      3.   For each violation the registered owner shall be fined not less than
thirty dollars ($30.00) nor more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) for each
day of violation.
   (F)   Fire Lanes:
      1.   Parking Of Motor Vehicles In Fire Lanes: The operator of a vehicle
shall not at any time park such vehicle or otherwise obstruct any designated
fire lane located within the village.
      2.   Enforcement: The police department shall enforce this section
through the issuance of citations and/or towing of vehicles that are in
violation of this section.
      3.   Penalties: Any person violating this section may be fined not less
than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) and
shall be subject to said vehicle being towed from the fire lane. (Ord. 559, 9-
5-1968; amd. Ord. 728, 5-5-1983; Ord. 91-857, 10-17-1991; Ord. 92-880, 11-5-
1992; Ord. 95-963, 10-20-1995; Ord. 95-964, 10-20-1995; Ord. 00-1070, 11-17-
2000; Ord. 00-1076, 12-13-2000; Ord. 09-1315, 12-17-2009; Ord. 11-1348, 1-20-
2011; Ord. 20-1624, 3-2-2020; Ord. 20-1626, 3-2-2020)
 
Notes
1 1. 625 ILCS 5/1-101 et seq.
2 2. 625 ILCS 5/1-146, 5/1-217.
10-12-2: OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO REMOVE ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES:
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of any of the foregoing provisions of this chapter, such officer is
hereby authorized to move such vehicle, or require the driver or other person
in charge of the vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or
improved or main traveled part of such highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any bridge
or causeway where such vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, such
officer is hereby authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the
nearest garage or other place of safety.
   (C)   Whenever any police officer finds an abandoned or disabled vehicle
standing upon the paved or main traveled part of a highway, which vehicle is or
may be expected to interrupt the free flow of traffic on said highway or
interference with the maintenance of said highway, the police officer shall
have authority to move the vehicle to a position off the paved or improved or
main traveled part of such highway. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
10-12-3: IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLES:
The police department and all members thereof are hereby authorized to remove
and tow away or have removed and towed away by commercial towing service, any
car or other vehicle illegally parked in any place where such parked vehicle
creates or constitutes a traffic hazard, blocks the use of a fire hydrant, or
obstructs or may obstruct the movement of any emergency vehicle. (Ord. 599, 9-
5-1968)
10-12-4: STREET CLEANING; PARKING PROHIBITION:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any public street or portion
thereof in the village at any time when such street is being cleaned. Signs
indicating that a street or portion thereof is being cleaned shall be posted
before the cleaning of the street, and shall be removed after the cleaning of
the street is finished. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
The minimum penalty for a violation of this section shall be thirty dollars
($30.00). (Ord. 09-1315, 12-17-2009)
10-12-5: ONE HOUR TIME LIMIT:
Except on Sundays or holidays, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle for
more than one hour in any consecutive period of time between the hours of eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M., in any area designated by
provisions of this code as restricted parking area. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
The minimum penalty for a violation of this section shall be thirty dollars
($30.00). (Ord. 09-1315, 12-17-2009)
10-12-6: VEHICLES FOR SALE; VEHICLE MERCHANDISING:
It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle upon any street for the purpose of
displaying it for sale on a commercial basis, or to park any vehicle upon any
street, from which merchandise is peddled or sold. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
The minimum penalty for a violation of this section shall be thirty dollars
($30.00). (Ord. 09-1315, 12-17-2009)
10-12-7: ALLEYS:
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in such a manner or
under such conditions as to leave available less than ten feet (10') of the
width of the roadway for the free movement of vehicular traffic, and no person
shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle within an alley in such a position as to
block the driveway entrance to any abutting property.
   (B)   No unattended vehicle which obstructs traffic shall be parked in the
alleys in the residential areas of the village. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
   (C)   The minimum penalty for a violation of this section shall be thirty
dollars ($30.00). (Ord. 09-1315, 12-17-2009)
10-12-8: CAB AND BUS STAND USE EXCLUSIVE:
No vehicle other than a licensed taxicab shall be parked in any area designated
by provisions of this code as a cab stand; and no vehicle other than a bus
shall be parked in a place so designated as a bus loading zone. (Ord. 599, 9-5-
1968)
10-12-9: PARKING MOTOR VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful to park any motor vehicle on any private property without
the consent of the owner of the property. Cars so parked shall be ordered towed
away on order of any police officer and shall be stored on any village property
or in a public garage or parking lot and shall be restored to the owner or
operator thereof after payment of the expense incurred by the village in
removing and storing such vehicles. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
10-12-10: SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS TO DESIGNATE CURB LOADING ZONES:
The superintendent of public works is hereby authorized to determine the
location of passenger and freight curb loading zones and shall place and
maintain appropriate signs indicating the same and stating the hours during
which the provisions of this chapter are applicable. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
10-12-11: PERMITS FOR CURB LOADING ZONES:
The superintendent of public works shall not hereafter designate or sign any
curb loading zone upon special request of any person unless such person makes
application for a permit for such zone and for two (2) signs to indicate the
ends of each such zones. The superintendent of public works upon granting a
permit and issuing such signs shall collect from the applicant and deposit in
the village treasury a service fee covering all costs incurred by reason
thereof and may by general regulations impose conditions upon the use of such
signs and for reimbursement of the village for the value thereof in the event
of their loss or damage and their return in the event of misuse or upon
expiration of permit. Every such permit shall expire at the end of one year.
(Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
10-12-12: STANDING IN PASSENGER CURB LOADING ZONE:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or period of
time other than for the expeditious loading or unloading of passengers in any
place marked as a passenger curb loading zone during hours when the regulations
applicable to such curb loading zone are effective, and then only for a period
not to exceed three (3) minutes. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
10-12-13: STANDING IN FREIGHT CURB LOADING ZONE:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or length of
time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up and
loading of materials in any place marked as a freight curb loading zone during
the hours when the provisions applicable to such zones are in effect. In no
case shall the stop for loading and unloading of materials exceed thirty (30)
minutes. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
10-12-14: SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS TO DESIGNATE PUBLIC CARRIER STOPS AND
STANDS:
The superintendent of public works is hereby authorized and required to
establish taxicab stands and stands for the other passenger carrying motor
vehicles on such public streets in such places and in such number as he shall
determine to be of the greatest benefit and convenience to the public, and
every such taxicab stand or other stand shall be designated by appropriate
signs. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
10-12-15: STOPPING, STANDING, PARKING OF BUSES, TAXICABS REGULATED:
   (A)   The operator of a bus shall not stand or park such vehicle upon any
street at any place other than an authorized bus stop.
   (B)   The operator of a bus shall not stop such vehicle upon any street at
any place for the purpose of loading or unloading passengers or their baggage
other than at an authorized bus stop, except in case of an emergency.
   (C)   The operator of a bus shall enter a bus stop in such a manner that the
bus when stopped to load or unload passengers or baggage shall be in a position
with the right front wheel of such vehicle not further than eighteen inches
(18") from the curb and the bus approximately parallel to the curb so as not to
unduly impede the movement of other vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The operator of a taxicab shall not stand or park such vehicle upon
any street at any place other than in a taxicab stand so designated as provided
herein. This provision shall not prevent the operator of a taxicab from
temporarily stopping in accordance with other stopping or parking regulations
at any place for the purpose of and while actually engaged in the expeditious
loading or unloading of passengers. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
   (E)   The minimum penalty for a violation of this section shall be thirty
dollars ($30.00). (Ord. 09-1315, 12-17-2009)
10-12-16: RESTRICTED USE OF BUS AND TAXICAB STANDS:
No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle other than a bus in a bus stop,
or other than a taxicab in a taxicab stand when any such stop or stand has been
officially designated and appropriately signed, except that the driver of a
passenger vehicle may temporarily stop therein for the purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading passengers when such stopping does not
interfere with any bus, or taxicab waiting to enter or about to enter such
zone. (Ord. 599, 9-5-1968)
10-12-17: PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS; EXCEPTIONS:
   (A)   There shall be no parking on any street in the area bounded by Cicero
Avenue on the east, Harlem Avenue on the west, 65th Street on the north and
77th Street on the south, except that thirty (30) minute parking shall be
permitted for vehicles of the second division on the following streets:
Austin Avenue from 65th Street to 66th Place on the east side of the street
only.
Laramie Avenue from 65th Street to 66th Place on the east side of the street
only.
Melvina Avenue from 65th Street to 66th Place on the east side of the street
only.
Menard Avenue from 65th Street to 66th Street on the east side of the street
only.
Natchez Avenue in the 6500 block on the west side of the street only.
Oak Park Avenue from 65th Street to 66th Place on the east side of the street
only.
Old Harlem Avenue from 65th Street to 66th Place on the west side of the street
only.
Parking shall be permitted for vehicles of the second division on the west side
of New England Avenue, between 65th Street and 66th Street, between the hours
of eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and three thirty o'clock (3:30) P.M. (Ord.
579, 1970)
   (B)   In the area bounded by 65th Street on the north, 67th Place on the
south, 76th Avenue on the east, and Archer Avenue on west, parking shall be
prohibited on those streets described in schedule II, section
10-16-2 of this title.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any semitrailer, or other freight carrying
device, or garbage or trash containers to be parked or dropped on any street in
the village.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be so parked on any street where parking is permitted
as to block or obstruct any loading dock area of any person or other business
establishment. (Ord. 559, 9-5-1968)
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or cause to be parked a
motor vehicle on Cicero Avenue from 65th Street to 67th Street. (Ord. 722, 9-
16-1982)
Any person, company, partnership, or other entity violating subsection (A),
(B), (D) or (E) of this section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars
($50.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per offense.
Any person, company, partnership, or other entity violating subsection (C) of
this section shall be fined not less than two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00)
nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) per offense.
A separate offense shall be deemed committed for each and every day during
which a violation continues or exists. (Ord. 03-1138, 4-17-2003)
   (F)   Nonresidential parking along 65th Place and 66th Place:
      1.   Unlawful Parking On 65th Place: It shall be unlawful for any
nonresident of the village to park his or her vehicle, either attended or
unattended, along 65th Place from the Archer Avenue alley up to and including
78th Avenue, unless said nonresident has been issued a guest parking permit.
      2.   Guest Parking Permit For 65th Place: Each residential household
located along 65th Place from the Archer Avenue alley up to and including 78th
Avenue shall receive four (4) guest parking permits to be issued only to the
guests of the residents. The resident shall be the holder of and responsible
for the use and misuse of the guest parking permit.
      3.   Unlawful Parking On 66th Place: It shall be unlawful for any
nonresident of the village to park his or her vehicle, either attended or
unattended, along 66th Place, unless said nonresident has been issued a guest
parking permit.
      4.   Guest Parking Permit For 66th Place: Each residential household
located on 66th Place shall receive four (4) guest parking permits to be issued
only to guests of the residents. The resident shall be the holder of and
responsible for the use and misuse of the guest parking permit.
      5.   Limitations On Authority Of Permit: A guest parking permit shall not
authorize the standing or parking of any vehicle in such places and during such
times as the stopping, standing or parking of vehicles is prohibited and shall
not excuse the observance of any traffic regulations other than the parking
limit enforced along the aforesaid streets.
      6.   Penalties: Any person convicted of violation of this subsection
shall be guilty of an offense against the village and shall be fined not less
than thirty dollars ($30.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00).
      7.   Posting Of Signs: The public works department or any other person
authorized by the president and board of trustees shall cause signs to be
posted along 65th Place and 66th Place indicating that parking for nonresidents
is prohibited subject to the terms of this subsection. (Ord. 90-822, 7-19-1990)
10-12-18: STARTING PARKED VEHICLE:
No person shall start a vehicle which is stopped, standing or parked unless and
until such movement can be made with reasonable safety. (Ord. 559, 9-5-1968)
10-12-19: WHEN COPY OF CITATION SHALL BE DEEMED A LAWFUL COMPLAINT:
In the event the form of citation includes information and is sworn to as
required under the general laws of this state in respect to a complaint
charging commission of the offense alleged in said citation to have been
committed, then such citation when filed with a court having jurisdiction shall
be deemed to be a lawful complaint for the purpose of prosecution under this
chapter. (Ord. 559, 9-5-1968)
10-12-20: CITATION ON ILLEGALLY PARKED VEHICLE:
Whenever any motor vehicle without driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of any of the restrictions imposed by provisions of this code or by
state law, the officer finding such vehicle shall take its registration number
and may take any other information displayed on the vehicle which may identify
its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a citation, on a form
provided by the village, for the driver to answer to the charge against him
within ten (10) days during the hours and at a place specified in the citation.
(Ord. 559, 9-5-1968)
10-12-21: PRESUMPTION IN REFERENCE TO ILLEGAL PARKING:
   (A)   In any prosecution charging a violation of any law or regulation
governing the standing or parking of a vehicle, proof that the particular
vehicle described in the complaint was parked in violation of any such law or
regulation, together with proof that the defendant named in the complaint was
at the time of such parking the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that the registered owner of
the vehicle was the person who parked or placed such vehicle at the point, and
for the time during which, such violation occurred.
   (B)   The foregoing stated presumption shall apply only when the procedure
as prescribed in section
10-12-19 of this chapter has been followed. (Ord. 559, 9-5-1968)
10-12-22: WHEN WARRANT TO BE ISSUED:
In the event any person fails to comply with a citation given to such person or
attached to a vehicle or fails to make appearance pursuant to a summons
directing an appearance in court, or if any person fails or refuses to deposit
bail as required and within the time permitted by provisions of this code, the
police officer who observed the offense shall secure and issue a warrant for
his arrest. (Ord. 559, 9-5-1968)
10-12-23: PARKING DURING AND AFTER SNOWFALL:
   (A)   Parking Restricted: It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on a
public street within the residential section of the village between the hours
of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00) noon after a snowfall of
two (2) or more inches, unless the snow has been plowed or otherwise removed
from the street. Further, it shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on any
public street in any other section of the village at any time after a snowfall
of two (2) or more inches, unless the snow has been plowed or otherwise
removed. Signs reflecting these restrictions shall be installed in areas so
designated by the village of Bedford Park public works supervisor. (Ord. 09-
1289, 1-20-2009)
   (B)   Removal Of Illegally Parked Vehicle: In order to help assure that all
streets can be adequately plowed during and after snowfalls of two inches (2")
or more, the chief of police is hereby authorized to have removed from any
village street any vehicle which obstructs the operation of snow removal
equipment and the owner or operator shall pay the reasonable cost of removal of
said vehicle.
   (C)   Clearing Snow From Private Land: It shall be unlawful to clear snow
from any private land, lot or roadway and deposit the snow on any public
street, alley or sidewalk in the village.
   (D)   Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall be fined not less than fifteen dollars ($15.00) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each offense. (Ord. 690, 10-18-1979)
10-12-24: PARKING FEES:
(Rep. by Ord. 95-966, 10-20-1995)
10-12-25: MANNER OF PARKING; PARKING IN AREAS RESERVED FOR HANDICAPPED PERSONS:
   (A)   Manner Of Parking: No person shall park a motor vehicle in any
designated parking space in such a manner that such motor vehicle protrudes
over and into any other parking space immediately contiguous to it so as to
prevent the use of the latter space by another motor vehicle.
   (B)   Handicapped Parking: No person shall park a motor vehicle in a parking
space which is designated and marked for the use of handicapped persons only,
unless such vehicle is operated by a handicapped person.
   (C)   Restricted Areas: No person shall park a motor vehicle in any area
within the foregoing parking lot in which parking is prohibited. A restricted
area shall be plainly marked with no parking signs in such a manner as to be
clearly seen by the public.
   (D)   Enforcement By The Police Department: The police department shall
enforce this section through the issuance of citations and the towing of
vehicles that are in violation of any of the provisions of this section. (Ord.
87-788, 11-5-1987, eff. 1-1-1988)
   (E)   Penalties: The minimum penalty for a violation of this section shall
be thirty dollars ($30.00). (Ord. 09-1315, 12-17-2009)
10-12-26: BOATS AND RELATED VEHICLES:
   (A)   Definitions:
MOTORBOAT: Any vessel propelled by machinery which is the principal source of
propulsion.
OWNER: A person, other than a lienholder, having title to a vessel, motorboat
or sailboat.
SAILBOAT: Any watercraft propelled by sail or canvas.
VESSEL: Every description of a watercraft used or capable of being used as a
means of transportation on water and/or which may be mounted upon wheels and
capable of being transported from place to place.
   (B)   Parking Of Vessels, Motorboats And Watercraft On Village Streets: It
shall be expressly prohibited to park, maintain, store or repair any vessel,
motorboat and/or watercraft on any street or alley within the village.
   (C)   Parking Of Vessels, Motorboats And Watercraft On Residential Property:
It shall be unlawful to park, maintain, store or repair any vessel, motorboat
and/or watercraft on a residential lot unless it is securely parked on a
surface to be located in the rear section of the lot with the entire surface
thereof being graded and covered with either blacktopping or concrete.
Furthermore, the owner of said vessel, motorboat and/or watercraft must be a
resident of the village.
   (D)   Penalties: Any person who is found to be in violation of any provision
of this section shall be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) nor more
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) for each offense. (Ord. 91-856, 10-17-1991,
eff. 5-1-1992)
CHAPTER 13
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 14
(Rep. by Ord. 742, 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 15
FINES AND FORFEITURES
SECTION:
10-15-1: Police Officers To Enforce Title
10-15-2: Penalties For Misdemeanor
10-15-3: Disposition Of Fines And Forfeitures
10-15-1: POLICE OFFICERS TO ENFORCE TITLE:
The village police shall patrol the highways and make arrests for violation of
the provisions of this title. (Ord. 559, 9-5-1968)
10-15-2: PENALTIES FOR MISDEMEANOR:
   (A)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to violate any of the provisions of
this title.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a misdemeanor for a violation of any of the
provisions of this title for which another penalty is not provided shall for
the first conviction thereof be punished by a fine of not less than five
dollars ($5.00) nor more than one hundred dollars ($100.00); for a second such
conviction within one year thereafter such person shall be punished by a fine
of not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than two hundred dollars
($200.00); upon a third or subsequent conviction within one year after the
first conviction, such person shall be punished by a fine of not less than one
hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord.
559, 9-5-1968)
10-15-3: DISPOSITION OF FINES AND FORFEITURES:
   (A)   All fines or forfeitures collected upon conviction or upon the
forfeiture of bail of an person charged with a violation of any of the
provisions of this title shall be paid to the village treasurer and deposited
in the general fund.
   (B)   Failure, refusal or neglect on the part of any judicial or other
officer or employee receiving or having custody of any such fine or forfeiture
either before or after a deposit with the proper official shall constitute
misconduct in office and shall be grounds for removal therefrom. (Ord. 559, 9-
5-1968)
CHAPTER 16
SCHEDULES
SECTION:
10-16-1: Schedule I; One-Way Streets
10-16-2: Schedule II; Parking Prohibited At All Times On Certain Streets
10-16-3: Schedule III; Load Restriction Upon Vehicles Using Certain Streets
10-16-1: SCHEDULE I; ONE-WAY STREETS:
In accordance with section 10-10-19 of this title and when properly signposted,
traffic shall move only in the direction indicated upon the following streets:
 
Name Of Street Direction Of Traffic Movement From          To
65th Place     Eastbound                     Archer Avenue 76th Avenue
66th Street    Westbound                     76th Avenue   Archer Avenue
 
(Ord. 559, 9-5-1968)
10-16-2: SCHEDULE II; PARKING PROHIBITED AT ALL TIMES ON CERTAIN STREETS:
In accordance with section
10-12-17 of this title, and when signs are erected giving notice thereof no
person shall at any time park a vehicle upon any of the following described
streets or parts of streets:
Name Of Street From To
Name Of Street               From          To
65th Place                   Archer Avenue Alley east of Archer Avenue
65th Street                  Archer Avenue Alley east of Archer Avenue
66th Place                   Archer Avenue Alley east of Archer Avenue
66th Place (south side only) 76th Avenue   78th Avenue
66th Street                  Archer Avenue Alley east of Archer Avenue
76th Avenue                  Any part       
77th Avenue                  Any part       
                            Any part       
77th Court
78th Avenue                  Any part       
 
(Ord. 559, 9-5-1968)
10-16-3: SCHEDULE III; LOAD RESTRICTION UPON VEHICLES USING CERTAIN STREETS:
When signs are erected giving notice thereof, no person shall operate any
vehicle with a gross weight in excess of the amounts specified herein at any
time upon any of the following streets or parts of streets:
 
Name Of Street From          To          Pound Limit
65th Place     Archer Avenue 76th Avenue 8,000
65th Street    Archer Avenue 76th Avenue 8,000
66th Place     Archer Avenue 76th Avenue 8,000
66th Street    Archer Avenue 76th Avenue 8,000
78th Avenue    65th Place    66th Street 8,000
 
(Ord. 559, 9-5-1968)
CHAPTER 17
ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE
SECTION:
10-17-1: Illinois Vehicle Code Adopted By Reference
10-17-1: ILLINOIS VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Chapter 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-100 (as adopted in 1996 and
subsequently amended from time to time), also known as the Illinois vehicle
code, is hereby adopted by reference by the village to be used by the duly
appointed law enforcement authorities of the village for enforcement and
regulation of traffic. (Ord. 03-1135, 2-20-2003)
CHAPTER 18
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-18-1: Negligent Driving
10-18-2: Speed Restrictions
10-18-3: Servicing Vehicles On Public Streets
10-18-4: Jake Brakes
10-18-1: NEGLIGENT DRIVING:
Any person who, while operating a vehicle within the corporate limits of the
village, fails to use reasonable care pertaining to the safety of persons and
property shall be guilty of negligent driving.
Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be fined not less than
twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) for
each offense. (Ord. 89-812, 11-16-1989)
10-18-2: SPEED RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Definitions:
   VEHICLE: Whenever the term "vehicle" is used in this section, it shall be
construed to be automobiles, motorcycles and all vehicles propelled by other
than muscular power.
   (B)   Speed Restrictions: It shall be unlawful to drive any motor vehicle in
an alley located within the residential limits of the village at a speed in
excess of ten (10) miles per hour.
   (C)   Posting Of Signs: Appropriate signs giving notice of the speed limit
shall be erected at the entrance of the alleys.
   (D)   Penalty: Any person found guilty of violating this section shall be
fined not less than twenty five dollars ($25.00) nor more than one hundred
dollars ($100.00) for each offense. (Ord. 93-890, 6-17-1993)
10-18-3: SERVICING VEHICLES ON PUBLIC STREETS:
   (A)   Definitions: As used in this section, the following terms, phrases and
words shall have the meanings given in this section unless the context or use
clearly indicates another or different meaning:
ALLEY: A public way within a block generally giving access to the rear lots or
buildings and not used for general traffic circulation.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self-propelled and every vehicle which is
propelled by electric power designed to transport persons or property.
ROADWAY: That portion of a highway or street improved, designed or ordinarily
used for vehicular travel exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
SERVICING OF VEHICLES: The altering, maintaining, repairing, or servicing of
the parts of a vehicle.
   (B)   Prohibiting Servicing Of Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to service any
vehicle on a village roadway, street or alley except in emergency situations.
   (C)   Penalty: Any individual found to be in violation of this section shall
be fined not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred
dollars ($500.00) per offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed for
each day during or on which a violation occurs. (Ord. 03-1141, 6-5-2003)
10-18-4: JAKE BRAKES:
   (A)   Engine Braking Prohibited On Designated Streets: No person shall
operate any engine braking system (jake brakes) on streets designated by
ordinance and properly signposted except in the case of an emergency.
   (B)   Designation Of Streets: The operation of any engine braking system
(jake brakes) is prohibited on:
Archer Avenue from 6400 Archer Avenue to 6800 Archer Avenue.
   (C)   Penalties: Any person violating this section may be fined not less
than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than five hundred dollars ($500.00)
per offense. (Ord. 04-1171, 12-16-2004)
CHAPTER 19
ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION
SECTION:
10-19-1: Purpose
10-19-2: Definition
10-19-3: Administrative Composition
10-19-4: Procedure
10-19-5: Administrative Hearings
10-19-6: Additional Notices
10-19-7: Final Determination Of Liability
10-19-8: Administrative Review
10-19-9: Nonresident Procedures
10-19-10: Schedule Of Fines; Penalties
10-19-11: Certified Report And Contesting Certified Report
10-19-12: Immobilization; Towing And Impoundment
10-19-13: Judicial Review
10-19-14: Debt To Municipality
10-19-15: Judgment
10-19-1: PURPOSE:
The stated purpose of this chapter is to provide a fair and efficient
enforcement of municipal vehicular standing, parking, and condition of vehicle
regulation violation(s) and other municipal regulation violation(s) as may be
allowed by law, through an administrative adjudication of violation(s) of
municipal ordinances regulating the standing, parking, and condition of
vehicles within the geographic boundaries of this municipality and a schedule
of uniform fines and penalties and authority and procedures for collection of
unpaid fines and penalties. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
10-19-2: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this chapter, "compliance violation" means a violation of a
municipal regulation governing the condition or use of equipment on a vehicle
or governing the display of a municipal wheel tax license. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-
1996)
10-19-3: ADMINISTRATIVE COMPOSITION:
The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation(s) shall provide for a traffic compliance
administrator, hearing officer, computer operator/system coordinator and
hearing room personnel, with the power, authority and limitations as are
hereinafter set forth:
   (A)   Traffic Compliance Administrator: The traffic compliance administrator
shall be empowered and is hereby authorized and directed to:
      1.   Operate and manage the system of administrative adjudication of
vehicular standing, parking, and compliance regulation violation(s).
      2.   Adopt, distribute and process standing, parking, and compliance
violation notices and other notices as may be required under this chapter or as
may be reasonably required to carry out the purpose of this chapter.
      3.   Collect monies paid as fines and/or penalties assessed after a final
determination of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violation(s) liability.
      4.   Conduct hearings, as a hearing officer with the same power and
authority as is hereinafter set forth, during the absence of the appointed
hearing officer.
      5.   Certify copies of final determination(s) of standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation(s) liability and factual report(s) verifying
that the final determination of standing, parking, and compliance regulation
violation(s) liability was issued in accordance with this chapter and 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3.
      6.   Certify reports to the secretary of state concerning initiation of
suspension of driving privileges in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, hereinafter set forth, and those of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
6-306.5.
      7.   Review final determination(s) of vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation(s) liability, validity of notices of impending
impoundment or validity of notice of impending driver's license suspension, in
an administrative review capacity in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, hereinafter set forth.
      8.   Promulgate rules and regulations reasonably required to operate and
maintain the administrative adjudication system hereby created.
      9.   Collect unpaid fines and penalties by filing complaints in the
circuit court or selecting or appointing an individual or agency to act on
behalf of this municipality in filing complaints seeking judgments for unpaid
fines or penalties and pursuit of all postjudgment remedies available by
current law.
      10.   Select or appoint an individual, agency or firm to tow and impound
vehicles in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, hereinafter set
forth.
   (B)   Hearing Officer: The hearing officer shall be empowered and is hereby
authorized and directed to:
      1.   Preside over the administrative hearings, established herein, as the
adjudicator.
      2.   Administer oaths.
      3.   Issue subpoenas to secure the attendance of witnesses and production
of relevant papers or documentation.
      4.   Assess fines and penalties for the violation of vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) as are established in section
10-19-10 of this chapter.
      5.   Make final determination of:
         (a)   Vehicular standing, parking and compliance regulation violation
(s) liability.
         (b)   Validity of notice of impending impoundment.
         (c)   Validity of notice of impending driver's license suspension in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter, hereinafter set forth.
      6.   Provide for the accurate recordation of the administrative
adjudication hearing(s).
   (C)   System Coordinator/Computer Operator: The system coordinator/computer
operator are hereby authorized and directed to operate and maintain the
computer program(s) for the administrative adjudication system hereby created,
on a day to day basis, including, but not limited to:
      1.   Input of violation notice information.
      2.   Hearing date(s) and notice dates.
      3.   Fine and penalty assessments and payment(s).
      4.   Issue payment receipts.
      5.   Issue succeeding notices of hearing dates, final determination of
liability, notice of impending impoundment, and notice of impending driver's
license suspension, as directed by the traffic compliance administrator in
accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
      6.   Keep accurate records of appearances and nonappearances at
administrative hearings, pleas entered, fines and penalties assessed and paid.
   (D)   Hearing Room Personnel: Hearing room personnel are hereby authorized
and directed to:
      1.   Maintain hearing room decorum.
      2.   Have and execute authority as is granted to courtroom deputies of
the circuit court.
      3.   Perform such other duties or acts as may reasonably be required and
as directed by the hearing officer or traffic compliance administrator.
      4.   This position is limited to off duty, full time, part time or
auxiliary police officers.
   (E)   Appointments: The village president is hereby authorized to appoint
persons to hold the positions above set forth. One person may hold and fulfill
the requirements of one or more of the above stated positions.
   (F)   Compensation: Compensation to be paid for each of the above stated
positions shall be as determined by the village president and approved by the
village board. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
10-19-4: PROCEDURE:
The system of administrative adjudication of vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation(s) shall be in accordance with the following
procedures and final determination(s) of vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation(s) liability, validity of notice of impending
impoundment, validity of notice of impending driver's license suspension,
impoundment of vehicle and collections shall be made only in accordance with
the provisions set forth below:
   (A)   Issuance Of Violation Notice: Vehicular standing, parking, and
compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s) ("violation notice") shall be
issued by the person(s) authorized herein and shall contain information and
shall be served, certified and have evidentiary admissibility as is hereinafter
set forth.
   (B)   Authorization: All full time, part time, auxiliary police and
community service officers, as well as other specifically appointed
individuals, shall have the authority to issue violation(s) notices.
   (C)   Detection Of Violations: Any individual authorized hereby to issue
violation(s) notices and who detects a violation of any section of any
applicable municipal ordinance, shall issue a notice of violation thereof and
shall make service thereof as is hereinafter set forth.
   (D)   "Violation Notice": The vehicular standing, parking, and compliance
regulation "violation notice" shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the
following information:
      1.   The date, time and place of the violation (date of issuance).
      2.   The particular vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violated.
      3.   Vehicle make and state registration number.
      4.   The fine and any penalty which may be assessed for late payment.
      5.   The signature and identification number of the person issuing the
notice.
      6.   A section entitled "Request For Hearing" which shall clearly set
forth that the registered owner or lessee may appear at the initial
administrative hearing to contest the validity of the violation notice on the
date and at the time and place as specified in the violation notice by:
         (a)   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified, "Request for Hearing".
         (b)   Placing his/her name and current address in the place provided.
         (c)   Signing his/her name in the appropriate indicated place.
         (d)   Filing the violation notice with the "Request for Hearing"
portion fully completed with the traffic compliance administrator postmarked
within ten (10) days of the violation notice issuance. The request shall be
deemed filed upon receipt by the traffic compliance administrator.
      7.   The date, time and place of an administrative hearing at which the
violation may be contested on its merits.
      8.   Payment of the indicated fine and any late payment penalty shall
operate as a final disposition of the violation.
      9.   A section entitled, "Non-Resident Request For Hearing - Non-
Appearance", which clearly sets forth that a nonresident registered owner or
lessee may appear at the initial administrative hearing to contest the validity
of the violation notice without personally appearing by:
         (a)   Checking or placing a mark in a space provided and clearly
identified, "Non-Resident Request For Hearing - Non- Appearance".
         (b)   Placing his/her name and current address in the place provided.
         (c)   Signing his/her name in the appropriate indicated place.
         (d)   Filing the violation notice with the "nonresident request for
hearing" portion fully completed, with the traffic compliance administrator
postmarked within ten (10) days of the violation notice issuance. The request
shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the traffic compliance administrator.
         (e)   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice which must be filed with the traffic
compliance administrator postmarked within ten (10) days of the violation
notice issuance. The request shall be deemed filed, if postmarked by the due
dates herein specified.
         (f)   A clearly marked statement that execution of the "nonresident
request for hearing" is a waiver of the nonresident's right to a personal
appearance and that the adjudication will be made based upon the notarized
statement of facts submitted by the nonresident and the facts contained in the
violation(s) notice(s).
   (E)   Service Of Violation Notice: Service of the violation(s) notice(s)
shall be made by the person issuing such notice by:
      1.   Affixing the original or a facsimile of the notice to an unlawfully
standing or parked vehicle; or
      2.   Handing the notice to the registered owner, operator or lessee of
the vehicle, if present.
   (F)   Correctness Of Facts: The correctness of facts contained in the
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s)
shall be certified by the person issuing said notice by:
      1.   Signing his/her name to the notice(s) at the time of service; or
      2.   In the case of a notice produced by a computer device, by signing a
single certificate, to be kept by the traffic compliance administrator,
attesting to the correctness of all notices produced by the device while under
his/her control.
   (G)   Record Of Violation Notice: The original or a facsimile of the
violation(s) notice(s) shall be retained by the traffic compliance
administrator and kept as a record in the ordinary course of business.
   (H)   Prima Facie Evidence Of Correctness: Any violation(s) notice(s)
issued, signed and served in accordance herewith, or a copy of the notice,
shall be prima facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the
correctness of the facts shown on the notice.
   (I)   Admissibility: The violation(s) notice(s) or a copy(ies) shall be
admissible in any subsequent administrative or legal proceeding. (Ord. 97-992,
2-6-1996)
10-19-5: ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS:
An administrative hearing to adjudicate the alleged standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation(s) on its merits:
   (A)   Hearings Granted: Administrative hearings shall be granted to the
registered owner or operator of the "cited vehicle", pursuant to 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 or the lessee of the "cited vehicle", pursuant to
625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1306, incorporated herein by reference.
(Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
   (B)   Hearing Dates: Hearing dates shall be at the date, time and place as
is set forth in the violation notice issued and served, or such additional
notices issued in accordance with this chapter. Violators shall be given no
less than two (2) opportunities to appear and failure to appear by the second
scheduled hearing date will result in a "final determination of liability" as
hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 10-1336, 9-2-2010)
   (C)   Hearing Recorded: Administrative hearings shall be tape recorded.
   (D)   Determination: Administrative hearings shall culminate in a
determination of liability or nonliability, made by the hearing officer, who
shall consider testimony and other evidence without the application of the
formal or technical rules of evidence. The hearing officer shall, upon a
determination of liability, assess fines and penalties in accordance with
section
10-19-10 of this chapter.
   (E)   Representation By Attorney: Persons appearing to contest the alleged
standing, parking, or compliance violation on its merits may be represented by
counsel at their own expense.
   (F)   Review: The final determination of any matter which may be decided by
the hearing officer may be reviewed as is hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 97-992,
2-6-1996)
10-19-6: ADDITIONAL NOTICES:
   (A)   Upon failure of the registered owner or lessee of the "cited vehicle"
to appear at the administrative hearing indicated in the vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s), or upon final
determination of violation liability, the traffic compliance administrator
shall send or cause to be sent additional notices which:
      1.   Shall be sent to the registered owner or lessee of the "cited
vehicle" at the address as is recorded with the secretary of state.
      2.   Shall be sent to the lessee of the "cited vehicle" at the address
last known to the lessor of the "cited vehicle" at the time of the lease.
      3.   Shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid.
      4.   Service of additional notices sent in accordance herewith shall be
complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail.
   (B)   The additional notices sent in accordance herewith shall be in the
following sequence and contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
      1.   Upon the failure of the registered owner or lessee of the "cited
vehicle" to appear at the hearing set forth in the vehicular standing, parking,
or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s), additional notice(s) shall be
sent, as above set forth, and shall contain, but not be limited to, the
following information:
         (a)   Date and location of violation cited in the vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s).
         (b)   Particular standing, parking, or compliance regulation violated.
         (c)   Vehicle make and state registration.
         (d)   Fine and any penalty that may be assessed for late payment.
         (e)   Notice to the registered owner or lessee of their current
status, other than paid in full.
         (f)   Date, time and place of the administrative hearing at which the
alleged violation may be contested on its merits.
         (g)   Statement that failure to either pay fine and any applicable
penalty or failure to appear at the hearing on its merits on the date and at
the time and place specified will result in a final determination of vehicle
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) liability for the
"cited" violation in the amount of the fine and penalty indicated.
         (h)   Statement that upon the occurrence of a final determination of
vehicular standing, parking, or compliance violation(s) liability for the
failure, and the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, available
administrative or judicial procedures for review, any unpaid fine or penalty
will constitute a debt due and owing the municipality. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
      2.   A notice of final determination of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation(s) liability shall be sent following an
appearance by the violator and a determination of liability, or the failure to
appear by the violator by the second and final hearing date upon conclusion of
any administrative and/or judicial review, as is hereinafter set forth, and the
notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the following information and
warnings: (Ord. 10-1336, 9-2-2010)
         (a)   A statement that the unpaid fine and any penalty assessed is a
debt due and owing the municipality.
         (b)   A warning that failure to pay the fine and any penalty due and
owing the municipality within the time specified may result in the
municipality's filing a complaint in the circuit court to have the unpaid fine
or penalty rendered a judgment in accordance with 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/11-208.3(f), incorporated herein by reference.
         (c)   A warning that the vehicle owned by the person and located
within the municipality may be impounded for failure to pay fines or penalties
for five (5) or more vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violations.
         (d)   A warning that the person's driver's license may be suspended
for failure to pay fines or penalties for ten (10) or more vehicular standing
or parking violations under 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5,
incorporated herein by reference.
      3.   A notice of impending suspension of a person's driver's license
shall be sent to any person determined to be liable for the payment of any fine
or penalty that remains due and owing on ten (10) or more vehicular standing or
parking regulation violation(s):
         (a)   The notice shall state that the failure to pay the fine or
penalty owing within forty five (45) days of the date of the notice will result
in the municipality's notifying the secretary of state that the person is
eligible for initiation of suspension proceedings under 625 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/6-306.5 incorporated herein by reference.
         (b)   The notice of impending driver's license suspension shall be
sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to the address recorded with the
secretary of state. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
10-19-7: FINAL DETERMINATION OF LIABILITY:
A final determination of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation
violation(s) liability shall:
   (A)   Occur following the failure to pay the total assessed fine or penalty
after the hearing officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation(s) liability and the exhaustion of or the
failure to exhaust any administrative review procedures hereinafter set forth;
or (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
   (B)   Where a person fails to appear at a prior hearing or by the second and
final administrative hearing provided to contest the alleged violation(s) on
the date and at the time and place specified in a prior served or mailed
notice, the hearing officer's determination of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation(s) liability shall become final; (Ord. 10-1336,
9-2-2010)
      1.   Upon denial of a timely petition to set aside that determination; or
      2.   Upon the expiration of the period for filing petition without a
filing having been made. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
10-19-8: ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW:
A petition to set aside a determination of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation(s) liability may be filed by a person owing an
unpaid fine or penalty in the manner and subject to the restrictions and
grounds hereinafter set forth:
   (A)   A written petition to set aside a determination of liability must be
filed in the office of the traffic compliance administrator within, but not
later than, fourteen (14) days from the date the determination of liability is
made.
   (B)   The traffic compliance administrator shall act upon the petition(s)
timely filed and render a decision thereon within fourteen (14) days of the
date filed.
   (C)   The grounds for setting aside a determination of liability shall be
limited to the following:
      1.   The person against whom the determination of liability is made was
not the owner or lessee of the "cited vehicle" on the date the vehicular
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s) were issued.
      2.   The person having paid the fine or penalty prior to the
determination of liability for the violation(s) in question.
      3.   Excusable failure to appear at or request a new date for a hearing.
   (D)   Should the determination of liability be set aside, the traffic
compliance administrator shall:
      1.   Notify the registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be, that the
determination of liability has been set aside.
      2.   Notify the registered owner, or lessee, as the case may be, of a
date, time and place for a hearing on the merits of the violation for which
determination of liability has been set aside.
      3.   Notice of setting aside of the determination of liability and the
notice of the hearing date shall be by first class mail, postage prepaid, to
the address set forth on the petition to set aside the determination of
liability.
      4.   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice(s)
are deposited in the United States mail. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
10-19-9: NONRESIDENT PROCEDURES:
Nonresidents of this municipality who have been served vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) notice(s), in accordance with
this chapter, may contest the alleged violation on its merits, as could a
resident, or may contest the validity without personally appearing at an
administrative hearing by:
   (A)   Completing, in full, the "nonresident request for hearing" section of
the violation notice, served upon him/her pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Signing the "nonresident request for hearing" in the space specified
in the violation notice, and acknowledging that his/her personal appearance is
waived and submitting to an adjudication based upon the notarized statement
filed by him/her and the facts contained in the violation notice.
   (C)   Filing the violation notice with the "request for hearing" section
fully completed with the traffic compliance administrator postmarked within ten
(10) days of the violation notice issuance. The request shall be deemed filed
upon receipt by the traffic compliance administrator.
   (D)   Filing a notarized statement of facts specifying the grounds for
challenging the violation notice which must be filed with the traffic
compliance administrator postmarked within ten (10) days of the violation
notice issuance. The request shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the traffic
compliance administrator. The acceptance of a "nonresident request for hearing"
after the due date or with cause, at the discretion of the traffic compliance
administrator, be accepted for hearing consideration and decision.
   (E)   The hearing officer shall make an adjudication based upon the facts
set forth in the notarized statement of facts filed by the nonresident as is
contained in the violation notice.
   (F)   Notice of the determination of the hearing officer shall be served
upon the nonresident by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
nonresident at the address set forth in the statement of facts submitted.
   (G)   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date the notice is
placed in the United States mail.
   (H)   All other provisions of this chapter shall apply equally to
nonresidents of this municipality. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
10-19-10: SCHEDULE OF FINES; PENALTIES:
   (A)   The fines and penalties which shall be imposed for the violation of
vehicular standing, parking or compliance regulation violations shall be as
follows:
   FINE PAYMENT SCHEDULE
 
       Fine Schedule       General Fine   Handicapped Fine   Traffic Compliance
                           Amount         Amount
       Upon service of a
       "violation
       notice" issued
       and paid within
       10 days of the
Step 1 violation notice   $ 50.00       $ 250.00          $ 30.00
       issuance, and no
       "request for
       hearing" has been
       timely filed, the
       fine amount owed
       shall be:
       Having failed to
       pay the fine
       amount by the
       deadline date
       (within 10 days
       of the violation
       notice issuance)
       as specified in
       step 1 above, a
Step 2 hearing court      100.00        500.00            60.00
       date will then be
       established. The
       fines as set
       forth in step 1
       shall be doubled
       against any
       vehicle owner or
       lessee of record
       upon a finding of
       guilty.
       A second court
       hearing will be
       scheduled for
       vehicle owners or
       lessees of record
       who fail to
       appear at the
       initial court
Step 3 hearing. A         200.00        1,000.00          120.00
       vehicle owner or
       lessee of record
       who is
       adjudicated
       guilty at the
       second hearing
       date shall be
       fined as follows:
       Pursuant to
       section
       10-19-15 of this
       chapter,
       judgments entered
       against a vehicle
Step 4 owner or lessee                                   
       of record shall
       be sent to a
       collection agency
       of the village's
       choice for
       enforcement
       proceedings.
 
(Ord. 10-1336, 9-2-2010)
   (B)   The fines and penalties herein set forth shall be uniformly applied
for each violation of any applicable municipal ordinance.
   (C)   The municipality adopts by reference all current and future local
standing, parking or condition of vehicle ordinances, and those provisions of
the Illinois Compiled Statutes governing the standing, parking, or condition of
vehicles, for its enforcement and adjudication within the geographical
boundaries of the municipality and in those areas subject to off street parking
agreements. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
10-19-11: CERTIFIED REPORT AND CONTESTING CERTIFIED REPORT:
   (A)   Upon a failure to pay fines and penalties deemed due and owing the
village after the exhaustion of administrative procedures set forth herein for
ten (10) or more vehicular parking regulation violations, the traffic
compliance administrator shall make a certified report to the secretary of
state stating that the owner of a registered vehicle has failed to report to
the secretary of state stating that the owner of a registered vehicle has
failed to pay any fine or penalty due and owing the village as a result of ten
(10) or more violations of municipal vehicular standing or parking regulations
and thereby cause the suspension of that person's driver's license.
   (B)   The traffic compliance administrator shall take no further action
unless and until the fines and penalties due and owing the village are paid or
upon determination that the inclusion of the person's name on the certified
report was in error. At such time, the traffic compliance administrator shall
submit to the secretary of state a notification which shall result in the
halting of a driver's license suspension proceedings. The person named therein
shall receive a certified copy of such notification upon request and at no
charge.
   (C)   Persons may challenge the accuracy of the certified report by
completing a form provided by the office of the traffic compliance
administrator. The form shall specify the grounds on which such challenge is
based. Grounds for challenge shall be limited to the following:
      1.   The person was neither the owner nor the lessee of the vehicle (so
receiving 10 or more violation notices) on the date or dates such notices were
issued; or
      2.   The person has paid the fine and/or penalty for the ten (10) or more
violations indicated on the certified report.
   (D)   The traffic compliance administrator shall render a determination
within fourteen (14) business days of receipt of the objection form and shall
notify the objector of the determination. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
10-19-12: IMMOBILIZATION; TOWING AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Any motor vehicle whose registered owner has been determined to be
liable for five (5) or more vehicular standing, parking, or compliance
regulation violation(s), for which the fines or penalties assessed remain
unpaid, may be immobilized or towed and impounded if:
      1.   The traffic compliance administrator has determined that a person
has been determined to be liable for five (5) or more vehicular standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s), the fines or penalties for
which remain unpaid.
      2.   The person determined to be liable for five (5) or more violations
is the registered owner of a motor vehicle located within the municipality
geographical boundaries.
   (B)   The registered owner of a vehicle(s) immobilized or towed and
impounded under this section, shall have the right to a prompt administrative
hearing without the requirement of payment of outstanding fines and penalties
for which final determination has been made.
      1.   The traffic compliance administrator shall serve a posttowing notice
upon the registered owner of a vehicle immobilized or towed and impounded under
this section which notice shall contain, but not be limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   Date of immobilization or towing and date of impoundment.
         (b)   Location of vehicle.
         (c)   That the vehicle was immobilized under this section for
nonpayment of fines or penalties assessed for the violation of five (5) or more
violation(s) of vehicular standing, parking, or compliance regulation(s) for
which the registered owner has been determined liable and notified of impending
immobilization or towing and impoundment.
         (d)   Date of notice of impending immobilization or towing and
impoundment.
         (e)   That the registered owner may contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment by completing and signing the request
for hearing portion of the notice and filing the request for hearing with the
traffic compliance administrator within, but not later than, fourteen (14) days
of the date of the notice which shall be deemed filed upon receipt by the
traffic compliance administrator.
      2.   Upon the receipt of the request for hearing to contest the validity
of the immobilization or towing and impoundment, the traffic compliance
administrator shall schedule an administrative hearing to contest the validity
of the immobilization or towing and impoundment on the next available hearing
date or if sooner scheduled by the traffic compliance administrator for good
cause shown, but in no case shall the hearing be scheduled later than sixty
(60) days after the request for hearing is filed.
         (a)   The traffic compliance administrator shall serve notice of the
hearing date upon the registered owner.
         (b)   Notice shall be sent by first class mail, postage prepaid, to
the address as is set forth on the request for hearing.
         (c)   Service of the notice shall be complete on the date it is placed
in the United States mail.
      3.   An order entered after the hearing to contest the validity of the
immobilization or towing and impoundment is a final administrative decision
within the meaning of 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.,
incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   A vehicle impounded pursuant to this section shall be released to the
registered owner thereof, or his agent, upon payment of the fines and penalties
due and owing the municipality as specified in the notice sent in accordance
with subsection (B) of this section, and the payment of towing charges and
accrued daily impound charges or upon order of the hearing officer following
hearing contesting the validity of the impoundment.
   (D)   The traffic compliance administrator shall appoint or retain the
services of an individual agency or company to tow and impound vehicles in
accordance herewith, provided:
      1.   The individual, agency or company is fully licensed according to
local and state law.
      2.   The individual, agency or company is fully insured.
      3.   The individual, agency or company has available a secured impound
area within which to retain vehicles impounded hereunder. For the purpose of
this section a "secured area" shall mean an area bounded by a fence, chainlink
or otherwise, of a sufficient height and with locking gates so as to minimize
or prevent unauthorized entry into the impounded vehicles. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-
1996)
10-19-13: JUDICIAL REVIEW:
Judicial review of final determinations of vehicular standing, parking, or
compliance regulation violation(s) and final administrative decisions issued
after hearing(s) regarding vehicle immobilization or towing and impoundment
made under this section shall be subject to the provisions of the
administrative review law as is set forth in 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
301 et seq., incorporated herein by reference. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
10-19-14: DEBT TO MUNICIPALITY:
Any fine, penalty or part of any fine or any penalty assessed in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter and remaining unpaid after the exhaustion
of, or the failure to exhaust, administrative remedies created under this
chapter and the conclusion of any judicial review procedures shall be a debt
due and owing the municipality and, as such, may be collected in accordance
with the applicable law. Payment in full of any fine or penalty resulting from
a standing, parking, or compliance violation shall constitute a final
disposition of that violation. (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
10-19-15: JUDGMENT:
   (A)   The traffic compliance administrator shall, following the expiration
of the period within which administrative or judicial review may be sought for
a final determination of violation, take all necessary action(s), execute all
required documents and appoint or retain any individual or agency deemed
appropriate to obtain a judgment against and collect monies from the person(s)
who have been assessed fines or penalties which remain unpaid and have become a
debt due and owing the municipality in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3 by:
      1.   Filing a complaint in the circuit court praying for the entry of a
judgment against the person for whom a final determination of standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) liability has been made.
      2.   The complaint filed by the traffic compliance administrator or
individual or agency on behalf of the municipality seeking entry of a judgment
against an individual for unpaid fines and/or penalties pursuant to a final
determination of standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) shall
have appended:
         (a)   A certified copy of the final determination of the standing,
parking, or compliance regulation violation(s).
         (b)   A certification that recites facts sufficient to show that the
final determination of standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s)
was issued in accordance with this chapter and 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/11-208.3.
      3.   Nothing shall prevent the municipality from consolidating multiple
final determinations of standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation
(s) liability in an action in the circuit court against an individual.
      4.   Pursuing all available remedies, allowed by law, to collect money
judgments.
   (B)   Service of summons and a copy of the complaint may be served upon the
person against whom a judgment is sought under the provisions of this chapter
by any method provided under 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/2-203,
incorporated by reference, or by certified mail, return receipt requested,
provided the total amount of fines and penalties for final determination of
standing, parking, or compliance regulation violation(s) does not exceed two
thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00). (Ord. 97-992, 2-6-1996)
CHAPTER 20
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM
SECTION:
10-20-1: Definitions
10-20-2: Automated Red Light Enforcement System Authorized
10-20-3: Enforcement Procedures
10-20-4: Adjudication Procedure
10-20-5: Penalty And Final Disposition
10-20-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
AUTOMATED TRAFFIC LAW ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM: A device with one or more motor
vehicle sensors working in conjunction with a red light signal to produce
recorded images of motor vehicles entering an intersection against a red signal
indication in violation of 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-306.
DEPARTMENT: The police department of the village of Bedford Park, Illinois.
RECORDED IMAGES: Images recorded by an automated traffic law enforcement system
on:
   (A)   Two (2) or more photographs;
   (B)   Two (2) or more microphotographs;
   (C)   Two (2) or more electronic images; or
   (D)   Video recording showing the motor vehicle and, on at least one image
or portion of the recording, clearly identifying the registration plate number
of the motor vehicle.
REGISTERED OWNER: The owner of a motor vehicle as shown on the motor vehicle
registration records of the Illinois secretary of state or the analogous
department or agency of another state or country. The term "registered owner"
includes: a) a lessee of a motor vehicle pursuant to rental agreement or lease,
or b) the lessee of a motor vehicle rented or leased from a motor vehicle
rental or leasing company, but does not include the motor vehicle rental or
leasing company itself. If there is more than one registered owner of the motor
vehicle, the primary owner, or the first listed owner if there is no primary
owner, shall be considered the "registered owner".
TRAFFIC COMPLIANCE ADMINISTRATOR: The individual authorized by the village of
Bedford Park to adopt, distribute, and process automated traffic law violation
notices, collect money paid as fines and penalties for automated traffic law
violations, and operate an administrative adjudication system for alleged
automated traffic law violations. (Ord. 08-1253, 3-6-2008)
10-20-2: AUTOMATED RED LIGHT ENFORCEMENT SYSTEM AUTHORIZED:
Notwithstanding any other traffic regulations of the village of Bedford Park,
the village hereby adopts regulations for the automated enforcement of traffic
control signal regulations. Accordingly, pursuant to the terms of 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/11-306, the department is authorized to install, and the
traffic compliance administrator is authorized to operate, an automated traffic
law enforcement system within the village for the purpose of enforcing traffic
control signal regulations as provided in 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-
306. (Ord. 08-1253, 3-6-2008)
10-20-3: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES:
   (A)   The traffic compliance administrator is responsible for the
enforcement and administration of this chapter. Among other responsibilities,
and in compliance with all other applicable statutes and ordinances, the
traffic compliance administrator is responsible for engaging, contracting with,
and otherwise monitoring a third party vendor to provide an automated traffic
law enforcement system which shall include an automated system for serving
notices of violation on alleged violators.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the registered owner of the vehicle that
was recorded violating 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-306 (ordinary red
light running ordinance) by the automated traffic law enforcement system shall
be treated as the alleged violator.
   (C)   For each violation of this section recorded by the automated traffic
law enforcement system, a written notice of the violation shall be delivered to
the registered owner of the violating vehicle. The notice shall be delivered to
the registered owner of the vehicle, by mail, within thirty (30) days after the
Illinois secretary of state or the analogous department or agency of another
state or country, notifies the traffic compliance administrator, or properly
engaged vendor, of the identity of the owner of the vehicle, but in no event
later than ninety (90) days after the violation was recorded by the automated
traffic law enforcement system. The notice shall include:
      1.   Name and address of the registered owner of the vehicle;
      2.   Registration number of the motor vehicle involved in the violation;
      3.   Vehicle make if the make is available and readily discernible;
      4.   Violation charged;
      5.   Location where the violation occurred;
      6.   Date and time of the violation;
      7.   Copy of the recorded images;
      8.   Amount of the civil penalty imposed and the date by which the civil
penalty should be paid;
      9.   Amount of applicable penalty for late payment;
      10.   Statement that recorded images are evidence of a violation of a red
light signal;
      11.   Warning that failure to pay civil penalty or to contest liability
in a timely manner is an admission of liability and may result in a suspension
of the driving privileges of the registered owner of the vehicle; and
      12.   A statement that the person may elect to proceed by:
         (a)   Paying the fine; or
         (b)   Challenging the alleged violation in an administrative hearing.
      13.   Statement specifying the time and manner in which an administrative
hearing contesting the alleged violation may be had.
   (D)   Based on the inspection of the recorded images produced by the
automated traffic law enforcement system by the traffic compliance
administrator, or properly engaged third party vendor, a notice alleging that
the violation occurred shall be evidence of the facts contained in the notice
and admissible in any proceeding alleging a violation.
   (E)   Recorded images made by the automated traffic law enforcement system
are confidential and shall be made available only to the alleged violator, the
department, the traffic compliance administrator, and such third party vendor
the municipality deems necessary for ordered administration of the automated
traffic law enforcement system for purposes of adjudicating a violation for
statistical purposes, or for other governmental purposes. Any recorded image
evidencing a violation however, may be admissible in any proceeding resulting
from the issuance of the citation.
   (F)   It shall be considered a defense of a violation as recorded by the
automated traffic law enforcement system that:
      1.   The motor vehicle or registration plates of the motor vehicle were
stolen before the violation occurred and were not under the control of, or in
the possession of, the registered owner at the time of the violation;
         (a)   In order to establish that the motor vehicle or the registration
plates were stolen before the violation occurred and were not under the control
or possession of the registered owner at the time of the violation, the
registered owner must submit proof that a report concerning the stolen motor
vehicle or registration plates was filed with a law enforcement agency in a
timely manner.
      2.   The driver of the vehicle passed through the intersection when the
light was red either:
         (a)   To yield the right of way to an emergency vehicle; or
         (b)   As part of a funeral procession.
   (G)   A technician employed or contracted by the traffic compliance
administrator shall determine, based on inspection of the recorded images, that
the vehicle was being operated in violation of this chapter. If the technician
determines that the vehicle entered the intersection as a part of a funeral
procession or in order to yield the right of way to an emergency vehicle, a
citation shall not issue.
   (H)   Unless the driver of a motor vehicle received a uniform traffic
citation from a police officer at the time of the violation, the motor vehicle
owner is subject to a civil penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus an
additional penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for failure to pay the
original penalty within ten (10) days.
   (I)   Any intersection equipped with an automated traffic law enforcement
system must be posted with a sign visible to approaching traffic indicating
that the intersection is being monitored by an automated traffic law
enforcement system. (Ord. 08-1253, 3-6-2008)
10-20-4: ADJUDICATION PROCEDURE:
   (A)   The proceeding for a prosecution of a violation of this chapter using
an automated red light enforcement system shall be conducted by the traffic
compliance administrator or person designated by the traffic compliance
administrator.
   (B)   A violation notice of this chapter shall be served upon an alleged
violator by mailing the violation notice to the registered owner of the
violating vehicle within thirty (30) days after the Illinois secretary of state
or the analogous department or agency of another state or country notifies the
traffic compliance administrator of the registered owner of the vehicle, but in
no event later than ninety (90) days after the violation. The violation notice
is to be sent, via United States mail, to the last known address of the
registered owner as recorded with the Illinois secretary of state. If that
notice is returned as undeliverable, the violation notice is to be sent to the
last known address of the registered owner in a United States post office
approved database (or to the lessee of the cited vehicle as described in 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-1306). The service of the violation notice
shall be deemed complete as of the date of deposit in the United States mail.
   (C)   The original or a facsimile of the violation notice or, in the case of
a notice produced by a computerized device, a printed record generated by the
device showing the facts entered on the notice, shall be retained by the
traffic compliance administrator, and shall be a record kept in the ordinary
course of business, except that it shall be confidential.
   (D)   A violation notice, or the computer generated record shall be prima
facie correct and shall be prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts
shown on the notice. The violation notice, a copy of that notice, or the
computer generated record shall be admissible in any subsequent administrative
or legal proceedings.
   (E)   The violation notice shall provide a date, time, and place where an
administrative hearing may take place to provide the alleged violator with the
opportunity to contest the merits of the alleged violation. The violation
notice shall require the alleged violator to request that the administrative
hearing take place by signing and returning the portion of the violation notice
specifying the date, time, and place for the administrative hearing via U.S.
mail at least ten (10) days before the specified administrative hearing date
and time.
   (F)   The administrative hearing shall be presided over by the traffic
compliance administrator, or a person designated by the traffic compliance
administrator to preside over the administrative hearing. Formal or technical
rules of evidence shall not apply during the administrative hearing. The
hearings shall be recorded, and the traffic compliance administrator, or person
conducting the hearing on behalf of the traffic compliance administrator, shall
be empowered to administer oaths and to secure by subpoena both the attendance
and testimony of witnesses and the production of relevant books and papers.
Persons appearing at the administrative hearing may be represented by counsel
at their expense.
      1.   Persons who are not residents of Bedford Park, Illinois, may contest
the merits of the alleged violation without attending the administrative
hearing.
   (G)   The decision of the traffic compliance administrator, or person
conducting the administrative hearing on behalf of the traffic compliance
administrator, shall be final for purposes of administrative review upon
service of a notice of final determination.
   (H)   Appeals of the decision made by the traffic compliance administrator,
or person conducting the administrative hearing on behalf of the traffic
compliance administrator, regarding liability for the violation, and/or
petitions to set aside the decision in the event the alleged violator did not
appear at the administrative hearing, shall be made, in writing, to the traffic
compliance administrator within ten (10) days of service of notice of final
determination.
   (I)   Judicial review of final determinations of automated traffic law
violations and appeals to the traffic compliance administrator shall be subject
to provisions of the Illinois administrative review law, 735 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.
   (J)   In the event that the registered owner does not request an
administrative hearing, or in the event that the registered owner does not
successfully contest the merits of the alleged violation, the traffic
compliance administrator, or person conducting the administrative hearing on
behalf of the traffic compliance administrator, shall determine that the person
is liable for a violation of this chapter and the following additional notices
shall be served as described above:
      1.   Unless the person is in the process of appealing the final
determination or is exercising judicial review granted by 735 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5/3-101 et seq., a notice of final determination of automated traffic
law violation liability stating that the unpaid fine or penalty is a debt due
and owing the village of Bedford Park, a warning that the failure to pay any
fine or penalty due and owing the village of Bedford Park within thirty (30)
days of the notice date may result in the village of Bedford Park filing a
petition in the circuit court to have the unpaid fine or penalty rendered a
judgment, or may result in suspension of the person's driver's license for
failure to pay fines or penalties pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/
6-306.5.
   (K)   In the event a person charged with a traffic violation, as a result of
the automated traffic law enforcement system, does not pay the fine within
thirty (30) days, or successfully contest the civil penalty resulting from that
violation, the traffic compliance administrator will report the failure to pay
the due and owing fine to the Illinois secretary of state pursuant to 625
Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-306.5. (Ord. 08-1253, 3-6-2008)
10-20-5: PENALTY AND FINAL DISPOSITION:
   (A)   The penalty imposed for a finding of guilt for a violation of this
chapter shall be a civil penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00), plus an
additional penalty of one hundred dollars ($100.00) for failure to pay the
original penalty within ten (10) days, unless the driver of a motor vehicle
received a uniform traffic citation from a police officer at the time of the
violation in which case no additional penalty shall be assessed.
   (B)   For the purpose of facilitating enforcement of this penalty, in the
event a person has been assessed three (3) or more civil penalties under this
chapter and has not paid, the vehicle owned by that person may be eligible for
immobilization provided that:
      1.   A notice of impending vehicle immobilization and notice of the right
to a hearing in front of the traffic compliance administrator for the purpose
of challenging the validity of the liability for the unpaid final
determinations of automated traffic law violations is sent, via U.S. mail, at
least ten (10) days prior to the immobilization;
      2.   After the immobilization, the person whose vehicle was immobilized
has the right to a prompt hearing to challenge the basis for the immobilization
without the requirement that payment of outstanding fines or penalties be made
prior to that hearing.
         (a)   An order issued after the hearing is a final administrative
decision within the meaning of 735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 and all
such decisions are subject to the provisions of the administrative review law,
735 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/3-101 et seq.
      3.   And, a postimmobilization and posttowing notice shall be sent, via
U.S. mail, no later than ten (10) days after immobilization or towing, advising
the registered owner of the vehicle of the right to a hearing to challenge the
validity of the impoundment.
   (C)   Any fine, penalty, or part of any fine or any penalty remaining unpaid
after the exhaustion of, or the failure to exhaust, administrative remedies and
the conclusion of any judicial review procedures shall be a debt due and owing
the village of Bedford Park and, as such may be collected in accordance with
applicable law, including pursuant to 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/11-208.3
(f). Payment in full of any fine or penalty resulting from an automated traffic
law violation shall constitute a final disposition of that violation. (Ord. 08-
1253, 3-6-2008)
CHAPTER 21
IMPOUNDMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLES DURING TRAFFIC OFFENSES
SECTION:
10-21-1: Definitions
10-21-2: Conduct Prohibited
10-21-3: Exceptions
10-21-4: Seizure And Impoundment
10-21-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                                    The amount of five hundred dollars
                                    ($500.00) to compensate the village for its
                                    administrative and processing costs
ADMINISTRATIVE FEE:                 associated with the investigation, arrest,
                                    and detention of an offender, or the
                                    removal, impoundment, storage and release
                                    of a vehicle used in connection with a
                                    violation.
                                    The amount of five hundred dollars
                                    ($500.00) payable to the village in a form
CASH BOND:                          acceptable to the village, which is posted
                                    with the village to permit the police
                                    department to release a vehicle pending
                                    disposition at a hearing.
                                    A licensed Illinois attorney for a minimum
                                    of three (3) years, who is appointed by the
                                    Village President and shall have authority
                                    to preside over administrative hearings,
HEARING OFFICER:                    record hearings, administer oaths, issue
                                    subpoenas for the attendance and testimony
                                    of witnesses and production of relevant
                                    books and papers, cause and hear testimony,
                                    accept relevant evidence, and make final
                                    determinations of violation liability.
LIENHOLDER or LIENHOLDER OF RECORD: A vehicle is the lienholder, as registered
                                    with the Secretary of State.
OWNER or OWNER OF RECORD:           Of a vehicle is the record title holder, as
                                    registered with the Secretary of State.
                                    Any person, firm or entity that tows and
TOW COMPANY:                        stores impounded vehicles for the police
                                    department.
                                    Any offense as listed under conduct
VIOLATION:                          prohibited under section
                                    10-21-2. (Ord. 22-1708, 12-8-2022)
 
10-21-2: CONDUCT PROHIBITED:
A motor vehicle operated with the permission expressed or implied, of the owner
of record, that is used in connection with any of the following violations
shall be subject to seizure and impoundment. The owner of record of said
vehicle shall be liable to the Village of Bedford Park for an administrative
fee in the amount of five hundred dollars ($500.00) in addition to any towing
and storage fees. The owner of record shall mean the record title owner. The
violations which would cause an impoundment of the vehicle are as follows:
   (A)   Driving While Intoxicated; impoundment: No person shall drive or be in
actual physical control of a motor vehicle within the Village of Bedford Park
while under the influence of alcohol, other drug or drugs, intoxicating
compound or compounds or any combination thereof, as defined in paragraph 5/11-
S01 of the Illinois vehicle code 1.
   (B)   Unlawful Drugs In Motor Vehicle; Impoundment: No vehicle shall contain
cannabis as defined by the Illinois cannabis act i or a controlled substance as
defined by the Illinois controlled substance act 1 or be used in the purchase,
attempt to purchase, sale, or attempt to sell such controlled substances or
cannabis. This subsection shall not apply if the alleged owner provides
adequate proof that the presence of the controlled substance or cannabis was
authorized under the controlled substances act or the cannabis control act.
   (C)   Driving Without a License or While Driver's License, Permit or
Privilege Is Suspended or Revoked; Impoundment: No person shall drive or be in
actual physical control of a motor vehicle within the Village without a valid
driver's license or when such person's driver's license, permit or privilege to
drive or the privilege to obtain a driver's license or permit is revoked or
suspended. This subsection shall not apply in instances where a driver's
license was validly issued to the vehicle operator but has been expired for a
period ofless than six (6) months. If the immediate and efficient removal of
the vehicle by an adult who is validly licensed and insured is able to be
provided for, the vehicle shall not be towed but be released to that adult.
   (D)   False, Stolen, Or Altered State Registration or Temporary State
Registration; lmpoundment: No person shall operate or park on the public way
any vehicle bearing false, stolen or altered state registration or temporary
state registration. If the vehicle is unattended, notice shall be sent to the
last registered owner of the vehicle at the address indicated in the last valid
registration of the vehicle.
   (E)   Unlawful Firearm in Motor Vehicle; Im.poundment: Any motor vehicle: 1)
used in connection with a violation of article 24 of the lliinois criminal code
of 1961 .4 or section 62-141; or 2) that contains a firearm or ammunition for
which a firearm owner's identification card is required under the lliinois
owner's identification card act ~ and one is not presented; or 3) an
unregistered firearm; or 4) a ti.rearm. that is not broken down in a
nonfunctioning state shall be subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to
this section.
   (F)   Unlawful Fireworks in Motor Vehicle; lmpoundment: No motor vehicle
shall contain any illegal fireworks as defined by the Illinois criminal oode.
Nothing contained in this section dealing with fireworks shall be construed as
applying to the transportation of any article or thing shipped in conformity
with the regulations prescribed by the interstate commerce commission, nor as
applying to the military or naval forces of the United States.
   (G)   Illegal Dumping; Nuisance; Impoundment: No vehicle shall be used to
dump, deposit or place or cause to be dumped, deposited or placed on any lot or
parcel of improved or unimproved real estate within the Village the following
materials: abandoned vehicles; ashes; construction or demolition debris;
garbage; litter; manure; miscellaneous waste; refuse; trash; unrimmed tires; or
any other substance that may contain disease and germs or may be scattered by
the wind, or be decomposed, or become filthy, noxious or unhealthful; except
when a permit is properly issued pursuant to the provisions of this code. Such
dumping without a permit hereby is declared a nuisance.
   (H)   Motor Vehicle Involved in an Unlawful Attempt to Flee or Elude a
Police Officer; Impoundment:
      1.   No motor vehicle shall be involved in an unlawful attempt to flee or
elude a police officer.
      2.   A police officer shall, if possible, record the vehicle make and
color, and the issuing state and number of the license plate of a vehicle that
the officer has attempted to stop through use of the emergency signal equipment
on the officer's vehicle. If the operator of the other vehicle fails or refuses
to stop, and if the police officer forgoes or abandons pursuit of the other
vehicle for reasons of public safety, the officer shall report the recorded
information to the watch commander on duty, for delivery to appropriate
sections of the police department responsible for impoundment and towing of
vehicles.
      3.   The police officer's report shall also include: the date,
approximate time and approximate location of the attempted stop; the reason for
the attempted stop; the emergency signal equipment activated by the police
officer; the public safety considerations that caused the police officer to
forgo or abandon pursuit of the described vehicle.
      4.   The police department shall send a notice of intent to impound the
vehicle described in the police officer's report to the owner of record of the
vehicle. The notice shall be sent either by first class mail or by messenger to
the address of the owner of record as indicated in state registration records.
The notice shall include the following: a statement that the operator of the
vehicle failed or refused to stop when ordered to do so by a village of Bedford
Park police • officer; the date, approximate time and approximate location of
the event, the description of the vehicle as contained in the officer's report;
and notice of an opportunity to contest eligibility for impoundment. A copy of
the notice shall be forwarded to the department of administrative hearings. A
notice is presumed delivered upon being deposited with the United States postal
service with proper postage affixed.
   (I)   Use of Vehicle for Prostitution; Impoundment: No motor vehicle shall
be used in violation of this code, in the commission of prostitution as defined
in the criminal code of 1961, or soliciting for a prostitute as defined in said
code.
   (J)   Driving with a Warrant of Court; Impoundment: No person shall drive or
be in actual physical control of a motor vehicle if a warrant for their arrest
has been issued by a circuit court in Illinois for failing to answer charges
that the driver violated 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/6-303 or 5/11-501 of
the Illinois vehicle code.
   (K)   Other Violations; Impoundment: No motor vehicle shall be used during
the aiding or abetting or commission of a misdemeanor, felony, or forcible
felony; as those terms are defined in the Illinois criminal code, 720 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/2-7, 2-8, and 2-11.
   (L)   Multiple Violations: Nothing in this code shall prohibit the issuance
of more than one administrative fee in the amount of five hundred dollars
($500.00) on a single owner of record or vehicle impounded pursuant to this
code. (Ord. 10-1319, 4-15-2010; amd. Ord. 22-1708, 12-8-2022)
10-21-3: EXCEPTIONS:
The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any of the following
situations:
   (A)   A vehicle used in the violation was stolen at the time of the
violation and the theft of the vehicle was reported to the appropriate police
authorities within twenty-four (24) hours after the theft was discovered;
   (B)   A vehicle operating as a common canier and the violation occurs
without the knowledge of the person in control of the vehicle. (Ord. 10-1319,
4-15-2010; amd. Ord. 22-1708, 12-8-2022)
10-21-4: SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDMENT:
   (A)   Whenever a police officer has probable cause to believe that a vehicle
is subject to seizure and impoundment pursuant to this section, the officer
shall provide for towing of the vehicle to a facility authorized by the
Village. Before or at the time the vehicle is towed, the officer shall notify,
or make reasonable attempt to notify, the owner, lessee, or any person
identifying themself as the owner or lessee of the vehicle, or any person who
is found to be in control of the vehicle at the time of the alleged violation,
that:
      1.   The vehicle has been seized;
      2.   The owner, lessee or lienholder has a right to an administrative
hearing to contest the seizure and impoundment; and
      3.   The owner, lessee or lienholder may request a preliminary/emergency
hearing, which, upon confirmation that the seizure and impoundment was valid,
will result in an administrative hearing. Said notice shall also indicate that
the vehicle is being impounded pending the completion of those hearings, unless
the owner, lessee, or any lienholder posts the administrative fee as a cash
bond for the vehicle and pays the towing and storage charges.
   (B)   Appeal; Preliminary/Emergency Hearing: If the owner, lessee, or any
lienholder of a seized vehicle desires to appeal the seizure, said person must
request a preliminary/emergency hearing within forty-eight ( 48) hours of the
seizure. The request must be in writing and filed with the Chief of Police or
their designee, who shall promptly conduct the hearing upon receipt of the
written request. The hearing shall be conducted at a location or in a format
that is mutually agreed upon by the requestor and the person conducting the
hearing. The following shall apply and/or be included during the hearing
process:
      1.   All interested persons shall be given a reasonable opportunity to be
heard.
      2.   The formal rules of evidence will not apply and hearsay evidence
shall be admissible only if it is the type commonly relied upon by reasonably
prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
      3.   Any sworn or affirmed report that is prepared in the performance of
a law enforcement officer's duties and sufficiently describes the circumstances
leading to the impoundment, shall be admissible evidence of the vehicle owner's
liability, unless rebutted by clear and convincing evidence. If, after the
hearing, the Chief of Police or their designee determines that there is
probable cause to believe that the vehicle is subject to seizure and
impoundment, they shall order the continued impoundment of the vehicle, unless
the owner, lessee or lienholder posts the administrative fee as cash bond for
the vehicle and pays the tow company all applicable towing and storage fees. If
the Chief of Police or their designee determines that there is no probable
cause, the vehicle will be released without payment of an administrative fee.
   (C)   Administrative Hearing: Unless a vehicle has been released for no
probable cause at a preliminary/emergency hearing or the owner, lessee or
lienholder has posted the administrative fee and agreed in writing to waive an
administrative hearing, the Village shall, within ten (10) days after a vehicle
is seized and impounded, serve the owner, lessee, and lienholder notice of the
date, time, and location of an administrative hearing to adjudicate the
validity of the seizure and impoundment. Said notice shall indicate that the
vehicle will remain impounded pending completion of the hearing, unless the
owner, lessee or lienholder posts the administrative fee as cash bond for the
vehicle and pays all towing and storage charges. The hearing shall be scheduled
and convened within forty-five (45) days of the date of mailing of the notice.
In addition to being conducted in the manner described for preliminary/
emergency hearings in subsection (B) above, the hearing officer may, at any
time prior to the hearing date at the request of either party, direct witnesses
to appear and give testimony at the hearing.
       If the hearing officer determines by a preponderance of evidence that
the vehicle was used in connection with a violation, the hearing officer shall
enter a written order finding the owner civilly liable to the Village for the
administrative fee and requiring that the vehicle continue to be impounded
until the owner, lessee, or lienholder pays the administrative fee to the
Village plus towing and storage fees to the tow company. If the owner,
lienholder or lessee fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing officer shall
enter a default order in favor of the Village. Upon a fmding that seizure and
impoundment was not warranted, the hearing officer shall issue a written order
providing for the timely return of the vehicle, and return of cash bond without
deduction for any fees.
   (D)   Payment: If an administrative fee is imposed by the hearing officer,
such fee shall constitute a debt due and owing to the Village. If previous
payment was made for the adminh1trative fee as cash bond for the vehicle in
order to retrieve the vehicle from impound prior to the hearing, that fee shall
stand as payment for the administrative fee as imposed by the hearing officer.
If payment for the administrative fee has not yet been posted after an
administrative fee has been imposed by the hearing officer and the vehicle
remains impounded, the Village may seek to obtain a judgement on the debt and
enforce such judgement against the vehicle as provided by law. Except as
otherwise provided, a vehicle shall continue to be impounded until the
administrative fee is paid to the Village and any applicable towing and storage
fees are paid to the applicable tow company. Upon payment of the administrative
fee and applicable towing and storage fees, the vehicle shall be released to
the person legally entitled to possess it.
   (E)   Unclaimed Vehicle: Unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction,
if the administrative fee and towing and storage fees are not paid within
thirty-five (35) days after the owner, who is defaulted for failing to appear
at the administrative hearing, is served the decision of the hearing officer
imposing an administrative fee, the vehicle shall be deemed abandoned and shall
be disposed of in the manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed
vehicles under the Illinois Vehicle Code. In all other cases, if the
administrative fee and towing and storage fees are not paid within the thirty-
five (35) day period, or within thirty-five (35) days after an action seeking
administrative review has been resolved in favor of the Village, whichever is
applicable, the vehicle shall be deemed unclaimed and shall be disposed of in
the manner provided by law for the disposition of unclaimed vehicles.
   (F)   Possession of Vehicle: Except as otherwise specifically provided by
law or this section, no owner, lessee, lienholder, or other person shall be
legally entitled to take possession of an impounded vehicle until th~
administrative fee and applicable towing and storage fees have been paid.
However, whenever a lienholder has commenced foreclosure proceedings, the
vehicle may be given to that person upon a written agreement to refund to the
Village the administrative fee, plus towing and storage fees, from the net
proceeds of any foreclosure sale.
   (G)   Service: All notices and decisions may be served and shall become
effective upon personal service or upon deposit in the United States mail if
sent by certified mail return receipt requested.
   (H)   Judicial Review: The hearing officer's decision is subject to judicial
review under the administrative review law. (Ord. 10-1319, 4-15-2010; amd. Ord.
22-1708, 12-8-2022)
CHAPTER 22
OVERWEIGHT AND OVERSIZED VEHICLES
SECTION:
10-22-1: Definitions
10-22-2: Enforcement
10-22-3: Permits
10-22-4: Exemptions
10-22-5: Application For Permits
10-22-6: Indemnification And Insurance
10-22-7: Suspension And Reinstatement
10-22-8: Permit Fee Schedules
10-22-9: Fines And Bonds
10-22-1: DEFINITIONS:
 
                                      Permits are to be valid for a period of
LIMITED CONTINUOUS OPERATION PERMITS: not more than thirty (30) days and shall
                                      be the same vehicle, vehicle combination
                                      of like load.
POLICE DEPARTMENT:                    The Village of Bedford Park Police
                                      Department.
                                      Two (2) trips over the same route in
ROUND TRIP PERMIT:                    opposite directions. Round trip permits
                                      are valid for ten (10) consecutive days
                                      from the date of issuance.
                                      One move from the point of origin to the
                                      point of destination. Any additional
                                      stops between the point of origin and the
                                      point of destination are expressly
SINGLE TRIP PERMIT:                   prohibited. Single trip permits are valid
                                      for five (5) consecutive days from the
                                      date of issuance unless otherwise
                                      directed by the Police Department. (Ord.
                                      20-1645, 12-3-2020)
 
10-22-2: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in control of, to drive, to
park, or move on, or across or for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to be
parked, driven, or moved upon or across, any street or highway under the
jurisdiction of the Village of Bedford Park, any vehicle or combination of
vehicles exceeding the size and weight limitations contained in 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/15-102 (width), 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-103
(height), 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5-15/107 (length) and 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/15-111 (weight).
   (B)   Whenever the weight of vehicles permitted on a street under the
jurisdiction of the Village of Bedford Park is further limited by ordinance
from the limitations contained in subsection (A) above and signs indicating
such further limitations are posted, it shall be lawful to operate a vehicle
with a gross weight in excess of the weight limits imposed on such street
except for the purpose of making a delivery or picking up a load, in such case
the vehicle may be driven on the street for not more than the minimum distance
necessary for the purpose.
   (C)   Whenever any vehicle or combination of vehicles is operated in
violation of this chapter, the owner or driver of such vehicle shall be deemed
guilty of such violation and either may be prosecuted for such violation. (Ord.
20-1645, 12-3-2020)
10-22-3: PERMITS:
   (A)   A permit shall be required for the movement of any vehicle and/or non-
divisible load (one which cannot be reasonably disassembled) or combination of
vehicles on roadways and bridges with the jurisdiction of the Village of
Bedford Park which exceed the weight and dimension limits listed in the
Illinois Vehicle Code, 625 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/15-100 et seq.
   (B)   Permits shall be issued only in the name of a person, firm, business,
or corporation that owns and operates the transporting vehicle or that operates
the vehicle under a bona fide lease agreement.
   (C)   Permits for vehicles that are both overweight and/or oversize are
valid only for the route or routes specified in the issued permit.
   (D)   Permits are non-transferable and apply only to the permittee.
   (E)   The Village may issue revisions to permits:
      1.   To correct an error attributed to the Village;
      2.   To correct an error attributed to the applicant, discovered before
the move;
      3.   To adjust weights, dimension or routes as issued on the permit,
before the move is made.
   (F)   The permit, when issued, constitutes an agreement between the
permittee and the Village that the move described in the application will take
place only as described. The permittee has the responsibility to report to the
Village's Police Department any inaccuracies or errors on the part of either
the Village or the permittee before starting any move. Undertaking the move is
prima facie evidence of acceptance of the permit as issued and its' terms.
   (G)   The routing prescribed in the permit constitutes the sole extent of
the authority granted by the permit for the use of roads within the
jurisdiction of the Village, and any vehicle and/or load found to be off-route
will be considered off-route and without a permit. Permits shall be in the
driver's possession at all times unless otherwise directed by the Police
Department and presented upon demand to any and all Police Officers for the
purpose of inspection. Any off-route vehicle and load shall be required to
obtain a new permit or permits, as necessary, to authorize the movement back
onto the original permit routing.
   (H)   If required, arrangements shall be made by the permittee to have the
proper utilities notified, property moved, bridge or highway analysis performed
and completed in advance of any permit movement.
   (I)   All movements under the permit shall be made in accordance with all
applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances, rules and regulations.
   (J)   Permits are null and void if altered for the purpose of deception. The
permits issued under this chapter constitute the grant of a privilege by the
Village and may be denied or suspended for such reasons as the Village may deem
rationally related to its governmental interests including, but not limited to:
      1.   A permittee knowingly providing incorrect information in an
application for a permit;
      2.   A permittee, its agents, or employees operating on a permit which
has been altered for purposes of deception;
      3.   Non-compliance by permittee, its agents or employees with federal,
state, or local ordinances pertaining to the transport of goods or operation of
a vehicle engaged in the transport of goods;
      4.   Moving on Village streets without a valid permit as required under
this chapter. (Ord. 20-1645, 12-3-2020)
10-22-4: EXEMPTIONS:
Exemptions from the permit requirements of this chapter are the following:
   (A)   Fire department vehicles;
   (B)   Those vehicles operating under an emergency declaration;
   (C)   Village owned vehicles engaged in emergency utility repair;
   (D)   Equipment used for snow and ice removal, owned or operated by and
governmental body;
   (E)   Garbage or refuse trucks. (Ord. 20-1645, 12-3-2020)
10-22-5: APPLICATION FOR PERMITS:
   (A)   All applications for permits shall be given full consideration.
Permits for proposed moves may be issued:
      1.   When the Village roadways and bridges will not be unduly damaged;
and
      2.   When the safety of the traveling public will be adequately
protected.
   (B)   The Village is under no obligation of any kind to issue a permit and
the application shall have no recourse against the Village or its officials if
a denial occurs.
   (C)   Applications for a permit to move an oversized and/or overweight
vehicle, and/or load, must be made to the Police Department. The following
information shall be included on the permit application.
      1.   Company/permittee name.
      2.   Company/permittee address.
      3.   Company/permittee telephone and fax number, if applicable.
      4.   Company/permittee email address.
      5.   Make and model of hauling vehicle or power unit.
      6.   License state and plate number.
      7.   Description of load to be moved and if the load is carrying an
attachment.
      8.   Maximum dimensions, gross weight, and axle weights of vehicle
including load.
      9.   Roads under the jurisdiction of the Village to be traveled.
      10.   Any special conditions. (Ord. 20-1645, 12-3-2020)
10-22-6: INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE:
   (A)   The permittee shall fully assume liability for any and all damages to
streets, bridges, Village owned appurtenances and private or public property
caused directly or indirectly by the transportation of vehicles and objects
authorized under the permit. The measure of liability is the cost for all
repairs or replacement or property damaged by the permittee.
   (B)   The permittee shall fully indemnify and hold harmless the Village, its
officials, officers or agents from any costs, judgements or settlements,
including attorney fees, arising from physical injuries, including loss of
life, or damage to or loss of property related to acts or omissions by
permittee, its officers, or agents, or employees pursuant to the permit. (Ord.
20-1645, 12-3-2020)
10-22-7: SUSPENSION AND REINSTATEMENT:
   (A)   Suspension of a current permit shall be for the time determined
appropriate by the Police Department; however, reinstatement may be made upon
conditions determined by the Village and payment of all outstanding settlements
or judgements.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or designee shall administer and enforce this
chapter and shall have the authority to grant, deny, suspend, or reinstate
permits. Any applicant or permittee denied a permit or who has had a permit
suspended, upon request, shall be given a hearing before the Chief of Police.
   (C)   No permits shall be issued to an applicant or company who has
outstanding fees or payments due the Village. (Ord. 20-1645, 12-3-2020)
10-22-8: PERMIT FEE SCHEDULES:
   (A)   Permit Fees: The Village with respect to highways under its
jurisdiction shall collect a fee as shown herein from applicants for the
issuance of a permit to operate or move a vehicle or combination of vehicle(s),
and/or loads, which fit the categories shown. Any axle or gross weight greater
than the maximum weights set forth in the fee schedule are subject to special
assessment and investigation to determine appropriate fees.
   (B)   Fee Schedule:
 
Weight (with load)*         Single Trip (5 days) Round Trip (10 days)
Up to 100,000 lbs.          $75.00               $150.00
100,001 lbs. - 120,000 lbs. $100.00              $200.00
120,001 lbs. - 150,000 lbs. $125.00              $250.00
Over 150,000 lbs.           $150.00              $300.00
 
 
Over-dimension (only) Single Trip (5 days) Round Trip (10 days)
                     $25.00               $50.00
 
 
Limited Continuous Operation (LCO)
Daily   $50.00
Weekly  $250.00
Monthly $500.00
 
   (C)    Exemption. Any truck providing emergency repair to a vehicle or train
within the corporate boundaries of the Village shall only be responsible for
paying the annual permit fee as previously set forth in Title 10, Chapter 22,
Section 6. (Ord. 20-1645, 12-3-2020; amd. Ord. 21-1674, 9-2-2021)
10-22-9: FINES AND BONDS:
   A.   Truck overweight fine/bond schedule is in accordance with 625 Illinois
Compiled Statutes 5/15-113.
Overweight Category Specific Fine
Overweight Category      Specific Fine
2,000 pounds or less     $100.00
2,001- 2,500 pounds      $270.00
2,501- 3,000 pounds      $330.00
3,001- 3,500 pounds      $520.00
3,501- 4,000 pounds      $600.00
4,001- 4,500 pounds      $850.00
4,501- 5,000 pounds      $950.00
                         $1,500 for the first 5,000 pounds overweight and $150
5,001- or greater pounds for each additional increment of 500 pounds overweight
                         or fraction thereof
 
(Ord. 20-1645, 12-3-2020)
CHAPTER 23
PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
SECTION:
10-23-1: Parking Restrictions - Parking For Individuals With Disabilities
10-23-1: PARKING RESTRICTIONS - PARKING FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES:
   (A)   Posting of Signs. The superintendent of public works is hereby
authorized to erect signs on any residential street to prohibit parking except
by vehicles displaying a person with a disability or disabled veterans state
registration plate or a person with a disability parking decal or device issued
pursuant to Section 3-609, 3-616 or Section 11-1301.2 of the Illinois Vehicle
Code.
   (B)   Application Process. An application shall be required for an initial
authorization and revocable permit for a restricted parking space created
pursuant to this section. The initial application shall be made to the Village
Clerk. The applicant shall provide proof of assurances satisfactory to the
Village that the applicant has met and shall continue to meet all of the
following conditions as long as restricted parking is authorized pursuant to
this section.
   (C)   Review of Application. Upon receipt of an application, the Village
Clerk shall forward such application to the superintendent of public works who
shall conduct a feasibility parking survey based on the application request.
Upon completion of the parking survey, the superintendent of public works shall
make a recommendation to the Village Clerk to either install a restricted
parking space or deny said application request based on the parking survey
results. The Village Clerk shall also forward such application to the Chief of
Police for verification of the information contained in the initial
application.
   (D)   Approval by Board of Trustees. All restricted parking spaces created
pursuant to this section shall require final approval by a vote of the Village
Board to be effective.
   (E)   Notification to Applicant. The Village Clerk shall provide written
notice to the applicant advising of the decision to either accept or deny the
initial application request for a disabled parking space.
   (F)   Issuance of Permit. Upon final approval for a restricted parking space
by a vote of the Village Board, the Village Clerk shall issue a revocable
permit for the restricted parking space and authorize the superintendent of
public works to install a sign and street markings to identify the restricted
parking space. The issuance of the permit and installation of the sign under
this subparagraph does not confer any property rights to the applicant and the
sign may be removed and the permit may be revoked at any time by the Village
without consent of the applicant.
   (G)   Renewal of Permit. Any restricted parking permit issued shall be
renewed annually with the Village Clerk by resubmitting an application for a
restricted parking space. If a renewal application is not received within
thirty (30)-days from the expiration of the permit, the Village Clerk is
authorized to revoke the permit and remove any signs and/or street markings
designating such restricted parking space.
   (H)   Location of Reserved Parking Space. The reserved space for disabled
parking shall be located in front of the applicant's residence and as close as
is possible to the frontage of the residential property where the disabled
person resides, but it shall not be permitted in such a manner as to unduly
harm or cause hardship to other residents residing in the area. No reserved
disabled parking space shall be permitted for any household or any person
therein if any member thereof owns, rents or has regular use of property that
has located thereon a private driveway that gives convenient access, as
determined by the superintendent of public works, to the residential property
where the disabled person resides. No reserved disabled parking space shall be
permitted for any convenient access, as determined by the superintendent of
public works, to the residential property where the disabled person resides. No
more than one reserved disabled parking space shall be permitted per home or
dwelling unit and the dimensions of the reserved space shall be determined upon
application, but shall not exceed twenty-five (25) feet in length parallel to
the curb.
   (I)   Designation. The space reserved for disabled parking shall be
designated by a sign reading "Reserved Handicapped Parking" and shall be
delineated by two (2) painted lines at either end of the space.
   (J)   Unlawful Parking. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle in any
space designated by signage as a person with a disability parking space or in
any parking stall of a private or public parking lot designated by the lot
owner or his agent as reserved for person with disability parking unless the
vehicle clearly displays valid person with a disability or disabled veteran
state registration plates or a valid person with a disability parking placard
or device issued pursuant to Section 3-609, 3-616 or Section 11-1301.2 of the
Illinois Vehicle Code, and such vehicle is operated by the person to whom the
special registration plates, special placard or device was issued or a properly
licensed driver acting under the express direction of the person with a
disability while the person with a disability is present at the time the
parking privileges are being used. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle on
or in which there is displayed an expired, or otherwise invalid person with a
disability or disabled veteran state registration plate or person with a
disability parking placard or device issued pursuant to Section 3-609, 3-616 or
Section 11.1301.2 of the Illinois Vehicle Code. In addition, it shall be
unlawful to park in a restricted parking space created under this section
unless the vehicle clearly displays a valid placard or other device issued
under that subsection, and the vehicle is operated by the permit holder, or by
a properly licensed driver acting under the express direction of the permit
holder while the permit holder is present at the time the parking privileges
are being used.
   (K)   Access Aisle Parking. It shall be unlawful to park any vehicle,
regardless of the presence of a valid disability placard, device or license
plates, to park in an access aisle (striped area) of any space designated as a
disability parking space.
   (L)   Disability License Plate. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, any motor vehicle bearing a valid person with a disability license
plate or a person with disability parking decal or device containing the
international symbol of access issued to persons with disabilities by any local
authority, state, district, territory or foreign country shall be recognized as
a valid license plate or device and receive the same parking privileges as
provided in this section.
   (M)   Citations/Towing. The Village Police Department shall enforce this
section through the issuance of citations and the towing of vehicles that are
in violation of any of the provisions of this section.
   (N)   Penalty. Any person found liable or guilty of violating the provisions
of subsection (J) or (K) shall be fined not less than two hundred and fifty
($250.00) and no more than three hundred and fifty dollars ($350.00) for each
offense. (Ord. 21-1666, 5-6-2021)
TITLE XI
GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
11-1-1: Penalty
11-1-2: Default; Labor
11-1-3: License
11-1-4: Application
11-1-5: Liability Of Officers
11-1-1: PENALTY 1 :
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code shall be fined
in a sum not to exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for any one offense and
the person may be confined in the village or county jail for a period of not
more than six (6) months. (Ord. 623, 1-17-1974)
 
Notes
1 1. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-1, as amended July 1963.
11-1-2: DEFAULT; LABOR 1 :
Any person in default of payment of any fine or costs imposed may be committed
to the village or county jail until the fine, penalty and costs are fully paid.
Any person imprisoned under the provisions of this chapter may be put to work
for the benefit of the village for the term of his imprisonment. The committed
person shall be allowed, exclusive of board, a credit of five dollars ($5.00)
for each days work.
No female prisoner shall be required to work in public, nor shall any prisoner
be required to work on Sunday. (1965 Code)
 
Notes
1 2. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-9.
11-1-3: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this code any
license previously issued to him by the village may be revoked as provided by
ordinance. (1965 Code)
11-1-4: APPLICATION 1 :
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which is of a continuing
nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this code the prosecuting officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one recovery shall be had against the
same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or
permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other
penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1965 Code)
 
Notes
1 3. 65 ILCS 5/1-2-7.
11-1-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the board to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1965
Code)
TITLE XII
EFFECTIVE DATE
CHAPTER 1
EFFECTIVE DATE
SECTION:
12-1-1: Effective Date
12-1-1: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This ordinance, the same being herein designated as the village code of the
village of Bedford Park, shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage and approval and publication in book form as provided by statute.
   Passed: April 30, A.D. 1965
   Approved: April 30, A.D. 1965
President of the Board of Trustees of the Village of Bedford Park, County of
Cook and State of Illinois
ATTEST:
   Village Clerk
TITLE XIII
FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
DEVELOPMENT IN SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS
SECTION:
13-1-1: Purpose
13-1-2: Definitions
13-1-3: General Requirements
13-1-4: Duties Of The Enforcement Official
13-1-5: Base Flood Elevation
13-1-6: Occupation And Use Of Flood Fringe Areas
13-1-7: Occupation And Use Of Designated Floodways
13-1-8: Occupation And Use Of Special Flood Hazard Areas Where Floodways Are
Not Identified
13-1-9: Permitting Requirements Applicable To All Floodplain Areas And
Protection Of Buildings
13-1-10: Other Development Requirements
13-1-11: Variances
13-1-12: Disclaimer Of Liability
13-1-13: Penalty
13-1-14: Abrogation And Greater Restrictions
13-1-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter is enacted pursuant to the police powers granted to this village
by 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/1-2-1, 5/11-12-12, 5/11-30-2, 5/11-30-8, and
5/11-31-2 (1994).
   (A)   To meet the requirements of 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/18g
rivers, lakes and streams act;
   (B)   To assure that new development does not increase the flood or drainage
hazards to others, or create unstable conditions susceptible to erosion;
   (C)   To protect new buildings and major improvements to buildings from
flood damage;
   (D)   To protect human life and health from the hazards of flooding;
   (E)   To lessen the burden on the taxpayer for flood control projects,
repairs to flood damaged public facilities and utilities, and flood rescue and
relief operations;
   (F)   To make federally subsidized flood insurance available for property in
the village by fulfilling the requirements of the national flood insurance
program;
   (G)   To comply with the rules and regulations of the national flood
insurance program codified as 44 CFR 59-79, as amended. (Ord. 00-1075, 12-21-
2000)
13-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions are adopted:
ACT: "An act in relation to the regulation of the rivers, lakes and streams of
the state of Illinois", 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5/5 et seq.
APPLICANT: Any person, firm, corporation or agency which submits an
application.
APPROPRIATE USE: Only uses of the designated floodway that are permissible and
will be considered for permit issuance. The only uses that will be allowed are
as specified in subsection
13-1-7(B) of this chapter.
BASE FLOOD: The flood having a one percent (1%) probability of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. The base flood is also known as the 100-year
frequency flood event. Application of the base flood elevation at any location
is as defined in section
13-1-5 of this chapter.
BUILDING: A structure that is principally aboveground and is enclosed by walls
and a roof. The term includes a gas or liquid storage tank, a manufactured
home, mobile home or a prefabricated building. This term also includes
recreational vehicles and travel trailers to be installed on a site for more
than one hundred eighty (180) days, unless fully licensed and ready for highway
use.
COMPENSATORY STORAGE: An artificially excavated, hydraulically equivalent
volume of storage within the SFHA used to balance the loss of natural flood
storage capacity when artificial fill or structures are placed within the
floodplain. The uncompensated loss of natural floodplain storage can increase
off site floodwater elevations and flows.
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF A DESIGNATED FLOODWAY MAP CHANGE: Preconstruction
approval by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of a proposed change to the floodway map. This
preconstruction approval, pursuant to this chapter, gives assurances to the
property owner that once an appropriate use is constructed according to
permitted plans, the floodway map can be changed, as previously agreed, upon
review and acceptance of as built plans.
CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION (CLOMR): A letter which indicates that FEMA
will revise base flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries
or floodway as shown on an effective flood hazard boundary map or flood
insurance rate map, once the as built plans are submitted and approved.
DAM: All obstructions, wall embankments or barriers, together with their
abutments and appurtenant works, if any, constructed for the purpose of storing
or diverting water or creating a pool. Underground water storage tanks are not
included.
DESIGNATED FLOODWAY: The channel, including on stream lakes, and that portion
of the floodplain adjacent to a stream or watercourse as designated by IDNR/
OWR, which is needed to store and convey the existing 100-year frequency flood
discharge with no more than a 0.1 foot increase in stage due to the loss of
flood conveyance or storage, and no more than a ten percent (10%) increase in
velocities.
   (A)   The floodways are designated for 71st Street ditch, Des Plaines River,
sanitary drainage and ship canal, Illinois and Michigan Canal on the following
map number 17031C and panels 0487, 0488, 0495, 0515 and 606 dated August 19,
2008, of the countywide flood insurance rate map for Cook County prepared by
FEMA.
   (B)   The floodways for those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are
within the one and one-half (11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the
village that may be annexed into the village are designated for 71st Street
ditch, Des Plaines River, sanitary drainage and ship canal, Illinois and
Michigan Canal on the following map number 17031C and panels 0487, 0488, 0495,
0515 and 606 dated August 19, 2008, of the countywide flood insurance rate map
for Cook County prepared by FEMA.
   (C)   To locate the designated floodway boundary on any site, the designated
floodway boundary should be scaled off the designated floodway map and located
on a site plan, using reference marks common to both maps. Where interpretation
is needed to determine the exact location of the designated floodway boundary,
IDNR/OWR should be contacted for the interpretation.
DEVELOPMENT: Any manmade change to real estate, including:
   (A)   Construction, reconstruction, repair, or placement of a building or
any addition to a building.
   (B)   Installing a manufactured home on a site, preparing a site for a
manufactured home, or installing a travel trailer or recreational vehicle on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days. If the travel trailer or
recreational vehicle is on site for less than one hundred eighty (180) days, it
must be fully licensed and ready for highway use.
   (C)   Drilling, mining, installing utilities, construction of roads,
bridges, or similar projects.
   (D)   Construction or erection of levees, walls, fences, dams, or culverts;
channel modification; filling, dredging, grading, excavating, paving, or other
nonagricultural alterations of the ground surface; storage of materials;
deposit of solid or liquid waste.
   (E)   Any other activity of man that might change the direction, height, or
velocity of flood or surface water, including extensive vegetation removal.
Development does not include maintenance of existing buildings and facilities
such as reroofing or resurfacing of roads when there is no increase in
elevation, or gardening, plowing, and similar agricultural practices that do
not involve filling, grading, or construction of levees.
ELEVATION CERTIFICATES: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify the
elevation to which a building has been elevated.
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS: Organizations which are exempt from this chapter per
Illinois Compiled Statutes (ILCS) including state, federal or local units of
government.
EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed before April 1,
1990.
EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: The preparation
of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including the installation of
utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site grading or the
pouring of concrete pads).
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency and its regulations at 44 CFR 59-79
effective as of October 1, 1999. This incorporation does not include any later
editions or amendments.
FLOOD: A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of
normally dry land areas from overflow of inland or tidal waves, or the unusual
and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the designated
floodway.
FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAPS (FIRM): A map prepared by FEMA that depicts the
special flood hazard area (SFHA) within a community. This map includes
insurance rate zones and floodplains and may or may not depict floodways.
FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE): The elevation of the base flood or 100-year
frequency flood at any given location in the SFHA.
FLOODPLAIN: That land typically adjacent to a body of water with ground surface
elevations at or below the base flood or the 100-year frequency flood
elevation. Floodplains may also include detached special flood hazard areas,
ponding areas, etc. The floodplain is also known as the special flood hazard
area (SFHA).
   (A)   The floodplains are those lands within the jurisdiction of the village
that are subject to inundation by the base flood or 100-year frequency flood.
The SFHAs of the village are generally identified as such on the following map
number 17031C and panels 0487, 0488, 0495, 0515 and 606 dated August 19, 2008,
of the countywide flood insurance rate map for Cook County prepared by FEMA.
   (B)   The SFHAs of those parts of unincorporated Cook County that are within
the one and one-half (11/2) mile extraterritorial jurisdiction of the village
or that may be annexed into the village are designated for 71st Street ditch,
Des Plaines River, sanitary drainage and ship canal, Illinois and Michigan
Canal on the following map number 17031C and panels 0487, 0488, 0495, 0515 and
606 dated August 19, 2008, of the countywide flood insurance rate map for Cook
County prepared by FEMA.
FLOODPROOFING: Any combination of structural and nonstructural additions,
changes or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate flood damage to
real estate or improved real property, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and their contents.
FLOODPROOFING CERTIFICATE: A form published by FEMA that is used to certify
that a building has been designed and constructed to be structurally dry
floodproofed to the flood protection elevation.
FREEBOARD: An increment of elevation added to the base flood elevation to
provide a factor of safety for uncertainties in calculations, unknown localized
conditions, wave actions and unpredictable effects such as those caused by ice
or debris jams.
HISTORIC STRUCTURE: Any structure that is:
   (A)   Listed individually in the national register of historic places or
preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior as meeting the
requirements for individual listing on the national register;
   (B)   Certified or preliminarily determined by the secretary of the interior
as contributing to the historic district or a district preliminarily determined
by the secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
   (C)   Individually listed on the state inventory of historic places by the
Illinois historic preservation agency;
   (D)   Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places that has
been certified by the Illinois historic preservation agency.
HYDROLOGIC AND HYDRAULIC CALCULATIONS: Engineering analysis which determine
expected flood flows and flood elevations based on land characteristics and
rainfall events.
IDNR/OWR: Illinois department of natural resources, office of water resources.
LETTER OF MAP AMENDMENT (LOMA): Official determination by FEMA that a specific
structure is not in a 100-year flood zone; amends the effective flood hazard
boundary map (FHBM) or FIRM.
LETTER OF MAP REVISION (LOMR): Letter that revises base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevations, flood insurance rate zones, flood boundaries or
floodways as shown on an effective FHBM or FIRM.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designated for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
manufactured homes also includes park trailers, travel trailers and other
similar vehicles placed on site for more than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days. The term "manufactured home" does not include a "recreational
vehicle".
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: A parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two (2) or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
MITIGATION: Includes those measures necessary to minimize the negative effects
which floodplain development activities might have on the public health, safety
and welfare. Examples of mitigation include compensatory storage, soil erosion
and sedimentation control, and channel restoration. Mitigation may also include
those activities taken to reduce a structure's susceptibility to flooding.
NGVD: National geodetic vertical datum of 1929. Reference surface set by the
national geodetic survey deduced from a continental adjustment of all existing
adjustments in 1929.
NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION: Manufactured home park or
subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
which the manufactured homes are to be affixed (including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads) has been completed on or after April
1, 1990.
PUBLIC BODIES OF WATERS: All open public streams and lakes capable of being
navigated by watercraft, in whole or in part, for commercial uses and purposes,
and all lakes, rivers, and streams which in their natural condition were
capable of being improved and made navigable, or that are connected with or
discharge their waters into navigable lakes or rivers within, or upon the
borders of the state of Illinois, together with all bayous, sloughs,
backwaters, and submerged lands that are open to the main channel or body of
water directly accessible thereto.
PUBLIC FLOOD CONTROL PROJECT: A flood control project which will be operated
and maintained by a public agency to reduce flood damages to existing buildings
and structures which includes a hydrologic and hydraulic study of the existing
and proposed conditions of the watershed. Nothing in this definition shall
preclude the design, engineering, construction or financing, in whole or in
part, of a flood control project by persons or parties who are not public
agencies.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE OR TRAVEL TRAILER: A vehicle which is:
   (A)   Built on a single chassis;
   (B)   Four hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest
horizontal projection;
   (C)   Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty
truck; and
   (D)   Designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as
temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered in the state of Illinois,
under the Illinois land surveyors act 1 .
REGISTERED PROFESSIONAL ENGINEER: An engineer registered in the state of
Illinois, under the Illinois professional engineering practice act 2 .
REPAIR, REMODELING OR MAINTENANCE: Development activities which do not result
in any increases in the outside dimensions of a building or any changes to the
dimensions of a structure.
RIVERINE SFHA: Any SFHA subject to flooding from a river, creek, intermittent
stream, ditch, on stream lake system or any other identified channel. This term
does not include areas subject to flooding from lakes, ponding areas, areas of
sheet flow, or other areas not subject to over bank flooding.
SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA (SFHA): Any base flood area subject to flooding from
a river, creek, intermittent stream, ditch, or any other identified channel or
ponding and shown on a flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map as
zone A, AO, A1-30, AE, A99, AH, VO, V30, VE, V, M, E, D, or X.
STRUCTURE: The results of a manmade change to the land constructed on or below
the ground, including the construction, reconstruction or placement of a
building or any addition to a building; installing a manufactured home on a
site; preparing a site for a manufactured home or installing a travel trailer
on a site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days unless they are fully
licensed and ready for highway use.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: A building is considered substantially damaged when it
sustains damage from any cause (fire, flood, earthquake, etc.), whereby the
cost of fully restoring the structure would equal or exceed fifty percent (50%)
of the predamage market value of the structure, regardless of the actual repair
work performed.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: (A) Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure either: 1) before the improvement or repair is
started, or 2) if the structure has been damaged, and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
   (B)   For the purposes of this definition "substantial improvement" is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure regardless of the actual work
performed.
   (C)   The term does not however, include either: 1) any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure
safe living conditions, or 2) any alteration of a "historic structure",
provided that the alteration will not preclude the structure's continued
designation as a historic structure.
TRANSITION SECTION: Reaches of the stream or floodway where water flows from a
narrow cross section to a wide cross section or vice versa. (Ord. 00-1075, 12-
21-2000; amd. Ord. 08-1269, 7-14-2008)
 
Notes
1 1. 225 ILCS 330/1 et seq.
2 1. 225 ILCS 325/1 et seq.
13-1-3: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   The village engineer or other village representative as appointed by
the president shall be responsible for fulfilling all of the duties listed in
section
13-1-4 of this chapter.
   (B)   To fulfill those duties, the village engineer or other village
representative as appointed by the president first should use the criteria
listed in section
13-1-5, "Base Flood Elevation", of this chapter to determine whether the
development site is located within a floodplain.
   (C)   Once it has been determined that a site is located within a
floodplain, the village engineer or other village representative as appointed
by the president must determine whether the development site is within a flood
fringe, a designated floodway, or within an SFHA or floodplain for which no
floodway has been identified.
      1.   If the site is within a flood fringe, the village engineer or other
village representative as appointed by the president shall require that the
minimum requirements of section
13-1-6 of this chapter be met.
      2.   If the site is within a floodway, the village engineer or other
village representative as appointed by the president shall require that the
minimum requirements of section
13-1-7 of this chapter be met.
      3.   If the site is located within an SFHA or floodplain for which no
detailed study has been completed and approved, the village engineer or other
village representative as appointed by the president shall require that the
minimum requirements of section
13-1-8 of this chapter be met.
   (D)   In addition, the general requirements of section
13-1-9 of this chapter shall be met for all developments meeting the
requirements of section
13-1-6,
13-1-7 or
13-1-8 of this chapter.
   (E)   The village engineer or other village representative as appointed by
the president shall assure that all subdivision proposals shall meet the
requirements of section
13-1-10 of this chapter.
   (F)   If a variance is to be granted for a proposal, the village engineer or
other village representative as appointed by the president shall review the
requirements of section
13-1-11 of this chapter to make sure they are met. In addition, the village
engineer or other village representative as appointed by the president shall
complete all notification requirements.
   (G)   In order to assure that property owners obtain permits as required in
this chapter, the village engineer or other village representative as appointed
by the president may take any and all actions as outlined in section
13-1-13 of this chapter. (Ord. 00-1075, 12-21-2000)
13-1-4: DUTIES OF THE ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL:
The village engineer or other village representative as appointed by the
president shall be responsible for the general administration and enforcement
of this chapter which shall include the following:
   (A)   Determining The Floodplain Designation:
      1.   Check all new development sites to determine whether they are in a
special flood hazard area (SFHA).
      2.   If they are in an SFHA, determine whether they are in a floodway,
flood fringe or in a floodplain for which a detailed study has not been
conducted and which drains more than one square mile.
   (B)   Professional Engineer Review:
      1.   If the development site is within a floodway or in a floodplain for
which a detailed study has not been conducted and which drains more than one
square mile, the permit shall be referred to a registered professional engineer
under the employ or contract of the village for review to ensure that the
development meets section
13-1-7 or
13-1-8 of this chapter.
      2.   In the case of an appropriate use, the PE shall state in writing
that the development meets the requirements of section
13-1-7 of this chapter.
   (C)   Dam Safety Requirements:
      1.   Ensure that an IDNR/OWR permit has been issued or a letter
indicating no permit is required, if the proposed development activity includes
construction of a "dam" as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Regulated dams may include weirs, restrictive culverts or
impoundment structures.
   (D)   Other Permit Requirements: Ensure that any and all required federal,
state and local permits are received prior to the issuance of a floodplain
development permit.
   (E)   Plan Review And Permit Issuance:
      1.   Ensure that all development activities within the SFHAs of the
jurisdiction of the village meet the requirements of this chapter; and
      2.   Issue a floodplain development permit in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and other regulations of this community when the
development meets the conditions of this chapter.
   (F)   Inspection Review: Inspect all development projects before, during and
after construction to assure proper elevation of the structure and to ensure
compliance with the provisions of this chapter;
   (G)   Elevation And Floodproofing Certificates: Maintain permit files
including:
      1.   An elevation certificate certifying the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of a residential or nonresidential building subject
to section
13-1-9 of this chapter; and/or
      2.   The elevation to which a nonresidential building has been
floodproofed, using a floodproofing certificate, for all buildings subject to
section
13-1-9 of this chapter.
   (H)   Records For Public Inspection: Maintain for public inspection and
furnish upon request base flood data, SFHA and designated floodway maps, copies
of federal or state permit documents, variance documentation, conditional
letter of map revision, letter of map revision, letter of map amendment and "as
built" elevation and floodproofing and/or elevation certificates for all
buildings constructed subject to this chapter.
   (I)   State Permits: Ensure that construction authorization has been granted
by IDNR/OWR, for all development projects subject to sections
13-1-7 and
13-1-8 of this chapter, unless enforcement responsibility has been delegated to
the village. However, the following review approvals are not delegated to the
village and shall require review or permits from IDNR/OWR:
      1.   Organizations which are exempt from this chapter, as per the
Illinois Compiled Statutes;
      2.   IDNR/OWR projects, dams or impoundment structures as defined in
section
13-1-2 of this chapter and all other state, federal or local unit of government
projects, including projects of the village and county, except for those
projects meeting the requirements of subsection
13-1-7(B)7 of this chapter;
      3.   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, per subsection
13-1-7(B)3(e) of this chapter;
      4.   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to subsection
13-1-7(B)3(d) of this chapter;
      5.   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
compensatory storage as indicated in subsections
13-1-7(B)3(a), (B)3(b), and (B)3(h) of this chapter;
      6.   Permit issuance of structures within, under, or over publicly
navigable rivers, lakes and streams;
      7.   Any changes in the base flood elevation or floodway locations; and
      8.   Base flood elevation determinations where none now exist.
   (J)   Cooperation With Other Agencies:
      1.   Cooperate with state and federal floodplain management agencies to
improve base flood or 100-year frequency flood and floodway data and to improve
the administration of this chapter;
      2.   Submit data to IDNR/OWR and FEMA for proposed revisions of a
regulatory map;
      3.   Submit reports as required for the national flood insurance program;
and
      4.   Notify FEMA of any proposed amendments to this chapter.
   (K)   Promulgate Regulations: Promulgate rules and regulations as necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter, subject however to
the review and approval of IDNR/OWR and FEMA for any chapter changes. (Ord. 00-
1075, 12-21-2000)
13-1-5: BASE FLOOD ELEVATION:
   (A)   This chapter's protection standard is based on the flood insurance
study for the village.
      1.   If a base flood elevation or 100-year frequency flood elevation is
not available for a particular site, then the protection standard shall be
according to the best existing data available in the Illinois state water
survey's floodplain information repository that has been approved by IDNR/OWR
and FEMA.
      2.   When a party disagrees with the best available data, he/she may
finance the detailed engineering study needed to replace existing data with
better data and submit it to IDNR/OWR and FEMA. (Ord. 00-1075, 12-21-2000)
   (B)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
71st Street ditch, Des Plaines River, sanitary drainage and ship canal,
Illinois and Michigan Canal shall be delineated on the 100-year flood profiles
in the countywide flood insurance study for Cook County prepared by FEMA and
dated August 19, 2008, and such amendments to such study and maps as may be
prepared from time to time.
   (C)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for the SFHAs of
those parts of Cook County that are within the extraterritorial jurisdiction of
the village or that may be annexed into the village shall be delineated on the
100-year flood profiles in the countywide flood insurance study for Cook County
prepared by FEMA and dated August 19, 2008, and such amendments or revisions to
such study and maps as may be prepared from time to time. (Ord. 08-1269, 7-14-
2008)
   (D)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each SFHA
delineated as an "AH zone" or "AO zone" shall be that elevation (or depth)
delineated on the countywide flood insurance rate map of Cook County.
   (E)   The base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for each of the
remaining SFHAs delineated as an "A zone" on the countywide flood insurance
rate map of Cook County shall be according to the best existing data available
in the Illinois state water survey floodplain information repository.
      1.   When no base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation exists, the
base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation for a riverine SFHA shall be
determined from a backwater model, such as HEC-II, WSP-2, or a dynamic model
such as HIP.
      2.   The flood flows used in the hydraulic models shall be obtained from
a hydrologic model, such as HEC-I, TR-20, or HIP, or by techniques presented in
various publications prepared by the United States geological survey for
estimating peak flood discharges.
      3.   Along any watercourses draining more than one square mile, the above
analyses shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for approval. Once approved it must be
submitted to the Illinois state water survey floodplain information repository
for filing.
      4.   For a nonriverine SFHA, the base flood elevation shall be the
historic flood of record, unless calculated by a detailed engineering study and
approved by IDNR/OWR for drainage areas greater than one square mile. (Ord. 00-
1075, 12-21-2000)
13-1-6: OCCUPATION AND USE OF FLOOD FRINGE AREAS:
Development in and/or filling of the flood fringe will be permitted if
protection is provided against the base flood or 100-year frequency flood by
proper elevation, and compensatory storage, and other applicable provisions of
this chapter. No use will be permitted which adversely affects the capacity of
drainage facilities or systems. Developments located within the flood fringe
shall meet the requirements of this section, along with the requirements of
section
13-1-9 of this chapter.
   (A)   Development Permit:
      1.   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body not exempted by
state law shall commence any development in the SFHA without first obtaining a
development permit from the village engineer or other village representative as
appointed by the president.
      2.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the village engineer or other village representative as appointed
by the president.
         (a)   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale, showing property line dimensions and legal description for the
property and sealed by a licensed engineer, architect or land surveyor;
existing grade elevations in MSL, 1929 adjustment datum or NGVD and all changes
in grade resulting from excavation or filling; the location and dimensions of
all buildings and additions to buildings.
         (b)   For all proposed buildings, the elevation of the lowest floor
(including basement) and lowest adjacent grade shall be shown on the submitted
plans and the development will be subject to the requirements of section
13-1-9 of this chapter.
      3.   Upon receipt of a development permit application, the village
engineer or other village representative as appointed by the president shall
compare the elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation.
         (a)   Any development located on land that can be shown to be higher
than the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate map and which
has not been filled after the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
without a permit as required by this chapter is not in the SFHA and, therefore,
not subject to the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The village engineer or other village representative as
appointed by the president shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification.
      4.   The village engineer or other village representative as appointed by
the president shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of
all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or permit not required
letters that may be required for this type of activity. The village engineer or
other village representative as appointed by the president shall not issue a
permit unless all other federal, state, and local permits have been obtained.
   (B)   Preventing Increased Damages: No development in the flood fringe shall
create a threat to public health and safety.
      1.   Use Of Fill To Elevate: If fill is being used to elevate the site
above the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation, the applicant shall
submit sufficient data and obtain a letter of map revision (LOMR) from FEMA for
the purpose of removing the site from the floodplain.
      2.   Compensatory Storage:
         (a)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         (b)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the volume of
storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         (c)   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall
be made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         (d)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
         (e)   All such excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and
openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 00-1075, 12-21-2000)
13-1-7: OCCUPATION AND USE OF DESIGNATED FLOODWAYS:
This section applies to proposed development, redevelopment, site modification
or building modification within a designated floodway. The designated floodway
for 71st Street ditch, Des Plaines River, sanitary drainage and ship canal,
Illinois and Michigan Canal shall be as delineated on the designated floodway
maps designated by IDNR/OWR according to and referenced in section
13-1-2 of this chapter. Only those uses and structures will be permitted which
meet the criteria in this section. All floodway modifications shall be the
minimum necessary to accomplish the purpose of the project. The development
shall also meet the requirements of section
13-1-9 of this chapter.
   (A)   Development Permit: No person, firm, corporation or governmental body
not exempted by state law shall commence any development in a floodway without
first obtaining a development permit from the village engineer or other village
representative as appointed by the president and IDNR/OWR.
      1.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the village engineer or other village representative as appointed
by the president. The application shall include the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway map, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
         (c)   Name of stream or body of water affected;
         (d)   Description of proposed activity;
         (e)   Statement of purpose of proposed activity;
         (f)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
         (g)   Name and mailing address of the owner of the subject property if
different from the applicant;
         (h)   Signature of the applicant or the applicant's agent;
         (i)   If the applicant is a corporation, the president or other
authorized officer shall sign the application form;
         (j)   If the applicant is a partnership, each partner shall sign the
application form; and
         (k)   If the applicant is a land trust, the trust officer shall sign
the name of the trustee by him (her) as trust officer. A disclosure affidavit
shall be filed with the application, identifying each beneficiary of the trust
by name and address and defining the respective interests therein.
         (l)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which include
as a minimum:
            (1)   A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the
waterway, boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic
or numerical scale, and north arrow;
            (2)   A plan view of the project and engineering study reach
showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the
structure or work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or NGVD
or North American vertical datum, adjacent property lines and ownership,
drainage and flood control easements, proposed activity and navigation channel
(when the proposed construction is near a commercially navigable body of
water), designated floodway limit, floodplain limit, location and orientation
of cross sections, north arrow, and a graphic or numerical scale;
            (3)   Cross section views of the project and engineering study
reach showing existing and proposed conditions including principal dimensions
of the work as shown in plan view, existing and proposed elevations, normal
water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation, 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and graphic or numerical scales (horizontal and vertical);
            (4)   A copy of the designated floodway map, marked to reflect any
proposed change in the designated floodway location.
         (m)   Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or approval
letters that may be required for this type of development.
         (n)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the permit criteria of subsection (B)
of this section.
         (o)   If the designated floodway delineation, base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation will change due to the proposed project, the
application will not be considered complete until IDNR/OWR has indicated
conditional approval of the designated floodway map change. No structures may
be built until a letter of map revision has been approved by FEMA.
         (p)   The application for a structure shall be accompanied by drawings
of the site, drawn to scale showing property line dimensions and existing
ground elevations and all changes in grade resulting from any proposed
excavation or filling, and floodplain and floodway limits; sealed by a
registered professional engineer, licensed architect or registered land
surveyor, the location and dimensions of all buildings and additions to
buildings; and the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of all
proposed buildings subject to the requirements of section
13-1-9 of this chapter.
      2.   The village engineer or other village representative as appointed by
the president shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of
all other federal, state, and local permits and approvals that may be required
for this type of activity.
         (a)   The village engineer or other village representative as
appointed by the president shall not issue the development permit unless all
required federal and state permits have been obtained.
         (b)   A registered professional engineer, under the employ or contract
of the village shall review and approve applications reviewed under this
section.
   (B)   Preventing Increased Damages And A List Of Appropriate Uses:
      1.   Appropriate Uses: The only development in a floodway which will be
allowed are appropriate uses, which will not cause a rise in the base flood
elevation, and which will not create a damaging or potentially damaging
increase in flood heights or velocity or be a threat to public health and
safety. Only those appropriate uses listed in 17 Illinois administrative code
part 3708 will be allowed. The approved appropriate uses are as follows:
         (a)   Flood control structures, dikes, dams and other public works or
private improvements relating to the control of drainage, flooding, erosion, or
water quality or habitat for fish and wildlife;
         (b)   Structures or facilities relating to the use of, or requiring
access to, the water or shoreline, such as pumping and treatment facilities,
and facilities and improvements related to recreational boating, commercial
shipping and other functionally water dependent uses;
         (c)   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls;
         (d)   Underground and overhead utilities;
         (e)   Recreational facilities such as playing fields and trail
systems, including any related fencing (at least 50 percent open when viewed
from any one direction) built parallel to the direction of flood flows, and
including open air pavilions and toilet facilities (4 stall maximum) that will
not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
         (f)   Detached garages, storage sheds, or other nonhabitable accessory
structures that will not block flood flows nor reduce floodway storage;
         (g)   Bridges, culverts, roadways, sidewalks, railways, runways and
taxiways and any modification thereto;
         (h)   Parking lots built at or below existing grade where either:
            (1)   The depth of flooding at the 100-year frequency flood event
will not exceed 1.0 foot; or
            (2)   The applicant of a short term recreational use facility
parking lot, formally agrees to restrict access during over bank flooding
events and accepts liability for all damage caused by vehicular access during
all over bank flooding events;
         (i)   Designated floodway regrading, without fill, to create a
positive nonerosive slope toward a watercourse;
         (j)   Floodproofing activities to protect previously existing lawful
structures including the construction of watertight window wells, elevating
structures, or construction of floodwalls around residential, commercial or
industrial principal structures where the outside toe of the floodwall shall be
no more than ten feet (10') away from the exterior wall of the existing
structure, and, which are not considered substantial improvements to the
structure;
         (k)   The replacement, reconstruction, or repair of a damaged
building, provided that the outside dimensions are not increased, and if the
building was damaged to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before
the damage occurred, the building will be protected from flooding to the flood
protection elevation;
         (l)   Modifications to an existing building that would not increase
the enclosed floor area of the building below the 100-year frequency flood
elevation, and which will not block flood flows including, but not limited to,
fireplaces, bay windows, decks, patios, and second story additions. If the
building improved to fifty percent (50%) or more of the market value before the
modification occurred (i.e., a substantial improvement), the building will be
protected from flooding to the flood protection elevation.
      2.   Appropriate Uses Not Included: Appropriate uses do not include the
construction or placement of any new structures, fill, building additions,
buildings on stilts, fencing (including landscaping or planting designed to act
as a fence) and storage of materials except as specifically defined above as an
appropriate use.
      3.   Appropriate Use Criteria: Within the designated floodway as
identified on the floodway maps designated by IDNR/OWR, the construction of an
appropriate use will be considered permissible provided that the proposed
project meets the following engineering and mitigation criteria and is so
stated in writing with supporting plans, calculations and data by a registered
professional engineer and provided that any structure meets the protection
requirements of section
13-1-9 of this chapter:
         (a)   Preservation Of Flood Conveyance, So As Not To Increase Flood
Stages Upstream: For appropriate uses other than bridge or culvert crossings,
on stream structures or dams, all effective designated floodway conveyance lost
due to the project will be replaced for all flood events up to and including
the 100-year frequency flood. In calculating effective designated floodway
conveyance, the following factors shall be taken into consideration:
            (1)   Designated floodway conveyance, "K" = (1.486/n)(AR2/3) where
"n" is Manning's roughness factor, "A" is the effective flow area of the cross
section, and "R" is the ratio of the area to the wetted perimeter. (See "Open
Channel Hydraulics", Ven Te Chow, 1959, McGraw-Hill Book Company, New York.)
            (2)   The same Manning's "n" value shall be used for both existing
and proposed conditions unless a recorded maintenance agreement with a federal,
state, or local unit of government can assure the proposed conditions will be
maintained or the land cover is changing from a vegetative to a nonvegetative
land cover.
            (3)   Transition sections shall be provided and used in
calculations of effective designated floodway conveyance. The following
expansion and contraction ratios shall be used unless an applicant's engineer
can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering calculations or model tests that more
abrupt transitions may be used with the same efficiency:
   a. When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section, the water
should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length.
   b. When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section, the water
should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length.
   c. When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a minimum of
one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream length
shall be used.
   d. Transition sections shall be provided between cross sections with rapid
expansions and contractions and when meeting the designated floodway
delineation on adjacent properties.
   e. All cross sections used in the calculations shall be located
perpendicular to flood flows.
         (b)   Preservation Of Floodway Storage So As Not To Increase
Downstream Flooding:
            (1)   Compensatory storage shall be provided for any designated
floodway storage lost due to the proposed work from the volume of fill or
structures placed and the impact of any related flood control projects.
            (2)   Compensatory storage for fill or structures shall be equal to
at least the volume of floodplain storage lost.
            (3)   Artificially created storage lost due to a reduction in head
loss behind a bridge shall not be required to be replaced.
            (4)   The compensatory designated floodway storage shall be placed
between the proposed normal water elevation and the proposed 100-year flood
elevation. All designated floodway storage lost below the existing 10-year
flood elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation.
All designated floodway storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation
shall be replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such
excavations shall be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse.
            (5)   If the compensatory storage will not be placed at the
location of the proposed construction, the applicant's engineer shall
demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through a determination of flood discharges and water
surface elevations that the compensatory storage is hydraulically equivalent.
         (c)   Preservation Of Floodway Velocities So As Not To Increase Stream
Erosion Or Flood Heights:
            (1)   For all appropriate uses, except bridges or culverts or on
stream structures, the proposed work will not result in an increase in the
average channel or designated floodway velocities.
            (2)   In the case of bridges or culverts or on stream structures
built for the purpose of backing up water in the stream during normal or flood
flows, velocities may be increased at the structure site if scour, erosion and
sedimentation will be avoided by the use of riprap or other design measures.
         (d)   Construction Of New Bridges Or Culvert Crossings And Roadway
Approaches:
            (1)   The proposed structure shall not result in an increase of
upstream flood stages greater than 0.1 foot when compared to the existing
conditions for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency
event; or the upstream flood stage increases will be contained within the
channel banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks)
such as within the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or
within recorded flood easements.
            (2)   If the proposed construction will increase upstream flood
stages greater than 0.1 foot, the developer must contact IDNR/OWR to obtain a
permit for a dam or waiver.
   a. The engineering analysis of upstream flood stages must be calculated
using the flood study flows, and corresponding flood elevations for tailwater
conditions for the flood study specified in section
13-1-5 of this chapter. Culverts must be analyzed using the U.S. DOT, FHWA
hydraulic chart for the selection of highway culverts. Bridges must be analyzed
using the U.S. DOT/federal highway administration hydraulics of bridge
waterways calculation procedures.
   b. Lost floodway storage must be compensated for per subsection (B)3(b) of
this section.
   c. Velocity increases must be mitigated per subsection (B)3(c) of this
section.
   d. If the crossing is proposed over a public water that is used for
recreational or commercial navigation, an IDNR/OWR permit must be received.
   e. The hydraulic analysis for the backwater caused by the bridge showing the
existing condition and proposed regulatory profile must be submitted to IDNR/
OWR for concurrence that a CLOMR is not required by this subsection (B).
   f. All excavations for the construction of the crossing shall be designed
per subsection (B)3(h) of this section.
         (e)   Reconstruction Or Modification Of Existing Bridges, Culverts,
And Approach Roads:
            (1)   The bridge or culvert and roadway approach reconstruction or
modification shall be constructed with no more than 0.1 foot increase in
backwater over the existing flood profile for all flood frequencies up to and
including the 100-year event, if the existing structure is not a source of
flood damage.
            (2)   If the existing bridge or culvert and roadway approach is a
source of flood damage to buildings or structures in the upstream floodplain,
the applicant's engineer shall evaluate the feasibility of redesigning the
structure to reduce the existing backwater, taking into consideration the
effects on flood stages on upstream and downstream properties.
            (3)   The determination as to whether or not the existing crossing
is a source of flood damage and should be redesigned must be prepared in
accordance with 17 Illinois administrative code part 3708 (floodway
construction in Northeastern Illinois) and submitted to IDNR/OWR for review and
concurrence before a permit is issued.
         (f)   On Stream Structures Built For The Purpose Of Backing Up Water:
            (1)   Any increase in upstream flood stages greater than 0.0 foot
when compared to the existing conditions, for all flood events up to and
including the 100-year frequency event shall be contained within the channel
banks (or within existing vertical extensions of the channel banks) such as
within the design protection grade of existing levees or floodwalls or within
recorded flood easements.
            (2)   A permit or letter indicating a permit is not required must
be obtained from IDNR/OWR for any structure built for the purpose of backing up
water in the stream during normal or flood flow.
            (3)   All dams and impoundment structures as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter shall meet the permitting requirements of 17 Illinois
administrative code part 3702 (construction and maintenance of dams).
         (g)   Floodproofing Of Existing Habitable, Residential And Commercial
Structures:
            (1)   If construction is required beyond the outside dimensions of
the existing building, the outside perimeter of the floodproofing construction
shall be placed no further than ten feet (10') from the outside of the
building.
            (2)   Compensation of lost storage and conveyance will not be
required for floodproofing activities.
         (h)   Excavation In The Floodway:
            (1)   When excavation is proposed in the design of bridges and
culvert openings, including the modifications to and replacement of existing
bridge and culvert structures, or to compensate for lost conveyance or other
appropriate uses, transition sections shall be provided for the excavation.
            (2)   The following expansion and contraction ratios shall be used
unless an applicant's engineer can prove to IDNR/OWR through engineering
calculations or model tests that more abrupt transitions may be used with the
same efficiency:
   a. When water is flowing from a narrow section to a wider section, the water
should be assumed to expand no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every four feet (4') of the flooded stream's length;
   b. When water is flowing from a wide section to a narrow section, the water
should be assumed to contract no faster than at a rate of one foot (1')
horizontal for every one foot (1') of the flooded stream's length; and
   c. When expanding or contracting flows in a vertical direction, a minimum of
one foot (1') vertical transition for every ten feet (10') of stream length
shall be used.
         (i)   Seeding And Stabilization Plan: For all activities located in a
floodway, a seeding and stabilization plan shall be submitted by the applicant.
         (j)   Public Flood Control Projects: For public flood control
projects, the permitting requirements of this section will be considered met if
the applicant can demonstrate to IDNR/OWR through hydraulic and hydrologic
calculations that the proposed project will not singularly or cumulatively
result in increased flood heights outside the project right of way or easements
for all flood events up to and including the 100-year frequency event.
         (k)   General Criteria For Analysis Of Flood Elevations:
            (1)   The flood profiles, flows and floodway data in the designated
floodway study, referenced in section
13-1-5 of this chapter, must be used for analysis of the base conditions. If
the study data appears to be in error or conditions have changed, IDNR/OWR
shall be contacted for approval and concurrence on the appropriate base
conditions data to use.
            (2)   If the 100-year designated floodway elevation at the site of
the proposed construction is affected by backwater from a downstream receiving
stream with a larger drainage area, the proposed construction shall be shown to
meet:
   a. The requirements of this section for the 100-year frequency flood
elevations of the designated floodway conditions; and
   b. Conditions with the receiving stream at normal water elevations.
            (3)   If the applicant learns from IDNR/OWR, local governments, or
a private owner that a downstream restrictive bridge or culvert is scheduled to
be removed, reconstructed, modified, or a regional flood control project is
scheduled to be built, removed, constructed or modified within the next five
(5) years, the proposed construction shall be analyzed and shown to meet the
requirements of this section for both the existing conditions and the expected
flood profile conditions when the bridge, culvert or flood control project is
built.
         (l)   Conditional Letter Of Map Revision:
            (1)   If the appropriate use would result in a change in the
designated floodway location or the 100-year frequency flood elevation, the
applicant shall submit to IDNR/OWR and FEMA all information, calculations and
documents necessary to be issued a conditional designated floodway map revision
and receive from IDNR/OWR a conditional concurrence of the designated floodway
change before a permit is issued.
            (2)   The final designated floodway map will not be changed by FEMA
until as built plans or record drawings of initial filling, grading, dredging,
or excavating activities are submitted and accepted by FEMA and IDNR/OWR.
            (3)   In the case of nongovernment projects, the municipality in
incorporated areas and the county in unincorporated areas shall concur with the
proposed conditional designated floodway map revision before IDNR/OWR approval
can be given.
            (4)   No filling, grading, dredging or excavating shall take place
until a conditional approval is issued.
            (5)   After initial filling, grading, dredging or excavating, no
activities shall take place until a final letter of map revision (LOMR) is
issued by FEMA with concurrence from IDNR/OWR.
         (m)   Professional Engineer's Supervision: All engineering analyses
shall be performed by or under the supervision of a registered professional
engineer.
         (n)   Designated Floodway Map Revision: After receipt of conditional
approval of the designated floodway change and issuance of a permit and a
conditional letter of map revision, construction as necessary to change the
floodway designation may proceed but no buildings or structures or other
construction that is not an appropriate use may be placed in that area until
the designated floodway map is changed and a final letter of map revision is
received. The designated floodway map will be revised upon acceptance and
concurrence by IDNR/OWR and FEMA of the "as built" plans.
      4.   Development Activities In Delegated Communities Requiring State
Review: For those projects listed below located in a designated floodway, the
following criteria shall be submitted to IDNR/OWR for their review and
concurrence prior to the issuance of a permit by a community or county
delegated state permitting authority in the floodway.
         (a)   An engineer's analysis of the flood profile due to a proposed
bridge pursuant to subsection (B)3(d) of this section.
         (b)   An engineer's determination that an existing bridge or culvert
crossing is not a source of flood damage and the analysis indicating the
proposed flood profile, pursuant to subsection (B)3(e) of this section.
         (c)   Alternative transition sections and hydraulically equivalent
storage pursuant to subsections (B)3(a), (B)3(b) and (B)3(h) of this section.
         (d)   The construction of any IDNR/OWR projects, dams (as defined in
section
13-1-2 of this chapter) and all other state, federal, or local units of
government projects, including projects of the municipality or county.
         (e)   An engineer's determination that a proposed bridge affected by
backwater from a downstream receiving stream may be built with a smaller
opening.
         (f)   Projects which revise or establish the floodway and/or flood
profiles.
         (g)   Projects in public bodies of water.
      5.   Other Permits:
         (a)   In addition to the other requirements of this chapter, a
development permit for a site located in a floodway shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit or written documentation that a permit is
not required from IDNR/OWR, issued pursuant to 615 Illinois Compiled Statutes
5/5 et seq.
         (b)   No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be required if IDNR/OWR has
delegated this responsibility to the village.
      6.   Permits For Dams:
         (a)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal of
a "dam" as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter per 17 Illinois administrative code part 3702 (rules for
construction of dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of
construction of a dam.
         (b)   If the village engineer or other village representative as
appointed by the president finds a dam that does not have an IDNR/OWR permit,
the village engineer or other village representative as appointed by the
president shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR Schaumburg office.
         (c)   If the village engineer or other village representative as
appointed by the president finds a dam which is believed to be in unsafe
condition, the village engineer or other village representative as appointed by
the president shall immediately notify the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR
Schaumburg office, and the Illinois emergency management agency (IEMA).
      7.   Activities That Do Not Require A Registered Professional Engineer's
Review: The following activities may be permitted without a registered
professional engineer's review. Such activities shall still meet the other
requirements of this chapter, including the mitigation requirements.
         (a)   Underground and overhead utilities that:
            (1)   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations,
or
            (2)   Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the
floodway, or
            (3)   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the
pipe or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
streambed, and
            (4)   Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the
estimated 100-year frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of
an existing bridge (with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting
towers shall be placed in the watercourse and shall be designed so as to not
catch debris.
            (5)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation. All disturbed
floodway areas, including the stream banks shall be restored to their original
contours and seeded or otherwise stabilized upon completion of construction.
            (6)   A utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5 (1992 state bar edition) shall be provided with shutoff valves on
each side of the body of water to be crossed.
            (7)   All Illinois commerce commission, national electric safety
codes, and federal requirements for clearance must be met.
         (b)   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
            (1)   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope,
            (2)   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation, and
            (3)   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
         (c)   Construction of sidewalks, athletic fields (excluding fences),
properly anchored playground equipment and patios at grade.
         (d)   Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
            (1)   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
            (2)   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of
bank.
            (3)   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross sectional
area of the stream channel or bank of the lake.
         (e)   Temporary stream crossings in which:
            (1)   The approach roads will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above
natural grade.
            (2)   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing
up the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile
or outfall invert.
            (3)   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least
two feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank.
            (4)   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise
stabilized as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of
construction.
            (5)   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed
within one year after authorization. (Ord. 00-1075, 12-21-2000)
13-1-8: OCCUPATION AND USE OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREAS WHERE FLOODWAYS ARE
NOT IDENTIFIED:
In SFHA or floodplains (including AE, AH, AO and unnumbered A zones), where no
floodways have been identified and no base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevations have been established by FEMA, and draining more than a square mile,
no development shall be permitted unless the cumulative effect of the
proposals, when combined with all other existing and anticipated uses and
structures, shall not significantly impede or increase the flow and passage of
the floodwaters nor significantly increase the base flood or 100-year frequency
flood elevation.
   (A)   Development Permit:
      1.   No person, firm, corporation, or governmental body, not exempted by
state law, shall commence any development in an SFHA or floodplain without
first obtaining a development permit from the village engineer or other village
representative as appointed by the president.
      2.   Application for a development permit shall be made on a form
provided by the village engineer or other village representative as appointed
by the president.
         (a)   The application shall be accompanied by drawings of the site,
drawn to scale showing property line dimensions; and existing grade elevations
and all changes in grade resulting from excavation or filling, sealed by a
licensed engineer, architect or surveyor; the location and dimensions of all
buildings and additions to buildings; and the elevations of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all proposed buildings subject to the requirements of
section
13-1-9 of this chapter.
         (b)   The application for a development permit shall also include the
following information:
            (1)   A detailed description of the proposed activity, its purpose,
and intended use;
            (2)   Site location (including legal description) of the property,
drawn to scale, on the designated floodway maps, indicating whether it is
proposed to be in an incorporated or unincorporated area;
            (3)   Anticipated dates of initiation and completion of activity;
            (4)   Plans of the proposed activity shall be provided which
include as a minimum:
   a. A vicinity map showing the site of the activity, name of the waterway,
boundary lines, names of roads in the vicinity of the site, graphic or
numerical scale, and north arrow;
   b. A plan view of the project and engineering study reach showing existing
and proposed conditions including principal dimensions of the structure or
work, elevations in mean sea level (1929 adjustment) datum or NGVD, adjacent
property lines and ownership, drainage and flood control easements, distance
between proposed activity and navigation channel (when the proposed
construction is in or near a commercially navigable body of water), floodplain
limit, location and orientation of cross sections, north arrow, and a graphical
or numerical scale;
   c. Cross section views of the project perpendicular to the flow of
floodwater and engineering study reach showing existing and proposed conditions
including principal dimensions of the work as shown in plan view, existing and
proposed elevations, normal water elevation, 10-year frequency flood elevation,
100-year frequency flood elevation, and graphical or numerical scales
(horizontal and vertical).
         (c)   Engineering calculations and supporting data shall be submitted
showing that the proposed work will meet the criteria of subsection (B) of this
section.
         (d)   Any and all other federal, state, and local permits or approvals
that may be required for this type of development.
      3.   Based on the best available existing data according to the Illinois
state water survey's floodplain information repository, the village engineer or
other village representative as appointed by the president shall compare the
elevation of the site to the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         (a)   Should no elevation information exist for the site, the
developer's engineer shall calculate the elevation according to subsection
13-1-5(E) of this chapter.
         (b)   Any development located on land that can be shown to have been
higher than the base flood elevation of the current flood insurance rate map
identification is not in the SFHA and, therefore, not subject to the
requirements of this chapter.
         (c)   The village engineer or other village representative as
appointed by the president shall maintain documentation of the existing ground
elevation at the development site and certification that this ground elevation
existed prior to the date of the site's first flood insurance rate map
identification.
      4.   The village engineer or other village representative as appointed by
the president shall be responsible for obtaining from the applicant copies of
all other federal, state, and local permits, approvals or permit not required
letters that may be required for this type of activity. The village engineer or
other village representative as appointed by the president shall not issue the
development permit unless all required federal, state, and local permits have
been obtained.
   (B)   Preventing Increased Damages:
      1.   Damaging Activities Prohibited: No development in the SFHA, where a
floodway has not been determined shall create a damaging or potentially
damaging increase in flood heights or velocity or threat to public health and
safety.
      2.   Standards Within Riverine SFHAs: Within all riverine SFHAs where the
floodway has not been determined, the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   Engineering Requirements: The developer shall have a registered
professional engineer state in writing and show through supporting plans,
calculations, and data that the project meets the engineering requirements of
subsections
13-1-7(B)3(a) through (B)3(l) of this chapter for the entire floodplain as
calculated under the provisions of subsection
13-1-5(E) of this chapter.
            (1)   As an alternative, the developer should have an engineering
study performed to determine a floodway and submit that engineering study to
IDNR/OWR for acceptance as a designated floodway.
            (2)   Upon acceptance of the floodway by IDNR/OWR, the developer
shall then demonstrate that the project meets the requirements of section
13-1-7 of this chapter for the designated floodway. The floodway shall be
defined according to the definition in section
13-1-2 of this chapter.
         (b)   IDNR/OWR Permit: A development permit shall not be issued unless
the applicant first obtains a permit from IDNR/OWR or written documentation
that a permit is not required from IDNR/OWR.
         (c)   IDNR/OWR Permit Exception: No permit from IDNR/OWR shall be
required if IDNR/OWR has delegated permit responsibility to the village per 17
Illinois administrative code part 3708 for designated floodways.
         (d)   Permits For Dams:
            (1)   Any work involving the construction, modification or removal
of a "dam" as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter per 17 Illinois administrative code part 3702 (rules for
construction of dams) shall obtain an IDNR/OWR permit prior to the start of
construction of a dam.
            (2)   If the village engineer or other village representative as
appointed by the president finds a dam that does not have an IDNR/OWR permit,
the village engineer or other village representative as appointed by the
president shall immediately notify the IDNR/OWR Schaumburg office.
            (3)   If the village engineer or other village representative as
appointed by the president finds a dam which is believed to be in unsafe
condition, the village engineer or other village representative as appointed by
the president shall immediately notify the owner of the dam, the IDNR/OWR
Schaumburg office, and the Illinois emergency management agency (IEMA).
      3.   Permitted Activities: The following activities may be permitted
without a registered professional engineer's review or calculation of a base
flood elevation and designated floodway. Such activities shall still meet the
other requirements of this chapter:
         (a)   Underground and overhead utilities that:
            (1)   Do not result in any increase in existing ground elevations,
or
            (2)   Do not require the placement of aboveground structures in the
floodway, or
            (3)   In the case of underground stream crossings, the top of the
pipe or encasement is buried a minimum of three feet (3') below the existing
streambed, and
            (4)   Overhead utility lines shall be constructed above the
estimated 100-year frequency flood elevation or attached above the low chord of
an existing bridge (with the permission of the bridge owner). No supporting
towers shall be placed in the watercourse and shall be designed so as to not
catch debris.
            (5)   Disturbance of streamside vegetation shall be kept to minimum
during construction to prevent erosion and sedimentation.
            (6)   A utility crossing carrying material which may cause water
pollution as defined by the environmental protection act 415 Illinois Compiled
Statutes 5 (1992 state bar edition) shall be provided with shutoff valves on
each side of the body of water to be crossed.
            (7)   All Illinois commerce commission, national electric safety
codes, and federal requirements for clearance must be met.
         (b)   Storm and sanitary sewer relief outfalls that:
            (1)   Do not extend riverward or lakeward of the existing adjacent
natural bank slope, and
            (2)   Do not result in an increase in ground elevation, and
            (3)   Are designed so as not to cause stream erosion at the outfall
location.
         (c)   Construction of shoreline and stream bank protection that:
            (1)   Does not exceed one thousand feet (1,000') in length.
            (2)   Materials are not placed higher than the existing top of
bank.
            (3)   Materials are placed so as not to reduce the cross sectional
area of the stream channel by more than ten percent (10%).
         (d)   Temporary stream crossings in which:
            (1)   The approach roads will be one-half foot (1/2') or less above
natural grade.
            (2)   The crossing will allow stream flow to pass without backing
up the water above the stream bank vegetation line or above any drainage tile
or outfall invert.
            (3)   The top of the roadway fill in the channel will be at least
two feet (2') below the top of the lowest bank.
            (4)   All disturbed stream banks will be seeded or otherwise
stabilized as soon as possible upon installation and again upon removal of
construction.
            (5)   The access road and temporary crossings will be removed
within one year after authorization.
         (e)   The construction of light poles, signposts and similar
structures;
         (f)   The construction of sidewalks, driveways, athletic fields
(excluding fences), patios and similar surfaces which are built at grade;
         (g)   The construction of properly anchored, unwalled, open structures
such as playground equipment, pavilions, and carports built at or below
existing grade that would not obstruct the flow of floodwaters;
         (h)   The placement of properly anchored buildings not exceeding
seventy (70) square feet in size, nor ten feet (10') in any one dimension
(e.g., animal shelters and toolsheds);
         (i)   The construction of additions to existing buildings which are
located on the upstream or downstream side of the existing building, and which
do extend beyond the sides of the existing building that are parallel to the
flow of floodwaters;
         (j)   Minor maintenance dredging of a stream channel where:
            (1)   The affected length of stream is less than one thousand feet
(1,000').
            (2)   The work is confined to reestablishing flows in natural
stream channels, or
            (3)   The cross sectional area of the dredged channel conforms to
that of the natural channel upstream and downstream of the site.
      4.   Watercourse Flood Carrying Capacity: The flood carrying capacity
within any altered or relocated watercourse shall be maintained.
      5.   Compensatory Storage:
         (a)   Whenever any portion of a floodplain is authorized for use, the
volume of space which will be occupied by the authorized fill or structure
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation shall be compensated
for and balanced by a hydraulically equivalent volume of excavation taken from
below the base flood or 100-year frequency flood elevation.
         (b)   The excavation volume shall be at least equal to the volume of
storage lost due to the fill or structure.
         (c)   In the case of streams and watercourses, such excavation shall
be made opposite or adjacent to the areas so filled or occupied.
         (d)   All floodplain storage lost below the existing 10-year flood
elevation shall be replaced below the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All
floodplain storage lost above the existing 10-year flood elevation shall be
replaced above the proposed 10-year flood elevation. All such excavations shall
be constructed to drain freely and openly to the watercourse. (Ord. 00-1075,
12-21-2000)
13-1-9: PERMITTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO ALL FLOODPLAIN AREAS AND
PROTECTION OF BUILDINGS:
In addition to the requirements found in sections
13-1-6,
13-1-7 and
13-1-8 of this chapter for development in flood fringes, designated floodways,
and SFHA or floodplains where no floodways have been identified (zones A, AO,
AH, AE, A1-A30, A99, VO, V1-30, VE, V, M, E, D, or X), the following
requirements shall be met:
   (A)   Public Health Standards:
      1.   No developments in the SFHA shall include locating or storing
chemicals, explosives, buoyant materials, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable
liquids, pollutants, or other hazardous or toxic materials below the flood
protection elevation (FPE).
      2.   New and replacement water supply systems, wells, sanitary sewer
lines and on site waste disposal systems may be permitted providing all
manholes or other aboveground openings located below the FPE are watertight.
   (B)   Carrying Capacity And Notification:
      1.   For all projects involving channel modification, fill, or stream
maintenance (including levees), the flood carrying capacity of the watercourse
shall be maintained.
      2.   In addition, the village shall notify adjacent communities in
writing thirty (30) days prior to the issuance of a permit for the alteration
or relocation of the watercourse.
   (C)   Protecting Buildings:
      1.   All buildings located within a 100-year floodplain also known as an
SFHA, shall be protected from flood damage below the flood protection
elevation. This building protection criteria applies to the following
situations:
         (a)   Construction or placement of a new building;
         (b)   "Substantial improvement" to an existing building as defined in
section
13-1-2 of this chapter;
         (c)   "Substantial damage" to an existing building as defined in
section
13-1-2 of this chapter;
         (d)   Installing a manufactured home on a new site or a new
manufactured home on an existing site. This building protection requirements
does not apply to returning a mobile home to the same site it lawfully occupied
before it was removed to avoid flood damage; and
         (e)   Installing a travel trailer on a site for more than one hundred
eighty (180) days.
      2.   This building protection requirement may be met by one of the
following methods. A residential or nonresidential building, when allowed, may
be constructed on permanent land fill in accordance with the following:
         (a)   Lowest Floor: The lowest floor (including basement) shall be at
or above the flood protection elevation.
         (b)   Fill Requirements:
            (1)   The fill shall be placed in layers no greater than one foot
(1') deep before compaction and should extend at least ten feet (10') beyond
the foundation of the building before sloping below the flood protection
elevation.
            (2)   The top of the fill shall be above the flood protection
elevation. However, the ten foot (10') minimum may be waived if a structural
engineer certifies an alternative method to protect the building from damages
due to hydrostatic pressures.
            (3)   The fill shall be protected against erosion and scour.
            (4)   The fill shall not adversely affect the flow or surface
drainage from or onto neighboring properties.
      3.   A residential or nonresidential building may be elevated in
accordance with the following:
         (a)   The building or improvements shall be elevated on crawl space,
stilts, piles, walls, or other foundation that is permanently open to
floodwaters and not subject to damage by hydrostatic pressures of the base
flood or 100-year frequency flood. The permanent openings shall be no more than
one foot (1') above existing grade, and consists of a minimum of two (2)
openings. The openings must have a total net area of not less than one square
inch for every one square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding below the
base flood elevation.
         (b)   The foundation and supporting members shall be anchored and
aligned in relation to flood flows and adjoining structures so as to minimize
exposure to known hydrodynamic forces such as current, waves, ice and floating
debris.
         (c)   All areas below the flood protection elevation shall be
constructed of materials resistant to flood damage.
            (1)   The lowest floor (including basement) and all electrical,
heating, ventilating, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and utility
meters shall be located at or above the flood protection elevation.
            (2)   Water and sewer pipes, electrical and telephone lines,
submersible pumps, and other waterproofed service facilities may be located
below the flood protection elevation.
         (d)   The areas below the flood protection elevation may only be used
for the parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a
basement.
         (e)   Manufactured homes, and travel trailers to be installed on a
site for more than one hundred eighty (180) days, shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation; and, shall be anchored to resist flotation,
collapse, or lateral movement by being tied down in accordance with the rules
and regulations for the Illinois mobile home tie-down act issued pursuant to 77
Illinois administrative code part 870. In addition, all manufactured homes
shall meet the following elevation requirements:
            (1)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved: a) outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, b) in a new
manufactured home park or subdivision, c) in an expansion to an existing
manufactured home park or subdivision, or d) in an existing manufactured home
park or subdivision on which a manufactured home has incurred substantial
damage from a flood, the top of the lowest floor shall be elevated to or above
the flood protection elevation.
            (2)   In the case of manufactured homes placed or substantially
improved in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, the manufactured
home shall be elevated so that either the top of the lowest floor is above the
base flood elevation or the chassis is at least thirty six inches (36") in
height above grade and supported by reinforced piers or other foundations of
equivalent strength, whichever is less.
         (f)   Recreational vehicles or travel trailers shall be required to
meet the elevation and anchoring requirements of subsection (C)3(e) of this
section unless:
            (1)   They are on site for fewer than one hundred eighty (180)
consecutive days; and
            (2)   They are fully licensed and ready for highway use. A
recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking
system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utility and
service devices, and has no permanently attached additions.
      4.   Only a nonresidential building may be structurally dry floodproofed
(in lieu of elevation) provided that:
         (a)   A registered professional engineer shall certify that the
building has been structurally dry floodproofed below the flood protection
elevation, the structure and attendant utility facilities are watertight and
capable of resisting the effects of the base flood or 100-year frequency flood.
         (b)   The building design shall take into account flood velocities,
duration, rate of rise, hydrostatic and hydrodynamic forces, the effects of
buoyancy, and impacts from debris or ice.
         (c)   Floodproofing measures shall be operable without human
intervention and without an outside source of electricity (levees, berms,
floodwalls and similar works are not considered floodproofing for the purpose
of this subsection).
      5.   Existing buildings located within a designated floodway shall also
meet the more restrictive appropriate use standards included in section
13-1-7 of this chapter. Nonconforming structures located in a designated
floodway may remain in use and may only be enlarged, replaced or structurally
altered in accordance with subsection
13-1-7(B) of this chapter. A nonconforming structure damaged by flood, fire,
wind or other natural or manmade disaster may be restored unless the damage
exceeds fifty percent (50%) of its market value before it was damaged, in which
case it shall conform to this chapter. (Ord. 00-1075, 12-21-2000)
13-1-10: OTHER DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS:
The board of trustees shall take into account flood hazards, to the extent that
they are known in all official actions related to land management, use and
development.
   (A)   New subdivisions, manufactured home parks, annexation agreements, and
planned unit developments (PUDs) within the SFHA shall be reviewed to assure
that the proposed developments are consistent with sections
13-1-6,
13-1-7,
13-1-8 and
13-1-9 of this chapter and the need to minimize flood damage. Plats or plans
for new subdivisions, mobile home parks and planned unit developments (PUDs)
shall include a signed statement by a registered professional engineer that the
plat or plans account for changes in the drainage of surface waters in
accordance with the plat act 1 .
   (B)   Proposals for new subdivisions, manufactured home parks, travel
trailer parks, planned unit developments (PUDs) and additions to manufactured
home parks and additions to subdivisions shall include base flood or 100-year
frequency flood elevation data and floodway delineations.
      1.   Where this information is not available from an existing study filed
with the Illinois state water survey, the applicant's engineer shall be
responsible for calculating the base flood or 100-year frequency flood
elevation per subsection
13-1-5(E) of this chapter and the floodway delineation per the definition in
section
13-1-2 of this chapter.
      2.   The applicant's engineer shall submit the data to IDNR/OWR for
review and approval as best available regulatory data and then send it to the
state water survey.
   (C)   Streets, blocks, lots, parks and other public grounds shall be located
and laid out in such a manner as to preserve and utilize natural streams and
channels. Wherever possible, the floodplains shall be included within parks or
other public grounds.
   (D)   The board of trustees shall not approve any planned unit development
(PUD) or plat of subdivision located outside the corporate limits unless such
agreement or plat is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
00-1075, 12-21-2000)
 
Notes
1 1. 765 ILCS 205/2.
13-1-11: VARIANCES:
   (A)   No variances shall be granted to any development located in a
"designated floodway" as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter.
      1.   Whenever the standards of this chapter place undue hardship on a
specific development proposal, the applicant may apply to the village engineer
or other village representative as appointed by the president for a variance.
      2.   The village engineer or other village representative as appointed by
the president shall review the applicant's request for a variance and shall
submit its recommendation to the board of trustees.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the applicant demonstrates that:
      1.   The development activity cannot be located outside the SFHA;
      2.   An exceptional hardship would result if the variance were not
granted;
      3.   The relief requested is the minimum necessary;
      4.   There will be no additional threat to public health, safety, or
creation of a nuisance;
      5.   There will be no additional public expense for flood protection,
rescue or relief operations, policing, or repairs to roads, utilities, or other
public facilities;
      6.   The provisions of subsections
13-1-6(B) and
13-1-8(B) of this chapter shall still be met;
      7.   The activity is not in a designated floodway; and
      8.   The applicant's circumstances are unique and do not represent a
general problem.
   (C)   The village engineer or other village representative as appointed by
the president shall notify an applicant in writing that a variance from the
requirements of section
13-1-9 of this chapter that would lessen the degree of protection to a building
will:
      1.   Result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts
as high as twenty five dollars ($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of
insurance coverage;
      2.   Increase the risks to life and property; and
      3.   Require that the applicant proceed with knowledge of these risks and
that he will acknowledge in writing that he assumes the risk and liability.
   (D)   Variances requested in connection with restoration of a historic site
or "historic structure" as defined in section
13-1-2 of this chapter, may be granted using criteria more permissive than the
requirements of subsections (B) and (C) of this section, subject to the
conditions that:
      1.   The repair or rehabilitation is the minimum necessary to preserve
the historic character and design of the structure; and
      2.   The repair or rehabilitation will not result in the structure being
removed as a certified historic structure. (Ord. 00-1075, 12-21-2000)
13-1-12: DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY:
   (A)   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on available information
derived from engineering and scientific methods of study.
   (B)   Larger floods may occur or flood heights may be increased by manmade
or natural causes.
   (C)   This chapter does not imply that development, either inside or outside
of the SFHA, will be free from flooding or damage.
   (D)   This chapter does not create liability on the part of the village or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damage that results from reliance
on this chapter or any administrative decision made lawfully thereunder. (Ord.
00-1075, 12-21-2000)
13-1-13: PENALTY:
Failure to comply with the requirements of a permit or conditions of a variance
resolution shall be deemed to be a violation of this chapter. Upon due
investigation, the village engineer or other village representative as
appointed by the president may determine that a violation of the minimum
standards of this chapter exist. The village engineer or other village
representative as appointed by the president shall notify the owner in writing
of such violation.
   (A)   If such owner fails after ten (10) days' notice to correct the
violation:
      1.   The village may make application to the circuit court for an
injunction requiring conformance with this chapter or make such other order as
the court deems necessary to secure compliance with this chapter.
      2.   Any person who violates this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof,
be fined not less than fifty dollars ($50.00) or more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense.
      3.   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
on which a violation occurs or continues.
      4.   The village may record a notice of violation on the title to the
property.
   (B)   The village engineer or other village representative as appointed by
the president shall inform the owner that any such violation is considered a
wilful act to increase flood damages and, therefore, may cause coverage by a
standard flood insurance policy to be suspended.
      1.   The village engineer or other village representative as appointed by
the president is authorized to issue an order requiring the suspension of the
subject development. The stop work order shall be in writing, shall indicate
the reason for the issuance, and shall order the action, if necessary, to
resolve the circumstances requiring the stop work order. The stop work order
constitutes a suspension of the permit.
      2.   No site development permit shall be permanently suspended or revoked
until a hearing is held by the board of appeals. Written notice of such hearing
shall be served on the permittee and shall state: a) the grounds for complaint
or reasons for suspension or revocation; and b) the time and place of the
hearing. At such hearing, the permittee shall be given an opportunity to
present evidence on his/her behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the board
of appeals shall determine whether the permit shall be suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the village from taking such other lawful
action to prevent or remedy any violations. All costs connected therewith shall
accrue to the person or persons responsible. (Ord. 00-1075, 12-21-2000)
13-1-14: ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or deed restrictions.
   (B)   Where this chapter and other ordinances, easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more stringent
restrictions shall prevail.
   (C)   This chapter is intended to repeal the original ordinance or
resolution which was adopted to meet the national flood insurance program
regulations, but is not intended to repeal the resolution which the village
passed in order to establish initial eligibility for the program. (Ord. 00-
1075, 12-21-2000)
